Exodus chapter 2, verse number 15. Now we started this message last week and it got gone and we we could didn't get through it, so I'm going to repeat a little bit of what we said last week. I'm going to try not to go overboard on that and then look at some other things about Moses here in Midian. He's in Midian. Look at verse 15 Says, now when Pharaoh heard this thing, what thing did Pharaoh hear? That Moses had what? Killed the Egyptian. Alright, so words out. He sought to slay Moses, but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. Now the priest of Midian, and we'll figure that out later on who that is. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters. And they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. And the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and helped them and watered their flocks. And when they came to Reel, Reuel, their father, he said, How is it that you're come so soon today? And they said, an Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us, and watered the flock. And he said unto his daughters, Where is he? Why is it that ye have left the man? Call him that he may eat bread. And Moses was content to dwell with the man And he gave Moses Sepporah his daughter, and she bare him a son, and he called his name Gersham, for he had said, I have been a stranger. in a strange land. Let's pray, and uh we'll pick up here, try and pick up where we left off. Father, I pray you bless now our time in your word this evening. I pray that you would um Challenge us, Father. I pray that you would apply to our hearts and lives some of these lessons we see here, these examples. And so that we can be stronger in our faith. We always want to be stronger, Lord, we can be a more effective witness. So please fill me with your spirit. Please guide my thinking, Lord. Take me and use this tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out that we're noticed in the first uh Moses is forty years old at this point when he flees from Egypt We notice two things, good qualities about Moses that I believe were factors in why God used them. We mentioned this a number of times, but maybe you remember. But number one, he obviously loved the Lord. Moses loved the Lord. He was not a perfect man, and we're going to see he had some his own besetting sin and uh he had issues that he dealt with as a human being, and we all do. How many people understand we all have Struggles and issues we deal with. He wasn't perfect, but he loved the Lord. It's possible to love the Lord and yet still struggle in your Christian life Deal with battle with sin. And so he loved the Lord, and that produced, I'm convinced, that produced a love for God's people. And we saw that in the defense of the Egyptian, and we're going to see that throughout his life. We jumped ahead When he offered himself to be uh offered up his own salvation, so to speak, to use a New Testament term, uh, so that Israel would be spared. Of course that cannot happen, but he was willing to, he offered it. And so we love God and he loved God's people. If we can just get those two things settled in our in our Christian life, if we can develop those two characteristics, I love God and I love God's people, I'll tell you, we're on the road to being a successful Christian and pleasing the Lord. And so we see that in Moses. And we're picking up, we're picking up and and I want to say secrets, but it's not secrets, but we're picking up these characteristics that we're noticing in Moses that are going to be factors on why God chose him and why God used him in such a profound way. Uh and so uh uh those two things. Now we note in verse fifteen here if you remember last week, uh he flees to Midian. Verse fifteen it says, and He dwelt in the land of Midian. He's fleeing from Pharaoh and he ends up in Midian. If you remember, we said Midianites were distant kin of the Jews. Uh the Midianites were the offspring of Abraham and Keturah, after Sarah died, and he had a number of children by Keturah. uh out of one of them, Midian was his name, uh came the Midianites. Now later on they become antagonistic to Israel. and um Gideon uh fought the Midianites and so but at this point there's no antagonism. Israel is really not a nation at this point and uh in a technical sense. And so there's there's no animosity between the two at this point. So he goes there. He goes to Midian. Midian was a land, if you remember we said last week, of deserts and wilderness. They did not grow crops hardly at all. They were very poor land to grow crops. They were primarily shepherds. and merchants. And they were very proficient at buying and selling and transporting goods from the Far East to North Africa. and back and forth and they were very well. They were if if you remember, they were the ones that uh bought Joseph off of his brothers and hauled him down four hundred years earlier. So he's in Midian He spends 40 years, another 40 years in Midian, in a desert, in a wilderness. And the lesson that I take from that is I was studying this a couple weeks ago, putting this together The lesson I take from that is this. Moses had failed, and now as a result of that, he's in the backside of a desert. And no doubt he felt like he was put on a shelf, that God was done with him, and uh what he attempted to serve God, he attempted to deliver Israel, and it blew up in his face. He was doing it on his own strength, his own reasoning. And it failed completely. And um and there's no doubt in my mind, Joseph got out there and he thought, all right, I'm done. I tried to serve God. I failed. Uh that's it. I'm just going to live and die out here in this wilderness. However, little did he realize at this point he God wasn't done with him yet. In fact, I'm convinced That God is never done with anybody as long as they're still breathing air. God can still use us. If we'll cooperate with him If we'll follow his instructions, you say, preacher, I failed, I messed up. I uh Moses, you know, he killed a guy, he did all that. And uh I messed up, I did this, or I did that, I there's no way I can't ever be a good Christian, I can't ever be anything for God. It's just I blew it, it's over. I'm here to tell you If you'll just cooperate with God, follow his instructions, God can pick you up and set you back on the rock, get you going again. And that's a lesson I take from that. Because the fact of the matter is, there never has been a Christian that hasn't blown it multiple times. Amen or not? Every one of us can testify, preacher, man. And so I learned that from him. I've jotted a few thoughts down as gone back over this. Think about this. Moses went, when he was in Egypt. Up until his fortieth year, he was a powerful politician. And we looked at that, and it's pretty much a consensus that Moses had gone up the ranks of the government there in uh Egypt. He was Pharaoh's adopted grandson. And so he had influence. Uh he had he had a position He had wealth. It was all at his disposal. He was uh, we believe he was a highly respected military leader There's stories in the ancient history about Moses uh leading some campaigns against Ethiopa, I think, and and uh the the respect he had in the military. So Here he is, highly loved by the military, powerful in the government. He makes a decision. He knows he's one of the Jews. He knows he's one of the they were called Hebrews. He knew he's one of the Hebrews at this point. And he makes a decision, he's going to side with God's people. And we'll see this in Hebrews. We read it before. He's going to forsake all the pleasure, the position, the power, everything Egypt, the world had to offer. He's going to forsake all that. He's going to side with Israel I believe he was convinced, and the Bible seems to support this, Acts 7, that he was going to rise up this insurrection against the Egyptian country. He's going to lead Israel out. He'll be their leader and they'll establish their own nation. And it blew up in his face because it says he tried to do it by his own arm, his own strength, his own reasoning, his own abilities, and he failed. And by the way, every time I've done that on my own strength and tried to do things on my own reasoning, I mess up every single time I have never regretted, I say this often, I have never regretted waiting on God, trusting Him, and just doing what He says. And it's not always easy. But I've never regretted doing it. And so here he is. He's powerful in Egypt. Now, what's he end up being? We just read through there. What's he end up now? What's he doing? He's a sheepherder. He's a shepherd. Now, here's my question. What was the Egyptian's attitude? Now we learned this in the life of Joseph, remember? Remember when Joseph, Jacob comes down, Joseph said, I'm going to introduce you to Pharaoh. Whatever you do, don't you tell him you're a shepherd. They hate shepherds. And Jacob gets down there and Pharaoh says, Well, what's your occupation? What's the first thing out of his mouth? Oh, we're shepherds. I can see Joseph. They hated him. So put yourself in Moses' shoes. You have position, you have power, you have all the comforts of Egypt And now you're something the Egyptians hate. You were raised, trained, that this is the lowest, most despicable type of life, type of person that exists. They hate them. They were the off-scouring of the earth to the Egyptians for whatever reason. And now Moses is that. Would you agree with me? That could be discouraging. That could throw you. And so he settles in as a shepherd. I put this down. I like this statement. In Egypt, Moses had comfort. But it's in Midian, in this desert, that's where he learned character. Character. Very rare, if ever, does anybody grow in their faith, grow strong in their faith And develop good, godly Christian character in the environment of comfort and luxury and prosperity. Very seldom does that happen. You know when we grow in our faith the most? You know when our character is developed the most? It's when we go through deserts. It's when we go through hard times and we have to deal with disappointments and failures. And how we respond, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but how we respond to our own failures is often a powerful indicator of what my character is. If I let my own failure derail me and walk away from all of it and said I blew it, I don't, there's a weakness in character there. But if I'll say, listen, I messed up, I understand that, I'm a human, I'm a sinner, but I'm going to trust God. I'm going to let God take me. However, if even if it's just a shepherd, I'll be whatever God wants me to be, but I'm just going to stay right there. You follow what I'm saying? And so this 40 years in Midian is, I'm convinced, is profoundly significant in the development of Moses' light. I'm reading in my devotions, and again I'm being repetitious from last week. I know that, so bear with me. But I'm reading in my devotions right now the book of Job. Anyone here ever read through the book of Job? Man, that that's a powerful book. It has been uh one and this may be morbid, I had a Bible college uh uh one of the teachers when I was in university down at Tennessee Tennessee. Um it was an education class, children's education, and in conversation we said, I said Joe I said, I like Job. I like the book of Job. And the teacher was appalled. She goes, that's the most morbid book in the whole Bible. And I said, I like it. There's powerful lessons in that book. And I thought Job went through, and we don't know what the time frame was of all this trial and and heartache and sickness he went through, just overwhelming. And he said things he regretted saying. And you get to the end of the book of Job, and he makes some significant statements. One thing he says, he said, I abhor myself, for some of the stuff he said. He said, I repent, dust and ashes. And then he made this statement. He said, and I'm paraphrasing, I'm not quoting this correctly, I'm off the notes right now. I'm uh running uh blind here, but um He made this statement, and I'm not probably not quoting it exactly right, but he said, Before I heard you with the hearing of the ear, but now I see you. And I believe this is what he's saying. He didn't see the Lord literally. No man has seen the Lord at any time. I think this is what he was saying. He says, I knew about you, and I believed in you and I loved you. I was committed to you. But now I understand Now I see your hand even in the deserts, even in the boils and the rejection and the hurt. And the heartache, God, I see your hand. You were working on me. You were showing me. And I've learned things about you I would have never learned if I had not gone through all that deep valley. And I think that's true with Moses here. He is learning things of God, and his faith is developing. And we're not told a lot about what happens during that 40 years. In fact, almost nothing. But whatever it was, when he comes out of there, he's a different man. He's a different man. And so God can use our failures. God can use our our missteps and and uh and these things to help us grow and help us develop. So that was uh last week's message. Uh now I want us to notice second of all Moses shows favor to strangers. The first point was he flees to Midian. Now he shows some favor to some strangers. Look with me at chapter 2 of Exodus and verse 15. And all the way at the end of that verse, there's a little statement, says something. Now, on the surface, it just looks, we may misunderstand. It says, and he sat down by a well. All right, I thought, well that's interesting. I went to Midian, there's a well, and he sat down beside it. I thought, what does that mean? So I got looking at a little bit, and I think there's more to it than he just sat on a bench beside a well. I think the idea is, I studied a little bit, I think the idea is He that word set down means to abide, to settle in, to establish yourself And I want to be careful. I don't want to read too much into this, but I think what he's saying here is he found a good place to live. He's alone, he's a fugitive He goes into the Midian. They're not going to chase him. He is a long way off. It's on the other side of the Red Sea. He finds a well, so there's water available. And I think what that little statement, I think what's implied in that little statement is he settled in. This is where he's going to live. This is the word sat there sometimes is translated to inhabit. Or dwell at a place. So this is where he's going to live. He's going to settle in. He's done with Egypt. I doubt he ever had any plans going back there again. He's just going to go out here and die Get a place to live and die. Well, while he's there, he notices something. Look at verse 16. Now, the priest of Midian had seven daughters. Now, the priest of Midian, I don't, he was not a priest of Jehovah. Alright? There's there's uh some suggest that there was within the Midianites, some had still held to the worship of Jehovah. Now it wasn't organized, and at this point there wasn't even a priesthood established within Israel. They don't get that until after they come out of Egypt. And so we really don't know. We would assume he is a priest of some sort of pagan worship. We don't know. Later on After they come out of Egypt and they're going through the wilderness, he comes out and visits Moses, and there he talks about Jehovah. And he references the God of Israel, the God of the Hebrews. So I believe what happened, and we're going to see here, Moses ends up getting hitched to one of his daughters. And for forty years, they're they're family. This is his father-in-law. And I think Moses' influence on uh Gempta One him over to trust and believe in Jehovah. Now that's my thinking. I'm maybe reading a lot into it, I don't know But his priesthood here is not a priest of Israel. It can't be. There are no priests of the Hebrews at this point, of Jehovah. So this priest of Midian, he had how many daughters? Alright, you are following along And they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. So they're out there taking care of the sheep. What would be a female shepherd? Shepherdess. So I guess they're shepherdesses. And he filled- they filled the troughs to water there. And the shepherds came, and what'd the shepherds do? They drove them away. They get out of here, you women, you shepherdesses. Get out of here. And they run them off. And apparently this is something that happened regularly. We'll see here in a bit. And so the shepherds came and drove them away. Let me ask you a question. Was that kind or unkind of the shepherds? That was very unkind. Why didn't they help them? Because they didn't care. They were unkind. But Moses stood up in what? Help them. And watered their flock. Not only did he tell the shepherds to knock it off, and by the way, the shepherds were smart to listen to Moses because we know what he's capable of. Right? And so and then not only does he get them and uh run the shepherds off that are being unkind, being mean to them And you know he could have just said, You guys get out of here and run them off, and he could, there you go, girls, get your water, and could have went back to his little seat where he was sit down at, abiding. But he didn't He goes the extra mile and he goes and he waters their sheep for them, their flocks for them, their herds And we don't know the size of them, but there's seven of these gals, and this is their living, so it's probably a significant herds size, herd of uh herd size And so he stands up. My first point was this: he settles in there by the well. Then he stands up against unkindness. And he helps them. These are strangers. Here's the thing. This is what I see here. And what the Lord spoke to my heart in this passage. Moses could have become very self-centered. Right? Anybody here ever catch that virus called Woe is Me virus? Anybody know what I'm talking about it? Oh woe is me. Oh I failed and oh my own people, the Hebrews rejected me, the Egyptians, they hate me. I'm I have I lo I don't have my biological family. I don't have my adopted family. I have nothing. I don't have a wife. I don't have any brothers or sisters I am alone. And it could have very easily gotten self-centered, right or wrong. You know, sometimes we get we mess up or whatever. A lot of times our whole focus is on ourselves, how bad I am in, how terrible I did, oh this is awful. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Getting witness, oh I'm saying, and it's all I, I, me, me, me, my, I, I, I And to Moses' credit, and again we're seeing some of his character here, we don't see that He sees a need, he sees somebody that's being treated unjustly, just like the Hebrew down in Egypt, and he does the same thing again. He steps in and he helps And he shows kindness. His focus is off of himself. His focus, he's not wrapped up in his own failure. And by the way, if we get wrapped up in our own weaknesses, if we get all wrapped up in our own failures Guess what we're going to do when we're successful and victorious? We're going to get wrapped up in what? Oh, how great I did Boy, how how look at that? Look what a great Christian I am. If I'm all wrapped up and worried, oh what a terrible Christian I am, what a terrible Christian I am, when I do good, guess what I'm going to be Oh, what a great Christian I am. What a great Christian. What we need to do is get our eyes off of ourselves, get them on the Lord, and then look for other people we can help And I see that we'll see this in Moses over and over and over. There's no focus on himself. And I got looking through his life, and maybe I may have overlooked some But I don't see anywhere where Moses focuses on himself through his whole lifetime. I don't see anywhere where he seeks his own pleasure, or his own well-being even. It's always helping a Hebrew that's being treated unjustly, being beaten unjustly, or helping some uh shepherdess as is that uh are being treated unkindly or uh helping Israel come out of Egypt or offering himself up for God if he'll just forgive others, others, others, others, others, others, all the way through his whole life. I don't see he doesn't become uncaring. You know, sometimes we get hurt, or we mess up, or somebody does or says something, it hurts us. And then we'll get this attitude. Tell me if I'm right or wrong. Well, pfft, I don't care. Right? I've seen it. I hate to admit it. I've probably been that way. Well, I just I don't care I don't care. Whole world can go to hell. I don't care. Right? But that's not I don't see that in Moses. There's no morbid dwelling on his sin. He's not self-centered. He's not angry and bitter. I try And look what comes out. What's the use of even I had a man tell me years ago, he said, I'm never going to love anybody again. I love somebody and they hurt me. I'm never doing again. I don't see that on Moses. He doesn't become bitter, he doesn't become angry, he doesn't become over uh go down in some pit of self-pity and self-focus. He said, Oh, there's some, look at those those ladies need some help. Forgot all about himself, forgot all about, and he went over and helped them. And God, listen, God used that one act of selfless kindness in the midst of the lowest point of his life. He showed some kindness. He was unselfish and God used that to redirect his whole life where he becomes one of the greatest men in all of history. Just a little act of kindness. Just a little bit. And so he shows kindness to some strangers. He stands up for them. So another quality of Moses that's becoming apparent. First of all, it was his love for God's people. Now we see another quality that falls in line with that is unselfishness. Unselfishness. Would you agree with me? If we as a church would love the Lord, we'd love God's people and be unselfish, we'd be quite a church, wouldn't we? That'd be a powerful witness That's a powerful Christian right there. He's not sinless. He killed a guy for Pete's sake. He's a temper later on. But He was unselfish. He was unselfish. Very rarely, as I said, do we find Moses focused on himself? Very rarely do we find him sulking in his own guilt and self-pity. Very rarely do we find him fighting and fussing for his own pleasure or his own gain. He's fighting for other people's well-being. Never you never find him doing that for himself And now, do you have Hebrews there? Let's look uh back at Hebrews. Uh the writer, well God, through the writer of Hebrews. Tells us this about Job. Now we read this before, a lot of us were very familiar with this page. Hebrews chapter 11 And verse 24, Hebrews 11, 24. Now, what are the first two words of verse 24? By faith, that's the bottom line in all of this. He believed God. Everything else is a result of that He believed what God said, he believed who God was, he believed God. He had faith. So look at this. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, you could write in your margin there, he's 40 years old. That's what they're talking about. Refuse to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. That's when he chose that he's going to kill this Egyptian and he's going to stand with God's people. Now look what it says. Choosing rather to what? Suffer affliction with the people of God. You know what that is? That is Midian. Suffering affliction. He's in Midian. It wasn't easy, it was difficult. Suffer affliction with the people of God, then to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. He could have lived his life in luxury, with power. In prosperity, comfort, and he did. He'd rather do right than be rich. He'd rather do right than have his own pleasures. That is unselfishness. That is unselfish. The term Paul used to describe that was is this, and we hear it often. Dying to what? Self. Dying to self. Brother Homershire used to say, put yourself up on that cross. Just die to self, crucify the old nature, crucify that old selfish, sinful nature, just die to self. That's what Moses is doing. That's exactly what he's doing here Notice it goes on, esteeming the reproaches of Christ greater riches than the treasures in heaven. For he had respect unto the recompense of reward. Now notice at the end of verse 25 it says, the pleasures of sin, what? For a season. Suppose he'd have lived 120 years in Egypt and he'd uh enjoyed all the pleasures, all the luxury, all the comfort, he had ever he enjoyed everything Egypt could have offered him most Powerful, richest nation in the world. He's on all of it for 120 years, and then he dies. Goes to hell. Or he can choose to have faith in God, trust the Lord, commit himself, go through these heartaches and lose, sacrifice all of that. And for 120 years live in a most of the in a wilderness before in Midian, then later out in the wilderness, wandering around, getting to the promised land. And then get to heaven and hear this. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So for thousands and thousands and thousands of years, Moses has been reaping the rewards of a decision he made in Egypt to forsake the world, and it's going to be the Lord. I'm going to commit to God's people. And he's he's enjoyed the rewards of that decision. Do you get that there? At the end of verse uh, what is it, twenty-six? Esteeming the riches, the reproach of Christ's greater riches and the treasury, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. I think the implication in that passage is this. He knew that there was something beyond this life. And he could gain the whole world and lose his own soul, or he could forsake the world, trust the Lord. And have eternal life with the Lord in heaven. I don't know about you. I'll take eternity with the Lord than any other option. That's not easy, but that's the decision he made. That's the decision. His focus was not on himself. He saw beyond the physical. He saw beyond the temporal. He saw him, the Bible puts it this way, he saw him who is invisible. He saw what the Lord was, he understood what this was. So coming back, they have this characteristic of Moses of unselfishness. Maybe, and I'm preaching myself as much as anybody tonight But maybe some of us just need to get alone with God and ask God's Holy Spirit to help us be unselfish. Get my eyes off myself and get it all not about me. Um by the way, we're we're studying the fruit of the spirit on uh Sunday nights, and that's really self is out of the way. And it's living for the Lord and others. And we're seeing that. Moses was willing to inconvenience himself for God and for others. Now, I like what one preacher said I heard a couple years ago up at John Leatherman's, we were in a meeting up there, and there's another preacher preaching along with us, and he said, he made this statement And I'll never forgot it. I've used it many times. He says, I know that I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer. And I thought, oop, I hear that. He said, but praise God, I'm in the drawer. Listen, we don't have to be the sharpest knife in the drawer. We don't have to be the brightest bulb in the chandelier. In other words, I don't have to be the smartest. I may not be that intelligent. I may not be that gifted. I may not be that personable and be very, very some great winning personality But if I can learn to love God and to care about others and to die to self, God can use me. God can use me. In fact, sometimes that great intelligence and that abilities, talents, and popularity, sometimes that gets in the way, doesn't it? And that interferes and we get our eyes on ourselves. And so Moses was very intelligent, all of that. But that wasn't what God used, why God used them. God used them because he was a blessing. He cared about others and he loved the Lord. I put this down. I like this quote. And I was reading this and I thought this quote: A heart for others is a heart that God can use. A heart for others is a heart that God can use. Others, others, others. I don't know, we we don't know a whole lot about Moses' parents, his biological parents. We keep referencing them. But whoever they were, they taught him, apparently, they put something in his heart to be kind. I think Those twelve years or whatever he lived in that home. I think ms Mr. and Mrs. Moses were I think they were kind. I think he lived in a kind home And later on he learned, displayed the character of kindness. I think they he I think he grew up in an unselfish family those early years. I'm pretty certain he didn't learn this from Pharaoh. I'm pretty certain he didn't pick this up in Egypt, in their culture. I'm pretty certain these characteristics were developed in the first 12 years of his life in a home that loved God That was kind and unselfish and cared about other people. And Moses took that with him 40 years later. 40 years later. So If I can know that God is using me to bring others to Christ, if I can know that God is using me to help other people, Find God's will for their life and then help them live for God. If we can know that, then our life is something. Our life has meaning. It has purpose. But if it's all about me and it's focused on me, we're very limited. We're very limited. So number one He settles in, Midian, by a well. He settles in there. Then he stands up for these ladies against their unkindness. Then in verse 18 and 19, he secures some respect. Now look how these seven daughters and uh um uh uh their father respond to this in verse 18. It says, and when They came to Rail their father, he said How is it that you're coming so soon today? That's where I got that this apparently were they were treated this way regularly. So you came back a lot earlier. Moses helped them. And they said, an Egyptian of all people delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds. And also drew enough, drew water enough for us and watered the flock. Man, you talk about going the second mile. And he said unto his daughters, well, where is he? Why did you this is Leatherman ver the unauthorized Leatherman version. Says, uh, where is he? Why did you leave him there? He says, why have you left the man? Call him that he may eat bread. He just won the respect of these ladies' daddy. I don't know who this guy is. Some Egyptian of all people. And he helped my daughters. He not only protected them, but he took care of them and did all this for them. Man, I respect that guy. And uh and so he earns the respect. These are people who are strangers. In Israel, the brother that he tried to Spare him and killed the Egyptian because he was smiting them. The brother that uh uh the Hebrew brother uh that he tried to take care of, he had no respect for him, he criticized him The Hebrews turned against them, they had no respect for him. He was kind to them, he helped them, he protected them, they had no respect Now he's out a bunch of Midianite strange women and their daddy, and now he was kind to them and helped them and intervened. They have tremendous respect for him. You say, what does that tell us? I think it's always right to be kind. Say, well, some people don't appreciate it, but be kind anyway. Some people will be very grateful. Did you ever help somebody and they thanked you profusely? Anyone here? Oh thank you so much. Oh thank you. Help their groceries over there. Oh thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Did you ever help somebody and they walked away like you're uh bumping a log? Hello. So I ain't being kind no more. I didn't appreciate it. No, be kind anyway. Just be nice anyway. Say, well, they're not nice back. Be nice anyway. Don't be nice to them because they're nice. Be nice to them because you're nice. Be kind to them, not because they're kind. Be kind to them because you're a child of God. You're an ambassador of Christ. You represent the Lord Jesus Christ. Be kind. Moses in this case earned respect. Earlier, it's kind of interesting, the people of God didn't respect his intervention and his concern, but these total strangers did. It's kind of a sad commentary. So some are going to appreciate our love for others and our consent for others. Some aren't. Paul put it this way. In Corinthians, he said, the more I love, anybody remember this passage? The more I love, the less I be loved. You know, Paul is rebuking the church at Corinth. He said, Man, I've loved you, I've intervened, I've invested my life in you guys. You know the Lord because God used me and Paulus and others. And you don't even appreciate it. He said, the more I love you, the more I I've given, the more I've invested, the less you show back. But you know what? Paul just kept right on loving them Just kept right on loving him, right on loving them. We call that what? Unconditional love Now, I made this statement, I think, Sunday morning, and I'm becoming more and more convinced of it as I go through life. I think we actually know very, very little of what genuine God like love really is. We are so limited in our spiritual understanding, we're so controlled by ourselves And so focused on ourselves, we have little grasp of what unconditional love is But Moses, he's showing it here. There's something here. He has a character trait of unselfishness. And then last of all, I got to end. Then he gains a new family. Look at verse 20. He said, and he said unto his daughters, Where is he? Why is it you've left a man? I would have added in there, you knuckleheads, and uh call him that he may eat bread. Let him let's show our appreciation. So uh they did Verse 21, and Moses was content to dwell with the man. Alright, he was there by the well. Now he's They say, come on here and just live with us. You can live on our compound here. They would have these tents set up, these little nomad type stuff. So come on, you stay here with us And I don't know how long this was. It might not have been very long, but look at this. And he gave Moses who? Zipporah his daughter. Well, lo and behold, now it's a romance story. The Bible's drama, sorrow, love, and romance. And she bare him a son. And he called his name Gershem, for he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land. That tells that last statement is where I get the idea he was pretty down. He's probably just given up. I was a stranger and a stranger. I had nobody. And now, lo and behold, he's got a family. He's got a wife and a boy, he's got a father-in-law, he's got I don't know if the sisters-in-law were that great of a thing, but um uh he has a family. He's actually had three families now, right? He's had his biological parents of circumstances they couldn't control, God intervened, and he lost them Then he had his Egyptian adoptive family, and through decisions made and actions taken, he lost them And now he is his third family. And uh he settles in here. This is third family. I wonder if Moses believed that failure was final I wonder if he got to the point where he thought, I have no part in God's plan. It's nothing I can do for God. And like I said, I think I jumped ahead last week and emphasized this, but the fact is failure is never final It's never final. Don't believe the lie of the devil. Here's what the devil's going to say. God can never use you again. And that is a lie. Here's the thing, we touched on this Sunday morning. The blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse us from all sin. And all failure. You say even murder? Yeah, even murder. So failure is not final. He just wasn't ready yet. God wasn't finished training him yet. He's got some developing he needs done. And his future was not for he I wonder uh if Moses believed his future was forsaken. I tell you, there's nothing as lonely as rejection. His own people rejected him, and the Hebrew and the Egyptians hated him. So let's do this. I'm going to end with this tonight. Wherever we're at spiritually, whatever our condition is spiritually, I believe, I trust we all know the Lord is Savior. Amen. Wherever we're at. Maybe we don't need to come to the Lord and say, God, I ask that your Holy Spirit would put a love in my heart for you and for your people. And maybe ask the Lord to do this, the Holy Spirit, take out this love of self and help me to love and care for others. Love and care for others. Amen. That would be a good request to give the Lord tonight. Father, we ask you'd help us to learn from this page in Moses' life and these characteristics that are were picking up or coming out. And Lord, I pray that they would be true in my life. And Lord, I pray they'd be true and characteristic of us as a body of believers. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, that's my prayer? I'd like to have these characteristics true of me. Any like that? Just be kind. Love people. Love the Lord. Father, help us. We need your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen.