But all right, Exodus chapter four, I want to begin reading verse fourteen. I'm going to read down through verse seventeen And just to get us back in context, what's going on here, of course, God has commissioned Moses to go back down to Egypt. He's throwing these objections up to the Lord. Now we've looked at the fifth one last week. We looked at his fifth objection. And basically what the objection was, as I understand it, is no, I'm not going, you've got to find somebody else All right, that's his objection. Verse 14, or verse 13, he says, this is Moses speaking. He says, Oh my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. And the wording of that makes it for us a little unclear what exactly he's saying there. I've come to the conclusion, I explained to us in depth last week why that what he's telling God is, I'm not doing this. You gotta find somebody else. So verse 14 is God's response to this Fifth objection of Moses where he says, I'm not going. Look at verse 14. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. And he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well. And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee. And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what you shall do. And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people, and he shall be, even he, shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God. Now shalt take this rod in thy hand wherein thou uh wherein thou shalt do signs. So God's final response to Moses' final objection And this settles it. After we look at this portion, then it's settled. And Moses is going to go. So let's pray together and we'll look at this one little Little one little thought tonight is what I have. Father, I ask you to bless now as we study your word. I thank you for the Bible and um all the tremendous information that we're given on life and And you and your expectations from us. And Lord, as we look at this back and forth with Moses and the lessons we learn from this, I pray your Holy Spirit Would glean out here from this passage lessons that can help us. Lord, maybe you can help me and all of us be a little more submissive to you And Lord, maybe your Holy Spirit can help us trust you more thoroughly and agree with you and allow you to lead us in our lives. And again, to learn from this. So please, I pray and ask you, Lord, please fill me with your Spirit. Please speak through me and just use my lips, my body, my mind. As a conduit for you to speak to our hearts tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I've broken this down, this final objection, to three parts. Number one was Moses' honesty And I think he's finally now just saying what he really was thinking the whole time. I'm not doing this. And so he kept giving these objections or reasons why he can't thinking perhaps that God would say, oh, okay, you're right, there you can't talk good, I'll get somebody else. And every objection he brought up, every excuse he gave, God had a very Very good, legitimate, thorough answer to it why it was not why God would take care of it. God he could still go forward So finally, Moses, in his honesty, says, I'm not going to send somebody else. We looked at that. The second thing I notice is what we're going to look at tonight: God's anger First is Moses' honesty. I'm not going to find somebody else. Then God's anger. God's anger was kindled. It's the first time we read that in this whole debate going back and forth where God's angry. So we're going to look at that, and then we're going to look at the arrangement God comes up with. We're not going to get to that tonight, but God gets angry, and then there's an arrangement with that involves Aaron. and how he's going to work with Moses and and there's a bunch of issues there we're going to Lord willing spend some time on. So I want to look at this matter of God getting angry Notice it says there, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. There was no rebuke from God in any of his previous objections. God was very gracious He explained situations. He gave him the information that he needed to be able to do what God was calling him to do. He accommodated Moses' concerns. And he never showed any rebuke towards Moses. He never showed any frustration, not outward However, this last objection, the use Bible term, kindles God's anger. Verse 14. God's anger was kindled. Now I got looking at that word kindled And it means what you might think it might mean. It's a good King James word. It means to ignite or to light up. Um if you uh if any of you have wood stoves at home or you camp out and stuff, you build a campfire, you go and get what kind of wood to start the fire? You get kindling wood Just small, very flammable wood, just to get the thing started. You get a little spark in there, a little flame, and it fires the fire up. It ignites it and gets it going The Bible says that God's anger was kindled. It was lit up. It was set on fire, so to speak. Now we have a term we use, it's kind of a contemporary term we use that people get triggered. How many people are familiar with that term? If something happens, something's said, or somebody does something, man, they get triggered. Oh, they get mad, throw a tamperum, and go crazy. That is not the same as God's anger being kindled When the Bible says that God's anger was kindled, it is not an emotional response on God's part. It is not something impulsive, and I'm probably going to repeat that several times because it's very important for us to understand. God does not act impulsively. He has a plan and purpose. He's very deliberate in everything he does. And so when the Bible says he was kindled, it's not an emotional reaction. It's not an impulsive outburst. But it is a principled response to a position that Moses has taken. We'll look at that It says it says the anger of the Lord was kindled. It prov it it It provoked, it it um it uh established this response on God's part Now, what about anger? What is anger? Somebody, let's get group participation. We use terms. Do we ever stop and think what we mean by them? What does it mean? What does the word anger mean? Anybody want to take a shot? To be angry. Alright. That settles that. Clears that up. What? Get mad at something, that's another word for anger If you're angry about something, you would, would you agree with me, you are displeased with it. Anger is an expression of great displeasure. about something. Another term, and it's again, it's just another term with a very almost identical meaning, but indignation. It means to be uh uh to uh uh greatly displeased, disapprove of something. So when Moses says, I'm not going, get somebody else, God responds in principle. We're going to see that here. There's a basis for God's response. It's not just a selfish reaction, not some impulsive emotional response. It's a very principled, deliberate response, an expression of his displeasure with what Moses has decided to do, what position Moses has taken. I think it's important, and this is going to be the gist of my message tonight, it's important to understand there is a fundamental difference between the anger of man And the anger of God. There's a very fundamental difference here. There's two different bases Man's anger is not based on the same thing as God's anger is. Fundamentally different. Man has a sinful nature. We operate from a flawed position. We operate from a Naturally, I'm talking naturally, we operate apart from the Spirit of God, apart from the presence of God in our life and uh the Holy Spirit governing our thinking and our uh our reactions, apart from that, our default position is a humanistic position. In other words, it revolves around me. And so man's anger naturally is from the basis of myself, my sinful nature. However, when the Bible talks about God's anger, it is not from a selfish position. It is not root, it has no hint of sinfulness about it, of unjustice or unfairness about it. The anger of God is rooted in God's holy nature. It's rooted in God's righteousness. If there is a violation of God's righteousness, if there is a violation of God's holiness, then God's anger is activated. It's not an emotional response. Man's anger, if somebody doesn't do what I want him to do, then I get angry at him. Somebody says something that offends me, then I get angry. Some I don't agree with them, and they press on, and I get angry. It's so important for us to understand there's a fundamental difference between the two. Between the two because they have a different basis. Now we are going to use our Bible, I believe. We're going to use it a bunch tonight. So I hope you brought your Bibles. I hope you have them handy, and I hope you got your Bible turning fingers Loosened up. Because we're going to look at a bunch. Go with me to James, chapter number one. Bunch of these are going to be in the New Testament. Believe it or not, the New Testament talks a good bit about anger. All the way back in James, Hebrews, James, and chapter number one. James, of course, is a very practical book. Practical Christianity 101, James. How to live the Christian life, what it means practically. And in chapter twenty or in verse 20 of chapter 1, he touches on this matter of anger, particularly anger from the heart of man. Notice what he says. For the wrath of man, and wrath is the next level up of anger. All wrath is rooted in anger. It's an expression of anger. For the wrath of man, notice what he says here, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Now look at that verse very carefully. Are there any exceptions even implied in that verse? That there's somewhere where maybe man's wrath may just work out the righteousness of God. Does it hint at any exceptions? No! It's a flat statement with a period. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Man's wrath will not, by implication, ever, in any circumstance at all, whatsoever. produce righteousness, at least in the eyes and definition of God, by God's definition. Zero So there's an implication here. So there's no exceptions. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Now there's an implication here. Notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't just say, for wrath worketh not the righteousness of God. He says, the wrath what? Of man worketh not the righteousness of God. So the implication is At least in the way I see it, the implication is the wrath of man does not work the righteousness of God. However, by implication, the wrath of God Will work the righteousness of God. I don't think I'm stretching that. I think he clarifies what wrath he's talking about here. I mean, it's either the wrath of God or the wrath of man. We have all through scripture talked about the wrath of God, the anger of God, and we see the anger of man. Old and New Testaments, we see both of it. And he's very, very clear here to point out, I'm not talking about the wrath of God, I'm talking about the wrath of man. The wrath of man will not work the righteousness. In other words, the wrath of man will not have the same results that the wrath of God has. And so, wrath of God does. Work the righteousness of God. Now, I've done studies on this over the years, on this matter of anger, and it's something that probably all of us to some extent deal with Some of us more so than others. And the Bible addresses it. And I think it's important to understand. If my wrath is not going to work the righteousness of God, I need to understand what my wrath is and how do I deal with it. So let's look at a couple verses, and some of them you're maybe already thinking of. Come over to Ephesians chapter number 4. And he talks about it here, Ephesians. And chapter number four And I think I want to start out with verse 26. Let me do a little survey. How many people in the statements I just made in the last five minutes Ephesians 4. 26 came to mind. Anybody have that verse come to mind? Be ye angry and sin not. Alright? So if that was the only statement we had on anger, as far as man is concerned, it sounds to me like: well, there is a time when you can be angry, just make sure you, when you get angry, you don't sin. Right? Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath If that's all the information we had on the wrath of man, then we would come to the conclusion, all right, there are some situations where it's okay for man to be angry. However, you've got to deal with it before the sun goes down. Get it out of there before the sun goes down. Alright? I'll give it that if that's all we have. However, come down, if you would, to verse number 30. And it's picked up again, the same subject, along with some others. Verse 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Now look at verse 31. Very carefully This is an important subject, I believe. Let that second word in verse 31 is incredibly important. I circled it in my Bible. Let what? All. What does all mean? It means all, yeah. There's no exceptions in the word all. Right? It's all inclusive. Let all bitterness uh oh and wrath and anger And clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Now, to me, that verse is pretty clear All bitterness, all wrath, all anger, clamor, evil speaking Be put away from you with malice. Let me ask you a question. Is there ever a time when bitterness is okay? No. Bitterness is an awful sin. There's never a time when bitterness is justified. How about wrath? How about clamor? How about evil speaking? Malice. That's the list. That's the categories that that term anger is put in with. Now we're going to come back to verse 26 here in a moment, but I want you to come over to Colossians real quickly with me. And look at chapter three and verse number eight. So four thirty-one is pretty clear. Let all, and he gives this list, and in the list is the this issue of anger. Put it all be put away from you. Put off Look at Colossians 3, verse 8, and here he comes back to this same list. And he says almost identical wording. He repeats it. But now ye also put off, here's that word all again, put off all these anger, wrath, Malice, blasphemy, filthy communications out of your mouth. Put off all of those, no exceptions. If I understand verse 31 of Ephesians 4 and verse 8 of Colossians 3 correctly, and they seem awfully clear to me, is that these things are not to have any place in my life. At all. And when they show up, I'm to put them off. Right? Things happen. We have a sinful nature. People do stuff. Circumstance comes, man, we our flesh, we get angry. And by the way, one of the works of the flesh is wrath, a form of anger. And man, we get angry, and God says, Listen, put that off. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit. When that comes on you, you put it off. And that brings me back to verse 26 of Ephesians 4, where he says, Be ye angry and sin not. I think this is my understanding, all right? Right or wrong, this is the way I uh this is what I think he's saying in verse 26. That anger is going to come sooner or later. It's going to, something's going to happen, it's going to trigger it. We're going to have an emotional reaction of anger And he says, when that happens, do not let, do not sin. What would the sin be? Being angry and sinning, what would it be? I think the sin is not putting it off. The angry, alright comes? He says twice he tells us, put it off, put it off. So when anger comes and I don't put it off, then I'm sinning. And he goes on. He says, don't even let the sun go down. You've got to put that off. Don't wait a day or two. Get it off. And so the point I'm trying to make is this man's wrath, man's anger, and God's anger have uh two completely different foundations basis for them. Man's is flawed I think we fail to comprehend sometimes how broken we really are How sinful our very core of our being really is. And these emotions and these reactions, this bitterness and wrath and Lust and all these things that come from our from our heart are so corruptive And so the basis of man's anger is very, very, very different than God's and very, very flawed. Fallen man is told repeatedly to put off our anger. I want you to come another place in Proverbs. Now come over to Proverbs. Proverbs talks about anger. Proverbs talks about a lot of things, anger being one of them. Proverbs chapter number 22 And notice with me, if you would, verse number twenty-four. Proverbs 22 and verse 24. Now the question is, is it, and I'm just throwing this out there. This is my this is the way I see it. Is it sinful something happens in man anger swells up in me? Is that sinful in and of itself? I think in and of itself that is not where the sin is. The sin is when I tolerate it, when I indulge it. When I allow it. I've got to intervene. It comes naturally. I've got to intervene. Put it off. I can't breathe the spirit. I need the Holy Spirit to fill me, enable me not to let that control me Look at Proverbs 22 and verse 24. And I know what I'm saying is a whole lot easier preached than it is practiced. But nevertheless, this is what God tells us. Proverbs 22, look at verse 24. He says, Make no friendship with uh what? Angry man. Make no friendship, no association, don't have a connection there. Make no friendship with an angry man and with a furious man. This is another level of anger. Thou shalt not go. Now notice the sentence doesn't end there. It continues on to the next verse. Lest Thou learn his ways and get a snare to thy soul. That tells me that, well, one, it tells me that Associations influence us, right? I need to be careful who I associate with, because they're going to influence me Whether good or bad. In this case, an angry man, a furious man. The second thing tells me that anger is contagious Says, don't make no friendship with an angry man, lest thou learn his ways. You get angry also. And I know I've touched on this numerous times over the years, but how many people here have ever got in a situation you weren't necessarily angry, it was just whatever, and somebody in the in the association there, whatever Talking, they got angry and before you knew it you were angry also. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like it's so c it's more contagious than COVID You know, it's just like boom and all of a sudden everybody's angry. You're having a you're having a wonderful, happy day. You're praising the Lord and in the sunshine everything's good and you watch a news report and they're angry and boom, all of a sudden I'm angry. Right? The effects of man's anger, the basis of man's anger is different than the basis of God's anger, and the effects of man's anger. Is different than the effects of God's anger. God's anger, let's look at, let's consider God's anger. And back in our text Moses said, I'm not going find somebody else. And God's anger was kindled. God's anger is never arbitrary. It's not just just get angry off over something. You know, and block I stub my toe. Oh, I get angry. God's anger is never like that. It's not arbitrary. God's anger is not impulsive. Just blow up. God's anger is never uncontrolled. It's very difficult for man to control the anger of our own fallen nature. That's why we've got to put it off. I can't tolerate it. I can't indulge it. I can't negotiate with it. I've got to put it off like a jacket. Get rid of it. Go with me, if you would, to Psalms 103. Here we're told something about God's anger. Psalm one hundred three, and notice, if you would, with me, verse eight. Psalm one hundred three, verse eight. The Lord is merciful and gracious. How many people say, praise the Lord for that? Woo! Now look at that next statement. What to anger? Slow to anger. You know what that tells me? God controls his anger. He can control it. When God gets angry, it's always deliberately It's always on purpose for a reason. It's slow. It doesn't just blow up. It's all controlled. It's all under the uh the control of God. And then he goes on, he elaborates, and plentious in mercy He will not always chide. Look at this. Neither will he keep his anger forever. Again, that implies control. That implies deliberation. It implies to me purpose for it. There's something his anger is going to accomplish. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame, he remembers him that that we are dead. That would be a good that would be a good pattern to emulate in our lives. What we just had described to the Lord here. Anyone agree with me on that? That'd be a very good thing. Be patient. Be merciful. Somebody sins, you know, they just don't hold it. Remove it. So we're told here that God is very deliberate. He controls his anger. It's very deliberate. However, he does get angry, it's allowed. He does. He's slow to anger. He does get angry. But the conditions have to be right There's a purpose for it, and it's under complete control, and when it accomplishes his purpose, then he's done with it. He doesn't keep his anger forever. So God does what he does deliberately. God does what he does for a purpose. Our anger is to pay somebody back or let people know I'm not happy. My ego has been insulted. My will has been violated. Our will is corrupt. We're told over and over again, not my will, but thy will. God has a whole nother basis for his anger. God's anger, let me make a few statements here. God's anger is rooted in God's holiness. Moses violated God's authority, his perfect righteousness God is the ultimate authority. God has a perfect plan for Moses' life. And Moses says, I will not cooperate with your plan for my life. That was a violation of the holiness and righteousness of God. And it kindled God's wrath. Now God got angry with Moses for a reason. It was to Mold Moses. It was to bring Moses about to where he needed to be. Um God's anger is a consequence of violating God's holiness. It is a form of holy judgment on unrighteousness. The results of man's anger is inevitably more anger. And it escalates. The results of man's anger is more sin. It leads to bitterness, it leads to hatred, it leads to vengeance, and ultimately it leads to violence. God's anger doesn't produce any of that. None of that. I found three things in Scripture that God's anger produces. And God had angry, God's anger was kindled at Moses. You'll see these. You'll see these. Number one, the results of God's anger, the product of God's anger, is conviction of sin. God's anger brings conviction of sin. God's anger does not inflame sin, it arrests it. It contains it, it convicts it. To convict something means to bring into restraint, to bring under judgment. Romans 118, and we don't have time to turn to all these, but what Romans 118 tells us that God's anger produces an awareness of my sin and my guilt. And you see that through scripture in the in the Old Testament, when Israel's in the wilderness, God got angry with them. And it was always an exposure of their guilt, exposure of their rebellion, exposure of their Sinfulness. And it brought guilt. Um, I think, because studying this, I come to this conclusion All conviction. How many people know what I'm talking about when I talk about convict being convicted of sin? Yeah. I hope that happens here at Mount Lakes, at least sometimes for us. Because we're all sinners, right? As I got studying this, I kind of came to the conclusion all conviction is a form of God's anger to an extent. God exposes this is wrong and he's showing it. I'm not pleased with this. This is not right. This does not live up to my holy standards as your God and your creator and I made you To live is very uh uh uh designed to live a pure and holy and honest and good life. And when you don't, there's it it hurts you, it harms you. So I say conviction It's God's expressing his displeasure for my sin and expressing it in my heart. Now it's not called anger, but I think it falls in the category maybe It's interesting, when God's anger was kindled, you don't have any more objections from Moses He had one objection and God answered it very graciously. Oh, they'll believe you. Then he had another objection, and all right, we'll do these signs, and he accommodated that objection. Then he had a third objection and God accommodated that. Then he had a fourth objection and God uh answered that and accommodated that. Then he had a fifth one where he said, I ain't doing it, and God's anger was kindled, and the objection stopped No more objections after this. Because God's anger brings conviction of sin. I believe Moses was now realized what he did. That he crossed the line. And I'm here to tell you, God does not play games. And Moses was playing games with God. And God said, enough. And so God's anger, one of the results of God's anger, is conviction of sin. Now the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness, does not work the righteousness of God. But the wrath of God does, we see it in Moses here. He lined up So the second thing I notice in Scripture that God's anger produces is the fear of the Lord. Now, we're in, are you still in Psalms? Go over to Psalm chapter 90. Now, when we talk about the fear of the Lord, we're not talking about cowering in terror. I'm scared of God. It might include that a little bit, but we're talking about a holy respect, a sober reverence for God. Psalm chapter 90. Look with me if you would at verse 11. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? And the the answer to that is what? Nobody does. We can't comprehend the power, the authority behind God's anger, good, and night. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. So it produces a fear of God, the anger of God. So look at the result in verse 12. So, because of the power of thine anger, because of the fear that God's anger produces, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. I put more marks in my Bible so that we take life seriously. God doesn't play, he's given us life He's given us this gift of life, and then he gave himself and died so we can be forgiven and have eternal life. And he says, don't play with that. Take your life seriously. Doesn't mean be morbid, doesn't mean don't enjoy things, but he's saying don't squander your light. And the anger of God produces a fear of God in us, a respect. And then thirdly, and I'll end with this the anger of God will often produce humility and repentance. Now not always. You see, God gets angry in the Bible sometimes and people harden their hearts and he destroys them. We're gonna notice later on down the road, ten, fifteen years probably, Korah rises up in rebellion against Moses, God's anger, and rather than humbling themselves, they dug their heels in, and the earth opened up and swallowed them up, and they paid a heavy price But the intention, and often, God's anger will produce humility and repentance, and that's what it's designed for. That's what it's intended to do. God's desired the desired effect of God's anger is humility and repentance. And I'll end with this. I want to give you an illustration of this. 2 Samuel. Come over there, 2 Samuel. I told you we were going to look at a lot of verses. 2 Samuel and chapter number 24. 2 Samuel 24. I want to look at verse 1 and then we're going to look at verse 10. Now some of us are familiar with this event here. David is later in David's life. He's been king for a long time. For whatever reason, well, we we kind of implied what the reason is, he decides to number the men of Israel against the will of God We surmise that he's being very proud and he wants to exalt himself. He wants to feed his ego. And look at verse 1. And again, the anger of the Lord was kindled. There's the exact same phrase we have with Moses. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, Go number Israel and Judah. Now come over, if you would, to verse number 10. The result of God's anger. It says, and David's heart smote him after he had numbered the people. David said, Listen to this, listen to this confession David said unto the Lord, I have sinned greatly in that I have done. And now I beseech thee, O Lord, take away the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very foolishly. God's anger produced humility and total repentance in the heart and mind of David. So, Moses said, I'm not doing it, God. Find somebody else. I don't care what you do. I don't care you can answer all my questions to all this. I'm not doing it, find somebody else. God's anger is kindled. God's God's the response of God's holiness, his righteousness, his judgment responds to Moses' rebellion. And that anger is expressed, and we're going to find Moses shuts down and he cooperates. He cooperates. So here's what I want to leave us with tonight. Number one, we're going to get angry. We're going to some of us struggle with it more than others. But nevertheless, it's there. And God says, at least twice, and I think I can show you other places in Scripture where it's implied, God says, put it off, put it off. Don't let it stay. It'll be sin. Certainly don't let the sun go down on it. Put it off. Avoid those that trigger anger as much as possible. If watching the news triggers anger, turn the news off. Our kingdom is way over this world's kingdom. And I'm not saying we shouldn't be involved and we do and all of that, but I'm simply saying this It's not worth losing my testimony over. So be careful. Guard my heart. Keep it with all diligence. For out of it produced the re uh are the issues of life. And one of those issues is anger. I've got to keep it, guard it, protect it, put it off. And then, number two When there's something not right in my life, and God's Holy Spirit comes down and touches my heart and soul and says, That's not right, that is the compassion And that is a love of a Heavenly Father that is willing to discipline me in order for me to be in the place where I can have his blessings. And sometimes that is requires anger. Holy, just anger of a good God, a perfect God. And so I don't want to harden my heart against God's conviction. I don't want to resist and stiffen my neck when God comes and says, Dennis, this here needs to be addressed. It is not right. Because God loves me. He's slow to anger. He's not going to be angry forever. But brother, he can accomplish what he needs to accomplish with it. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this little statement. Now, your anger being kindled. I do not, Lord, I don't want you to be angry at our church. We want to be submissive to you. We want to trust you. We want you to be pleased. So when you deal with us as a church body, help us to be sensitive and then submissive and to trust you so we can have your blessings and have your best on us. And Lord, us as individuals, Father, so sin nature is such a beast, and every day we have to fight it. I pray you'd help us to mortify the deeds of the flesh and put off anger and walk in the Spirit and be filled with the Spirit, with the fruit of the Spirit. Now we can please you with our individual lives. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some say, preacher, pray with me. God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart tonight Spirit of God dealt with my heart. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. Probably if we have a sinful nature, we probably the spirit deal with us Wonder how many would say, preacher, pray with me. And I and I'm talking to myself, this imitation's for me as much. I already went through this in my office, alone with God. Wonder how many of us would say it when God convicts me I don't want to fight it. I want to be I want to agree with him and let him have his way and and and allow the Spirit to correct me. Is there anything like that? I want God. When God convicts me, I want to be submissive to it. Because it's he's doing it in love Father correcting us. That's what Moses that's what the anger at Moses was. It was in love to correct Moses. Father, bless our invitation. I ask, help us to be sensitive, sensitive, and submissive. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.