Exodus chapter two. I want to begin reading in verse fifteen. I'm going to read down through verse twenty-two. Exodus fifth Exodus chapter two. Verse fifteen. The Bible says Now, when Pharaoh heard this thing, what thing did Pharaoh hear that it's talking about? Moses killed an Egyptian And then uh uh word got out, he hid the body, word got out, the Jews knew about it, he tried to get two Hebrews that were fighting, he tried to get them to quit, their brothers uh in the Lord, and then um word gets out he's afraid. And so Pharaoh finds out about it. Verse 15, Pharaoh heard this thing. Pharaoh found out that his adopted grandson killed one of his men. When he heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses, but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. And the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and helped them and watered their flock And when they came to Rahel, Reuel, their father, he said, How is it that you're come so soon today? And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us, and watered the flock. And he said unto his daughters, Where is he? Why is it that you've left the man? Call him that he may eat bread. And Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses Zipporah, his daughter She bare him a son, and he called his name Gersham, for he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land. Moses and Midian, let's pray together and we'll look at this portion of Scripture. Father in heaven, I thank you that uh we can study your word freely and And we thank you that we have such abundant access to the Word of God. And I'd pray now tonight as we look at this portion of your word that you would speak to our hearts, you teach us I pray your Holy Spirit open our eyes. We can see how truths here and principles apply to our lives, that you would apply them to our lives. I ask, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would guide my thinking as I'm speaking, guide my words. It would just be what you once said. I pray you guard my words. I not say anything. I ought not to And so fill me and speak through me is my prayer. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're studying, I enjoy, as you know, and we've done this quite a bit, studying the life of different people. John the Baptist we studied, Joseph, David, various ones, Rahab recently. Now we're looking at Moses. I think it's important to understand So we go through here that we're not studying these people's lives just to gain facts about their lives, just to satisfy curiosity. And I'll be honest with you, as I'm studying through these different people, and now Moses, I'm seeing things, learning things I didn't know before, and we're finding some things out that to me are fascinating. Um some of it outside of scripture of course, uh, you know, supp supposition. We're not we're we're we uh it's not um Uh what am I trying to say? It's not uh divinely inspired information, but it's passed down. There may be something to it. So but the point I'm trying to make is this. We don't study these people's lives just to be fascinated by their lives or to satisfy some curiosity about their lives. Corinthians, we're told in Corinthians that God has recorded These people, these events in the Old Testament for a very specific purpose, so that we can learn from their examples, their end samples to use the Bible term for us So that we don't make the same, so we can it'll help us avoid making the same mistakes they make. And help us follow their example and things that they do are correct and things that they do that please the Lord. And we can learn from that. And we can see um uh you know how the what the consequences were of lack of faith or of great faith And so when we go through here, we look at this, look beyond just the curiosity part and ask the Lord, Lord, what is there to learn here? How does this apply to my life? How can this help me grow in my faith? Now coming back to Moses, it's become very clear. Two things about Moses has become very, very clear, particularly in the last passage. that we looked at. Go back there and look at verse 11. I'm not going to re-preach this, but uh it sets us up for his future life. Verse 11 says, It came to pass in those days when Moses was grown. We believe he's about forty years old at this point. We know he was. And that he went out to his brethren, he looked on their burdens, he spied an Egyptian, smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren He looked this way and that way, and when he saw there was no man he slew the Egyptian and hid him in the sand, and then it goes on where he intervened where two Hebrews are fighting, steps in And uh they spell the beans that words out on his murder of this Egyptian. But but there's two things we pull from that, and I want to reiterate them right now. Uh there's no doubt Moses loved the Lord dearly Moses loved Jehovah. And as we go through his life, it becomes more and more obvious. That Moses loved the Lord. Whatever his parents, those first ten, twelve years that he lived with his biological parents, Whatever they taught him, whatever they did there, whether it was directly and deliberate, or whether it just rubbed off on him. He learned to love God. And I'll tell you, the best place for a child to learn to love God is in the home. The church helps. The church is uh is uh is designed by God to uh for his people to grow in their understanding of God and their love for the Lord and their commitment to him and their faith in him. It's a whole church is designed to promote that, nurture that. But it's in the hall where it is most effective in teaching children to love God And I think Moses learned early on, that first 10, 12 years, before he goes for the next 30 years in the household of Pharaoh, whatever he got there stuck, it took deep root down in his heart. And Moses loved God, and that comes out as we go through his life. In fact, if you would, come over to chapter 33 of Exodus And we're jumping way ahead and we'll work our way. By the time we get to this point in his life, it'll be about twenty, thirty-five um down the road a ways. But um Chapter thirty-three and look with me at verse number eleven Now they are they're out in the wilderness, they're out of Egypt and they're making a way and he's he's uh uh um Uh getting uh the ark and all that from the Lord or the the tablets and all that from the Lord. Now look at verse number eleven with me. It says Look at this statement. Just think about what the implication of this statement is about Moses' relationship with God. It says, and the Lord spake unto Moses, look at this, face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. Would you agree with me? That's a what a statement to make about him. God spoke to Moses face to face I don't know any of us have ever, maybe some have spoken to God in our prayer time and in our Bible reading, where it's God there, face to face, like it's just him and I sitting down, communicating. What a relationship. And then he goes on, he describes it. He says, like a man as a man speaketh unto his friends. Would you agree with me? That sounds to me like Moses had a tremendous relationship with his Creator, with His God. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. As the old song says. And we look at Moses, and that's exactly what I see there. He loves the Lord. He loves the Lord. Come down, look uh uh let's read on down here. It says verse uh uh and he turned again, the middle of verse eleven, he turned again into the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, the young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. And Moses said unto the Lord See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, thou hast not known and Moses son of the Lord, see, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Well, it's obvious the Lord loved Moses. Now, therefore, I pray thee. Look what Moses says: if I have found grace in thy sight Show me now thy way. Isn't that a good prayer? God, show me the way. Show me what I should do. Show me how I should live. That I may know thee, and I may f that I may find grace in thy sight, and consider that this nation is thy people. And he said, verse 14, and he, God said, My presence shall go with thee. I will give thee rest. And he said unto them, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence. Sounds like they've got quite a relationship there, right? Moses loved the Lord. Look there at verse number 18. And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. So Moses was far from a perfect man. He was not a perfect man. We're going to see that. He had his besetting sin. Shows up repeatedly. He was not a perfect man, but Moses loved God. And I want to remind us all tonight, we don't have to be perfect man or a perfect woman to love God. We ought to try to be right. We ought to want to live for them. We want to please them. Jesus said, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments But if it requires perfection to be in love with God, then nobody's going to be in love with God And I can have a relationship with my creator, I can have a relationship with my savior, even though I'm a flawed being. And Moses loved God, and God loved Moses. And the second thing we notice, as we're going to get uh go through here, and we've already picked it up last week. We looked at it quite a bit, but Moses loved God's people. We see this when he intervened when the two Hebrews were fighting each other. And he says, Why are you doing this? Why are you fighting? Your brethren. He cared about them He cared about their spiritual well-being. He cared about their relationship with one another. He loved God's people. And again, we see this all through here. And the fact of the matter is loving God and loving God's people go hand in hand. Go hand in hand. Take your Bibles with me if you would. And look with me at Matthew 22. Come all the way to the New Testament, Matthew 22. And verse number 36, Matthew 22, Jesus speaking here, a fellow comes to Jesus, and he asks him a profound question, a very important question. Matthew twenty-two, and look with me at verse number thirty-six He says, um, let me get there. Verse 36. Uh this lawyer comes and he says, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? You know what the Lord says. We've seen this before. And Jesus answered, he doesn't hesitate. He doesn't have to go through his mind with all the commandments. Instantly he replies and says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Look at this. This is the first and great commandment Do you think it's important that that we love God? Yes. Hello, anybody out there? I'm going to have to resort to this. There we go. I just need to know you're alive out there. That's the great commandment. To love God with all your heart. But notice he doesn't stop there. And the second, verse 39, is like unto it, thou shalt love thy what neighbor. How should I love my neighbor? So who's my neighbor? Anybody around me? Anybody I interact with? Anybody I have contact with? Anybody I have interaction with? Would that include our family? Sure. And our literal neighbors, and our church folk, and people in the community, anybody we come across. So we're to love God with all my heart, soul, and my mind And then the second is just as important, just as great. It's like unto it, love my neighbor and myself. And look, he says, on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. In other words. If I love God with all my heart, soul, mind, and spirit, and if I love my neighbor like myself, I have no problem keeping any other of God's commandments. If I have those two in place, everything else will fall in place where it ought to be. Oh, no problem. If I love God with all my heart, if I love my Brother, uh as myself, I have no problem loving my wife, loving my child child, loving a fellow church member, loving uh my neighbor, loving the grouch at Walmart. Right And so Moses loved God and he loved people. Come back. I was trying to find this verse while we're turning here. Go to 1 John. And notice verse number seven. First John chapter one and verse seven. And this just verse just came to mind as I'm speaking here. Of course, 1 John chapter 1 is a great verse. He's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. He talks about the confessing our sin, and he talks about the blood of Christ that cleanses us from all sin. But in verse number seven, he look, look what he says here. If we walk in the light as he is in the light We have what? Fellowship one with another. What's that what's he saying in that verse? Somebody help me out here. You all are quiet tonight. Talk to me a little bit. What's he saying here? If I walk in the light, as he is in the light, I have fellowship one with another. What's he saying? Right. If I'm right with the Lord, If I'm walking with God, if my relationship with God is what it ought to be, then I'm going to be in fellowship with those around me, right? Proverbs puts it this way: When my ways please the Lord, even my enemies will be at peace with me. And so Moses loved God, and he loved his neighbor as himself. And I think that's what we need to focus. That's where it all starts and ends. Loving God and loving others. Love God and love people. I think what we need to do is focus in our individual lives and work at inner homes. Again, I don't know what Moses' biological parents did. We're not given any information on their training techniques or what the home life was like. All we see is a product. 40 years later, their son loves God and he loves people. And I think we need to focus in our own individual lives, and we need to give attention and put effort into developing, making sure that I love the Lord like I should. And can I say this? We ought to focus on our homes, our families. Number one top priority in our homes ought to get every single member of our home, our family to love the Lord God with all their heart, with all their soul, with all their mind. So I want my child on the on the honor roll less. Great. That's wonderful. I wish all the kids were on their honor roll less. I'll tell you something more important is loving God with all their heart, soul, mind, and spirit. We put such an emphasis on education and on sports and on entertainment and on possessions We never put any effort. We never make any effort. We put no time or investment in them loving the Lord. And then learning to love one another. How much time do we spend the last month on training our young people And working in our home to develop a love for God, love for the Lord. Jesus said that's the greatest commandment. Everything else is secondary. So Moses loved God, he loved one another. I was ordained into the ministry in Indianapolis, Indiana. I have to double-check my ordination uh certificate. I think it was 1990, somewhere around there. And uh uh what I'm trying to say is a long time ago. We had huge ordination councillors, like thirty-five preachers, Indianapolis had independent Baptist churches, wall to wall, the whole city had 'em. So he invited all the preachers come out, and they grilled me for about three or four hours. Grilled me, doctrine. Had a big meal and they they all uh voted to uh that the church would ordain me. They all approved of my ordination Sunday night, generally when you have an ordination, that Sunday night you have the person being ordained invites one of their somebody of their choosing to come in and preach their challenge There was an old evangelist in Indianapolis. Now he's been with the Lord many, many years. He was 700 years old back then. He had had two hip replacement surgeries, both of them went bad. He had two canes, he would walk. He could hardly walk His name was B. M. Page. He was very well known in the Midwest. Everybody knew B. M. Page, an old, old leather-lung, old school evangelist. I liked him And he would preach for us sometimes, and I got to know him a little bit in my time there. And I said, I'd like VM Page to come and preach my ordination for me. And he was uh you ever hear those old preachers all rough they're preaching their whole life, they don't hardly have a voice left, it's all rough, and that's the way he was and he got up and he just ripped Tore me up what kind of sorry preacher I'm gonna be and you better do this and Yes, let me have it. I loved it Afterward we were going out and they were helping them get in a car one over and I thanked them for preaching and um making the the day special for me And I said, Brother Paige, I want you to give me just one bit of advice here. While you're leaving, I know I've heard of you preach, but what would be advice? He told me this. He said, Brother Dennis. He said, um uh Learn to love God and to love people. He said if you'll love God and you love people, you'll be alright. You'll be alright. I took that to heart. And when I was studying Moses here, and I see his love for people, and it's going to come out here if we ever get to it here in a little bit. It's going to come out again. Moses loved people. And it was rooted in his love for God, the relationship he had with God, as a friend talks with a friend. And so I don't know what Moses' parents did, but they did something. And uh it clicked. It clicked. In Exodus 32, and we referenced this before, and I want to move on here. But in Exodus 32, verse 31 and 32, we won't turn there because I referenced it last week. But God is really upset with Israel, and He's going to destroy them Moses steps up to God. In fact, let me go ahead and read it because it's fascinating, and we're going to look at it. I changed my mind. Go ahead and turn there. Exodus thirty two and verse number thirty one And I know I'm being a little repetitious from last week, but this stirred my heart studying this again. Is Moses had gone up on the Mount Sinai, he's got the law, the tablets, the Ten Commandments. Israel starts worshiping the so stupid. They start get this golden calf Moses come down, his besetting sin, he loses his temper, he smashes the tablets, and goes on, God's going to judge Israel. Now Verse number thirty, it came to pass on the morrow that Moses said unto the people, Ye have sinned a great sin And now I will go up unto the Lord peradventure. Look at this. I shall make an atonement for your sin. I shall make an atonement for your sin. And Moses returned unto the Lord. Now notice what he says to the Lord. Let me just ask this. Is it possible for Moses to make an atonement for someone else's sin? No, only Jesus can do that. But that that's his heart. And Moses returned unto the Lord and said, All this people have sinned a great sin. And have made them gods of gold. I don't think the people realize the gravity of what they did. Moses did. Now look what he says, verse 32. And now, if thou wilt forgive their sin, what follows that word? What's there? What's in your Bible behind that word sin? There's a dash. What's that about? Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin, you can almost hear the empathy in it. Oh Lord, if thou wilt forgive their sin, then there's a dash. That dash implies this. He paused before he's going to make this next statement. His heart is so broke. His heart is so earnest. He loves the people of God. Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin, and he pauses. And if not, God, if you if you will not forgive their sin, look at this. Blot me, I pray, out of thy book which thou hast written. What book would he be referring to? The book of life. What he's offering? What is Moses suggesting here? What is he offering up to God? To gain forgiveness for the people. He's offering what? His own salvation. Lord blot my name out of the book of life. If somehow you can spare your people, God, He was willing, get this, He was willing to forfeit His own salvation. So that God's people would find forgiveness. Isn't that amazing? Paul said the same thing in Romans Jesus said, Greater love hath no man than this. And a man lay down his life for his friends. You know what Moses was doing? Greater love hath no man than this. Can I I'm not changing scripture, don't get worked up. But let me word it this way for the context of what we're looking at. Greater love hath no man than this That a man forfeit his own salvation so that someone else could be saved. Now that's impossible. I cannot forfeit my salvation. I can't undo it. It's secure. It's not going to happen. But To have a heart that I'd be willing to spend eternity in hell if these people would find forgiveness from God I'm convinced, I was reading over this and studying that again and working this over in my mind. I am absolutely convinced not one of us knows what it means to love. Not at that level We have no grasp of the level of God's love that He has for us. And here Moses expresses that. And so Moses, two things we're picking up. We're going to go through and we're going to see it. I'm highlighting it here again because it's going to come out as we look through his life. Moses loved God. He loved God's people. Now in our previous part, that was all building up to our text here tonight, in the first verses there eleven through fifteen Moses had miscalculated how God was going to deliver Israel out of Egypt. He thought, if you remember from last week, he had in his head that he would uh uh rise up against Pharaoh, all the Hebrews would rally behind them, and there would be a revolt They're going to overthrow the government and Egypt Israel's going to go marching out of Egypt in conquering victory. And uh by their own efforts. Remember it said in Acts, by his own hand he was going to deliver Egypt. He thought God would use his own hand. And he miscalculated that wasn't how God was going to do it. It wasn't the way, and it wasn't the timing. So he completely miscalculated. So now, in our text that we read, Moses is enrolling in the school of Midian. It's a 40-year curriculum. Verse 15 it says, When Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses, but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh. And dwelt in the land of Midian. Notice first thing, my first point, I'm not going to get through this tonight. It's become obvious to me. Moses flees to Midian. Flees to Midian. Says he dwelt in the land of Midian. He got out of Egypt and he went to Midian. This is more than Moses just fleeing for his life. He's beginning a 40-year preparation for the greatest mission that has ever took place in the history of Israel, bringing them out of Egypt. For the next thousands of years, Israel, to this day, Israel talks about Moses' leadership, God's deliverance of Israel out of Egypt, what he's being prepared to do. is the greatest event in the history of Israel. And it takes 40 years for him in the in Midian to be prepared to do that. And so he's not just running out to Midian. It's a profound event in his life preparing them. Now, what do we know about Midian? Anyone here know anything about Midian? That's what I thought. Midian, believe it or not, the Midianites are distant relatives of the Hebrews Midianites, Midian, there was a fellow by the name of Midian. He was born to Abraham and Ketorah. Everybody remember Ketorah? After Sarah died, she was the young chick they brought in. And he had a whole slew of kids by Ketorah. And one of them was a Fawah by the name of Midian. I can give you the reference, we're not turning here. Genesis 25, first four verses, Genesis 25. We have a list of all these kids that Abraham and Ketorah had. And one of them was this fellow Midian. And so they are, of course, the Hebrews come through Isaac and Jacob and that line But here, often the this distant relative, these Midianites are actually kin to the Hebrews, the Israelites. And if you remember in our study of Joseph, remember when he's out looking for the brothers, dad sent him out to check on them. He couldn't find them. And finally sees them and they see him. He finds them, they see him coming. And what do they do to Joseph when they see him coming? They what? Huh? They beat them up. They're going to kill 'em, right? How many people remember that? How many people don't remember it? How many people aren't going to respond no matter what I say And then they see this caravan coming. Anybody remember who those caravanites were? They were Midianites. That was this crowd. And that's where Moses is running to. So there's a little bit of history here of the Midianites and the Israelites. The Midianites, for the most part, were shepherds and merchants because Midian was nothing but a desert. It was an absolute wasteland, wilderness. It was on the other side of the Red Sea. So when he comes back to Egypt, he comes up around the north end of the Red Sea. Israel, when they come eventually come out, they're going to cross the Red Sea. But he's over on the east end of the Red Sea. And uh they were shepherds, and we see that here. It is uh the priest of Midian's daughters, he helps them out get the feet uh water their sheep But because they can't produce anything, there's no agricultural as far as crops are concerned, and so they would go over to the Far East and buy stuff and they take it to Egypt and North Africa and sell it. And they'd buy stuff there and they'd take it over to uh far east and sell it there and they'd go back and forth. They were merchant men, caravans, huge caravans And so that's the crowd that he's with. For the most part, they were pagan in their religion. They had gotten away from Abraham's God. They had gotten away from Abraham's worship. There was a few, a small percentage, knew Jehovah, knew about him, and some worshipped him. We're going to see that later on. One thing I thought was interesting, one of the descriptions of Midian was the word desert. Comes up over and over and over. Desert, desert, desert, desert. I looked up the word desert. The word desert comes from, the word that we get desert in the Bible, that word that it comes from, comes from a word that means this, get this. To teach or to speak. Now, I don't know how in the world those two are related, but they are. And what I took away from that was this. If you think about it, it is in the desert places It is in the desolate places. It is in the places when we are alone, out of the way. That's usually where God does his most teaching. Right? Moses is going to spend 40 years in a wilderness in a desert. There's no commerce, there's no culture, there's no society. It's going to be, for the most part, just him and God. And I tell you, it's when we get alone with God that we learn the most about the Lord and about life in the desert. In the desert. Moses learned more about God. He learned more about what is important in life. He learned more about what true values are in Midian than he did down in the universities of Egypt. He learned more of what he learned in Midian was of more eternal value than anything he learned in the universities of Egypt or in the palaces of Egypt. And it's our time alone with God where we're going to learn. I'm all for university, I'm all for getting an education. I'm not against education. In fact, Proverbs says over and over and over: get learning, get knowledge, get understanding. However, we'll learn more from our alone time with God than we will in any classroom anywhere in the world. I'm telling you, that daily time Of just me and God alone with an open Bible and on my knees and communicating God with interacting and go and him speaking to my heart. I'll tell you one more, learn more about life and eternal values than any classroom will ever sit in. It's a Midian. It's a desert. That's where God speaks. In the alone places, in the dark places. There are lessons about life and faith and our purpose in life and relationships that schools cannot teach. I'm grateful for my education, but I'm telling you. I really started to learn when I got out and started walking with God. Only desert places can teach me the things of God. Only lonely places Can teach us the valuable things of life. We see it all through Scripture. Remember Joseph? Where did Joseph spend a large portion of his early life? In prison, right? It was in prison. Um what about uh what about David He kills Goliath, he's a great hero, everybody's singing his praises, and what does God allow to happen to David for a number of years? Running from Saul in the wilderness. I'm telling you, you read the Psalms that David wrote when he was alone in the wilderness, and they are profound. God uses those times when it seems like all is wrong, when it seems like we're alone, when it seems like it's so dark. God uses those times to help us grow and learn and strengthen our faith. I thought of Joseph in prison, David in the wilderness. What about Elijah? Remember, he prays down fire? Good night. What a man of God! And after he pray and kills the prophets of Baal, he prays down fire, and Jezebel says, Oh yeah, what you did to my prophets, I'm going to do to you. And what did Elijah do? He ran for his life. And he got so depressed he wanted to give up on life. And in that cave, all alone He heard something, what was it? Still small boys. And God spoke to him And I'm saying to you, Elijah learned more about God alone in that cave, maybe, than he did out in that mountaintop praying downfire. When God spoke to him a still small voice. Um, I thought of Elijah. I thought of the Apostle Paul, we read in Galatians that after Paul got saved, and the Bible doesn't say a whole lot about this, but it's referenced in the beginning of Galatians that after Paul got saved, he went out into Arabia for a number of years. It's believed thir uh three years. Some suggest up to thirteen or fourteen years. He spent alone just the Lord. in the desert of Arabia. Now we don't talk about that a lot. We don't see it a whole lot in Scripture, but it's there. Paul was one of the most powerful Christians in the New Testament, great man of God. And so my point is this failures and deserts are some of God's greatest schools to teach us about Himself and about life. Say, preach, Moses failed. He failed terribly. He killed a man, murdered him. He tried to rally up the people of Israel, God's people together to go in a revolt. They rejected him. Egypt hated him, and the Hebrews rejected him. And yet out of that is produced one of the greatest leaders in all of Israel's history. He goes out in the desert for 40 years, feeding sheep, watching over sheep. And God uses that to develop one of the greatest leaders in all of Israel's history. So what do I do? You say, preacher, I failed. I'm no good. I failed. I messed up. I'm no good. What can I do? God can't use me anymore. I would imagine, we're going to see this here probably next week. We're not going to get it tonight. We're going to see here in a bit that Moses gets out there and it's obvious he's convinced God's done with me. It's over, kaput. I'm done. I'm just going to live out here in Midian. But God wasn't done. And listen, failure is not final. Say, preacher, when I mess up, when I fail, I blew it, what do I do? How do I recover? Do I just give up? Do I just wallow in my guilt and shame? Is God done with me? The Bible says in Proverbs 24, it says, a just man followeth seven times. And what? Rises up again. I'll tell you what to do when we fail. And we do. I said, we. What we do when we fail by faith. We claim the forgiveness of God, we claim the grace of God, we rejoice and praise God for His mercy, and we get back up and we wait on instructions, and when God says go forward, we go forward again. If God never, if if failure was the end, if God could not use failures, then there's nobody in the world he could use. Right? And so have faith. Don't put up the yellow, the white flag to the devil. Say, all right, I failed. There's nothing I can do for God. That's a lie of the devil. Well, God put me on a shelf. God never puts anybody on a shelf. We put ourselves on a shelf, and when we get right with God, we can get off the shelf and get back in business. So he failed, but we respond in faith. And so God sends trials. You say, preacher, I'm going through trials. I feel like I'm in a wilderness. It's just barren. It's dark. So discouraged, and just seems like everything's going against me. I'm here to tell you: let God teach us the lessons we need to learn. God is allowing this. There's something I need to learn from this. There's something that God can do in my heart, deep in my heart, and change me and make me what I ought to be. That requires faith. That requires faith. That's what's happening to Moses. He's out in this wilderness, and God's working. God's working. We're going to see that as we go on. Failures and deserts are some of God's greatest teachers, greatest schools. I'm going to end there. I don't know what you're going through. I know this, every one of us here Tell me if I'm right or wrong. Every one of us here have failed at some point in our Christian life. Right or wrong Some of us recently, some of us it may not have been for a while, but mark it down, we're human beings, every one of us stumble and fail. But that is not the end. There's a tremendous verse in 1 John. Most of you are familiar with it. I call it God's reset button. If we confess our sin, he is get this, he is faithful and just To what? Forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That word, faithful and just is profound. So we come, say, God, I messed up, I failed, I want to get back up. God, I want to go on for you. That might go through a valley. There may be some consequences, but just keep trusting God. Just have faith in God. And see what he'll do. See what he'll do. Father, I pray you'd take these thoughts tonight and help us. I pray that you would um, Lord, don't let us wallow. In our miscalculations and when we lean on our own understanding, we trust our own strength and we mess up. Lord, help us not to wallow. And Lord, when it seems like we're going through a desert, help us just stay faithful and trust you. And Lord, I pray you'd have your way in each of our lives. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some say, Preacher I thank God for his forgiveness. I thank God for second and third and fourth and fifth and nine hundred chances again. Maybe you're going through a valley. Maybe it seems all is dark. Say, preacher, I'm just going to trust God. Father bless our invitation I ask, help us in Jesus' name, Amen