To this chapter four, we are moving on to a new chapter in the life of Moses. I want to begin reading in verse number eighteen. And uh we've just been very methodically and very inch by inch working our way through the life of Moses as given to us in Scripture. And verse number 18 picks up, as I said, a new chapter in his life. Verse 18 says of Exodus 4 is where we're at. And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law, and said unto him, Let me go, I pray thee. And return unto my brethren which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace And the Lord said unto Moses and Midian, Go return unto Egypt, for all the men are dead which sought thy life. And Moses took his wife and his sons and set them upon an ass, and he returned to the land of Egypt, and Moses took the rod of God in his hands. And the Lord said unto Moses, When thou goest to return into Egypt, see that thou do all these wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in thy hand. And I will harden his heart, and that he shall not let the people go. And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord, Israel is my son, even my firstborn And I say unto thee, let my son go, that he may serve me. And if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay thy son Even thy firstborn. I've entitled the message tonight, and we're going to get two parts out of this. I'm not going to try and do all this tonight, but I've entitled it, Moses Obeys Now we've been working up to this point where Moses obeys for quite a while. And he's there now, and Moses obeys God's commission. So let's pray And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, we thank you for the tremendous opportunity we have to study your word. And Lord, the fact that you've worked in our hearts in such a way that You put a love for your word in our hearts, and we want to learn from it. We want to live for you. I believe, Father, I speak for everybody here. That um I trust I do that, Lord, we want our lives to count for you. We want you to be pleased with how we live our lives, why we do what we do, and so we need you to help us. We need your Holy Spirit To teach us and show us not just what your desire is and what your will is for us, but how we can perform it. And so maybe Lord we could learn a little bit from Moses here would help us. I ask, Father, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew for this message, and ask that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, God finally won the struggle for the will of Moses. It's going back and forth, this battle for the Moses, to get to the point where he submits his will to God's will. I want to suggest to you that's one of the big challenges in the Christian life, but I can just get to the point where my whole attitude on a regular, continual, persistent basis, consistent basis, is not my will, but thy will be done. How many people how many people uh understand what I'm saying? Uh the battle in the Christian life is in the heart and mind as to the my will and God's will, right? Anyone know I'm talking about And so I got my will as a very strong, a strong force in my life on what I do and why I do it. My will. And then I have God's will, my creator, my redeemer, the one who owns me. I was created for his purpose, his plan. And so he has his will for my light. And one of the big struggles in the Christian life, as I'm saying, and The big battles in the Christian life is getting to the point where it's no longer my will, but it's God's will. Paul put it this way. He referred to it as dying to self. Somebody asked George Mueller one time, the great man of God in England and the uh the great uh um uh uh the uh Help me out here. The the orphanage he had there in London, a tremendous uh orphanage and this powerful prayer. And somebody asked him, said how do you have such power how do you have the power of God on your life? How do you have the power of God on your prayers? And in front of the whole audience and the crowd, um, he didn't scream, he uh In front of the whole crowd, and I've referenced this a number of times over the years, but he started to squat down, he got down, and he laid on the floor and he said, There came a day when George Mueller died George Mueller is no longer about George Mueller. It's no longer my will. It's the will of God for my life. It's yielded completely and totally to God. And so that to me is victory in the Christian life. If I can get to the end of my life and stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and hear him say, Well done. You did my will. You fulfilled the purpose for which I created you. You fulfilled the purpose for which I gave you life. You fulfilled the purpose for which I saved you. I died and suffered your sins so you could live out this purpose. You fulfilled it. And so that's where Moses is at. And he's at the point here where he submits to God's will. And he says, okay, I'll go. And this is a tremendous turning point in the life of Moses. When he comes to that point. Now I think it's interesting to note here that God did not send Moses to Egypt against Moses' will. He didn't force him to go to Egypt against his will. God worked on him. He answered his objections. He gave overwhelming answers to the objections that Moses had. Up until the point, if you remember, Moses says, Send somebody else, I don't want to go. And God responded in anger. And that got Moses' attention. And again, God addressed his issues And so finally Moses agrees. Moses agrees. God didn't send Moses, force him against his will into Egypt. He just made him willing to go. Paul Levine, a great evangelist of a hundred years ago, he's the founder of Bible Tracts Incorporated out of Illinois. We support them. We use their tracks. Of course, Brother Micah McCurry is now the director there. Brother Paul Levine was a great evangelist of years gone by. And uh may play some of his songs and Brother McCurry on the radio broadcast will have some sermons of Brother Levine's. If you ever get a chance to hear it, you should. He he's a classic. He was a great man of God And he has a s has a song he sings, and I uh one, I don't know the words, all the words of it, to sing it to you. If I knew all the words to sing it, I still wouldn't because it would not be enjoyable. But It's an interesting song. It's a little humorous. And part of the phrase is this. He talks about Israel and everything. And he says he didn't make them go against their will. He just made them willing to go. And God doesn't force people against the will. God won't save someone against their will. But he is awfully good at making us willing to be saved. The song he uses actually references in Exodus 23, if you would come over there. And again, he puts a humorous spin to it, and I I wish I had the words. I should have taken a little more time and tried to find the words for it. But listen on the radio on the afternoons, and sometimes uh Brother McCurry will play it. Exodus 23 And look at verse 28. You have these Canaanites, and they're in the land, of course, Israel's passing through. And look with me if you would, chapter 23, look at verse 28. Verse 26, he's uh talking about when they get in the land. He said, There shall nothing cast their young. I'm at verse 26 of chapter 23. Nor be barren in thy land. The number of thy days I will fulfill. I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people whom thou shalt come And I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee. So he's assuring Israel when they get to the promised land, they're going to have victory. God's going to go before them. He's going to make sure they have victory. But look what he says in verse 28. He says, I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite from before thee He says, when you go in there, I'm going to send hornets. And the hornets are going to make the Canaanites willing to leave I'm going to run him out. And in the song, again, I wish I had it, but he says, you know, I uh some and I'm torturing this, so bear with me, but I want to get the try and illustrate what I think is happening with Moses here He said you have a room full of people and you're trying to get them to leave and they don't leave. He said, throw some hornets in there. They'll be willing to go. So I would not compel them to go against their will, but I'll sure make them willing to go. So Moses is willing to go. God has been relentless in confronting Moses' objections. God has been tactful. He knew what answers would accomplish the job. And he knew at what point expressing his anger to Moses would put an end to this these uh objections and bring Moses to the point of willingness. And so God Didn't send Moses against his will. Moses is now willing to go. And by the way, God won't save someone against their will. I've had people say to me, say, preacher, I'm praying for a friend of mine or a family member. And they're so hard, and they're so hard, and I don't see that they'd ever want to trust Christ. I don't see them ever getting to the point where they would be willing to trust Christ. And I always say, don't give up hope. God won't save them against their will, but God can certainly back them into a corner and bring them to a point where they would be willing to trust Christ. That's what he did for me and no doubt many of us here. So Moses agrees with God. And by the way, that's the best thing to do in life. Just agree with God. God says something, yes, sir, Lord. Yes, Lord. I agree. God touches your heart, touches my heart. About something he would have us to do or something he would have us alter in our life. Maybe something I need to accept from him, a promise or a truth, or a a trial I need to go through and God knows I need that for my development and my faith. The best thing in the world to do is just say yes, Lord. I agree with you. I agree with you. We have a faith promise conference coming up here in about a month and a half or so, end of April. And uh brother Dan d uh brother uh Dan Hummel's going to be preaching for us this year, Lord willing. And um what I would encourage in my attitude going into it is I just wanna before it even starts just decide Lord, I'll agree. Whatever you touch my heart about, whatever you speak to my heart about, I'll agree with you. I'll agree with you. So Moses had a very significant point here, as I've said multiple times, is the turning point for him. You can take Moses' life and you can divide it into three segments. Three chapters maybe of his life. And interesting enough, each one of those segments of his life, each one of those chapters of his life are 40 years long Directly, 40 years long. His first 40 years he spends in royalty down in Egypt. He's raised by Pharaoh's daughter. He's raised in Pharaoh's household He receives the best training that uh uh humanly-wise, humanistically speaking, is the best education and training in the world It's a powerful army trained in military tactics and leadership. Forty years. Then of course we have that incident with the Egyptian. He kills that Egyptian taskmaster that's beaten on a Jew and And the Jews turn against him, he's rejected, and he flees to the wilderness for how many years? Forty years And he's in 40 years of obscurity. And we're told almost nothing about those 40 years, from the age 40 to age 80, we're told almost nothing about Moses. He's a shepherd, he gets married, he has some children. Jethro's his father-in-law when he's in the wilderness. That's all we're told for forty years. Obscure. And then of course God appears to him at the end of that forty years in the burning bush. And we've been looking at this encounter that he had with the Lord. And now, as all that turns out, Moses now is submitted to the Lord, he's agreeing with the Lord, now begins his last 40 years, leading Israel out of Egypt through the wilderness And uh the tragedy is, and we'll look at this eventually, is that he never actually makes it into the promised land. Never actually makes it in the promised land. So we are at this point, chapter four, and verse number uh eighteen, we are at this beginning point Of the last 40 years of his life. And I want to suggest to you that last 40 years of his life is the greatest 40 years of his whole life. This is the time where he sees the power of God like few people in all of history have ever seen the power of God He's beginning a period of his life where he interacts with God as a man talks to his friend. And he has he he establishes a relationship with Almighty God A type of relationship that very few, if anybody else in all of history had with God The intimacy of Moses' walk with God, the friendship that Moses had with God. And we're going to see this as we work through this over the period of time. The influence that Moses had on God. We're going to see a number of times where God states, I'm going to do this, and Moses intervenes And God alters what he said he was going to do. Would you agree with me? That's something else. I can see God intervening in my life and altering my plans, but Moses intervenes and God alters his plans. We're going to see that. So we're beginning the greatest years of Moses' life, the most amazing, perhaps the most difficult. The most turbulent, um uh the most challenging. But nevertheless The greatest years I think of his life. So three segments. 40 years in Egypt, 40 years in the backside of a desert as a shepherd, and then 40 years leading God's people to the promised land, right up to the brink. And then of course Joshua takes over from there. I got three observations here. Actually I have more than three. We're only going to get to three, uh probably four tonight Uh maybe seven or eight, something like that. I'm not sure. No, let's just look at a couple and get us started. The first thing I notice as this transition has taken place, Moses made the decision, okay, Lord, I submit to you, you win. I agree with you. I'll go. Look at verse number 18. Notice the very first thing he does. It says, And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law. And said unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which are in Egypt. Now notice the wording here. We're going to come back to this in a moment. And see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, go in peace. Go in peace. You have my blessing. Okay, that's wonderful. God bless you. Go ahead. So the first thing I notice here is Moses' respect for his family. Moses' respect for his family. God says, go to Egypt. Moses finally says, okay, I'll go, I agree. And he doesn't go directly to Egypt. He has something he has to take care of first. He respects his family. I put it this way: the call of God never accommodates disrespect Of my family or my duties to my family. The call of God never accommodates or a neglect of my duties to my family. Well, God's called me to Egypt. I don't got time for Jethro. I don't got time for the wife and kids. I'm going to Egypt. No, he doesn't do that. He's still a son-in-law. He still has responsibilities to his family. He still has responsibilities to uh to his uh uh business and his family there First thing he does in respecting his family is he reports to his father-in-law. Now somebody talk to me a little bit. Why in the world would he have to Why would he feel like he needs to report to his father-in-law? What has his father-in-law got to do with any of this? Somebody talk to me. What do you think? Hmm? Yes, he's got his sheep. He is watching Jethro's sheep. If you would, cut look at verse one of chapter four He says, um uh ch of uh let's see, actually I want chapter three, verse one of chapter three Now Moses kept the flock of who? Jethro. These are these sheep he's been watching. They're not his. They're his father-in-laws. As far as we know, Moses doesn't have any sheep. He's working for his father-in-law. He has a responsibility. To his father-in-law. And he isn't just going to, well, God's called me to Egypt. Too bad. That takes priority, everything else. I'm going to Egypt. No, he's got a responsibility. And he reports back there. He recognizes his responsibilities before he responds to the call. And then, second of all, he reports to his father-in-law. He says, make sure everything's good. Listen, I know I'm responsible for the sheep. Now it's not all recorded this way, but this is basically what's happening. I know I'm responsible for the sheep. It was for all these many years I watched your sheep for you, but I really need to go down to Egypt. And um and so he he makes sure he gets his father-in-law's blessing. I think that's tremendous wisdom on his part. The second thing he does, he requests leave of absence. Again, verse number 18, he says, and he says, Let me go, I pray thee. He's asking, he's making a request. Will you let me go? Is it all right? Can I can I be dismissed from my responsibilities? Now I'd suggest that what we know about Moses and we're going to learn of him He was a tremendously responsible person. I think he was doing a a really good job. And Jethro respected that, and in so doing, he was willing to accommodate this trip down to Egypt And I've found that if I work hard for my employers, my employers generally will be more accommodating for my needs And so Moses uh reports to his father while he makes this request. Now this is what caught my attention. And maybe you caught it when we were reading through there. I read it a couple times. Let me read it again. Look what he says to his father-in-law. He says, Let me go, I pray thee, and return to my brethren which are in Egypt. And demand from Pharaoh that he relet them go, and I'm going to lead them out of Egypt. Is that what he says? No. Look what he tells his father-in-law. He says, I'll return to my brethren to Egypt and see whether they be yet alive. Now I have no doubt in my mind That Moses is no doubt curious if some of his Jewish folks that he knew 40 years ago whether they're still alive or not. So I don't believe he was lying I think that's probably in his mind part of it. But he was being deliberately vague on what he told his father-in-law. For I think a number of reasons. Now we're not told why he worded it that way. To me it looks like he's being vague. To me it looks like it's deliberate. And so I'm speculating on why would he do that Why did he not take the time to explain the burning fiery bush and the voice of God taken off his ta sandals? The place you stand is holy ground. I heard the actual voice of God Himself directly. And I, but you won't believe this, Jethro. I got in a fight with God. I got an argument with them, and finally God won the argument, and now I'm going to go down, I'm going to demand from Pharaoh. He released the Egyptian uh the Hebrews and we're going to lead them to this wonderful promise. He doesn't say any of that. And so I'm speculating, I'm wondering why why was he so vague, just well see if some of my fa see if any of my brethren, the Jews down there are still alive. I think there could be a couple reasons, again, this is just speculation. One, perhaps, probably strategically, remember he was trained in military, he knows that word spreads. Would you agree with me? Demanding that Egypt release the Hebrews that have been slaves for hundreds and hundreds of years would probably be big news on social media Right. Well of course they didn't have social media, but they did talk. And I'm just wondering if Miz Moses had enough sense about them to know you s you know I don't want this to get out until I'm actually there and we're dealing with it. I don't want Pharaoh to be prepared for me showing up. I want the element of surprise when I confront him. And so I don't know if that's why. Maybe he's anticipating that Jethro will try and argue him out of it. Maybe he's thinking, Jethro is going to think, you're going to go down there and do what? And you're taking my daughter and my grandkids down there? Y'all are going to be killed. You know that? They're going to chop your head off as soon as you get there Now I don't know why he didn't tell him that, but he was obviously, and I believe intentionally vague On what he said what he told his father-in-law his mission was down there. And you know that's not always bad. I don't believe he was lying. I think he was being vague I don't think he was trying to deceive his father. I think it just wasn't time for him to know. Because later on Jethro is in on it. Jethro comes to see him after this is all uh all that confrontation in Egypt takes place. If you would, there's a scriptural principle, and anybody want to guess what book we're going to? Proverbs. Go with me to Proverbs chapter number 29. And there's a great passage here in Proverbs 29, just one verse, really. And I think Proverbs twenty-nine and verse number eleven kind of catches what I believe Moses is doing, what his intentions are here, why he's being deliberately vague in telling his father-in-law why he's going to Egypt. Proverbs 29 verse 11. Are you there? Notice what it says. A fool uttereth all his mind, but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards. The word fool there is not somebody that's unintelligent. He has stuff on his mind. He has information. He's thought things through. But the fool, it's not that he's unintelligent, it's that he's uncontrolled. He has no control over his tongue. He doesn't restrain his tongue. He has information. He has stuff on his mind. But it just comes right out And so a fool, utter, the word utter there has this idea. This is an interesting word. It means to pour out without restraint. It's just gutching. Um it has the idea, this I don't mean to deliberately gr how many people already ate supper? Raise your hand Anybody here still going to eat afterward? Okay, we may have an object lesson, but uh it has the idea of regurgitating He just comes out. A fool utters all his minds. In his head, comes out his mouth I think Moses was not being a fool. I think, according to what this verse says, I think he was being very wise It says, a fool uttereth all his mind, just pours out what's in his head. Hey, guess what? I know something. But look at a wise man. Again, it's not a deceptive man, but he's deliberate. A fool keepeth it in what's that last two words? Till afterwards. Could we say it this way? And that's exactly what it what it means, till afterwards. But I think what it's saying is Until the appropriate time. A fool a fool just But a wise man says, you know, I think it might be better to tell Jethro afterward what this is all about rather than before. I think Moses thought this through a little bit. Now I have a lot of speculation going on here. I admit that But I think Moses thought this through a little bit and said, when is the appropriate time to give my father-in-law the information that I just got from God? And it's afterward. It's at the best time possible. It could it could cause a lot of problems if I divulge what's going on right now. Again, it's not deceptive, it's deliberate. It's for a purpose And so he makes this request. It's intentionally, I believe, vague. And Jethro is eventually going to find out. But um he doesn't tell Jethro knows nothing about the Burning Bush experience Jethro knows nothing about the rod turning into a serpent. He knows nothing about Moses' hand pulling out and becoming leprous. He knows nothing about the power of God and the plan and purpose of God that God revealed to Moses. By himself. Moses was alone when God told him this. And there was a reason for that, I'm sure. And so he's very, very careful. And um anybody here ever find out everybody here ever learn this from experience? Our words can get us in trouble. Did ever do this? Man, I wished I hadn't said that. Mm-hmm. Wish I'd have held that in. That wasn't the right time. I should have waited a little bit. And Moses, I believe, is being very wise here. Very wise here. Now, here's another challenge I notice. Balancing family and ministry. Um Moses uh um notice let's come back here to our text And uh he says uh Moses went and returned to Jethro's philosophers and said unto him, let me go, I pray thee And then if you come down, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, we're going to look at this a little more. But verse 20, Moses took his wife and his sons, set them upon the ass, and returned to the land of Egypt. The families involved He doesn't just, well, God's called me to Egypt. See you along. See you later, sweetie. Bye, kids. Zing! No, his action, this call of God on Moses affects his family. It's going to directly affect them. And here's a great challenge, and maybe um in ministry, whether it's in a position as pastor or something Advanced something maybe a what we call a full-time ministry, or even just ministry, you know, uh in church, uh not necessarily a full-time, uh uh vocational type ministry But you're serving, you're working a bus route, you're working a Sunday school class, or whatever it may be, you're active in the church. A real challenge is balancing family and ministry. It takes wisdom. That can get out of balance very, very easily I put two thoughts down along those lines. Number one, ministry does not justify neglecting family. Well, God's called me. You guys are on your own. Oh, it didn't do that. And just because God's called me to the ministry, I'm still a husband. I'm still a father. I still have responsibilities to my family. And I don't uh the call of God is not a call to abandon. My role and responsibility as a husband or as a father, or in some cases a wife, I still have responsibilities there. However, on the other hand The family should not restrict my ministry. Should not restrict my ministry. And I've seen both. I've seen times where God stirred someone hard and they have good intentions and I think they're sincere. But bless God, God's called me. You guys are on your own. I'm doing what God called me to do. That's unbalanced. But then I've seen the other side of that. Where it was, God, I know what I'm supposed to do, I know what my responsibilities are in serving you as a Sunday school teacher, a bus route, I know they're very demanding, I have all that, but God I've got this family, and I just can't do that the way it needs to be done That's the other side. And that is neglecting my responsibility to the call of God. And so there has to be a balance there. And it takes wisdom. If you would, again, keep your place here, and I'm already running out of time, but come with me to Luke chapter number 14. And here we have Jesus speaking to his disciples. And the boys gave an excellent presentation on the call of the first four disciples. Well, here we have the Lord talking. to his disciples about what it means to be a disciple and more specifically what the requirements are of discipleship, what the demands are of discipleship. Luke chapter 14 and verse number 25. Now I want to be quick to point out, he is not talking about salvation here. So about discipleship. Salvation is a gift of God. I received by faith. Discipleship is costly. The goal of salvation is for me to become a disciple. That's the object of salvation, is for me to become a disciple. But discipleship is going to cost me something. Look with me if you would at verse 25. And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto him. Now he makes a shocking statement here. He says, if any man come to me, look at this, and hate not his father, and his mother, and his wife. And his children, and his brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also. What's that last phrase say? He cannot. It's very it's very dogmatic. He cannot be my disciple. So you read that and say, what in the world? What is he talking about? You cannot be my disciple. He mentions the dearest people in a person's life. Their immediate family. Their mother, father, children, their wife, their brethren, their sisters, even your own wife. So what's he saying? He's saying I have to hate them? I have to be hateful to them? No. And we've touched on this many times in messages over the years. We're told other places where to love husbands, we're to love our wives, we're to be kind, we're to be good to them, we're to provide for. A man doesn't provide for his household, he's worse than an infidel. What's he saying? Hate them? Then he says, love them? What he's talking about here is my loyalty and my devotion and my love for the Lord supersedes all other relationships, even those dearest to me. It's kind of, would you agree with me if somebody, if God told somebody to take their son, a son they love dearly, That they've invested their life in. And take them up on a mountain and put them on an altar, put wood around it, take a knife as if they were a ram. Or a sheep to offer to God and offer their son to God. And that person agreed to that. Would you agree with me? It sounds like they hate their son. Right? Sounds like what in the world? Was he ate his boy? Why would he do that? Oh no. Abraham loved Isaac. In fact, God pointed that out: take thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest. And Moses, in so many words, by his actions, is saying, Lord, I love my son, but I love you supremely. And I trust you perfectly. And if this is what you want, if in your wisdom, your plan, your purpose, you decide this is what is best, I'll trust you. In fact, we're told in Hebrews that Abraham was so confident in God's promises that if he carried through with this, God would raise Isaac up because that's who the promise of the offspring was through. Of course, God He didn't offer him. God was never intending them. God was proving him, the Bible says. So Moses at this point And he doesn't, and he and he balances, I think he balances this perfectly. He doesn't just abandon his family and go down to Egypt because God called me to. But neither does he neglect going to Egypt because of his family. And so he takes care of his responsibilities, he makes, he gets his family. He's going to bring them with him. He makes sure they're taken care of. We're going to see that here in a little bit. But that's where the challenge is in the ministry. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. said duties never conflict I can fulfill God's call for me in the ministry, whether it's myself or whatever ministry God may give you. We can do that, and yet at the same time not neglect our responsibilities to our family. And so Moses' respect for his family is very evident here, and I respect Moses for how he responded. So the first thing I notice is Moses' respect for his family. Then in verse number 19, the first part, I notice God restates his commission. Look at verse 19. And the Lord said, and so he has Jethro's blessing. Jethro says, go in place. All right, sure, you got my blessing. Go ahead. In a little bit, he gets his wife and kids. They're going to pack up and go. But Verse 19, the Lord intervenes, and the Lord said unto Moses and Midian, Go and return into Egypt. Go and return into Egypt. Now I got looking at that. That's his commission. This is the fourth time God says to Moses, this is what I'm wanting you to do. This is my will. This is my plan. This is your commission. Go down into Egypt, and uh you're I'm going to use you to deliver them God told it initially. The original initial commission was in chapter 3, verse 10. Then Moses begins this bantering Objecting to everything God says. And God restates it in chapter 3, verse 16. Then God restates it in chapter 4, verse 12. And now he restates it again. I think God wants it to be very, very clear in the mind of Moses what exactly it is you're supposed to be doing. I don't know that that statement in verse 19 has anything to do with Moses saying to Jethro, well I'm just going to now see if anybody's alive. God's saying, listen, you're going down there to confront Pharaoh. And so, anyway, God restates his commission. Then I notice In the last part of verse 19, God reassures Moses' safety. He says, For all the men are dead which sought thy life. You don't have to worry about that, Moses. They're gone. And then fourthly, I notice Moses responds promptly. I'll try and give this to you real quickly. We just have a few minutes. Look at verse 20. And here's his care for his wife and sons. And Moses took his wife and his sons. And set them upon an ass and returned unto the land of Egypt. And Moses took the rod of God in his hand. So God told him, he finally agrees with God. God wins his will over, he submits to God. He goes, takes care of his responsibility with the sheep, makes sure Jethro's good. God restates, all right Moses, what you're doing. It's going to be alright. The guys that were going to kill you, they're gone, they're dead. And Moses packs up and goes right away. It appears to me there's no hesitation at this point on Moses' part anymore. All that's been dealt with. Responsibility is taken care of. But as I said, his commission, his call, his purpose in life, his ministry, so to speak, includes his family. And I notice that he provides clear leadership here. It says, and Moses took his wife. He's the leader. He's taking his responsibility as the head of the home seriously. And he gets his wife, no doubt he explains to her what the situation is. We're not given that conversation. She apparently agrees. The family apparently is on board. How much he told them, we we're not told. And he gets his family with him. He brings them along. He gets them on board. Now, serving the Lord can produce stress in the home. I'll be very honest with you. It can produce stress in the home. Because you have your own will that you're dealing with and trying to keep submissive to the Lord. Then you got the spouse's will, then you got the children's will, and I'm telling you, that uh anybody here ever find out that old self-will can raise its head at some of the most unfortunate times, right or wrong? It's like, man, I thought we had this settled. Man, I thought this was good. And serving the Lord does sometimes can produce stress in the home. It's very real. That's why we've got to stay close to the Lord That's why we've got to die to self. That's why we've got to be filled with the Spirit. That's why we need to deliberately be kind and gracious and patient with each other. And so there and later on, by the way, we're going to see here before we get too far down the road, stress comes up between him and his wife and the boys. It's a matter of circumcision. We'll look at that. And so it's just because you're serving God, just because you're submissive to the Lord, just because you agreed to God, doesn't mean there's not going to be stress and issues. But we do our part and we love our family and we make sure they're taken care of and we get everybody on board. We're um Looking for an assistant, as we all know. And I hope you're praying earnestly. And one of the very early questions I'll ask a number of people. I've done this for years. One of the first questions I ask uh in talking to him is, is your wife on board with this? Is she with you? Are you in agreement on serving God in a position like this? If there's any hesitation at all, then they need to go work on that before they get involved in the ministry. That needs to be settled. And so serving the Lord can cause stress in the home, but however, it must be dealt with in a loving, patient manner. So he includes his family, does very well. Has them on board. The wife made sure she's taken care of. Everything's good. And uh they're going to start traveling down. But notice one more thing, and then I'll end with this at the end of verse number twenty God puts this in there. To me, it seems a little out of place, but it's like God wants us to recognize. And Moses took the rod of God in his hand. He didn't forget it. I don't know what he was doing with it the whole time. After he threw it down, it turned a snake and then he picked it back up, turned it around. Was he holding it the rest of the conversation? What was he doing with it? He went back to Jethro. He didn't leave it up by the burning bush. He didn't leave it up in the wilderness. By the way, I can't figure this out. I don't know how that bush ever got put out. You know, it never consumed. Did it rain eventually and God's presence leave? I don't know. But he didn't leave the rod up there. He didn't leave it at home. He didn't misplace it. It obviously was very important to him. And when they packed up and he got the wife, wait I need to make sure I have the rod. And he got the rod. Got the rod. Notice how it's referred to. Did you catch that? The end of verse number 20. It's referred to as what? The rod of the uh Moses took the rod of God. It's no longer Moses' rod. Now God's, he submitted, he surrendered. For a shepherd, that rod was his protection. That was his security. That was his main tool, working with the sheep, protecting them, caring for them. It's not his anymore. It's God's. It's God's. No longer Moses Rod. My wife and I have tried over the years. When we lived in a house, of course we own the house now, but we've always tried, anytime God provided something for us, we've always tried to make a deliberate decision that this is not our house, this is God's house. It's not ours, it's the Lord, for him to use, for his glory, to advance his kingdom. We've done that with the cars. In fact, early on, I used to maybe had a little ceremony. Or I would kneel on the car and by the car and lay my hands on, God, this is yours. I'm giving it to you to use for your glory, for the advancement of your kingdom. I think that's Moses' attitude with the rod. It's not mine anymore. This is God. That rod to Moses reminded him of God's authority. I think that rod would help Moses shift his focus off himself. Remember, he kept saying, I can't do this, I can't do this, I can't do this. But now he has God's rod in his hand, not mine, it's God's. And he saw what God can do with this rod. I think it's a reminder to him that he's not alone, that he has God's power with him. And again, I think it's a resource of God's power. Now the rod was just a wooden stick. That's all it was. But when God used it became a powerful, powerful instrument in the hands of God, so to speak. So now it's God's. So this is not just some wooden stick. that he's carrying around. This is a representation. This is an instrument of God's power. It wasn't the rod didn't have any power, it was the power of God through the rod, as he did what God said with it. And I wonder, and this is what helped me, and I'm going to end with this. I wonder if that rod didn't rewind Moses. It's just a stick, but in God's hands, it's very, very powerful. I'm just a man. I'm a failure in Egypt. I was rejected by everybody, my people and the Egyptians. I've been out here a shepherd of all things for 40 years. Nothing accomplished that's recorded in Scripture. I'm not much different than just this wooden stick. But if I don't put myself in the hands of God, God can do something through me. God can use me. The world convinces us we have to be the biggest and the best and the most and the smartest and the most talented We have to be the richest, or we really can't do much for God. I'm here to tell you some poor, weak, ugly, untalented dummy. Like me, in the hands of God, can make a difference in this world for the glory of God. So don't let the world and the devil fool you into thinking you have to be something more than what you are. You just take what you are. Be what God made you, just an old stick, and you let give yourself to God and say, God hear him, and you watch and see what God will do if we'll just agree with him and let him have his way. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts here. As Moses begins this new chapter, and we see some key decisions on his part. That I believe are influenced uh his future usefulness. It's been a tremendous change in his thinking. And I pray you'd help us as a church. Lord, we're not the biggest, the most of anything. But Lord, we're your people, and this is your church. And we just want you to use us to make a difference in this old world, this old Egypt, so to speak. We could see people delivered from the bondage of sin, see people's lives changed See people gain eternal life, go to heaven someday. God, but we need you to use us. And then as individuals, we pray you'd take us and help us fit in, whatever ministry, whatever role you have for us. Help us to agree with you on that. Let you empower us and do our jobs and be responsible and be loving. Lord, let you use us. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need some of these things that Moses displayed here in my life. This submission, this agreeing. This wisdom that he displayed. I need these some of these in my life. God spoke to my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God spoke to my heart. God bless you. And maybe what we need to do is just put ourselves on an altar and say, God, I just want to be that rod in your hands. And let you use me and lead me and direct me however you see fit And love God supremely. Just love Him supremely. And that'll help us love our families the way we should. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Take these thoughts, I pray, in Jesus' name.