This chapter four is uh where we're at and uh we started this, I believe last week we got into this fourth um uh not argument objection that Moses has with God's call. Notice verse number 10, Exodus 410. And Moses again comes back to God. There's this back and forth going on. And Moses said unto the Lord, Oh my Lord, I am not eloquent. Neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant, but I am slow of speech and of slow tongue. So his objection to God's call now, this fourth time, is that he can't talk very good. He's slow of tongue, he's not elegant in his speech, and we looked at that last week. Now we have God's response. To this subjection. And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? Or who maketh the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? Now, therefore, go. I will be with thy mouth and teach thee what thou shalt say. We have Moses' fourth objection in God's response to this objection. Let's pray. And we'll see if we can learn anything, glean any help from this statement here. Father, I ask now, you bless. We've been studying Moses' interaction with you. Lord, we know you haven't changed all these many thousand years. You're here with us now. You're listening to me pray. Just as you listened to Moses, you heard his objections, and you answered them And I pray, Lord, as we study that, that you would speak to our hearts and you would make application to each of our lives what you have for us here in preserving this for us now. So I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and that you would speak through me, or almost as you did to Moses, but you would speak through me. Each of our hearts and lives, that we can grow in our faith and that we can carry out the purpose for which you created us Lord, we can fulfill the purpose for our lives, whatever that may be, individually. So have your way. I yield myself to you new, Lord, this hour and pray again that you would fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name. Amen. We have this back and forth as we've been looking and it's really starting to drag on here. Back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. I don't know getting a little ahead of myself in the message itself, but I don't know if you could pick up there in verse number eleven and twelve a little bit I sense, maybe it's just my imagination, but I sense A little bit of irritation on God's part, if God is irritated, but it sounds a little bit like that in God's answer. And we'll look at that here in a little bit. As I said, this is Moses' fourth objection. God had uh revealed himself to Moses burning bush And we looked at that in depth, and then God gives this commission or this call to Moses. Go down to Egypt. They're out in the wilderness. He goes, go down to Egypt And uh lead my people out of Egypt. I will do it. I'll make sure it happens. I just need you, I'm calling you to go, and I will use you to bring them out. Moses immediately, without hesitation, begins fussing with God. His first one, if you remember, he said, I'm incapable. He says, I can't do this. Who am I I can't do what you're calling me to do. Anybody here, God, ever put something on your heart? And your first reaction was, I don't think I could even do that. Anyone here like this? My hands raised And so that was Moses' reaction. And God very graciously, very patiently, very compassionately addresses Moses' concern, reassures him, listen, I'm doing it. You just follow my leadership. You just trust me and let me direct this thing. I'll do it all. I'm just using you to make it happen. So Moses comes back, he's got an answer there, and comes back with his second objection. He says, I'm ignorant, I don't know enough, I don't can't tell them. What should I tell them? I don't have enough, I'm not smart enough to do this. And God comes back. Anybody here ever feel that way? God leads you to do something, maybe teach a Sunday school class or something, and you think, man, I'm not, I don't, I don't have what it takes to do that. Can I get a witness? Anybody? Sure It's human nature. And God very graciously, again, addresses that. And he says, listen, I'll tell you, here's what you need to say Then he comes back the third time and he says, I'm not credible. They won't believe it. They won't believe me. God gives them signs God's been very, very patient with Moses. I don't know about you, but one thing I'm especially grateful for is the patience of God with me. Being patient with me. I think we all say amen to that. I was very patient. And so he gives him these signs. We looked at them in depth. Now we're at this fourth objection where I I can't talk good. I'm slow of tongue. And so God is responding that. We're looking at God's response. I think, as I got looking at this again, Moses' objections are getting weaker and weaker and weaker. Now the first three or four, the first two or three I should say. They had some legitimacy to them. You know, they the Jews needed to know this was from God. There needed to be some verification I get that and I think that was legitimate. I'm not convinced, as I said multiple times, that Moses was sincere. That wasn't really his concern. He was looking for a way out But his objections are getting weaker. This last one's a pretty weak objection, and as I said, I think we can pick up a little impatience maybe starting to wear through on God's part. I wanna I wanna reiterate, and I'm I know I'm being a little r repetitious throughout this part of the l series Because God is being repetitious. He keeps coming back with these excuses. But I want to point out again, you and I, nobody is ever going to out-argue God. Right? We understand that. Nobody is ever going to win an argument with God. It's not going to happen. You want to argue with God, just mark it down right off the bat, you're going to lose that argument. Moses is trying to argue, and he's losing every time. When it's all said and done, God ends up on time. I can't out-argue God. I'm not going to win an argument with God. You're not going to win an argument with God. Moses is not going to win this argument with God. And I want to say this: the devil will not win an argument with God. And so this is uh futile on Moses' part, but nevertheless he's doing it. And I asked this question again, and I rehashed this again in my mind. Why is Moses being so adamant in not doing what God is calling him to do, what God is instructing him to do, commanding him? Why is he so determined not to go back down to Egypt and do what God's telling him to do? Well, though Several answers were not told directly in Scripture. No doubt fear would be one of those. We talked about that. That would be a big factor. I know fear is a big factor in our lives when God calls us to do something or tells us to do something. I I think we would all agree a young couple that's God calls them to ministry, they go to Bible college, maybe they meet in Bible college, they get married, they have children, they set up uh to serve God and then God intervenes in their life, maybe through a conference or through devotions or through a just a regular church service. God steps in their life and says, I want to, I want you to go to a foreign nation And be a missionary, start churches, win souls, establish churches in a foreign nation. God steps in. Would you agree with me? Fear could be a huge factor on something like that. Sure. So fear is real, is very real, just in personal soul winning, teaching a Sunday school class, taking a bus route. So fear, no doubt. Is there pride in some of this? I think probably. His last time he went down to Egypt to deliver, to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt was colossal failure. He was humiliated, no doubt. He looked foolish. He ended up killing a man of all things. And um his last attempt, first and last attempt ended in humiliation and I can imagine him saying, I am never ever doing that again. I'm not doing that again. I'm not going to humiliate myself. I'm not going to fail again. Listen, the only way to never fail at anything is to never attempt anything Everybody that has ever succeeded in any area of life, and particularly ministry, has failed over and over and over. They fail, you get back up You try again. You fail, you get back up, you try again. All failure does, if we have the right attitude, simply shows me that that way doesn't work. I've got to try another way So Moses failed. So maybe pride is a factor we've considered that. I want to throw another Thought out there. Why is he being so resistant? Why is he so determined to not do what God is calling him to do? You know, God called Abraham to sacrifice his son. We see no hesitancy, we see no resistance, we see no objection on the part of Abraham in sacrificing his son And God comes through and it all works out. God was proving a point. But yet here we have Moses so resistant. I want to throw another suggestion out there. Fear? No doubt it's a factor. Pride, sure. How about comfort? I got thinking about this. For 40 years, he's been living his life. He's established a home. He's got a wife, a couple boys. He's been shepherding, as far as we know, it's been fairly successful. I mean we're assuming that. He's a smart guy. He's not a dummy. If he's trying going to try something, it's most likely going to succeed And he's been living in a life he's settled in for 40 years. And now God is asking him, instructing him to give all that up. He's going to end up leaving his family behind in many ways. And his entire life, at 80 years old, his entire life is completely disrupted. And maybe a big factor is I just kind of like the way things are going. I just kind of like to not be inconvenienced with all of this. I'm just comfortable where I'm at. And I tell you that becomes a real factor in in for all of us God sometimes stirs us. God gives us instructions in his word. He gives us commands in his word, things we're to do. And I'll tell you, nothing has ever been accomplished for the cause of Christ that did not involve getting out of our comfort zone. inconveniencing ourselves and doing something that maybe we're not comfortable doing. You read the lives of missionaries, you read the lives of men and women. Who God used in great ways to impact people and to help people and to see lives change. Every single one of them, it required hard work, it required sacrifice. And I'm wondering if maybe Moses was just pretty comfortable shepherding with his wife and his two boys, and he wasn't really interested in upsetting the cart. So whatever the case is, he makes this argument. I'm not elegant, I'm slow tongue. I'm slow of speech. I just don't have what it takes. I'm inarticulate. Well, God responds with a With a threefold response. We see a threefold response on God's part in verse eleven and twelve. I want to look at those three very, very quickly First thing I notice here, God reminds Moses that he is his creator. God is the creator. Look at verse 11. And the Lord said unto him, now he's answering Moses' objection with a question: Who hath made man's mouth? Well, the obvious answer to that question is who? God made his mouth, the one he's talking to. The one that's telling him, go down and say this stuff. God's the one that made his mouth. Or who maketh the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? So God's reminding Moses that he is his creator. The word made there is an interesting word. I got looking that up and how it's used and where it comes from and all of that. The word made means to create. It has the idea of designing. It's more than just bringing into existence, but it is designed. It has the idea of designing something for a very specific purpose. It has uh the word made there uh also has this idea as part of its definition is to put it in a very specific place. He said, I made your mouth. I made your tongue. I made all this And I created it and I designed it. I know how that tongue works, and I'm telling you, the tongue, as all of our instruments in our body, is a very intricately designed tongue. uh uh organ. It is incredible the design that goes into the tongue We talk about technology today, and Ron and I talk about AI and all of this. Man has not yet come even close to the specific, intricate design of the human body. Our God is an awesome God, and we are fearfully and wonderfully made And God is saying to Moses, Moses, I designed, I made, I designed that tongue, what it's capable of doing, and its function. I made all of that. I made it. I created it. God's reminding Moses he is the creator of all. I think I think God, and and this is my This is my take on it. I think God's saying, don't tell me what your tongue can and can't do. I made it. I know what it can do. I know what it's capable of. God's reminding Moses that He's the Creator. I noticed this in Scripture a couple years ago as just reading through the Bible and my devotions, just over and over. And it keeps coming up, if you'll pay attention when you're reading through the Bible, it keeps coming up where God is reminding his people that he is our creator. He over and over and over, God reminds us, God tells us, I made you, I created you, I formed you from the dust of the earth. In fact, the very first verse of the Bible, when we're first introduced to God, the very first thing he does in introducing himself in Genesis 1. 1 is he introduces himself not as a Savior, not as a redeemer. Not as uh holy, not as compassionate, and he is all of that. But the very first thing he points out about himself when we're introduced to God is that he is what Creator. In the beginning, God created. God wants us to understand one thing about Himself: He is the creator, not us. And over and over and over through Scripture, He points that out. He reminds us. Even into the New Testament, He reminds us, He reminds us, He reminds us. All things were made by Him, and nothing is made that was made. I like Psalms 100, verse 3. We memorized it here last year. It says, Know ye that the Lord He is God? It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. God wants us, God wanted Moses to know, Moses, all your objections, all your excuses, all your reasoning You're forgetting something. I'm the one that made you. I designed you. I'm the one that gave you the abilities that you have. God reminds him that. I got thinking about this. This is very similar. God's response to Moses is similar, in a sense, to God's response to Job. Do you remember at uh towards the end of Job, Job has been struggling with all that God's allowed him to go through And he's struggling, so I'm trying to understand this and Lord I don't understand. And in in Job chapter 38 and 39 God approaches Job with a series of questions, just like he does Moses here. Now he has a whole lot more questions for Job than he does Moses, but it's the same approach. Now, Moses' objection is, I'm not able to do this. And God says, oh well, who made the mouth? Who made deaf people? Who made the hearing? Who made all of this? I did Job is struggling, not with I'm not able to do something. He's I don't understand. Well, I've been through all of this and been through all this. I try to do right and you know and and God, all this stuff, and God comes back and he says. He elaborates much more with Job, but he says pretty much the same thing. Listen, Job, I'm the one that made everything In my wisdom, in the creation of this incredible world, its design, its precise design and function and purpose, I made all of this. And you can trust me. You can trust me. And that's what he's saying to Moses. That's what he says to Job. And he says it all through Scripture for you and I. Moses said, I'm not able, but God responds, I created your body. I can do it through you. I made it. Job says, I don't understand. God says, I've created the universe, I know what I'm doing. I know what I'm doing. I think God is trying to get Moses to understand more clearly who exactly he is arguing with. Job is getting awfully familiar with God. If you understand what I'm trying to say. Now we we need to r we need uh we reverence God, but we can come to God like a friend and pour our heart out. Do we all understand that, right? We can come to God. I can be myself. I can come boldly to the throne of Grace through the blood of Christ. I can come to God's throne and I can talk to God. And I can pour my heart out to God. Later on it said of Moses, he spoke with God like a man speaks to his friend. God spoke with him like a man speaks to his friend. He's very open, very frank. But God wants him to remember. I may be, we may uh uh talk like this, but I am still God. And you need to remember who I am and who you are. I think God's trying to get Moses to get a clearer understanding of who exactly this is that's calling him, commissioning him to go to Egypt. It's not some Yahoo It's not some ignorant person asking somebody to do something ridiculous. This is God Almighty If you remember, back in chapter 3 and verse 14 of Exodus, he says, I am, tell them I am sent you. And we study that. If you remember, that term I am is a description of God's eternal self-existence. He doesn't need anybody. He's eternally self-existent. He's eternally powerful. I am. God's revealing himself to him. And Moses needs to get a correct understanding of who this is exactly that's calling him, commissioning him. Now he says, I'm the creator. I made all this. So what does it mean that God's the creator? Why would that be any factor in answering this objection on Moses' part? Well, if God's a creator, then that establishes God's authority. Would you agree with me? The Creator has authority over that which he creates. It's clear God is the, as creator, God is the ultimate authority. Keep your place here, if you would. I'd like for you to go with me to Jeremiah. And Jeremiah is talking to Israel, and he's trying to get the same point across to Israel: that God is our creator, he is our authority. He has all authority over us. And Moses needs to understand this. Jeremiah chapter 18, if you would find that there. Jeremiah 18. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Jeremiah eighteen, verse one. Notice what he says. It says, the word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord say. Now, a little context here. Jeremiah is warning Israel, listen, you've blasphemed my name, you've done all these things, you're going to go into captivity. And they're saying, no, God would never do that. God wouldn't do that. Now he's answering that objection. The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying, Arise, go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words. So what does a potter do? He makes Pottery. Clay. And as the potter, the one created, he can do what he wants with that clay. That's the point. Then I went down to the potter's house, and behold, he wrought a work on the wheels. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter, so he made it again. Another vessel. Now look at this. as seemeth good to the potter to make it. Then the word of the Lord came to me. So Jeremiah observes this. Then God speaks to him. He said, Here's what I'm wanting you to see. The word of the Lord came to me, saying, O house of Israel, look at this, cannot I do with you as this potter, saith the Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house of Israel. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I'm the creator You're the created one. Don't forget that. I'm the potter. You're the clay. That's the point behind the song we sang, as an imitation song, have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Thou art the Potter, I am the clay. He's trying to get Moses to see that. He's pressing that on Moses. I'm the creator. So as a creator, God has authority over us Our Creator, He has authority over this world, over mankind, over your life, over my life, over our church. He's the creator. We worship Him. Number two, as a creator, it guarantees his ability, establish his authority, but it also guarantees his ability to run creation, to do his purpose. If God can create the world and design the tongue, he can surely enable me to do what he's created me and called me to do. God is able. God is able. And so he says, Who made man's mouth? Who maketh the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Had not I? The Lord. So God establishes the fact. God is reminding Moses that I'm the creator, you're the creature, I made you, I can handle this, I can make you what you want. what what I need you to be. I made your tongue. Second of all, he has a threefold answer here. His first one, he reminds him that he's the Creator. Number two, he restates to Moses the great his commission that he's given him. Come back here. to Exodus 4 and look at the first part of verse 12. He says, now therefore go. It's like, it's almost like God saying, listen, we're done, we're done with this back and forth stuff. I made you, made your mouth, now get Do it. Do what I've called you to do. Nothing has changed, Moses. This is my plan. This is my purpose for your life. Trust me, I will enable you, I made you, just do what I'm selling you to do. Do you ever get You ever have your kids uh maybe a situation finally you say, just do what I said. Anybody ever been there? Just do what I said I think that's where God is with Moses. Moses. Just do what I said. Go do it. Go do it. Nothing has changed. The whole time they're going back and forth, Israel is still down in Egypt being beaten by the Egyptians. The whole time Moses is going back and forth and stalling and objecting, they're still down there making bricks without any straw. They're still down there in difficulty and hardship and affliction. And they're crying out to God. And the whole time here Moses is stalling and fussing and going on. Moses, nothing has changed. Go down there. The commission is the same. Moses, you're the man. This is what I made you for. This is what I created you for. This is the reason you exist. Is for this purpose nothing has changed. And I want to remind our church We were given a great commission 2,000 years ago by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, who made us, who died for the church to establish the church. And he gave us a commission 2,000 years ago. And that commission is still in place. Nothing has changed. People are still dying in their sins, separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And we fuss with God and we give all these reasons why I can't go to the mission field and I can't give the faith promise and I can't go soul winning and I Can't give out gospel tracts and I can't do this and I can't do that and I can, I can, I can't, I can't. God says, Listen, nothing has changed. There's still people dying in their sins All these excuses that come up, all these reasons, I made you, I know what I'm doing. Trust me. Nothing's changed. People are still lost without the gospel. The gospel is still the only hope of salvation for all mankind. There's no other way for people in Oakland or surrounding areas to be saved apart from an understanding of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nothing has changed. All our arguments and all our excuses don't change that fact. I heard a preacher many, many years ago, and he had a profound influence on my life. And he said someone had asked him why he put such an emphasis on soul winning all the time. And he said, I have one question to ask you. He says, is there a hell? I said, well, yeah. He goes, there's your answer. Nothing has changed. Nothing has changed. Hell is still a reality. The gospel is the only hope of salvation, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the church is still God's only institute to bring the gospel into all the world And we all have an individual responsibility, but the church is the institution on earth that God has established to take the gospel into all the world. Moses was the man to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. The church is the organization to lead people to Christ and escape the judgment of their sin. Nothing's changed. It's not the government, it's not social organizations It's the church. Nothing has changed. So number one, God's our creator. He says, Moses, I'm the one that made your mouth. He says, nothing has changed. Get down there. Go therefore. Now therefore go. He restates Moses' great commission. And last of all, I end with this. He reassures Moses' concerns. Look what he says, the last part of verse 12. Now therefore go. Here's what he says, and I will be with thine mouth. How many times has he told Moses in this whole back and forth, I'll be with you. I'm the one doing it. I'm going to strengthen you. Here's what to say. He's basically saying, I'm going to take you by the hand and walk you through this and tell you what to say. He reassures Moses' concern. I will be with thy mouth. I will teach you what to say. I think what he's saying to Moses is: trust me, Moses. It's a fourth argument. This is the fourth objection. And this answer comes back. It always boils down to the same response. Moses, trust me. Do what I say, trust me. All God wanted from Moses All God wanted from Moses was a man who was willing to let God use him. Just a man willing to do what God says and let God use him. God wasn't looking for abilities, He wasn't looking for intellect, He wasn't looking for talents, He wasn't looking for popularity, just a man who will trust me. And let me use them. And I submit to you, that's still what God's looking for today. Just some people who will trust them. Do what he says. Trust him. And let him use us. We're not the biggest church east of the Mississippi. We're not the richest. We're not the best looking. Maybe in some ways. Not many. But I tell you one thing we can be We can be obedient to the Lord. Amen. Big or small, rich or poor, we can trust God and just do what He's told us to do. And that's all he's looking for from Moses. I put this down. I put it Moses, it wasn't Moses' slow tongue that was his problem. It was Moses' stubborn will Was his problem. It wasn't Moses' inability to talk that was the problem. It was Moses' unwillingness to trust that was the problem. And I suggest to you. It's the same problem God has with the church today. Just the stubborn will on the part of God's people. And by the way, you see it all through Scripture. See it all through there, stubborn, stubborn, stubborn. No, no, no. All God's looking for is someone Who's willing to do what he says and let them use them. Same problem God has with churches and Christians today. Just trust them and do what he says. Let's pray. Father. I ask you to take these objections of Moses and help us to see ourselves. Holy Spirit, help us to get to the point where Moses is about to get there. He's right on the edge. Right about just about there to say, okay, and submit. He's not there yet. I pray you'd help every one of us as individuals. Just come to that point where it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ. It's not my will, but thy will. Help us, Lord. Work in our hearts. Until we're at that point as individuals, and Lord help us to get and stay at that point as a church that we would always be willing. Trust you and let you lead us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart I want to be that man, that woman that God can just use, whatever it is. He's not going to use us in the way he did Moses. We're all unique. We all have our own role. All of our own purpose, but we gotta be willing. Is there any like that? Say preacher, I want I want God. I want to be willing. Whatever the Lord leads, whatever his purpose for my life. God bless you, hands all around. I hope we mean that. I believe we do And then we as a church can function like that. Father bless our invitation I ask now in Jesus' name.