Exodus chapter number uh four is where we're at, Exodus chapter four. And uh we have this dialogue going back and forth with um Moses and God, and I think most of us have been in recently, you know where we're at with this, but we're studying the life of Moses overall. And uh we've gotten here to this turning point in the life of Moses, this encounter he has with the Lord, of course, at the burning bush, a very well-known event in Scripture. And as a result of that burning bush, God is commissioning Moses to go down to Egypt and lead the Hebrews out of slavery, out to become their own independent nation. And Moses is balking at that. And he's resisting that. And he's giving these series of objections why basically what he's saying is, God, you got the wrong guy. You got the wrong man. You need to get someone else. But he doesn't just come right out and say that, at least not at first. He throws these series of objections to God. And God, in this infinite wisdom, uses every one of those objections to help Moses develop his faith in God. and help mold his character into the man he really needs to be for God to use him And it's uh it's uh pretty fascinating. The more I've studied this, the more fascinated I've become with how God is able to use Moses' resistance to actually Turn that where it's making Moses a better man in God's response to it. He gives actually five objections. We're going to look at the fourth one tonight, but just Uh just a recap real briefly. The first objection he makes is he says I'm incapable of uh doing what you're asking me to do. He says basically saying, I I can't do this. Who am I? I can't do it. We saw that in chapter 3 and verse 11. That first objection, I can't do this, you ask me, uh, who am I? His section second objection was, I'm ignorant. First one was I'm incapable. The second one was I was I'm ignorant. Uh I don't know who to tell 'em. Sent me. I I don't know enough to do this. I wouldn't know what to say to them. That's in verse 13 of chapter 3 Then the third one was he's uh I put it this way, he he his objection is I'm incredible. Now what I mean by incredible is they're not going to believe me. I have no credibility with them I come down there and I'm going to say, Oh, uh, you know, God sent me, the great I am sent me. And they're going to say, No, he didn't. So God responds to that and he gives them a series of signs the Lord calls. Remember, he threw his rod on the ground, turns into a serpent. Picks it up by the tail of all things, turns back into a rod, sticks his hand in it, God tells him, put your hand in your bosom and your and your um uh inside your coat like type thing, pulls it out, it's a lepros, stage four leprosy Advanced leprosy like that. He puts it back in, God tells him to put it back in, pulls it out, his flesh is just back like new Like it never happened. Then he has another one, he doesn't actually do it. He tells them when you get down there, if you'll take water from the Nile, pour it on the ground, turn to blood And uh so he gives them these signs for credibility. Now we're in verse number 10. So his first three objections have been answered. He he can't Those objections are no longer valid because God has eliminated them. God has dealt with them. So he brings up a fourth one. Here's where we're at in verse 10. He said, And Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore Nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant, but I am slow of speech and of a slow tongue. So that's his argument. That's his objection. God responds in verse 11 and 12 And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? Or who maketh the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth and teach thee what thou shalt say Now I don't know about you, but I'm starting to pick up a little. Now I don't know. I I don't want to be irreverent in any way, but it seems it's starting to sound like God's getting a little irritated with him here, you know, humanly speaking. So let's pray, and we'll look we're we're just going to look at his objection, his resistance here. Father, I pray now as we study this passage, your word I thank you that uh you've given us the Holy Spirit, that we are able to understand your word, and and your Holy Spirit's able to apply it to our lives. And that's What I'm asking tonight, Lord, that you would take this one brief verse that we're going to look at, and I pray your Holy Spirit would open our eyes to see how it applies to us and other passages we look at I ask tonight, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, as always, that you would speak your word through my lips. Present my body anew for that purpose. And please help and challenge us and bless everyone that made the effort to be here this evening. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, he says here, he says, And Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I am not elegant, neither heretofore since thou hast spoken unto thy servant, but I am slow of speech. and of a slow tongue. So here's his fourth objection, as we said. And his whole argument here is I I do not have the ability to speak well enough to go down and represent you and provide leadership. You know, he's speaking to Pharaoh, the most powerful man in the world, as arguably you could say. And the most powerful nation. And he's going to go down there and approach this guy. And he has to, his responsibility in his mind is I've got to convince this this powerful man, this pharaoh of Egypt, to let His whole economic workforce just leave. And he says, I can't do it. I don't have the ability. I I I'm not elegant. I I can't speak well enough to do this. Interesting enough This is almost identical objection that Jeremiah gave when God called Jeremiah to speak for him. If you would, keep your place here. Go with me to Jeremiah chapter number one. Back farther in your Old Testament, Jeremiah chapter one You hit Isaiah, hit Psalms, Proverbs, and you'll run into Isaiah eventually. Get to Isaiah, then you'll run into Jeremiah. Jeremiah, of course, was a great prophet of God. And God called him, even, he says, even from the womb, basically, I've called you to be a prophet. Show purpose for your let you exist. Well, when he approaches Jeremiah, Jeremiah does pretty much what Moses does, not quite to the same extent that Moses does. But he objects to God what God's calling him to do, tell telling him to do. Now I am sure none of us would ever uh take issue with God speaking to our heart and God wants us to do something or God deals with us, I'm sure none of us have ever uh balked at God's leadership and balked at God. I'm being facetious Probably all of us at some point where God deals with our heart, our reaction sometimes is, Lord, I can't do that. I'm not capable of doing that. I don't have the abilities Can I get a witness? Anyone know at all what I'm talking about? Sure. If you've been involved at all, you probably dealt with that. So Jeremiah's no different. is that Moses' objection and Jeremiah's objection are very similar. Look with me if you would at verse number four. Jeremiah chapter one verse four Says then the word of the Lord came unto me, say, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. By the way, that is a good verse to in in d in uh opposition to abortion. And so that's a good verse to be familiar with if you uh if you get in a in an issue there So he says, before came forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, I ordained thee a prophet to the nation. Now look how Jeremiah responds to that commission, that call of God. He says in verse 6, then said I, Ah, Lord God, behold, what's the next three words? Talk to me tonight. I cannot speak, for I am a child. I'm not grown. I'm not educated. I'm just young. I can't speak. But the Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I send thee, and whatsoever I command thee And whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Jeremiah said, I cannot speak. God said, Oh yeah, you will. Look, verse 8. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Look at this, verse 9. Then the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth. And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. So God answers his objection. And what caught my attention was is how similar this is to Moses back in Exodus chapter 4. Moses says, I can't talk. I'm not elegant. I'm slow speech. I'm slow tongue. And the Lord answers them, and we'll look at the Lord's answer a little bit later. First thing I want us to notice tonight is Moses' resistance. Come back to Exodus there. And his resistance. This is ongoing. He brings up objection. He resists God's call. God answers that overwhelmingly. He brings up another one. God answers that overwhelmingly. He brings up another one. He answers that overwhelmingly. So he has this continued resistance. And I think we find the source of his problem in all of this. And it recurs a little bit throughout this back and forth. Look at verse 10. And notice it says, And Moses said unto the Lord, now he's ongoing about not going down to Egypt. Moses said unto the Lord O my Lord, what's that next word? I am not elegant, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant. But what's the next word? I and slow of speech and doesn't use the word there but it's implied and I am of a slow tongue. I I What is his problem, he's focused on himself. And he did this before when God first called him. He says, I can't do this. I, I, I, I, air, I. His whole focus was upon himself. And Moses is having a very, very difficult time getting his eyes off of himself. This whole endeavor, this whole call, this whole commission, is um he keeps looking at his own abilities, he keeps looking at his own person, his own resources, his own strength, his own weaknesses. And that's his whole objection to the Lord. Lord, I don't know what to say. Who do I tell him sent me? They're not going to believe me. Me, me, me, I, I, I, I, I. The thing is This whole thing is not about what Moses is able to do. It's all about what God is able to do through Moses. And so he's got the focus on the wrong thing. He's focused on himself. And we have we do the same thing. We have the same problem I called it in Proverb, in uh Philippians chapter 2 and verse 4, it says, look not every man on his own things. And my term for that, and I heard a preacher say this decades ago, and it just stuck with me. Our problem is we have ingrown eyeballs. Right? Our eyes are focused on ourselves. And I'm telling you, every time we have two problems, when we focus on ourselves, number one, we're going to end up either thinking too highly of ourselves If somebody says, oh yeah, sure, I got this. Aye, aye, aye, aye. It's going to be failure. Or we look at ourselves and we think there's no way this can happen because we're focused on our abilities And that was Moses' whole problem. And we we're the same way. We look at ourselves and we say, I can't do that. I don't have that ability. I don't have that talent. I don't have that skill. I don't have that intellect. I don't have that credibility. I don't have that charisma. Whatever you come up with. And the interesting thing is God never God never refutes Moses when he says, I can't do it. God says, yeah, that's not the point. You're right. You don't have what it takes. You're not, you don't, you're not a good enough speaker. You're missing the whole point. It's not what you are able to do or what you're not able to do. It's what I am going to do through you. I just need you to cooperate with me I am unable, or I got this. Or another problem is maybe we don't focus on ourselves, we focus on other people. And we'll uh sometimes we you get all wrapped up. Well this person well I would serve God, but this person that and this person and they don't do this and they don't do that. I tell you what irks me with some of this uh social media stuff going on is you get these preachers out there and I and I are one, so um I'm I'm dealing with my own my own uh uh client uh my own uh what's the word I want um my own crowd uh and they get out there and they'll wait and they'll start whining and complaining. I had a preacher friend of mine and he was a fine fella and years ago And he was always complaining as church people don't do this and they're not doing that and they don't do this and they don't do that and they didn't remember my birthday and they didn't do this and they're this and they're That And I finally came to the conclusion this guy's focus is on the wrong thing. He's looking at people. And that's, we fall into that trap. We focus on our own self, our own inabilities, or we look at people. Where should we be looking? Should we look into the Lord? And God's trying to get Moses off of himself, his own inabilities, his own failures, his own inadequacies, and start looking to God. Start looking to God. When I came here in 1993, we came in September, I was out in Boulder, Colorado, and I'd come I'd I'd come in in early August and candidated and we hit it off right from the start. I knew I knew the first day I was here, this is where God was going to lead us. I just knew it. And um we got the vote. Folks said, yep, we want them to come. I went back out to Colorado, was out there for about a month or so, maybe six weeks, something before we were able to move here. And um I was printing Bible time ribbons and I'd listened to the radio. And uh a fellow on the radio was preaching something and he referenced Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2. And there's a phrase in that verse that says, looking unto Jesus. Of course, I'm a young man. I'm never pastored before. I'm scared to death. I just took this position and um, you know, I'm just uh I'm excited I'm thrilled and I'm terrified. Anyone know what I'm talking about? That is possible to be all three of those emotions. And I heard that phrase, looking unto Jesus. And I thought, bingo. There's the answer. When I go and pastor, I've got to make sure I look to Jesus. Because I knew what my weaknesses were, I knew what my my failures were, and they were going to become more pronounced as I took responsibility. I would see these even clearer where my weaknesses are. And I just made a conscious decision And uh I wasn't perfect with it, but I made a conscious decision. Whatever happens, if uh if there's snowstorms, if there's cold weather, if there's remodeling, if there's Whatever, everything you're going through, I'm just going to keep my eyes on Jesus Christ. Because if anything's going to happen, if anything is going to be successful, if there's going to be any Any r positive results if souls are going to be saved and lives are going to be changed and if Christ is going to be glorified It's not going to be because of what I can do or what I can't do. It's going to be because of what God does through us. Amen or not? And so Moses, his whole his major problem was, he had his eyes on himself I, I can't do this, I can't speak well, I have this kind of tongue, I'm not credible, I don't know what to say. I, aye, aye, aye, aye And so looking unto Jesus, that was our motto here for all these many years. It's on our stationery, it's on our websites, everywhere. Looking unto Jesus. And I hope, I hope I've tried to do it all these years, not perfectly, and I'm hoping, my prayer is that our church has caught that. And in our homes, and in our personal witnessing, and our trying to serve the Lord as individuals, that we catch that and say, listen, it's not me, it's the Lord. I look to the Lord. Let Him work through me, let Him use me. And so Moses, as I said, he was focused on himself. And by the way, that's, I think that's where prayer comes in as so important in the church. If I'm not praying, then I'm not looking to Jesus. I'm assuming by not praying, I'm making the assumption I'm adequate in myself. By not praying. Or and by not praying, I'm saying I'm inadequate in myself, and I'm okay with that And not God not doing anything. Prayer gets my eyes off myself, gets my dependence off myself, gets my reliance off of myself, and it puts it on the Lord. Read the book of Acts God did such powerful things through those churches in the book of Acts. I mean supernatural work, souls saved, lives changed. I mean miraculously changed Multitudes saved and reached with the gospel, a whole region, turned a whole city upside down with the gospel And if you'll pay close attention to the book of Acts, they prayed and they prayed and they prayed and they prayed and they prayed. Then they went out and preached, preached, preached, preach Breit Because their reliance wasn't on themselves, it was on the Lord. What did the Lord tell the disciples in Acts chapter 1, verse 8? He said, ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. The one in their power One in their abilities and their intellect and their talents and their gifts and their abilities, it wasn't that at all. It was the power of God upon them in the person of the Holy Spirit And they prayed and they sought the Lord, say, Grant thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word. And God enabled them. And so Moses is learning that. God is working through his objections God is readjusting his focus. He's realigning his thinking and developing him so that he will learn to trust the Lord. And just a little a little spoiler alert here Moses does eventually get a hold of that. God does phenomenal things through this man, tremendous things. So his focus, my first thing I notice here in verse number 10 His focus is on himself. Problem right there. So God's going to address that. The second thing I notice in his fourth objection is he has a false narrative. I'm going to show you what I mean by that here in a moment. Look at verse 10. He says, and Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent. Then he sticks this statement in there. I'll try and explain what I think he means by that. He says, neither heretofore Nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant. So he sticks that in. But then he comes back and says, But I am slow of speech. I'm not elegant. I am slow of speech and of a slow tongue. I'm suggesting that is a false narrative, and by that I mean this. What he's claiming about himself is not true What he's saying about himself is not true. He says, I'm not elegant speaker, I'm a slow tongue, I'm a slow uh I'm a slow of speech I think I can prove to you from Scripture that what he says there is absolutely not true. Now let's see what exactly is he saying. Well, he's a threefold argument, objection. He makes three statements about himself that he feels will disqualify him from doing what God says he should do. Notice, first of all, he says I'm not eloquent. Now, what in the world does eloquent mean? Well, I looked it up, and it means has the idea of being a master with words. Somebody that's a master with with words. I was watching Mark and the team working remodeling actually right now. Actually I could do what they're doing right now. Just tearing stuff down. That's the easy part. But you watch these guys and they know what they're doing. They're masters at their craft. And Randy and others are very good at what you do. And Moses is saying, I need to go down there and speak. I am not a master with words. Um The word eloquent means to be gifted at using right words at the right time. Man, he's he says, I don't know what to say, and I don't know when to say it. And when I do say it, I say the wrong words It has the idea of being eloquent, it has the idea of being gifted at arranging words in such a way that it's enjoyable to listen to. You hear some preachers. There was a preacher years ago, and I never got to hear him, he was dead before I was on the scene, but uh uh R. G. Lee And if you ever get a chance to hear a recording of him preaching, that guy was eloquent. He could paint word pictures, and you were just caught up in his speaking. Very elegant. Moses said that, I am not that. I am not elegant. Then he says, he makes that other statement there, and then he says, but I am slow of speech. I thought, what does it mean to be slow of speech? I think what he's saying here in this, it means it's very difficult for me to speak up when I need to I feel awkward when I when it's time for me to speak. Uh words don't come to my mind, I don't know what to say, and I get in a situation and it's just quiet. And I think kind of describing himself as being very shy. I just don't know uh do you ever get in a situation where you just kind of don't know what to say and you stand there and it's awkward and everybody's kind of looking at each other And he said, that's the way I am. I am slow of speech. I don't know what to say, and when I say it, it's weird. And then he says, I'm slow of tongue. It's kind of repetitious, but it kind of has the idea here, I can't pronounce words correctly Um we I better be very careful with this, but sometimes I like to tease uh folks from down south. I I I grew up in Philadelphia, right? So I moved to Chattanooga, Tennessee. That's pretty considered pretty close to deep south. I had no idea what those people were saying down there I remember one of the first times I went through a drive-thru at a Hardy's and the lady was asking me what I wanted to order. I had no clue what she said. I didn't it's just the way she said stuff. And then I I said, What And uh go through and um I think that's kinda what Moses is saying. I like to tease people from West Virginia. If you listen to the radio station, um Cambry comes on, you're gonna listen to eighty eight point seven FM I think Paul's saying, uh, you know, I just say things different than they do down there. So he's making these arguments Then he sticks this statement in there. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Okay. He sticks this statement. He says, I am not eloquent. And then now look what he says. This seemed kind of odd to me. Neither heretofore, I'm not elegant, not up to this point, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant. Now, when did God start speaking to them? Just a little bit ago at the burning bush. God showed up and told them, take off your shoes, place your own, is holy ground. So he says, I've not been elegant, I've not been very good with words, up to the point, up to this point, and even since you started talking to me, I haven't gotten elegant. And I thought that's kind of an odd thing to say. I think what he's saying is, Lord, I've never been a good speaker And since you showed up, I haven't received any supernatural abilities to drink. Nothing's changed since you and I have been engaged in this back and forth. He's kind of, I may be wrong interpreting this, but it sounds a little bit to me like he's criticizing God. I can't do this, and nothing I've gotten from you so far has helped me to do this. I'm not sure if that's exactly what he's saying, but it's what it sounds like to me. Now, there's two problems with his objection. Two problems. First one is it directly contradicts what we're told in Acts chapter 7, verse 22. This is why I said a few moments ago What he says is absolutely wrong. He's not telling the truth. Keep your place here. Go with me to Acts chapter 7. And this is a New Testament account. Of what's taking place here. Acts 7. And we have Stephen, he's about to be stoned, and he's making this, preaching this sermon, and he's going through Jewish history. He's reminding the Pharisees where they came from and how they've always resisted God. He says, you're being no different now when you rejected Christ, the same thing you guys have been doing all through history But he mentions Moses in verse number 22, and he tells us, now this is under inspiration, he tells us something about Moses' ability to speak. Now Moses says, I'm not elegant, I can't use words, I can't even pronounce them right, it's awkward, I'm an awful speaker. But look what Stephen says, under the inspiration of God, in verse 22. And Moses was learned in all wisdom. Now that word learned there has the idea of highly trained He's been through the universities. He's been highly trained. And then he says Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. So he's gone through their academies, he's gone through their universities, he's did some speaking. But he goes on, and all the wisdom Egyptians, and look at this next statement. You see it? And he was mighty in what? Words He was mighty. I thought I wonder what the word mighty means there. The word mighty means powerful in words. He was strong. It has one definition I found on the word on that word mighty there has the idea of excelling In other words, you excel in the class. He excelled. He was in speech, in speaking. He was very, very good In fact, one definition, and this is exactly what God is saying, was to be influential If Stephen is speaking here under the inspiration of God, and he says about Moses, he was very mighty, he was powerful in his speech, in his words, and he had a tremendous influence through how he spoke. And this was when he's in Egypt. This is his training in Egypt. That directly contradicts what Moses is suggesting to God. He's saying I'm slow in my words, I'm weak in my words, I'm inadequate in my words. Although God, through Stephen, inspiration of Stephen, says he was mighty That word words means the speech speeches, giving speeches, speaking, pronouncing words To talk, to teach, to dispute, to debate. This is everything that he's going to need when he stands before Pharaoh. And Stephen says he got all that down in Egypt. He was very good. He was mighty. So again, I mentioned this before. Moses' arguments against about to God about Why he can't do what God's telling him to do, don't hold water. I don't think he's in sin I d I know he's not sincere in in trying to get out of this. He just wants out. He's not in he's not inadequate. He just wants out. And so He seems highly unlikely that what he says about himself is accurate. And I think he was a mighty speaker. In fact, we'll see that later on. Of course, God enables him to do that So the first problem with his argument is it contradicts what we're told other places about his ability to speak. Now some I got looking at some commentators and they were saying that, well, he might have been mighty back when he was down in Egypt, but he spent forty years out in the desert and all he's been talking to is goats and sheep You know, and he lost the ability and, you know, it just kind of fell by the wayside and anymore he's just a backward uh hillbilly guy and he doesn't know and he's just lost all that. Eh, maybe. Either case, whether uh let's let's give Moses the benefit of the doubt and let's say he's exactly the way he describes himself. Even if that's true, and maybe especially if that's true, He's assuming, here's what I want to leave you with tonight. And I think this will help us if we can get a hold of this. Moses is assuming that God is limited. By Moses' limitations. In other words, if I can't do it, then God can't do it either And I'm here to tell you, my limitations and my insufficiencies and my inadequacies do not limit God in the least bit. In fact, I want to suggest to you that my inabilities and my insufficiency and my inadequacy actually bring more glory to God when He does it through my inabilities. You follow my thinking? One thing that limits God from working through Through me and in me is my lack of cooperation with God, not any lack of talents on my part. It's my lack of faith in God. Moses wasn't his lack of ability to speak or his lack of credibility or his lack of intelligence, all these arguments he's given Those weren't the issue at all. The problem was he wasn't trusting God. It's a lack of submission that hinders God. Jesus said in John chapter 14, verse 12, he says, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also, shall ye do also, and greater works than these He said, He that believeth in me doesn't say that he has he that hath great talents is going to be able to do what I do in even greater things. No, he doesn't say that at all. He doesn't say he that has great intelligence Going to be able to do what I do and even greater things. No, he doesn't say that at all. He says this, let me put it in my words. He's saying, He that cooperates with me. He that trusts me, he that believes me, he that submits to me, and let me use you. You'll do great things and even greater things than I do. It's a great principle to get a hold of. It's not my abilities, it's not my strength, it's not my talents, it's not my intelligence, it's not my personality It's the presence of God in my life. It's the filling of the Holy Spirit. It's my yielding to the Lord and the Lord doing it through me. And when we experience that, And when we see that and get a hold of that, God can use me. Now, God's not calling any of us to go and liberate Christians from an oppressive regime. God doesn't call everybody to be a preacher. God doesn't call everybody to to every little thing. But the thing is, whenever God comes to us and says, this is what I'm calling you to do, whatever that may be, it is never based upon my abilities and my strengths It is always based upon my willingness to let God have his way in my life. That's what it comes down to. Not my will, but thy will be done. It is God that works through us. We just believe. We just cooperate. We just trust. We just submit. God decides what He's going to do through us individually. It's different. For everybody, it's different. Not everybody's called to preach. Not everybody's called to teach a Sunday school class. Not everybody's called. But whatever God does have a plan for us And whatever it is, like I said, it's never based on our abilities, it's always based on our submission to them. God, I submit to you. I submit to you. If you would come with me to Corinthians It's one of the most encouraging passages for me personally in all scripture. Chapter number one, 1 Corinthians chapter number 1. Moses' argument is, and we're going to see God's answer, Lord willing when I get back from my trip. Moses' argument is, I I I'm not I I can't do this. I don't have the ability to do what you're asking me to do. I can't talk. I'm obviously going to have to talk. I can't do that, Lord. I'm not good Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1, look at verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren. All right, Moses is being called. How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, the base things uh uh and uh of the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are. Look at verse 29. Here's the whole reason that no flesh should glory in his presence. Verse 31, he that according is written, he that gloryeth, let him glory in the Lord. Here's a problem. If it was based if God was going to use me and do something through my life that counts for eternity, whatever it may be. Because of my abilities and my skills and my talents and my strength, when it's all said and done, who gets the glory for it Me. Oh man, look how great he is. Man, look how smart he is. Look how look how talented he is. Look what he did. Look what he did. Look what he did. It's not what God's looking for. God's looking for someone that'll just trust him and let him have his way. Then when it's all said and done, it'll be, wow, look what God did. Look what God did. Dr. Williams, we were thinking about him. We were putting some cleaning out the offices. I came across some of his stuff. And one time he did a drawing up here, and he was a phenomenal artist And he's standing there looking at it and he just shook his head. And he says, I can't believe that came out of my hands. And he says, it's not me, it's God has done that through me. And he had such an attitude, he says, uh, it's not me, it's the Lord's doing. He was just dumbfounded that he was able to draw a drawing that good. And his whole point was, it's not me, it's the Lord. And that's where God's trying to get Moses. Stop looking at yourself. It's me, I'll do it. Trust me, let me do it. Cooperate. I'm going to remind you Let's suppose Moses, and I'll end with this, let's suppose Moses was correct. He's a terrible speaker. He can't pronounce words right And by the way, there were some great preachers that way. The Al Moody, they say, butchered the language, but God used them. But let's say Moses couldn't talk right, couldn't pronounce words, he was awkward, he didn't know what to say, say the wrong things at the wrong time. Let's say all that was true. I want to suggest to you God could still use it Because I want to remind you, God used something that was not a good speaker in a powerful way. In Numbers, we have a donkey. That confronted Balaam. Now, would you agree with me? Donkeys are not very eloquent speakers, right? You ever hear a donkey speak? Bill Sherman had him out there. You know, it's like, but God was able to use a donkey To confront a prophet and completely change a nation. Isn't that something? I shouldn't say this. Somebody said one time, says, I never figured out why God's using you until I read about the donkey email, and then I realized that God could even use a donkey. So let's pray. Father in heaven I ask, Lord, that you would help us just to trust you. And Lord, however you lead us, and you've got something for every one of us to do And God, pray that you'd help us to learn from Moses, that it's not our abilities, it's not our skills, our intelligence. Lord, it's your grace, it's your presence, it's your power. And Lord, we're not to be sloppy. We're not to be ignorant. We ought to be the best we can be. But we know in the end, Lord, it's you doing all of it. And Moses is learning that. Help us learn that. Whether heads bowed, eyes closed, I don't know how God's worked in your life, how he's leading you. I trust you're spending time with them and letting them speak to you through his word. As you do that, God will speak, God will lead. And maybe there's some say, preacher, I need to get my eyes off myself. I keep seeing my limitations and my weaknesses. Maybe tonight just say I need to get my eyes off myself and get them on the Lord. Look to Jesus and trust him to lead me in use. Is there any like that tonight? I just need to look to Jesus. God bless you. Hands all around, my hands raised. We have to. Father bless our mutation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen