Chapter 4, verse 24, Moses is Moses begun the process of heading back down to Egypt. And to confront Pharaoh and demand that he let God's people go, the Hebrews go. On the way, in verse number 24, uh I I've called it a crises on the road back to Egypt, and he faces this crises Look with me if you would at verse 24. It says it says, And it came to pass, by the way, in the inn that the Lord met him, Moses, him and his family, heading down to Egypt, and sought to kill him Then Zipporah, that's Moses' wife, took a sharp stone and cut off the foreskin of her son and cast it at his feet, at Moses' feet. And said, Surely a bloody husband thou art to me. So he let him go. Then she said, A bloody husband thou art Thou art because of the circumcision, a crises on the way back down to Egypt. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us something from this passage here tonight. Father in heaven We bow before you this evening. I thank you that we have the opportunity to study the Word of God together as a church. And I pray now we look at this unusual event here That your Holy Spirit would take some truths and help us glean from this passage maybe some principles and some information that would help us be stronger in our faith. And understand a little bit more your ways and your expectations from us. And so, Lord, you promised that if two or three would assemble together, you'd be there in the midst. So we believe you're here right now. Your presence is here. I believe you're aware what's being said and what we're thinking, what we're doing, where we're at. So again, I ask you to speak to our hearts and challenge us and help us grow in our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Moses finally, as we said, he finally submits to God's call, God's commission for him to go down to Egypt. He went back and forth with that. We spent a long time looking at that. He made things right with his family. If you come back to verse number 18, if you notice, he went to his father-in-law Jethro and made sure everything was good there. He was watching Jethro's sheep They were his. Moses had responsibilities to his father-in-law. So he doesn't just the call of God didn't dismiss him from these responsibilities. He wants to make sure that he's fulfilling his duties to Jethro, and then he gets Jethro's blessing. We notice that. And um and then the Lord speaks to him again and reassures him and gives him some more information We didn't look at verse 22 and 23. It's a couple weeks ago since we've looked at this. But God tells them in verse 22, he says, Thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord, Israel is my son. Even my firstborn. And I say unto thee, let my son go, that he may serve me. And if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay thy son. Even my firstborn. And I don't remember what where we ended, what we always said about this, but I thought it was interesting that phrase He says, verse 22, Thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord. That's the first time that phrase appears in the Bible It's not the last time throughout Scripture we hear prophets of God say over and over again, thus saith the Lord, thus saith the Lord. And when God has his prophets use that phrase, what is implied by that phrase is really the ultimate authority in all the universe. This is God speaking. And God wanted Moses to make very, very clear to Pharaoh that this was not just some committee among the Hebrews that came up with this idea we're going to leave Egypt. It wasn't just Moses going rogue and saying, hey, we're going to leave, we want the Hebrews to come out of Egypt. He wanted it to be very, very clear in the mind of Pharaoh. This was God Almighty. The creator of heaven and earth was was demanding that he let the people of Israel go. And so I thought it was interesting the first time that phrase is used And uh by the way, whenever we get up and we preach the word of God, we have that same authority when we're teaching or preaching the word of God, even if we're standing on the doorstep and we're sharing the gospel with people, the word of God. It's the authority of God, thus saith the Lord. And then he tells him, he said, I want you to make clear that Israel is not just some pitiful group of people that you were enabled to enslave And to be honest with you, slavery has been throughout the history of man and years ago was very, very common among different cultures, different parts of the world If they were able to, uh a culture, if they were able to, they would conquer another culture and enslave those people. And God wants it to be very, very clear to Pharaoh that these Hebrews were not just some people that he was able to overcome, that he was able to enslave. These were the children of God. Did you catch that In verse 23, he says, let my son go. He said, verse 22, thus saith the Lord, Israel is my son. When he uses that term, he's suggesting to Pharaoh, he's saying, I own them. They are my people. They're my son. Children belong to their parents. Amen or not. They do not belong to the government. They're the parents. Taught in school a little bit and one of the heard up heard one of the trainers I substituted a little bit here in Garrett County, one of the trainers said These children are our children. And I disagree with that. They're not. They're the parents' children. Amen? Uh their children belong to their parents, not to the state. And God's children belong to God, not to the world. And he's saying, these are not your people, these are not your children, Pharaoh, these are my sons. My sons. And so he's making it clear: God owns Israel, God owns the Hebrews, they are his. It expressed also affection. This is loved. The idea here is these are children who God loves. The basis of our whole relationship with God is the fact that He loves us. God loved Abraham. God loves Israel. And God still loves Israel today. And God loves his children. And then when he says, these are my children, he says, Israel is my son, even my firstborn. He's saying that they are a priority. As the firstborn, they were highly favored by God. So he makes these very, very clear statements to Moses to pass on to Pharaoh that there's authority here and there is affection involved in God for his people. These aren't just some some pitiful people like I said that he took in. These are the children of God. Now we come to verse number 24, 25, and 26. And to be honest with you, this is a Strange event. Anybody ever read through here and think, what in the world is going on here? Anybody ever get through there? And that's what I said when I sat down and looked at it. And um so Moses is now he's submitted to God, he's gotten his uh ducks in a row, so to speak, with his father-in-law and things at home. They're all packed up And they're making their way down to Egypt, and he's going to confront Pharaoh. And then he faces this crisis Whoever told you, whoever told you that if you surrender to God and you submit to God's will for your life, that everything's going to be roses, they lied to you. They either lie to you or they're incredibly ignorant. They ought to have a class in Bible college for preacher boys, how to deal with crazies. Moses submitted to God. He says, Yes, Lord, okay, I'll go. He's trusting God, he's obeying God, and he doesn't even get there yet, and he faces this very difficult situation. And by the way, that's not uncommon Often when we step out for the Lord, we face a trial. Maybe God's uh sometimes God's dealing with someone's heart about teaching the Sunday school, and they say, Oh, I never could, I can't do it, get someone else. Finally say, All right, I'll do it. Man, you step in the class and you have a huge crises right away. And um it's not uncommon. How many times have we seen missionaries go to the mission field and they're not even there a year And there's a car wreck or there's I remember one missionary down in in um uh uh Brazil, I think it was, their wife got kidnapped. Anybody remember that uh got down there and they were um I mean they weren't even there a year and they faced this huge crisis. And that's not uncommon final and Moses uh is facing that here. You say, why would God do that? Why would God allow? He calls someone, they get them to the point they're willing to trust them, they're willing to obey God, they're forsaken everything, their whole life is is transformed, they're going to go to a new area. They're going to do something for God. Why would God allow a crises to come into their life? Why would God let something like this happen to Moses after all this back and forth they went through Well, I think there's several reasons. We're not told specifically here why, but let me offer a few reasons. One might be a final preparation. There may There are some things there that Moses still needed to learn before he went down and stood before Pharaoh. A call to serve God is a call to prepare I'm going to serve God. I need to prepare for that. I need some training. I need God to help me. That's why we do here every just about every year, every other year, we have teacher-worker training. We'll take a whole day and just go through and try and help train people how to serve God. That's why we do soul-winning training about once a year. That's why we have monthly teacher-worker meetings. To serve God requires preparation. God needs to help us. You say, well, God gives us gifts. Yes, and those gifts need to be developed. And so maybe God, maybe there's something here Moses needs to learn. There's another lesson he needs to learn. There's something to take place. Sometimes God allows these things. Maybe there's some truth I need to experience. It's one thing to believe something is true because the Bible says it. And by the way, that's good enough. If the Bible says it, I can believe it. Amen. But I tell you, it's a whole nother level when I get where I not only know what the Bible says and I believe it simply because God said it. It's a whole nother level to say, hey, I believe it because God said it, but I also understand it because I've experienced it. You follow what I'm saying? I know that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I have no doubt about it. Because the Bible says that. But I know that whosoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved, not only because the Bible said it, but I've called on the Lord and he saved me. And you can go through all these promises of God. So sometimes God will allow us to go through a trial, a difficulty when we start serving Him because He wants us not only to be able to uh teach the Word of God just simply academically because we know it's true, God said it, but He wants this to get in our hearts and be a part of our life and we can share it because we've experienced what God is able to do. I can tell people that if you pray, God can and will answer prayer. Meet the conditions, follow God's word, God will answer prayer. I can say that because the Bible says it, but I can also teach it because I know it's true, I've experienced it. And so perhaps there's something Moses needs to experience going through this trial, and that's why he lets us go. Sometimes there still needs to be a little correction in our life. Sometimes we surrender, we're willing to serve God, we're willing to step out in faith and do what God calls us to do, but sometimes there's still something in our life that isn't what it ought to be and it needs to be dealt with. And that's the issue here with Moses. There's something, there is an issue in his personal life, there is an issue in his home. that must be corrected before he is going to be able to stand before Pharaoh and say with authority and conviction Thus saith the Lord, let my people go. There's something needs to be right there. There's something needs to be corrected in his heart and his home. Now, as I said, verse 24, 25, and 26, it's a difficult passage to understand I got looking at this. I went over and over it. I kind of came to an understanding in my mind. I looked to see what some other great men have said, and I found out there's differing interpretations. What exactly is happening here? My I'm going to give you what I believe is taking place here. I'm very confident this is what's happening The first thing I notice is verse 24 is I notice Moses, there's sin in Moses' life. There's sin here Look at verse 24. It came to pass, by the way, in the inn, now they're heading down to Egypt. They're at this inn, that the Lord met him and sought to what? Kill him! What are you talking about, God? You just spent this huge argument convincing him to go. Now he's gone. Now you're going to kill him? The word kill there, anybody want to guess what the word kill means? It means to put to death God is going to, God's intention is to put Moses to death. And the idea behind the word kill there is to put him to death prematurely. Now, we're not told how God sought to kill him. Some suggest That there was an angel, perhaps, approached him and stood in the way with a sword. You remember the story? You remember Balaam When he's going and s and uh uh Balak wants him to curse Israel and God tells the blessed and he keeps going back, keeps going back. Then he's going down on the donkey and there's an angel with a sword standing for him. Balaam can't see it, the donkey can. Squishes him up against the rock, he gets mad, hits the donkey, and the donkey talks him. Everybody's familiar with that, right? Some suggest that that's what God did to Moses here That God sent an angel to stand in the way with a flaming sword, perhaps, and he's going to behead him if he kept going. I think if that was the case, God would have told us that. There's no mention of an angel, there's no mention of swords or anything else. I suspect, I suspect that it wasn't an angel with a sword. I think God sought to kill Moses with sickness. And this is why I think. And again, this is speculation, so bear with me. I wouldn't get in a fuss with anybody over this. Three reasons I think it was sickness. Number one, there's no mention of an angel with a sword. Anywhere, it looks to me, if that was the case, like he did with Balaam, he made very clear that there was an angel with a sword there, and he doesn't say anything like that here. How else would he seek to kill them? I think sickness makes sense. Says they stopped at an inn on the way down. Now that in and of itself doesn't imply anything. But my thinking is if God is wanting to kill Moses, he's making his way down to Egypt And uh he's got his family with him. I'm just wondering. Now this is total speculation, but I'm wondering if as he's going, God is dealing with Moses and he's getting sick And he's not feeling well and something is not right, he would want to stop off at an inn. Right I can't go any further. Something wrong. I'm not feeling good. Something's not right. And they stop it in. You say the Bible doesn't say that. I know. I'm speculating here. But I'm wondering how does God seek to kill him? And it's not, it doesn't matter here nor there. But there are some clues, I think. One, he stops at an end. That in and of itself isn't anything But in a moment we're going to see that his wife performs a duty that generally the father does. We're going to look at that in a bit. Why did Moses not perform the circumcision? Why did Zipporah? It's generally the father's responsibility to do that. He doesn't. She does. And so, who knows? But whatever the case is, whatever Moses had done, whatever was wrong, whatever was not right was very, very serious Serious to the point where God says, if you don't make this right, if this isn't an address, I'm going to take your life Now God deals with sin. Sometimes we've mentioned this recently a number of times. Sometimes people accuse us because we believe in the eternal security of the believer. Sometimes we get accused of teaching that God gives people a license to sin. If I get saved, I can't ever lose my salvation. Well then I got a license sin. I can do whatever I want and I'll still go to heaven. The Bible, God never gives anybody a license to sin. Not even Moses. So God doesn't send us to hell when we sin, but He sure enough does confront us about the sin. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? He convicts us. He'll challenge us. He'll chasten us. And we can talk about all that. And the Bible says in the New Testament that it is possible. It is possible for a Christian, a believer, a child of God, to sin a sin unto death. Where God finally says, all right, enough, and he and he takes us home. That's where Moses is. God's fixing the kiln. So whatever this is, whatever he does, it's very, very serious to God. Now there's two types of sins. There are sins of commission and sins of omission. What is a sin of commission? That's a sin I commit. I say something I shouldn't say. I go somewhere I shouldn't go. I watch something I shouldn't watch. I listen to something I shouldn't listen to. I uh uh uh do something I shouldn't do. That's a sin of commission, doing something that is sinful. And God addresses that. But there are also sins of omission A sin of omission is when I don't do something God tells me I should do. I should witness somebody and I don't. I should go to church and I don't. I should do this. God tells me to do this and I don't. That's sins of omission. So Moses has a sin. And it's very displeasing to God, and God's fixing to kill him. He doesn't make it right. We find that Moses committed a sin of omission. There's something he was supposed to do, and he did not do it. And we get to verse number 25, and we find out what that sin is that he omitted. He was to circumcise his boys, and he did not. And God, it's it's serious enough. That God confronts him and actually says he's going to kill him because he didn't do that. So that leads me to my second thought, real quickly: is the significance of circumcision Moses failed or neglected to have his son circumcised. It's a sin of omission. Now, circumcision is mentioned often through the scriptures in the Old Testament and the New Testament. For the Hebrews, it was one of their most important practices In their walk with God, in their faith in God. Take your Bible if you would. Go to me with me to Genesis chapter 17. And we have the right or the The not ritual, the rite maybe is the word, of circumcision is introduced to Abraham. Now, Abraham is the father of Israel. It is his offspring that are going to make up the people of Israel. Numbered more than the stars, more than the sands of the sea. And right in the beginning, Genesis chapter 17, right when God is leading Moses, he institutes this practice of circumcision and he explains it. Look at verse number one. And when Abraham was ninety and ninety years old and not The Lord appeared unto Abraham and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me, and be thou perfect. And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly. And Abraham fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations. That's his covenant with Abraham. Neither shall thy name be any more called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham, for a father of many nations have I made thee. And I will make thee exceeding fruitful. And I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee and their generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. And I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, and all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. Did you notice his covenant, this promise that God is making to Abraham? It is to Abraham, but it's concerning his what? He uses a word repeatedly His seed after him. The generations to come. Abraham's seed, Isaac, and then his seed, and then his seed, and his seed, until it's more than you can number. Great kings and prophets are going to be part of his offspring, his biblical terminology, his seed. Now notice what he says, verse 9. And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant, therefore, thou and thy seed after thee and their generations This is my covenant, which ye shall keep between me and you, and thy seed after thee. Every man-child among you shall be circumcised. And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a token, I underscored that word in my Bible, of the covenant between me and you. What did the covenant relate to? His seed, his offspring. So this is a token. Circumcision is a token of this promise to his offspring. Look at verse 12. And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man, child in your generation, he that is born in the house and brought with money of any stranger which is not of thy seed He that is born in thy house, and he that is brought with thy money must needs be circumcised, and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant The uncircumcised man, child man, child whose flesh is in his foreskin, is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people. He hath broken my covenant. Does that sound to you like this is pretty important to God? Yes, this is the promise of the future and existence of Israel. Their prosperity and their abundance and their their uh great population Innumerable. And God says the token, the sign that I'm giving you this covenant is the circumcision, the rite of circumcision. So it's incredibly important And Moses neglected this. And I think there's we might see a reason if we have time to get to it tonight. There may be some suggest a reason implied here in this passage. So, what is the significance of circumcision? Well, as we just noticed, it's a physical token. Or a sign of the unique covenant that God had with the Hebrews. No other people had this promise given to them That the Hebrews had. Only they were promised of God that they would have this phenomenal offspring. Only they were promised, only Abraham was promised that his feed, his offspring, would be a great nation. And would actually someday the Messiah would come out and rule the world out of his seed. And so circumcision was a physical token or a sign of this very unique covenant that only the Hebrews had, nobody else. The Egyptians did not have this promise. The Canaanites did not have this promise. Nobody else had this promise. So it was unique. Circumcision was a physical token that the Hebrews were distinct from the rest of the world and belonged exclusively to God. It was a physical testimony to the fact that they were God's people. It was intended, we'll notice here in a moment, the intention for the practice of circumcision was to represent a heart. That was circumcised unto the Lord, away from the world. Not part of this world. That's cut off. And my heart is the Lord's. Go to Deuteronomy with me, if you would, real quickly. And notice chapter number 10. Now, this is when God's giving the law, and he explains a little bit what the idea is here behind circumcision. Deuteronomy chapter 10 and verse number 16. Alright? Deuteronomy 10 and verse 16. You got it? Verse 16. Circumcise therefore. Now he's instructing on the the right of it, the practice of it. But now looks look what he says. Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart And be no more stiff-necked, stiff-necked uh necked, stiff-necked. Circumcise your heart That's the whole intention. And my heart is the Lord's. Cut off from the world, dying to self. None of that. And my heart is the Lord's. That's God's concern. Come with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number two. Paul brings this up. He refers to Abraham. And in Romans chapter 2. And notice with me if you would verse number twenty-eight. You get there, Romans two. And notice verse 28. For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly. Neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew, a genuine one, that is what God intends for him to be. Which is one inwardly. And the circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. He says, I want your heart to be committed to me. Not just an external ritual you're going through. Not just some physical performance, but a heart for me. If you're in our adult Sunday school class, we're studying Malachi. What was the whole problem with the leadership in the temple in the book of Malachi? They were what? They were hypocrites, they were just going through the motion. As long as they did outwardly, it didn't matter what they were in their heart and mind As long as I got a good show, as long as I'm doing the rituals and the ceremonies and the feasts and the long as I'm doing all that outwardly, it doesn't matter what's in my heart and life. God says, uh-uh And so it was an indication, it was a token that my God has my heart. It was a physical representation of the fact that God is my heart. I'm cut off from the world and all of that. I would compare it maybe, it doesn't line up exactly, but a little bit to baptism. Let me ask you a question. Can a person get baptized and still die and go to hell? Yeah, if they don't know the Lord, it's their Savior, if they've not believed Him with all their heart, Romans 10, called Him and put their trust in Him, just going through that ritual, that ordinance of baptism doesn't do me a bit of good. In fact, Romans chapter 6 says the purpose of baptism is that We're a disciple of Christ. We've died with Christ to the world, and he's mine, and I'm his and I'm all his. I'm buried with him in baptism and no more the old life, no more the world. Now it's Christ. I'm a disciple of Christ That's what he's saying with circumcision. It's not just some ritual go through, but it's a testimony. It's a representation of the fact that your heart is mine. You're my people. You're committed to me. You're dedicated to me. That's the whole point of it. So it was a testimony, this promise God had given to the Hebrews exclusively, it was a testimony of the fact that Christ has my heart, that Jehovah has my heart And then it was a physical sign of an individual's faith in God in Romans chapter 4. If you're there in Romans, come over to chapter 4 and look with me at verse number 10. It's talking about faith, that Abraham was saved by faith, and he believed God, verse 3, counted unto him for righteousness. It was his faith in God. Now come down to verse 10. How was it then reckoned? When he was in circumcision or uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. In other words Abraham's saving faith, what made him righteous, wasn't the right of circumcision. It was his faith in God And now he explains a little bit what the circumcision was. Verse 11. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of what Faith. His faith was long before he was circumcised. But the circumcision, that was a testimony, that was a seal, it was a sign that he had faith in God. Faith in God. And so it's a token or sign that the Hebrews were God's people exclusively. He had made this promise to them and them alone. It was an indication that their hearts were completely given to the Lord because of his love and his promises, his goodness to them. And then it was a testament of fact that we have saving faith in God. Abraham believed God. And then this was a sign, a token for that fact that he believed God. Now I want to, those are clearly taught in Scripture. Now I want to suggest there's a prophetic aspect To circumcision. Prophetic aspect. Now, I suspect this is true. And let me explain to you what I think. My question is this when God Gave Abraham the instructions to circumcise himself, his boys, and then each continuing seed or generation after that. Why was it the foreskin? Why was it that part of the body that he instructed them to do this? Of all the parts of our body, why'd he do that? Why did he say our earlobe? Just cut your earlobe off, you know, and that'll be a sign. He did. I think there's a reason, and I think there's a prophetic reason The Bible indicates that the sin nature of man is passed on from one generation to the next generation through the seed of man. Right? Romans 5. 12. For by one man sinned the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. So it implies there That my boys' sinful nature, and they do have Do you know preachers, boys have sinful natures? They do And as much as it grates me to say this, they got it from their daddy. And my wife's at home saying, Amen And by the way, I got my sinful nature from my daddy. And everybody that has a sinful nature got it through the seed of their father. That's why Jesus was born of a virgin. That's why Genesis chapter 3 says that the Messiah would be of the seed of the woman. Because Jesus did not have a sinful nature. He had no sin of his own. That was evidence testified without debate in how he lived his life. And when he died, he didn't die for any sin that he inherited from a physical father. He died for the sins that you and I committed that were placed on him. He had no sins of his own. He died for our sins. He did not die in his own sin. Because he had none. And so the Bible clearly implies, teaches us, shows us, that the sinful nature that you and I are born with, that cute little baby, little Remington, that little cute, little he's the cutest thing in the world, and he's got a sinful nature. And he got it from his daddy, Joe, I hate to say it. So the Bible says that The sin nature that we've inherited from Adam is passed on from generation to generation through the seed of man. Circumcision deals, now I want to be appropriate here, but I think we can handle this. Circumcision deals with the reproductive organ that is necessary To pass that sinful nature on. Everybody alright? Why isn't it an earlier? Why isn't it something else Well, God, in his wisdom and purposes, said no, it's the part of the body that is necessary to pass that sinful nature on. Messiah, the coming Messiah, the Savior, the second Adam who has no sin. Is going to come out of the nation of Israel. The Hebrews. He's going to be one of the nation of Israel. That's who the Savior of the world is going to come through, the people of Israel. They are the ones that had this covenant from God concerning the seed that would multiply and would ultimately produce, not the seed But they would produce the Messiah. God would, through them, make the Messiah available. What was the purpose of the Messiah? To die for our sins. Not to cover them, not to just glaze them over like the blood of bulls and goats. But he was there to wash our sins away, to deal with not just the acts of sin, but the very nature That we've inherited from our fathers. And ultimately, there's a day coming when you and I, as believers in the Messiah, in Jesus Christ, we will not have a sinful nature. Again, some day is coming where that simple nature is going to be removed. It's because of the Messiah. Through the Messiah's sacrifice of himself for sin, the sin nature will be cut off Will no longer be there. Be removed. Now it's not there yet. We have a new nature. We've still got the old. Today's coming. The old will be cut off Eventually, the sin nature that we've inherited through the seed of our fathers will no longer be a factor in our existence. And what a day that will be. And I believe that God ordained circumcision for the Jews for that very purpose through a prophetic Prophetic sign. Now it doesn't expressly say this, but I think there's implied here. Prophetic sign that there's a day coming when this old simple nature is going to be cut off. And it won't be passed on anymore. It'll be done, buried in the deepest sea. It'll be erased for all eternity, never to be remembered again. And so that's what I think. I think there's a prophetic aspect to it. How many people thought when you got up this morning you'd hear a sermon on circumcision tonight? The Bible talks about it, Old and New Testament. It was a key part of Israel's walk with Jehovah. And I think it was part of like all the other ceremonies and sacrifices and all the the offerings that they gave, all they went through, was all pointing to the coming Savior, coming Savior, coming Savior, who wouldn't cover our sins, he would wash them away. Cut them off, remove them, gone. And I think circumcision falls right in with all those others. Moses neglected to circumcise his son. Obviously, it was incredibly important. This was a serious breach in his personal obedience to God. Now to your average person, the Egyptian, the Canaanite, they would say, big whoop. What's the difference? Why would that be well it's just well why in the world is that even an issue? Listen Little things, when God says to do what we might consider little things, if God says to do it, it's not a little thing. Remember when David moved the art Rather than doing it the way God said, there's little ringlets on the side of the Ark of the Covenant, and there's rods that they're to put through their staves, and it's to be carried a very certain way. Say, oh big deal, just put it on a new ark. A new cart. And what happened to Uzziah? He died. God took it very, very seriously. When God says to do something, he means business. When he said you carry the ark this way, you carry the ark this way. So yeah, it's just a little thing. No, it's a God thing. Now I'll tell you, if we're not careful, we can get we can fall into this mentality of, well, it's not that big of a deal. It's just a little sin. Nobody knows. It really doesn't make any difference. Yes, it does And Moses neglected something that God had very clearly instructed his people to do for multiple reasons. And he neglected it. If he did not circumcise his sons, then that implied that they were no different than the Egyptians. They were just like anybody and everybody else. They weren't special in the eyes of God. Listen, as God's people, we're not better than anybody else, but we're not the same as everybody else. And so the significance, and he neglected it, and God's going to kill him. So the last thing real quickly, and I I need to end, but I noticed the strain on his marriage that this produced. Moses' neglect of this very important instruction of God put a incredible strain on his marriage. Look at verse, the second part of verse 25. Zepporah took a sharp stone, cut off the foreskin of her son. cast it at his feet. Now generally that's the father's job. Here she's doing it. And said, Surely a bloody husband thou art to me. You can hear the disgust in her voice. So he let him go. God didn't kill him. He let him go back. And then she says again, a bloody husband thou art, because of the circumcision. Zipporah, his wife, was a Midianite. She was not a Hebrew. He met her in Midian. She obviously was disgusted with this whole concept of circumcision. She says there at the end of verse 26, a bloody husband thou art because of the circumcision. This is ridiculous. This is disgusting. I got wondering about Zipporah. She wasn't taught in the ways of the Hebrews. Moses was up till age 12. His parents were great parents. They taught him the things of God. He knew this. Soporah married a Hebrew. I wonder, this is my, again, here I'm speculating again, but I'm wondering if Zipporah was fine with Moses worshiping Jehovah. She's fine with him taking his shoes off at a burning bush and she's fine with him, you know, praying to Jehovah at night and Uh she's fine with uh uh even going down to Egypt and doing his deal with Pharaoh, whatever that's gonna involve. All right, I'm fine with that. But this was too much He's gone too far. You're making me look foolish in the world. What do my friends think? What do my family think? Circumcision. Are you kidding me? She sees God's going to kill him if it does isn't done. So she's disgusted. You can see hear it in her voice, and she's saying this It cost her her dignity. I found that there are some people that are fine with Christianity as long as it doesn't affect what I want to do. As long as it doesn't make me look foolish in the world, as long as the world doesn't look down on me, I have no problem with worshiping God. But if it's going to make me different than anybody else, then I'm not interested. My Bible says that disciples are to come out from among them and be ye separate, cut off from that. We're God's people. We're not the world. Jesus said the world's going to hate you. You're not going to fit in. You're going to be odd man out every single time in the world. I think Zipporah could not accept that. She cannot accept that. Maybe that's why Moses neglected circumcising his boys. Maybe he knew she wouldn't accept that. Maybe he knew. Maybe she had such an uh uh uh Influence on him that he says, you know, if we do this, the family will be upset. And now God says, You better you're gonna do it or you're gonna die. Zaporah bloody man you are bloody this bloody because of the circumcision And lo and behold, she goes back to her family. She takes the boys. She says, I'm not I'm not doing this. She goes back later on, she comes with her father after they're out of Egypt and they're out in the wilderness. Then she comes back, and the boys come back with Jethro and visit Moses. This is the last we hear of her until that. Moses is on his own down there. She could not accept this level of devotion to Jehovah. Let me ask, here's my question to myself and all of us What level of devotion to Jesus Christ are we willing to accept? How different than the world am I willing to be? What price am I willing to pay to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? Say, preacher, if I do what the Bible says, it's going to cost me my friends. If I do what the Bible says, if I do what God tells me to do, I may lose my job. My family will hate me. What level of obedience are we willing to give to our Lord and Savior who died and suffered hell for us? He said, accept a man, take his cross, deny himself, take up his cross daily and follow me. You can't be my disciple. If you're not willing to pay the price, you can be saved. God bless you. You can be saved. You're not going to be able to be my disciple. In fact, he made an even stronger statement later. He says You hate not your father, your mother, your brother, your brother, your sister, your wife, yea, in your own life also, you cannot be my disciple. What I'm trying to say is this, there's a price to pay to be used of God in any significant way. It's going to cost us, but I'm here to tell you it's worth it. It's worth it. Just to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. And have gold, silver, and hear the Lord say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Or I can fit in. I'm not doing that. No way I'm doing that for the Lord. Get out of track. Are you crazy? They'll think I'm nuts. And then stand before the judgment seat of Christ and would hay and stubble. There's nothing Nothing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us to learn from this that there is a price. For discipleship. And we're not, this world is not our home. We are not of this world. And I pray that you would help us. And Lord, I pray that something said tonight would just challenge us To be all out, wholly follow the Lord, like Jacob or Caleb and Joshua wholly follow the Lord. I pray you'd help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, you know there's some areas that I know it's costly. I need the Lord to help me. Be willing to do what the Lord wants me to do. Is there any like that? I need the Lord to help me. And it's not always easy. A lot of times it's very, very hard. But God blesses it. God used Moses in phenomenal ways. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are