This is chapter four. I wanna I want to begin reading in verse one. We read this, I think it was last week, and down through verse number nine. Exodus 4, verse 1 through 9. And the we looked at verse 1 before, but I just want to read it, keep the context together. It says, And Moses answered and said, But Behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, the Lord hath not appeared unto thee. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thy hand? And he said, A rod. And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent, and Moses fled from before it. And the Lord said unto Moses, put forth thine hand and take it by the tail. He put forth his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath appeared unto thee. Now what was Moses what was Moses' objection that they what? Verse one that they wouldn't believe him. God says, okay, and he gives this one wonder here. And he says, they will believe. They say that, they will believe. But he goes on. And the Lord said furthermore unto him, so he doesn't quit with just that one. Put now thy hand into thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. So that's an advanced state of leprosy. And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again and plucked it out of his bosom. And behold, it was turned again as his other flesh. And it shall come to pass, God's speaking here, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land. And the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land. It's interesting to note. He doesn't have them actually do that third sign. He just tells them, this is what we're going to do down there. And so, anyway, we'll look at this a little more detail in the next couple lessons. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and these amazing events that took place so many years ago. And we know, Lord, you've preserved these for us. You've recorded them by inspiration. You preserved them for us all these many years, and we can benefit from this. So, Father, I'm asking you tonight That your Holy Spirit would fill me and take these thoughts here that from this passage and apply them to our hearts and lives, that we would be, Lord, my prayer is that every one of us would m decide to trust you and live in the center of your will for our individual lives. Just fulfill your will For our individual lives. And so, Lord, again, I ask you to fill me, you speak through me as I yield myself to you in this hour. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think about all of us here are aware, as we're studying through here, Moses and God are doing this back and forth thing. It's interesting. We're studying Malachi on Sunday mornings in Sunday school in Israel. Does very similar back and forth, a little different context. But this back and forth with God. And as I said last week, I think it was, you can argue with God all you want, and He is very tolerant many times. But I'm telling you right now, there ain't one of us, there isn't one of us going to win an argument with God. And so, but we do it. And it's nothing new with us. It happens first millennials. And so Moses is objecting to God about this commission he's given. And I I know I'm reviewing a lot, but the first was he he objected, I'm incapable, I can't do this. Then his next objection was I'm ignorant, I won't know who to tell them, who who should I say sent them, I I don't know uh uh I'm not I don't have the abilities, I don't have the intelligence, the information. Now he's saying I don't have the credibility. I'm not credible. They're not going to believe me. And that was what verse 1 was all about. So this is, we're looking at his third objection. And God's response to his third objection. So I put it this way, by way of outline, or his third objection, he's comparing that uh he's declaring that he's incapable. First was the problem with his objection. He had the wrong uh pre uh wrong premise. I'm sorry, that was the first point. Let me get back here where I need to be. He's objecting that he's incredible, that he's not credible. And um He states his concern, and was we said initially on the surface his concern looked legit He did blow it before. You know, some guy sh comes wandering out of the desert. Some shepherd comes out of the desert. Let my people go. So initially his concern is legit on the service, but uh as I said before I'm not convinced he's sincere on this. And so God's response, I put it this way, God's condescension God's condescension. God condescends down to where Moses is and he deals with these objections. I think it's pretty fairly obvious, as I just said. That God's not dealing with a man who is willing and eager to do what God has called him to do. Would you agree with me? We look at Moses' response to what God's saying. This is not the response of a man who is eager and willing to do what God wants to do, and his concerns aren't we Lord, we need to work these logistics out. Here's some issues that we need to be resolved before I go down there. That's not it at all. It's obvious, God's dealing with a man who's wanting out of this who was trying to avoid uh this commission that God has given, this call God has given. Now the question is, and I kind of hit on this last week But I want to elaborate a little bit on it. The question is, why is Moses so resistant to God calling him to go down there? Why is he objecting so adamantly To what God is calling him to do. Well, there's several reasons, I believe. One, and we touched on this, is unbelief It's pretty obvious he just doesn't believe that God says, I'm going to do this, they're going to believe you, they're going to respond, they're going to come out, it's going to be okay. And he's struggling with taking God at his word. Would you agree with me? That's a bad thing to not take God at his word. But I want to be quick to say this. It's not always an easy thing to take God at His Word Because a lot of times, we've been saying this, God will call us or God will direct us, instruct us to do some things that are not easy. In fact, very seldom does he do that. God directs us to do things that go against our nature a lot of times, go against our rationale. And so unbelief is a very real issue Um I think there's another factor, and Brian and I were talking last Wednesday afterward about this, is no doubt fear is a big factor. Would you agree with me? This is a fearful thing He's going before the most powerful, you could, arguably, the most powerful man in the world, humanly speaking and uh the leading nation of the world. And he's wanting them to let their entire workforce go. And so it's a fearful thing. I I I can't fault them for being afraid. But I think the root of his problem, and is the same for every one of us, so I'd I'd be careful about standing in judgment on Moses here. But I think the root of the problem is probably pride. Just proud. I don't understand this. I don't see how it works out. I. And um and pride is probably the root of it. I would vent venture to say Pride is the root of our unbelief. Pride is the root of our fear. We're worried about ourselves. Moses was up till Forty years ago at least, he was a very self-reliant man. He was highly trained in Egypt in Egypt. He was, we have reason to believe he was a uh uh successful military leader in Egypt at the time, um highly educated, very popular And now he's been living on his own out in the desert. He's a very self-reliant guy. And sometimes self-reliance will produce pride. I think all of the root of all our resistance to God is generally found in pride. We resist God. I think Paul, maybe Paul struggled with this, I'm not sure, but Paul says repeatedly, Paul in the New Testament repeatedly will reference, he won't word it exactly this way, but along these lines, I've got to die to self. I gotta die to self, not me, but Christ. Not I, but Christ. Remember reading stuff like that through the New Testament? So Paul is saying, I need to die to self, I need to get myself out of the way so I can just Live for God and be your once. So I think Moses is struggling with this, and we're no different. We're no different. Even when even those times we do get humble, we get proud about it No, I just want everybody to know how humble I am. And so he's struggling here, and I said all that to get to God's response because I think it helps us see God God's response here. I don't know I don't know about you, but I might be starting to get impatient at this point. You know, Moses, it's going to be alright. I'm going to do it. I'm going to use you. They're going to believe you. Just do what I say. You ever say that to your kids? I don't need to explain this. Just do what I say But God doesn't do that. And that's where I get the word, I use the word condescends. God is condescending. He's stepping down. In other words, God is being very, very patient with Moses. And really, he's accommodating the fact that Moses is fearful. He's being very gracious and very patient with the fact that Moses is struggling with this. And he really doesn't want to do this. And he's making these objections and coming up with these reasons why I can't do this. And God, rather than striking them dead with lightning God just answers his concerns. God addresses his issues. And again, they were on the surface legitimate. But God's very gracious. I'm glad God is patient with my ignorance. I'm glad God is patient with my fear. My fears. I'm glad God is patient with my objections. And sometimes I have dread. Uh just in the last year there was a situation come up and I was like, no, God, no. And, you know, we have to trust them. We have to trust them. And God's very gracious. And God is very patient. I think there's a lot more going on than God simply answering Moses' objections. Now he does that. He does it very thoroughly when he gave, when Moses said, I don't know who I tell him sent me. I'm ignorant, I don't know who to tell him sent me. God very thoroughly explains to Moses, I am that I am, and he gives this lengthy response to assure Moses that he understands who he is. And so there's a whole lot more going on here than God simply responding and answering Moses' objections very graciously, very patiently. I think God is also training Moses. He's changing the way he thinks He's transforming him. He's renewing his mind, to use the terminology from Romans 12. Moses, I think what's happening here, and I started to see this, especially we'll see it with these signs the Lord gives, these wonders. Moses is getting a crash course on faith. He's going to crash course on what it means to trust God, to have faith in God. Now, up to this point, I'm sure he's seen faith practiced in his parents. Because they're commended in Hebrews 11 for their faith. So he saw faith in his parents. He's far removed from his parents. He has been for a long time. He's 80 years old. And uh, like I said, he's lived on his own, he's been very self-reliant, he's been very successful in the world up to up till he got run out of Egypt. And he has to learn to trust God. And I think that's behind perhaps God being so patient with him. God wants him to learn to trust him. If he's going to do what God's called him to, he has to be able to have faith in God. And that's probably the underlying requirement in serving God and living a victorious Christian life, we have got to get to the point where we learn to trust God. Just trust them in specific areas and ways. So he's getting a gra crash course on faith. His greatest need is to have faith in God, and that's our greatest need. And so God in answering his concern, they're not going to believe me. They're going to say, ah, the Lord didn't appear to him. In answering that concern, he gives them three what I'm calling wonders to assure him they will believe you But he's also doing it in a way, it's interesting, he does these in a way that Moses has to learn to trust God. We see this in the first one. He's going to have credibility with the Hebrews. When he goes down there, he's going to give these signs. They'll believe you. And the Egyptians and Pharaoh eventually are going to believe them Now he gives three signs here. I don't know if you noticed it. The first one, I put it this way, I alliterated them. The first one, the first sign has to do with a dangerous snake, a dangerous serpent. That's verses 2 through 5. Then verse 6 through 8, you have a deadly disease: leprosy And then the last one, verse number nine, you have a divine transformation of water to blood. How many people are impressed with that alliterated outline? I was so proud of that. We're not going to get to the last two. We're only going to look at this dangerous snake, this dangerous serpent sign. First of all, we have the dangerous serpent. It's interesting this serpent here, this rod being turned into a serpent, there's more There's m there's a larger percentage of scripture spent on ex on telling us what happened here about that than the other two signs God spends more time on this rod turning into a serpent, then back to a rod again, than he does on the other two signs. So the first thing I want us to notice Is Moses' rod. Let's look what it says. Look at verse number 2. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thy hand? Now what kind of statement is that? Question. God asks them a question. He says, they're not going to believe me. So God responds with a question. If you pay attention in the Gospels, Jesus does that a lot. Somebody will approach them, some Pharisees will make some objection or accusation or other, and uh and he'll ask them a question. Keep this in mind. This is important to understand. Anytime you come across in the Bible God asking a question, God is not looking for information. Right? We understand that. God is omniscient, means he knows everything. So God, when God says to Moses, what is that in thy hand? It's not like God, the omniscient, eternal, all-powerful, almighty God. is looking down and say, huh, I wonder what he's got in his hand there. God knows exactly what's in his hand. But he's trying to teach him something. And once Moses, when God asks a question, it's never to get information, it's always to teach a lesson. It's always to make a point. It's always to get the individual thinking. About what's taking place. It's a teaching technique. So he says, what is that in Ihan? And what does Moses answer? He says, what? A rod. A rod. Now I got looking at this rod and got considering this rod, and what was the rod? Well, it's an ordinary object. All the rod was was just a piece of wood. Just a stick or a branch. He may have polished it up. No doubt he's been using it, and it's worn and polished just from use. But it doesn't take any skill to design a rod, right? I mean all he did was found it. He was laying out in the woods, out in the desert somewhere. He found a rod. He may have whittled it a little bit and knocked some branches off of it. Really um doesn't require any skill to obtain a rod. Anybody can do that. Doesn't take a lot of money to get one. Anybody. You can go out in the woods and find one So you don't have to have a lot of skill or intelligence to get a rod. It doesn't require a lot of money. You have no money and still get a rod It doesn't take a lot of talent to use a rod. It's just a stick. And all he does was he pokes sheep when they don't go, you know. And maybe there might be a crook up on the end, maybe a branch on the end, might use that to pull some sheep in or stuff. Really not a highly talented instrument. Didn't require a lot of training to use it And I find it interesting, God uses a rod to teach one of the, who ends up being one of the greatest prophets in all of history. And what God uses to develop this prophet, what God uses to develop the faith of this man who's really struggling with his faith, who is going to end up Being compared to Jesus Christ. Actually, in Hebrews, Jesus compared to him. And God uses a rod. Just something you can find. I don't know about you, but I take great encouragement from that. God specialized, I put it this way, God specializes in using just ordinary people and just ordinary objects to do great works. I'm glad for that. Um God could, would you agree with me? God could have completely bypassed Moses and gone directly to Pharaoh. And God could have turned Pharaoh's heart and Pharaoh make an announcement, a proclamation, all right, we're making a change We're going to let all the Hebrews go back to Canaan. God had promised them, and we're just going to let them all go. And he wouldn't have had to use Moses at all. God could have done that, right? You read Ezra chapter 1, verse 1, that's exactly what he did with Cyrus when he let the Hebrews out of captivity Just moved on Cyrus's heart and said uh you know, moved on his heart his thinking and he said, All right, we'll let them all go back. Not only that, we'll give them the things they need, go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple, rebuild the walls, we'll send them back, give everything. Now whether Ezra whether Cyrus later on regretted that decision or I don't know But God turned his heart. There's a great verse in Proverbs 21 and verse 21. Does anybody have any idea what verse I'm thinking about? Proverbs 21, verse 1. The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. And as rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. I'm telling you, we have an awesome God. And God can, if He so chooses He can turn the heart of a king to direct his plans and purposes. And we know he did it with Cyrus. And if God can turn the heart of a king, God can turn the heart of that loved one who's away from God God can turn the heart of some hard-hearted old sinner that won't trust Christ. God can turn the heart of somebody that's obstructing and uh and uh causing problems for the things of God. God can turn God is Almighty. So my point is this. God could have just said philly on Moses, all his, I'll just go down to Pharaoh. I'll turn his heart and let the people go. Let him just deliver them of his own free will. But God doesn't do that. God uses just normal, everyday people. Moses was a great man in Egypt. He was a leader. He was next in line. The history books tell us he was next in line to become Pharaoh. And he failed completely in his mission to deliver Israel. And now, what God is choosing is a defeated shepherd, a man who has become an unknown shepherd on the backside of a desert. And God said, that's the one I want to use, and I'm going to teach him to have faith in me. And God uses a rod, just a stick, he got out in the woods. God didn't need a golden scepter, a king's golden scepter. He just needed a rod. I tell you, our church And thank God for educated people, thank God for very polished people, thank God for all that. We ought to be the best we can be. If I'm just a rod, I ought to be the best rod I can be, right? But God can use a rod. God can use just somebody that's ordinary. You say, preacher, I don't know, God couldn't use me. I'm just an ordinary everyday Joe Blow. Hey, that's exactly what God is really good at using. A daddy, and I know it I probably reference him too much, but he used to always say, oh, I'm just a dumb truck driver He'd say stuff like that. I don't know about you, but I'd say God used him in a great way in influencing me and and through uh into others, right? Just a rod. Just ordinary. Run to the mill, just grab one out of uh out of the woods. I'm glad God can take people, just anybody, just part of the crowd. If we'll just do what he says, if we'll just learn to have faith in him, just trust him and let us lead us, let him lead us and trust him. He can take a rod and man he can make a great profit out of us. So we didn't need a golden scepter. He just needed an old wooden rod, just an ordinary wooden rod And by the way, I put this down. God doesn't need elegant facilities to have a great church. Right? Sometimes we get this idea, man, we need a big tav we need a big cathedral and we need all these fancy stuff and we need this and we need that. If we're going to do something for God, we've got to have all these phenomenal facilities Now, I believe what God gives us, we ought to take care of it. Amen or not. We're trying to do that downstairs when we got plans for other things. Well, you know, God can take a storefront building if the people will just give it to the Lord and use it for his glory. God can reach people and build a church just in a storefront building. I think we have nice facilities, right, around here, amen? But they're not super fancy But I'm telling you, I believe I'm speaking for our church. Every in every inch of ground we have and every block of brick and every piece of wood and every bit of plaster that's on this property is dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what he looks for. That's what he's looking for. So he says, what's that in your hand? And Moses says, uh, it's just a rod. Oh, just a rod. Maybe that's all we are, it's just a rod, but God can do great things with us. I got a passage I want us to go to. If you would come back, keep your place because I want to have a little time. I want to look at some more of this. But come to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. This is one of the most encouraging passages of Scripture, at least for me personally. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 And uh come towards the end of the chapter. Paul, of course, is writing to this church at Corinth, and they're struggling, they got a lot of problems. And he's starting out, he's trying to encourage him. The first starts out with encouragement a bit before he scalds them later on. But look at verse 26. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 26. He says, For ye see your calling, brethren. Now Moses is being called. As this wrought. Do you see your calling, brethren? Look at this. How that not many wise men. Now, sometimes God will call wise men after the flesh. Very intelligent, highly educated Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble were called, some, but not many But God hath chosen the what? Foolish things of the world, the world's eyes, the foolish things to confound the wise of the world. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. The weak things, just a shepherd with a rod. The mighty, Pharaoh, and the whole nation of Egypt. He confounds them. Uh the weak things of the world to confound the things for the mighty. Verse 20. And base things. That means just everyday normal base stuff Things of the world, things which are despised by the world, hath God chosen. Yea, things which are not, to bringeth naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence When this is all said and done with Moses, when he finally trusts God, when he finally does what God says, when they walk out of there, they're not pretty they're respecting Moses, but they're praising God. They cross that sea. You have the song of Moses. All the glory is going to God. Look what God did. Look what God did. Look what God did Comes down to verse 31. He says, that according as is written, he that gloryeth, let him glory on the Lord. So number one, God can use you. Say, I'm just a rod. That's exactly what God specializes in using. And number two, if he does use you, and when he uses you, if you'll trust him and just throw yourself down in the will of God, and God does use you, all the glory goes to God. Nobody says, oh, look what a great rod I am. No, everybody says, man, look what God did with just a rod. And by the way, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. You follow that rod throughout the life of Moses. It does some amazing things. When they come out of Egypt and they hit the Red Sea and they're the armies of Egypt are chasing them, coming after them, and you got the Red Sea in front of them, they're between a rock and a wet place, you know, they're between an army and a and a sea. Moses, God tells Moses, get that rod. Remember that rod? Get that rod, Moses. Oh, the rod, yeah. All right, hold it out over that sea. That's the same rod. Uh later on uh they get out there and uh they need some water God says, Moses, take that rod and strike a rock. A rod, that's right, that rod. He goes, gets the rod. What? Shh! Water comes out. No, it's just a piece of stick. Just a piece of wood, just an old stick. But in God's hands, when Moses does with that rod what God tells him to do, Man, it becomes becomes a powerful tool in the hands of God. So we notice this rod. It's an ordinary object. Second thing I notice about this rod is it's an offensive object. Now let me explain what I mean by that. What was uh this was probably as I said before this is probably a shepherd's crook. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say a shepherd's crook Ron has like a little hook on the end. Maybe some kind of branch they bend around, somehow they make that hook on there. And um uh it's a shepherd. It's something a shepherd uses. Now Uh remember what was the Egyptians' attitude about shepherds? They didn't like them. In fact, the Bible says that shepherds were an abomination to the Egyptians. They despise shepherds. They hate them. They were like, ugh, they're the bottom of the barrel. They're the scum in the bottom of the pond. They're the worst. They hated shepherds, just uneducated, ignorant sheep, smell like sheep, stink, you know, they don't have to be, they're just dummies. Egyptians hated him. Now think about that. He's going to come in there before Pharaoh and the most powerful Egyptians in existence, and he's carrying the shepherd's rod. And the whole I can I I don't know. The Bible doesn't say this, but I picture this in my mind. Moses comes in there with that rod, and this we're jumping way ahead now And he knows what God can do with that rod, turn into a snake. He's walking in there. And every one of those Egyptians are looking at that rod and they're saying, this guy is a stinking shepherd They're not impressed with the shepherd's wrath. In fact, they're repulsed by it, no doubt. They're disgusted. What's he doing in here? What's he doing in our presence? The point is I'm trying to make with this, and I think the lesson here is, God wasn't sending Moses down to Egypt to appeal to the Egyptians. He's not sending them down there to impress them or win them over or get them to think highly of them. I put it this way. He was not sending him down there to be admired by the Egyptians. He was sending them down there to separate his people from the influence of the Egyptians. And your purpose and my purpose in this world is not to get the world to think highly of us Our object as believers in Garrett County or anywhere in the world we might be, our objective is not to be citizen of the year If we're living for God like we should, if we're in love with the Lord like we should, if we're committed to the Lord like we should, Jesus said this world is gonna what? Hate us. Said they hated me, they're going to hate you. That doesn't mean that, you know, we walk around and people are just screaming and yelling, throwing stuff at us. But as far as the world as society is concerned You and I get this. As far as society is concerned, you and I do not fit in. Has anybody found that to be true? I don't know about you, but the longer this goes on, the less comfortable I feel in this old world And so he goes down there with his shepherd's quote. Are you still in Corinthians? Come over to Acts chapter 4 with me, real quick. The New Testament believers taste that same thing. Acts chapter 4 And verse number 13, here you have John, Peter and John, and uh they're preaching the gospel and The leader, the world's religious leaders and all are upset with them. And uh verse 2 it says they're grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus, the resurrection. I mean they do not like him at all. Get into verse 13. It says, now when they, the religious leaders, the Pharisees, the scribes, the counsel, all these authorities, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and look at this And perceived that they were what? Unlearned and what? Ignorant men They marveled. They took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Their attitude towards the New Testament disciples was the same attitude that the Egyptians had towards shepherds. They're just unlearned, they're ignorant, they're stinky, they're yuck. And that's disciples in this whole world Our objective at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not to win the world's praise. We're not here to get accolades from society. We're here to please God and God alone. We're here to do the will of God. Doesn't mean we be arrogant, doesn't mean we be hateful, doesn't mean we be rude. But it does mean we submit to God, we trust Him, and we live the way He tells us to live. We do what He instructs us to do, and the world will always have a problem with that So it's an ordinary object, this rod in his hand, and it's an offensive object. So come back here. I got a couple minutes, if you would, bear with me. Come back to Exodus 4. So that's Moses' rod. The first thing we see in verse 2, what is that in my hand? It's a rod. So then we see in verse number 3, and I'll give these to you very quickly, that we see Moses' release of this rod. First he's holding the rod, and then we have the release of it. Look what it says, verse 3. And he, God, said, cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground. He did exactly what God told him to do. Throw it on the ground. Moses threw it on the ground. Have you noticed this is about the first time that Moses actually does what God tells him to do since this whole thing started, except for taking the shoes off his feet at the burning bush. But at that point he didn't know where all this was leading to. Do you see God starting to teach Moses to trust him? We're going to see it even more so here in a minute God says, throw it on the ground. No objections. Sure, that's easy. It's a simple act. Just throw it on the ground. It's safe. Just throw the rod on the ground. I don't have to go down in front of Pharaoh and face all his wrath. Just throw my rod on the ground. He does what God says at this point. Up to this point, he's been arguing with everything God tells him to do. But here is something simple. It's no big deal. It's safe. It's simple. And he just throws it on the ground. Here's my question. I wrote this down when I was looking at this. Here's my question. I wonder if God isn't Isn't using anybody familiar with the term baby steps? They use it in financial world, just a little bit, just make a little progress here, do a little bit of progress here I wonder if God isn't kind of making a reset here and said, all right, Moses, tell you what, hold put the hold on going down to Egypt. Just throw the rod on the ground. Can you do that? Can you trust me just to throw the rod on the ground? Uh sure. No big deal. And I can see that in my own Christian life, and I've observed this When we first get saved, generally, well, across the board, but generally when a person first gets saved, they're not called to go to the mission field, they're not told to do these great, what could be scary things What's the first thing God tells a new believer to do? Get baptized. Not difficult. It's a very simple thing. Just get baptized. Just throw yourself in the water and back up. Just get baptized. It's very simple. It's very safe. Not a difficult thing, unless you're in a persecuted country. But generally being baptized some. I think God says, listen, if you'll just do what I say, get baptized, you're learning to trust me and do what I say. It's a principle being established. It's a precedent being established. Alright, I got saved. He wants me to get baptized. Alright, I'll trust him. I'll get baptized. A lot of times people are very scared. Preacher, I'm scared of death. But I'm going to do it. Get baptized. And it's just that first step. And then, alright, be faithful, alright? Be a witness. Alright? Surrender your life. Alright? And so I see his Moses' response is a positive response. He does what God says without objection. So his release. And number three, it's his response. And I'll end with this. Look at again, look at verse 3, the second part. And he said, cast it on the ground, and he cast it on the ground. Uh-oh. And it became a serpent. Now here's Moses' response to the rod becoming a serpent. The first thing he does is he flees, he's afraid. And Moses fled from before it. How many people, if you had a rod, it became a serpent at your feet, you would run away? Anybody? Yeah. Or get another rod and beat it So Moses reasonably is afraid. He's afraid. His response is fear. Yeah, a snake, a serpent. This is a uh this is uh uh um uh venomous It bites him, it's bad. So his first response is fear. But look what God says now. And I'm kind of pushing through this a little He cast it on the ground and it became a serpent and Moses fled from it. So his first response was fear. Now look at this. And the Lord said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand and take it by the tail. Now, if I'm making objections to something God's telling me to do, this would be the place I would be making objections. Take it by the ta Alright, pick it up and take it by the tail. And by the way, um If you know anything about catching snakes, the tail is the last place you want to take a snake by When I was little, my grandparents, they lived by a stream. There was a uh a stream there probably maybe wider than the aisle here, maybe maybe the width of these pews here the little stream not far from the house. And the one area there was like a big hole and uh and uh there was like an embankment, maybe fifteen foot embankment. There was a lot of rocks And the sun would shine on it and there wasn't much vegetation. We would go in there and there was garter snakes there by the hundreds. I mean the place was infested with them And we were little we'd go and catch those babies. I mean we caught them by the dozens. We'd have jars. We'd just fill the whole jar just full of snakes, these little garter snakes. And uh I don't remember what we did with them. I probably scared my mom to death with them. Those things, we when we first started catching them, you get them, and they would they bite us, we had bites all over. Now a garter snake is not venomous, it's harmless. They're just ch ch you know we have these little bloody tooth marks all over our hands. It didn't take us long to realize when you're going to catch a snake, you don't take it by the tail. Because that thing will come back like a whip and get you every stinking time. If you're going to catch a snake, if you're going to pick up a snake, where do you get a hold of it at? Behind the head You get it behind the head so that way it can't, it'll wrap around you or whatever, but it can't bite you because you got it behind the head. God tells Moses to take this serpent that was his rod and is now a serpent and grab it by the tail of all places. And you know what Moses does? Lord, I can't do that. Get somebody else. Oh, I don't even know how to do that. No objections whatsoever. He does exactly what God tells him to do. You know what that was? That was an act of faith. I think this is what I'm seeing here. I'm seeing God teaching Moses that he can trust him. Listen, Moses, you're afraid to go down there, you're not sure you can trust me going down to Egypt. Tell you what, just pick up that snake by the tail. I'll prove to you you can trust me. And he does. And Moses does it. No objections. Look what it says. The last part of verse 4. And he put forth his hand and caught it. And it became a rod in his hand, came back to the rod. If ever was a time to object to God's instructions, I would say now, but there's no objections from Moses. He trusts God and he does what God says. And God is teaching, I'm convinced, God is more than just answering Well, they're not going to believe I'm from you. God says, all right, here, I'll give you some signs, I'll give you some wonders. I get three of them. You do these, we'll go down there. You do these, they'll believe you. But in doing so He's teaching Moses to trust God, trust God, trust God. And then Israel's response in verse 5, he says they're going to believe you. They will believe you when you go down there. Now, I don't know what God might be doing in your life. God works in my life. He leads. He puts things. He directs me, instructs me on things. Sometimes I struggle with it. Sometimes it's like, God, I'm not sure, this is the best thing. What God's trying to do for you and what he's trying to do for me is just to get us to trust him. And if he if he leads us to do something or we come across in scriptures instructions for him uh that we should do and we balk at that He wants us to learn to trust him. Now, God's not going to tell you and I to handle snakes. These folks over in West Virginia, Kentucky, wherever they are, handling the snakes, they're nuts. Alright? I mean this flat eye there's nothing spiritual about it. There's nothing scriptural about it whatsoever So God's not going to tell us do stuff like that. But God will lead us. And sometimes we balk at that What God wants us to do is just trust him. I don't know how God may be leading you. I don't know what God's impressing on your heart. I don't know how God's speaking to you from his word, but I am saying this. God's trying to teach us to trust him, to have faith in him, just like he's doing Moses. And Moses does eventually trust him, and man, he becomes a great, great man of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts here a little bit, and I pray they're helpful. Lord, I ask you teach us just to um have faith in you and thank you for your patience with us Thank you for your tolerance of our hesitation and our sometimes resistance And I ask you to just keep working and helping us till we learn to throw it all at your feet, give it all, put it all in your hands. And yet let you lead us and direct us. I wonder if there's some tonight that would say, preacher, there's some areas in my life that God is working, and to be honest, I'm a little hesitant And sometimes it doesn't make sense, I'm not sure, but I wanna I want God to help me to trust him, and He'll teach us, He'll help us Say, preacher, pray with me. There's some areas I really need to learn to trust God. Is there anybody like that at all? My hands raised. Just need to trust God Our church looking for a new assistant, we need to trust God. We need to trust God. Look to Him. Let us lead Him. Let Him lead us. And then so many other areas. Father bless our invitation I ask. Help us to learn from Moses in Jesus name, Amen.