Chapter number four. I know we already started verse one and a few verses, but I want to read down through verse number nine just to keep the whole context together. We already started preaching into this chapter a little bit, but as I said, I want to read the whole section together. Verse number one it says, and Moses answered and said, This is God and Moses going back and forth. So Moses is answering God Behold, but behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice. Now the they there, just to get us up to speed is he's referring to the Hebrews who are slaves down in Egypt, and no doubt he's including in the they Pharaoh and the Egyptians, because God's telling him he needs to go down there And lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. So he says, I go down there, they are not going to believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he said, A rod. And he said, Cast it on the ground, and he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses fled from before it, and the Lord said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand and take it by the tail And he put forth his hand and caught it bec uh and caught it and it became a rod in his hand, that they might believe that the Lord God of the fat uh of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Acob Jacob hath appeared unto thee. So before I pray, just get the context here. We have this back and forth between Moses and God, the burning bush there. He's still there. Where this has all taken place. And um and uh God saying, I'm gonna send you down to Egypt, I'm gonna use you to lead the Egyptians out. We know the story. So Moses immediately begins making these objections. What we're at here in chapter 4 is the third objection of Moses. And this one is, I go down there, they're not going to believe me. And so the first one was uh um I won't know what to say, uh they're not gonna, uh I won't know who do I tell them sent me. And now he's saying, they're not going to believe me, I don't have any credibility. So God responds with him throwing this rod down, turns into a snake, grabs it by the tail, it turns back into a rod. I think I asked this last week, but let me ask it in How many people would have an issue with grabbing a venomous serpent by the tail? Yeah, if I'm going to object to anything, that's what I'm objecting to. But he doesn't And we're going to learn s a lesson from that. We're going to consider that a little bit tonight. So now God does that. He throws a rod down, turns to a serpent, grabs it by tail, turns back in a rod God says, all right, they see that, they're going to believe you. I'm telling you, they're going to believe you. But if God doesn't stop there, he goes on. He says, I'll give you another sign. And that's where we pick up in verse 6, and that's what I want to look at tonight. And the Lord said furthermore unto him. It's like God saying, all right, they're going to believe that, but here, let me give you some more. Let me give you some backup. Put now thine hand into thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. That is an advanced form of leprosy. His whole hand's white. It's advanced. It's white as snow. And he said, verse 7, put thy hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again and plucked it out of his bosom, and behold, it was turned again as other flesh. And it shall come to pass, this is God speaking, it shall come to pass that they will not believe thee, neither hearken unto the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. Now God says, they're gonna, after he does the first one with the serpent Nara, God says they'll believe you, but let me give you another one. He said, and just, you know, if you're worried, they won't believe the first one, they'll believe the second one Then he goes on in verse 9. And it shall come to pass, God's still speaking here, if they will not believe also these two signs. Neither hearken unto thy voice that thou shalt that thou shalt take of the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry ground, and the water which thou takest up out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land. So Moses' objection here is I don't have any credibility, they're not going to believe me, you know, and so I can't go. He's wanting out, he's objecting. God says, all right, here I'm going to give you some credibility. The first is the rod we looked at tonight. I want to look at the leprosy. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless. As we look at this passage, I pray that you would help us to, I pray your Holy Spirit would open our spiritual eyes that we could see some lessons here, some principles. maybe some uh examples that would help us to grow in our Christian life, that we would be stronger spiritually, stronger in our faith, and our witness would be more effective. And so I ask, Father, with all my heart, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and mine, is that my body, and ask, Father, again, that you would just speak through me And uh help and challenge us here tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So he has this rod, he throws it down, turns the serpent, and um we did a bit of a study on that rod there and the lessons the significance of it. It's a fascinating something else we didn't do and we could there's so much you could do here but is look and study The role that that rod played throughout Moses' life. Later on, parting the Red Sea, striking the rock, water coming out. And so that role become that rod becomes a significant tool in the hands of God through the hands of Moses. But now we're at this Leprosy. I called the uh the first sign. He gives these three signs, the rod, the the leprosy, and then the blood, water turning the blood. I called the first one a dangerous serpent, we notice God used now We have a deadly disease. And the Lord's giving a second sign to assure Moses you will have credibility. I am going to make sure that they understand that I actually did send you. And so he's giving them these signs and um He wants Moses to be confident that the Hebrews are going to believe him when he says he's from God, that God sent him. Now that's going to be a little tricky because the the Hebrews they may already know about his past. They may think he's, remember 40 years earlier he tried on his own to get him out, and it didn't work They're very particular on who they're going to follow, at least at this point in their history. So he needs some credibility with the Hebrews. Of course, Pharaoh's going to be difficult. He's not going to let a million people out of his economy. They're dependent on them. And so he has these challenges, but they will believe. I got looking at this. If you would notice verse number one. Moses says, they will not believe me. And I've got to look in that word believe, how often it's used down in these first nine verses. And it's actually mentioned five times this matter of them believing him comes up. Verse number five, that they may believe. Moses says, they're not going to believe me. God responds four times. God responds and says they will believe you. They will believe you. They will believe you. They will believe you. Would you agree with me? If God says something one time, that ought to settle it If God says it four times, mark it down it's going to happen. And sometimes God has to repeat stuff for us. Not because he forgets he said it or any necessity on his part to repeat it. God repeats things for us because of the necessity on our part Would you agree? Sometimes we have to hear something over and over and over and over before it sinks in. Do you ever have your mother ever say to you, I'm going to tell you one time? Anybody ever have your mother say that to you? No? I'm not going to tell you again. You better clean that room. And so anyway, God says it over and over and over. When I was youth pastor, when I first got into ministry, first started uh preaching And uh I wanted our teens, I wanted them to learn to tithe, give their tithe to the Lord 10%. And um so I worked up a message and uh I preached a message to the teens. We had about 45, 50 teens, something like that. Preached to them on tithing. And I thought, there you go. I preached on tithing one time. It's settled. I don't have to preach about it ever again. You know what I found out? I had to keep on preaching on it, just like everything else. And so God says over and over and over, He says, believe, they will believe. Moses, they will believe you. I'm going to give you a sign. They'll believe you If they don't believe that, I'll give you another sign, they're gonna believe that. If you don't think they're gonna believe that, I'll give you another sign, they' And so God's trying to assure Moses that he will have credibility. God is giving Moses overwhelming evidence that they're going to believe him. Now, this matter of leprosy, I have I note, I made three observations here I want to give to you. This is my message tonight. Notice verse number six. And the Lord said furthermore unto him, put now thine hand into thy bosom. Now look at Moses' response. And he put his hand into his bosom. Moses did exactly what God told him to do. This is the second time in verse number 3 God said, cast the rod down. Moses cast the rod down. He does exactly what God says. The whole issue with Moses up to this point, and it'll continue on here for a little while yet, but the whole issue was Moses resisting obeying God. The whole thing, the whole object of this back and forth, this whole discussion, the whole issue that God approached Moses about was him Doing what God tells him to do, to go down to Egypt and deliver him. And he's resisting that. He's resisting that. He's resisting that. But when God tells him to cast the rod down, he does it without objection. Pick the snake up by the tail. He does it. He tells him to stick your hand in your bosom, and what that means is simply stick it inside his his garment. Stick your hand inside there, like Napoleon. And Moses does it. He doesn't ask any questions. He doesn't challenge. He doesn't object. He doesn't say, oh, why are you having me do that? That's dumb. That has nothing to do with what we're talking about. There's no objection on the part of him. Now to go to Egypt, there's objection after objection after objection. Why he cannot go, why he cannot go, why he cannot go. But here, God gives him a series of instructions He obeys without hesitation. He obeys without objection. And I got thinking about this matter of obedience. And that is what Moses is struggling with, obeying God. Now there's faith is a factor, Brian and I talked about it. There's fear, no doubt, is mixed in as a result of the lack of faith. Probably some pride involved in all of this. There usually is in situations like this. But the importance of obeying, of learning to obey God in every area of our life. Moses is picking and choosing. Now, maybe I'm overly dissecting this, but I see Moses picking and choosing what he's gonna obey God, what areas he's gonna obey God God says go to Egypt. He says, oh I can't, they're not going to believe me. I won't know what to say. Who am I? I'm nobody. Later on he'll say I can't talk good Then God says, throw your rod down, boom, he doesn't argue about it at all. And I think where we get in trouble sometimes in our Christian life is we try to pick and choose what we will obey God in. We cannot overemphasize the importance of learning to obey God in every single area of life. The Bible, I started, I'm going to go through and get examples of people in the Bible that obeyed God and get examples of people in the Bible that did not obey God. You know what I found out? The Bible's chopped full. Of illustration, example after example after illustration of people in the Bible that obeyed God and people in the Bible that did not obey God. Some obeyed him fully, others obeyed him partially, some refused to obey him. Some, like Moses, obeyed sometimes, and sometimes they didn't They pick and choose. And so the Bible is full of examples of folks that uh um that uh uh would obey God and would and uh folks that did not obey God. Um And so, let me find my place here. Examples. Those who obey God. There's people all through the Bible they do obey God, those that do not. Take your Bible with me if you would. Now keep your place here because we're going to come back. But go with me to First Samuel chapter fifteen, if you would. First Samuel chapter fifteen. And here we have King Saul. Question, King Saul, was he pretty good at obeying God or not so much? Not so much is an understatement of the night. Talk about somebody that would pick and choose where and how they're going to obey God. And finally he dis God told him to slay uh uh the um what was the king I always forget the king's name um uh uh Ach uh not Achan But uh God tells him to slay his people, uh, Agag. He tells him to slay the king, Agag. He doesn't. He spares them, he spares all the sheep. You know the story. Samuel confronts him about his disobedience. He says, I did obey God. And mo and Samuel makes this great statement. He goes, if you obey God, and I'm putting my own words here, he said, What's the what does it mean the bleeding of the sheep? You're supposed to kill all the sheep. Why are there sheep here? Well, the people, he starts blaming. Well, it wasn't me, it wasn't them. Now notice what Samuel says here. This is a profound statement he makes about the importance of obedience. In our relationship with the Lord. Look at verse 22. Samuel speaking to King Saul And Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? Now what King Saul did was he said, Well, I'm not going to do everything God said, but I'll throw in a bunch of sacrifices And that'll make up for me not doing what God says. Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in what? Obeying the voice of the Lord? Now look at this statement. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to hearken than the fat of rams. Now he expands on that, the importance of obedience. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. Now notice how he describes King Saul's disobedience. He describes it, first of all, as the sin of witchcraft. Would you agree with me? Witchcraft is bad. I mean, that's bad. And God is saying here, when we deliberate we choose to deliberately disobey God, we are operating in that category there, something that is just as condemned by God as witchcraft. Stubbornness, you know, however you want to describe or illustrate stubbornness, but say, no, no, God, I'm not doing that. He says that's uh that's is uh the sin of uh and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry Thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. I would never reject God's word, but I ain't doing that. God says that's rejecting it. And so the importance of obedience in every area, and the Bible's full. We can go to Genesis or Revelation. We find people that obeyed God and the consequences of their obedience. Those that disobey God, Samuel here is the classic example, there's scores of them through Scripture. That said, no, I'm not going to do it. And the consequences of that were horrendous. I'm convinced, in studying scripture, all these years in the Christian life, I am convinced that obedience Is a fundamental principle of living the Christian life. Living the Christian life. My daddy used to say that even salvation was a matter of obedience. And what he meant by that was when God told Nicodemus, ye must be born again. If I know I need to be saved, then I say no. If I know I need to trust Christ, God wants me to be, you know, you have somebody that God wants them to be saved. God wants them to trust Christ as a Savior And they say, no, I will not obey that command. You must be born again. I will not trust Christ. It's disobedience. It's a fundamental principle of the Christian life. We sing the song, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus. But the trust and obey. Trust and obey. Obedience. I put a few thoughts down here about obedience and and Moses here. He obeys God. And in these situations, these four areas, he does what God says. Now his whole issue, and we're going to see how that where this leads to, but his whole issue is not obeying God. He's objecting to doing what God's telling him to do. But in these areas he obeys I'll put a few thoughts down about obedience, this simple act of obedience on Moses' part. Obedience displays Christian character. If I have Christian character, I'm going to obey the Lord. We're going to look at some verses here. Now keep your place in Exodus, Lord will, and we're going to get back here. But come with me to the New Testament, the book of John. 1 John. Come with me to 1 John and chapter number 2. Get all the way back. Hebrews, James, 1 2 Peter, 1 John. In chapter 2, 1 John chapter 2, and verse number 3. Give me a moment to find it. 1 John 2:3. Obedience displays Christian character. And by character I mean Christian integrity, Christian maturity, obedience. Verse number three of 1 John 2, if you're there. It says, and hereby we do know that we know him. Here's the identification. We're going to know I'm a Christian. This is how people are going to know I'm a Christian. If we keep his commandments What's another way of saying keep his commandments? Doing what? Obeying them. Keep his commandments. I'm obeying what God tells me to do. I'm doing what God tells me to do. Now I want to pause here for a moment. He's not saying, and I'm not suggesting, and the passage here is not saying, that we get saved by keeping God's commandments. We understand that, right? It's trusting Christ. Putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ is what saves me. But once I'm saved, then I obey God. What He tells me to do, I do that And that lends credibility to my witness. And that's Moses' whole issue is he's concerned about is credibility. God's teaching them to obey. If I keep his commandments. He that saith, I knoweth him and keepeth not his commandments, a liar. The truth is not in him. For whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected hereby Know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even as he walk. He says, Listen, you say you're saved, you claim to be saved, you ought to obey God Would you agree with me? A child ought to obey their parents. Everybody on board with that? When I get saved, I'm a child of God. I ought to obey my parents. This is what he's saying. Just talking about my faith means nothing if it's not backed up by obedience to God's word, if it's not backed up by obedience to God's will. So obedience displays Christian character. I mean, there's something to my faith, there's something to my Christianity. When I'm obeying God, it displays Christian character. I put this down, obedience displays genuine confidence. One reason Moses struggled with obeying God is because his confidence in God was shaky God would have to tell him over and over and over, I'm going to do this. Remember back early on this debate, God had to say, you're not doing it, I'm doing it, I'm using you I'm the one going to deliver him. Moses kept saying, I have to deliver him. No, you don't have to deliver him. I'm going to deliver him. I'm just using you to do it Moses' confidence in God for whatever reason was shaky. He had a hard time taking God at his word. And that's where we struggle. Just taking God at his word. One reason Moses struggled with obeying God is his confidence in God was shaky. Basically, this is what Moses was saying in numerous places. He's saying Uh, if I do, God, if I do what you say, things are going to turn out bad. If I go down there, they're going to ask me who sent you, and I don't know what I'm going to say, it's going to be bad. And I go down there, they're not going to believe that you sent me, it's going to be bad. I go down there, they're going to say, Who are you? You're nobody. It's going to be bad. God, if I do what you say, it's going to be bad And sometimes we're the same way. God wants us to do it. Man, if do anybody here ever you're somewhere and God puts on your heart to give a gospel tract to somebody or say something to them about the Lord, you see that person And something inside you is saying you need to talk to them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And what do we do sometimes? We get that the Holy Spirit impresses on us, you need to talk to them. And we'll say, we don't say this out loud, but in our minds we'll think, man, if I do that, they're gonna freak out, or they're gonna hit me, or they're gonna be offended, or I'm gonna look like an idiot. Am I right or wrong What are we saying? We're saying, God, if I do what you're putting on my heart to do, it's going to turn out bad. That's what Moses is doing. And he had a hard time obeying God because his confidence in God was so weak. He's learning, now he's learning, and he's going to get there eventually. But he's in the process of learning you can trust God. If he says to do something, if he instructs us to do something, we can trust him, we can do it. It's the best. for us and for all involved. Would you agree with me? It's a whole lot easier to obey somebody I trust Right? Total stranger comes up and says, let me let me see your wallet. Ah no. Sorry, I don't know you. But if I know somebody And if I trust that person, it's a whole lot easier to obey instructions from them. For instance, we go to our doctor You got a doctor, doctor says, oh, you got high blood pressure, you got this, you got this issue, you got, I'm going to prescribe this medicine for you You can't read my writing what it says. You don't even know what the word means that the medicine's called. But I'm going to prescribe this and I want you to take one every morning and one every night for the next ten years. So what do we do? We go to the drugstore, we get the medicine, and we take it, right? And I'm putting something in my body. And I don't know what it is. I mean I know what I'm told, but I why? Because I trust my doctor. And by the way, if you don't trust your doctor, you need to get a doctor you can trust And so we do that because we know that we know that doctor. I trust that doctor. The doctor says, all right, we're gonna you're gonna have to have surgery. He says, oh man, you got appendicitis is about to rupture. We need to take that appendix out. We've got to do surgery. Oh, okay, doc. If a total stranger came up and said, you know what, I want to cut your abdomen open, I'm going to pull one of your organs out of your body and say, get away from me. But we know them, we trust them, and therefore we do what they say, even when it's very costly to us. God is getting Moses to trust him, to listen to me, do what I say. You can trust me. And it takes a little bit. And Can't be so hard on Moses because we're a lot of times we're no better. God has to work us over and work us over and work us over. It's easier to obey someone I trust, and God's teaching Moses, you can trust me, Moses, you can trust me. So obedience displays Christian character, obedience displays genuine confidence. I put this down. Obedience displays commitment. Are you still in 1 John? Come over to the Gospel of John. Back in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And John chapter fourteen is a great, amazing chapter. John fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, all John. Actually, all the gospel. Actually the whole New Testament. Really the whole Bible is amazing. But John chapter 14 is special, specially significant to me. John 14 And Jesus, let me, Jesus is, Jesus is working with the disciples to an extent, he's doing with the disciples to an extent what God is doing with Moses. God is preparing Moses for a tremendous work. He's going to lead Egypt out. He's going to lead them forty years into the promised land. They're going to get the law and the sacrifice, they're going to get all this from God through Moses. He has a profound future ahead of them. And God's preparing them And one thing Moses has to learn is he's has to learn he can trust God and he needs to do what God says If he's going to be able to fulfill the mission God has for him. Well, Jesus is in a very similar situation with the disciples. They have got to learn to trust Jesus, do what he says, trust God, do what he says, because they're going to lay the foundation for the church. And for the entire church age, God's going to use several of them to give us the New Testament scriptures. They've got to learn to trust and obey God. That's what Jesus, for three and a half years, he's working with them, discipling them. Now look what he says in John chapter 14. He repeats this over and over and over and over again. Let's start in verse number 15. It's plain as day. If ye love me, keep my commandments. What's he saying? If you love me, do what? Obey me. Do what I say. Trust me. Do what I instruct you to do. Come down to verse number 21. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that what? Loveth me. You guys say you love me. I love you. I'm going to lay my life down for you. No greater loveth any man than this. The man laid down his life for his friends. You say you love me. If you love me, trust me. Follow my instructions. Do what I say. Look at verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words. He'll obey and trust me and obey me. Verse 24, he that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. Would you agree with me? King Saul did not love the Lord very well, right? He didn't love the Lord. He didn't do what he said. Jesus said, if you don't you love me not, you're not going to keep my commandments. Where did I end? 24? Come over to verse 31. Look at verse 31. But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave Gave me commandment, even so do I. He says, listen, God told me as the Son of God, God instructed me, gave me instructions, commands. I love the Father. I do what he tells me to do. Follow my example is what he said. And so over and over and over, Jesus is doing with the disciples what God is doing with Moses, teaching them to trust him and obey him. I got another thought on obedience, and we'll come back to Exodus and we'll wrap it up. I put this down, number three, number four, obedience produces cheerfulness. We're in John here, come back to John chapter 13. We're in 14. Come back to 13. Look with me if you would at verse 17. He says, if you know these things, the things I've taught you, the things I've instructed you, you know them. Happy are ye if you memorize them. Is that what it says? No. Happy are you if you sing them. No. Happy are you if you talk about them? No, happy are you if what? You do then. I highlighted the word do. You know what I've said, you know what I've taught you, you know what I've instructed you. Now you want to be happy. The word happy there has the idea of cheerful and pleasant. And the blessings of God, contentment is a big part of that word. Just do what I instruct you to do. Just obey. Trust me and obey me. It's possible, it is possible to obey God legalistically and not love him. Right? It's possible to do something and not really love. You can do your job. You might be very good at your job and hate your job. Right? But it is impossible to love the Lord and not trust him, not obey him. If I love the Lord, I'm going to do what he says. He made that clear. And he says, if you'll trust me, if you'll obey me, you know my instructions, you do them, you're going to be blessed with happiness. You're going to have peace in your heart. You're going to have fulfillment in your life. I'm telling you the happiest Christians I've ever met in my life of all of all strategies, economic spectrums of life. People that walked with God, loved him, trusted him, lived in submission and obedience to the Lord, without exception, regardless of their possessions, regardless of their education, regardless of their standing in society. Those that know the Lord, love the Lord, live for Him, are happy. Are happy. They're not always laughing, sometimes they're crying, but there's joy, there's peace. There's contentment in their heart. The most miserable people in the world, and you know this is true as well as I do, the most miserable people in the world are people that know the Lord, but will not trust him and will not live for him. They're miserable. Look at the Corinthians. Fussing and fighting and carrying on. They're miserable. And so Obedience produces cheerfulness. When we trust and obey, there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. So I hope I got across the message tonight that we need obedience is important in the Christian life. Listening to what God says, trusting Him, and then doing it. And Moses is learning that. He's having a hard time. Go down to Egypt. I don't know, Lord. I don't think it's going to play out the way you're saying. If I do what you say, it's going to be bad. God says, all right, throw your rod down. Uh, okay. Whoa Pick it up by the tail. Now there's no indication in the record here of Exodus that Moses hesitated, but I would imagine his eyes are wide open. Okay. And lo and behold, God comes through. Would you agree with me? In that one instance, with the rod and the serpent, back to the rod, Moses learned a lesson, he can trust God, right? The little baby step. Now he says, stick your hand in your bosom. Moses does it. Okay. No hesitation, no objection. He's learning obedience. He's learning a fundamental principle of serving God and living for God, pleasing God. There's more than just credibility being established in Moses' mind with the Egyptians and the Hebrews But also Moses' character is being perfected. God is chipping away at Moses. He's molding him. He's challenging him. He's stretching him and getting him to trust God and do what he says Obedience is crucial if I'm going to have a healthy relationship with the Lord. Obedience to God is crucial if I'm going to have God's blessings in my life and in my home. And obedience is crucial if I'm going to be effective in my service. So come back now. Obedience. I see, first of all, in this matter of this leprosy I see a simple act of obedience. It just does what God says. Significant. Second, I see an instant restoration. Now we're back in Exodus 4. And again, verse number six, at the second part of verse six, first part he says, put now thy hand in thy bosom, and he put his hand into his bosom. There's the obedience. Now And when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. Whoa! As snow indicates to us, this wasn't just a little spot that, man, that looks like I might have leprosy. This was woe, full-blown leprosy. Now both these first two signs, both of these first two signs God gives them, He's establishing credibility, Moses learning to trust and obey God. But both of them dealt with fearful situations. Would you agree with me? Picking a snake up by the tail and having your hand with a stage four leprosy. Can you imagine when what went through the heart and mind of Moses when he saw his hand? Now, leprosy in this day and age, in that day and age, at that period of time of history, leprosy was a was a death certificate. He's going to be outcast from everybody. He's going to lose his family. He's going to lose his children. He's going to die a terrible death. That's what leprosy was. So you have this snake, serpent, which Moses fled from. He was afraid. Then he pulls his hand out. It's advanced leprosy. Leprosy was the most deadly disease known at the time. It was the most feared disease. It was a death warrant. So why would God says, Alright, I'm going to give you a sign, it's going to make you credible, you'll go down there, do these things, they're going to believe you're from me. Trust me, when they see this, they're going to believe me, you're going to have credibility. Why would he use two Why would he use two signs that would cause intense fear in the heart and mind of Moses? Probably because Moses was afraid to go down there. That was a key factor. And God is, I think, God is showing Moses, Moses, even in your greatest fears, you can still trust me, I'll bring you through it. I think he's helping Moses learn to face his fears and trust God through it and see that God can get us through. Anybody here ever have a situation you were scared to death of it. You were absolutely terrified. You got in it, got through it, and you look back and say, God brought me through. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. You've been saved any length of time And that's what God is doing to Moses. And he doesn't address the fear directly, but I see an indirect addressing. God knows what's in his heart, and fear is no doubt a big factor. And God is very subtly, not real subtle, but God is saying, listen, do what I say, trust me, and your fears are unfounded. Even a serpent, even leprosy You don't have to be afraid of it. I'll see you through it. I'll see you through it. And so God's addressing Moses' fear here Did you ever hear a preacher say, I'm going to pop some bubbles here quick. Did you ever hear a preacher say there are 365 times the Bible says Fear not in the Bible, one for every day of the year. Has anybody ever heard that? I've heard it multiple times. They'll say there's 365 times in the Bible it says fear not one for every day of the year. I got looking it up. I searched it thoroughly. There are not three hundred and sixty-five times in the Bible that it says, Fear not. It's just not there. I don't know where they got that. It's it's not there I may have said it at some point in the past, but I got looking, and there's not. But there is about 200 times In the Bible, it says, in one wording or another, it says, fear not. Don't be afraid. Trust me. It'll be worded a little differently, but I came across almost 200 times where it tells us not to be afraid. Would you agree with me? If God tells us 200 times not to be afraid, we probably shouldn't be afraid. Right? Don't be afraid. Listen, I'm telling you, don't be afraid. If God's ability to conquer fear, if we'll trust him, God is able to conquer fear if we'll trust him and obey him. And that's, I think he's teaching Moses. Now here is a question I guess I'm looking at this, I am picturing this in my mind. Moses is there, I assume this bush is burning, no doubt still, he's got his shoes off, God's addressing him, he keeps throwing these objections up and um God says uh uh he throws the rod down, he picks it up, snake. Ah uh it's back to a rod again. How about that? Puts his hand in his bosom, pulls it out, advanced leprosy. I got thinking, what if Moses would have panicked when he saw his hand leprous, white With leprosy. And he would have panicked and ran. Remember, he ran away from the snake at first. He feared and fled. And God said, pick it up. So he came back by the tail. But what if he'd have pulled that out and he would have froze or he would have lost his mind, panicked, and ran off? What would have happened to Moses? He'd have died of leprosy. It would have spread rapidly. It was already advanced. It would have spread rapidly. And it would have been a very, very ugly, terrible death. If he would have panicked and not put his hand back in his bosom again. But here's the thing. And I think this is significant. Moses didn't panic. And he does what God says, and he takes that leper's hand and he puts it back in. And when he pulls it out, it's just like it was before. Would you agree with me? God is teaching Moses some profound lessons here. This is not just establishing credibility with the government in Egypt. This is Moses learning to trust God. This is Moses learning to do things that humanly don't make sense. If you have leprosy, you don't go around sticking it in and out of your pocket. He does what God says and he's well. And I think there's a profound lesson being learned in the heart of Moses, you know. If I do what God says, it does turn out okay. Let me put it this way And this is oversimplification, maybe. If I it God knows what he's doing. God knows what he's doing. I can trust him. And so there's like I said a few little bit ago, a few minutes ago There's a whole lot more than just credibility being established. God knew that Moses had the credibility, that's not going to be an issue. Well, for a little bit it will, but eventually it's going to be taken care of. What God's doing is He's discipling Moses. He's teaching Moses. I think it's very similar to what God did with David. When he was a young shepherd boy, remember the bear came, took the sheep, David killed the bear. The lion came, killed the lion, pulled the sheep out of the mouth of the lion, boom, killed it. Now he's got to go on it. I think the rod, the serpent, and the leprosy are the bear and the lion for Moses. Goliath is going to be down getting these Hebrews out of Egypt. But he's got to learn to deal with the rod and the leprosy before he's going to be able to deal with the Hebrews and the Egyptians. And God's preparing him. God's preparing him. He didn't panic. He trusted God, did what God said, and God brought him through. And then verse 8, I'll end with this. Notice God says, and it shall come to pass if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice Of the first sign that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. Moses, they're going to believe you. Credibility is not the issue. You don't have to worry about that. Now he's going to give him another one, the blood water turn into blood. He doesn't actually do that. God just says, I'm going to. You saw what I can do here, you saw what I did there If we need to, I can do that when we get down there. But they're going to believe you. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that we can learn some stuff from this. And I know I did, as I prepared us, God, you worked on my heart. I don't know what you're dealing with each of our hearts as individual. I know where I'm at, what you're dealing with me about. Wherever we're at, I ask that you would help us. Lord, help us to trust you. I pray your Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Holy Spirit, one of the fruit of the Holy Spirit is faith. I pray, Lord, you develop in us and strengthen our faith in you That when you tell us, instruct us, we can do it, we can obey you, because we have confidence in you. And then we can reap the benefits of an obedient Christian life. So Lord, I'm looking to you to help us and speak to hearts. I wonder with heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, some areas in my Christian life, God's dealing with my heart. And it's really tough To obey him in that area. You know, it's just like, man, Lord, I don't know. But you say, I need to learn to trust him. I need to have confidence that God knows what he's doing. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand, there's some areas there. Sure. My hand's raised. I think it's ongoing through our Christian life. Moses learned all through his life. So let's ask the Lord to help us. That's part of the Holy Spirit's ministry, to help us trust God. Help us, have faith. Father bless now, imitation I pray in Jesus' name. Amen