So this chapter two, I want to read verses one through four. I know we looked at this, it's been it's been several weeks with our outdoor service and Bible time last week But um we looked at these few verses here, uh but I want us to talk about Moses and the Ark. Not Noah and the Ark, Moses and the Ark. Look at verse 1. It says there went a man of the house of Levi and took to wife a daughter of Levi. And the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw him, the son that is, when she saw him that he was a goodly child She hid him three months. And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes and daubed it with th slime and with pitch, and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink. And his sister stood afar off to wit what would be done to him Uh Moses and the Art. Oh, I want to stop. I meant to this before, but it's good to have the White family with us tonight. They're from Granite Baptist Church A lot of our folk know Brother Lou Ross. He's preached up here many times, good friend. Now uh Dr. C. K. White's the pastor down there. They're up here. They're camping, and they are legit camping. They're staying in a tent Campers, trailers are not camping, that is camping. I'm gonna preach the truth, whether you like Let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless as we look into this passage here. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths and principles that you preserve for us And I pray you to open our hearts and minds to see what you have. Lord, I yield my will and my mind to you, and I ask, Father, that you would guard my words, that I not say anything That would be contrary to Scripture or outside your will for me to say. Lord, if I pray you guide my words that I would say the things that you would have me to say I present my body to you. I ask you to take my body and fill me with your Spirit. Dear Lord, I pray you would speak your word through me. And that maybe tonight you could just spark a new fire and strengthen our faith in our heart. To love you and live for you and serve you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Moses and the Ark. There's three arcs mentioned in the Bible. Can anybody name for me the three arcs that are mentioned in the Bible? The most famous one is what? Noah's Ark. Everybody knows about Noah's Ark. Then another one would be The Ark of the Covenant. And then the third one would be the one here we just read about Moses, three arcs. Noah's Ark was designed For one purpose and one purpose only. And that was to preserve life in the universal flood that God judged the world with. And so that was the purpose of Noah's Ark. The purpose of Mosesark that we read here, we're going to talk about a little bit. That was for one purpose. It was designed for one purpose, to preserve Moses' life under the persecution and the genocide really of Pharaoh upon the Jews. So Noah's Ark was designed to preserve life. Moses' Ark, or Ark of the Bullrushes, we normally refer to it, was designed to preserve life. The Ark of the Covenant was designed to preserve God's law or God's covenant with Israel as they would travel and as the nation expanded and grew and they got in their land and established their own kingdom. God wanted his law, the Ten Commandments were kept in there. He wanted his law to brief be preserved for the nation of Israel, for them to live by and understand their need of a Savior. So all three arcs were designed for preservation of life and of the law of God. Every one of the arts consid were designed as a rectangle box, basically, and every one of them had a lid, all three of them. We believe Moses, Ark the Boras, had a lid on it, probably Moses' ark was made, if you'll notice here, look here, and let's just talk about the ark for a moment. It says and when verse 3, and when she could not could not longer hide him, she took for him An arc of bull rushes. Bull rushes. What in the world is a bull rush? A bull rush, another name for bull rush would be papyrus. Anyone familiar with that term? Papyrus. What did they used to make out of papyrus? Paper, scrolls. That's how they recorded, particularly in Egypt. Papyrus or bull rush is a very tall reed that grows along the edge of rivers and water bodies of water grows from thirteen to thirty feet tall. So it's a very tall reed type plant. Um they would harvest these. They were very, very abundant all along the Nile. They were everywhere, so anybody could get them You didn't have to be a rich person to have some papyrus, some bullrush. And so anybody could harvest them. They were very, very abundant. The thing about bull rushes was you could very easily take them and strip them, and they would weave them into very sturdy containers. Usually made baskets or these types of things to uh carry items and whatnot. You ever see pictures of people walking with a big basket on their head These ladies there in North African different places. A lot of times those are made out of what is called here bull rushes. And so they were designed for that Papyrus or bull rushes themselves are waterproof in and of themselves. They don't absorb water. And so they would be ideal for what It was used here for Moses. And then it says, notice she got this, uh made an ark, this square container, probably had a lid, to preserve life Ark of Bull Rushes, and then it says she daubed it with uh slime. Now that word daub, that sounds like something they say over in West Virginia to me What does that world does it mean to daub something? Anybody want to take a guess? All the peop all the people from West Virginia know exactly what it is. Yeah, it has the idea of um of uh smearing across there. So she's daubing This ark made of these bull rushes, this papyrus, it's woven together. So she's daubing it, smearing it with something. And notice it says she's smearing it with what? Slime. What in the world is slime? It so it sounds like mud. To me, slime sounds like One of two things. One, something little kids buy at the store and throw at each other, right? That slime. Or the stuff that's on top of an old stagnant pond. It's like slime. Anybody know? That is not what the slime is here. I got doing a little research on it. I come to find out the slime that she's smearing, daubing on this arc is actually a petroleum product. And it was you didn't have to they didn't manufacture it. It would produce naturally. There would be slime pits. Does anybody remember uh Lot uh when the nations came in and overtook uh Sodom and Gomorrah. And remember the kings uh fell into the slime pits. They were petrol it was a petroleum product. It was a very thick sticky uh stuff. And uh and uh so one of the descriptions I was reading about it is it was like it was like cold molasses Very thick. So it would heat it up, bo boil it, heat it up so it became more pliable. Then she would daub this, smear it It is the exact the R-word asphalt, what we understand to be asphalt, was basically this slime that they are daubing this with. And so there's quite a bit of work involved in this thing. You weave this art together out of the papyrus, out of the bull rushes Uh you somewhere get this slime, and apparently it was pretty pretty uh available, wasn't difficult to get, this asphalt type stuff They're smearing around. Um, and by the way, they use this slime, this petroleum product, to build the Tower of Babel. And they use slime in building that, asphalt, to hold the things together. And then she didn't stop at that. His mother, she's making this thing, and she makes this ark of bulrushes She daubs it with slime, and when she's done that, she daubs it with pitch. Now, pitch, as best I can tell, it's almost identical to slime. There must be a little distinction between the two. And uh so she's making this thing, and she is making sure it is waterproof She is making sure that this ark, whatever she's going to put in the ark, which we know what she's going to, she wants to make sure it is secure and dry inside this arc of bull rushes. So she takes a lot of time, puts a lot of effort in, and she cares for this thing. Can anybody imagine with me the care of a mother knowing what she's going to do? Would go overboard in making sure this thing is safe and secure, right? Sure, sure. And so we have this ark and we're not told a whole lot about it. This is a very brief incident uh instance in the life of Moses and the history of all of this. It's just a very short, brief encounter we have with this event. However, it is a turning point in the nation of Israel. It is a very it is a it is a uh keystone, uh you might say, in the history of Israel When uh Moses' parents make the decision that they are going to try and spare their child's life, rescue it from uh uh Pharaoh killing it. And so uh take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at this a little more. Come to Hebrews, if you would. Hebrews chapter eleven Hebrews 11. And we looked at some of these verses previously. Hebrews chapter 11. When you get there, come down to verse number 23. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 23. Hebrews 11, 23. Notice what it says. It says, what's the first two words? Talk to me. By faith Moses. Now, at this point, this text is not talking about the faith of Moses. It says, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. So who's the faith that's being referenced here? His parents' faith. He was hid three months of his parents because they saw that he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandments. So his mother is making this ark, Moses' ark, out of bulrushes. She's sliming it. She's daubing it with slime. She's daubing it with pitch, and she's making sure it's secure. Now here's what we need to understand. She was doing this all by faith. She was doing by faith. Everything that's taken place from the birth of Moses to her putting Moses into the river and basically taking her hands off, putting them in God's hands. is all by faith, all by faith, all by faith. Now I got thinking, why Moses was a tremendous man. Moses was used of God as very, very few people in all of history. Powerful man of God. He's called a prophet. And I wondered where did he get the faith? To be able to lead the nation of Israel, to stretch out his arm, and a whole uh a sea divides. And all the things God did through Moses and the faith he showed, where did he get it? Can I make a suggestion I believe Moses got his faith from his parents. Got his faith from his parents. Uh the outstand that we don't know nothing, we know very little about Moses' parents. We gave a few background last message. We know very little about them. They're just briefly in the story. But the outstanding characteristic of Moses' faith was not their wealth. They were just ordinary people, Levites, um just slaves, putting building making bricks. They had no wealth. So many today, even within among believers, we invest our whole life on trying to get what? Wealth. Try and build wealth. Build wealth. Build wealth. Now there's nothing wrong in and of itself. Being wealthy is not wrong in and of itself. But I'm here to tell you, if that's all I'm living for, I'm missing the point. I get to the end of the life. Moses' parents, they had, they did not have wealth. As far as we know, they didn't have any education. Their whole life they'd been slaves. All they knew was how to make bricks and make an art, weave weave papyrus, but they had faith in God And I'm telling you, they did not leave a great inheritance materialized to Moses when they went off the scene. But what they left for Moses was profound. They left faith. The greatest thing a parent can do for their child. I hope you get this thought. The greatest thing that you and I can do as a parent for our children is to have faith in God. Trust God. Now we need to take care of the material. I'm not suggesting we neglect that, but I'm saying if that's all we do, And our children do not see our faith in God, our trust in God, the peace in our heart that comes as a result of committing all to him and trusting completely in him. If they don't see that in our lives, we're missing a very, very important point in their life. I was going through, I still have boxes. My dad kept journals Uh every day he write on there uh uh pretty much what time he got up, what passage he read, things God spoke to his heart from that passage, he put on there, how much he weighed, what his blood pressure was And then at the end of the day he'd record down there uh different things he did. And um and then he would have some things he was praying for that day. I mean I have boxes and boxes uh of these journals. It's an old ledgers he would fill out. And I had one out the other day. I was just looking through it. Monday I think it was. I was just looking through it. And I noticed his prayer request on numerous days. Just about every day he'd write out a prayer request. And this was his prayer request. He said, I pray that I would have a good testimony for my children to see. Isn't that something? You know what he was saying? He said, I want my children to see my faith in God. And he had in there, I want my grandchildren. I pray that my grand I would have a good testimony of faith to my grandchildren. I tell you, I thank God for a daddy that had faith in God. I'm glad I can look back and say he had faith in God. He left me a great heritage. And so Moses' parents, we we don't know hardly anything about him. They loved their child, obviously, and they loved their God, and they trusted him. Can you imagine taking your child Putting in a little ark out in the river and then just trusting God with that thing. What faith, what faith. Um and so uh the faith, the greatest thing A parent can do for their child is have faith in God. As the parent, have faith in God. Follow Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord, say it with me, with all thine heart. And lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him. And he shall direct thy paths. Oh my, for our children to see that in us. I'm trusting God with all my heart. He's directing my paths. And that's what Moses' parents left him. Trust God and do what he says. And that's what they're doing here. Three thoughts real quick, three observations. Now keep Hebrews, because we're going to jump back there here a little bit. Come back to Exodus, though. Exodus chapter 2 again. And three things I notice in these several verses we read here. The first one is I notice the courage of their faith. Now his parents had faith. Would you agree with me? They were in difficult circumstances. Right? Are you with me? Good night. Uh there's genocide uh uh pronounced by Pharaoh. Kill all the bo um male uh babies. They're being uh they're slaves, they're being hard taskmasters And yet they trust God in the midst of all that. No hint of bitterness, no hint of anger and hatred towards anybody. It's trusting God. Trusting God And that faith that they had was courageous. Look at verse 1 and 2. There went out a man in the house of Levi, took to wife a daughter of Levi, and the woman conceived. Now, under the circumstances, that would be a scary thing. They know that if it's a boy, it's going to be killed. It's what the law says. It's Shibara's son. But notice it says, and when she saw that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. Now, again, we know virtually nothing about his parents. We know virtually nothing. But yet we see the courage of their faith His parents looked beyond their circumstances and they saw a God. A God that was more powerful than Pharaoh. A God that was greater than their circumstances, a God that was greater than their fears, and they courageously hid the child. Hid the child. They saw beyond their circumstances. They were willing to risk their lives for the child. Now notice here what it says. She saw that it was a goodly child If you remember, back in Hebrews, it says she saw that he was a proper child. Now you look that up. Some people suggest that Oh, the bi uh the baby, little baby Moses was so cute. He was just beautiful. He was goodly looking and oh she just fell in love with him. I want to say to you, this is not talking about his physical appearance. She'd have loved him even if he was ugly as a monkey. Right? Lady got in the bus with her little baby and was in the back, and there's a big fuss. And the bus driver stopped and said, What's going on? And she goes, uh this guy keeps telling me my ba uh my the my this uh uh guy keeps telling me my baby's ugly. And the bus driver said, Well here, let me hold your monkey and go straighten it out. And um It's not talking about the baby's appearance. When it uses the term goodly and it uses the term proper, it's talking at this is the idea behind it. She saw that this was a child specially designed by God. That this child had a very specific purpose, God-given purpose in life. And she saw that, that this child was specifically and specially designed by God. It was a goodly child. God had a plan for this child. God had a purpose for this child. And I want to suggest to you, every child, whether it's Moses or anyone else, is a goodly child. is designed by God for a specific purpose and a divine plan for every single life. I believe that. And so because of that, they say God has a plan for this child, God has a purpose for this child, we are willing to risk our lives. to take care of this child. What a parent. What a parent. Faith in God and courageous to raise that child and do what they can For what was best for that child. Faith understands that God's plans often go counter to the world's intentions. The world's intention was kill the baby God's plan was beyond that. In Acts 5, verse 29, the disciples were told not to preach in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter responded with this statement. He said, We ought to obey God rather than man And they were not going to obey, they were not going to obey Pharaoh's decree. They would risk their lives. Because they believed God, they trusted God. When man's laws contradict God's word, by faith we obey God. And that often requires courage. Over and over and over in the Bible, God says, fear not, be not afraid. Fear not, be not afraid. I'm telling you, we live in a world that trusting God requires courage I think we're going to see that more and more. So the courage of their faith, number two, I notice the creativity of their faith. Again, look it says, and when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein in the uh ark and laid it in the flags by the river's uh uh by the river's brink. Now uh one history book Jewish history book I was looking at They suggested that Pharaoh would send his thugs throughout the Jewish community there in Egypt every three months. And they would search the homes, they would search the houses for any male infants that had been born. He was dead set on eliminating the Jews. So every three months, according to this one historian, every three months, uh the Jew uh the uh these thugs or whatever their uh title was, they would go through all the Jewish homes, just tear them apart, looking for any babies. So apparently Three month time, if that's the case, that three month time was coming up, and she can't keep this baby hid no more Now I don't know about you. We had two boys try and hide an infant for three months. Our boys forget it They're screaming and hollering there everywhere all the time, so there's no way. So at finally, she can't hide the child anymore. What are we going to do? What are we going to do? Now who in the world would have thought of making an ark and put the baby in the river? It's like, what in the world? Where'd you come up with that? The creativity of faith. You know, when we trust God, sometimes God gives us ideas that are kind of Outside the box. You with me? Sometimes we think and do things outside the box. Not outside the book. But outside the box, something creative, something creative. Back years ago, there was a fellow in Chicago, a preacher, and he wanted to reach people. He was so burdened for reaching people. And uh he was seeing a lot of people saved. But he got burdened for the little kids in the city of Chicago that had no way to go to Sunday school, no way to hear about Jesus So he came up with a very novel, brilliant idea. Actually it has a biblical basis, but at that time nobody had thought of this. He got a bunch of horses and he got a bunch of wagons and he would send them out through that city on Sunday mornings and Sunday afternoons And he would round up kids all over the place and bring them in and teach them about Jesus. Anybody want to take a guess who that guy was? Old D. L. Moody And he would bring all those kids in, and by the thousands, and they would teach him about Jesus. Faith gets creative when it wants to Reach people for Jesus. Years ago I heard another preacher say they had a big bus ministry, and he said some of the people in the church were complaining about the buses were dripping oil on the parking lot And they were complaining about that. He says, um, wow, I wonder what D. L. Moody's uh ministry dropped on the parking lot out there I was out at Highland Park, I was uh um in in school there and in the church, and a huge bus ministry ran 42 buses every Sunday morning. 42 buses brought in 1,800 to 2400 kids every Sunday. It's crazy. And uh it was great. And um but that bus ministry started uh by a fella And uh his his name just slipped my mind. Uh I'll think of it here in a little bit. But he got a burden for bringing boys and girls to Sunday school and church And there wasn't any bus ministry back then really, maybe a couple people around. And he saw an old hearst, the funeral home, had for sale. And he says, I'll bet I could fit a bunch of kids in that thing. He bought that thing, fixed it up, put some seats in, and he'd run around old Chattanooga, pick up kids, bring them to church in a hearse. You know what? Creativity. Creativity. The creativity of their faith. Now a couple things here, real quick. I notice. First of all, she complied. In her creativity, she complied with the Egyptian law. Look at verse 22 of chapter 1. What was the law? What was the decree? The decree was Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall what? Cast into the river. What did uh um Jacobed do with Moses? He put him in the river. So technically, she was doing what Pharaoh, what the law said to do. She didn't put him out in the wilderness. She didn't put him up in a tree. She didn't put them on a cart and push them down a hill into the city. She did what the law said she put them in the river. I put this down. She found a loophole. She was exercising faith, but that faith was creative. And somehow she realized the law says put him in the river. I'll put him in the river, but I'm going to put him in a little ark in the river. Now there may be some practical ideas behind this. Of course, God is behind all of it But when she's out, when she's transporting that baby, it's now become an increased risk Right? However far they were from the river, she's got to get that three-month-old baby from there to the river Maybe she's got it in the art, maybe she's trying to keep it asleep, but would you agree with me? Three-month-old babies are unpredictable in the noises they make. He starts screaming or yelling halfway through or whatever. What are you doing with that baby? She can honestly say what I'm taking it to the river. I'm putting them in the river. Oh, okay. And so the creativity of her faith, then I put down, she crafted the ark. Now we went through what all that involved So apparently she didn't have a boat. Apparently she didn't have whatever may have worked better than a bull rush arc to put in the water. But what she did do was she used what she had to accomplish what needed to be done Maybe she didn't have a boat. Um you notice our visitors here. You notice we don't have the fanciest buildings around here. Right? I thank God for our buildings, I think. But you can go to some fancy churches. Good. I was at one couple of weeks ago. I mean, elegant, everything, elegant We might not have the fanciest buildings. We might not have elegant facilities, but I tell you what we can do. We can take what we have and use it for Jesus. And we can use every square inch of the property God has given us. We can use every square inch of the resources we have And as a church and as individuals, you may say, preacher, I don't have a Bible college education, and I don't have a lot of money to do this, and I don't have that, and I don't have a lot of talents and all that. Oh yeah, just take what you have and use it and God will use you. She didn't have a lot of stuff. I don't know what she had. She took what she had and she used it for Jesus. Remember that little boy? There's 5,000 fellows that are hungry, plus their wives and the ladies and the kids And we don't have any money to buy, we don't have enough money to buy them food. What are we going to do? There's a little boy there. He didn't have enough, uh he didn't have enough to feed everybody But he did have a couple little fishes, a little bit of bread. He says, here I've got a little lunch here you can use, and Jesus took it and used it. We might not have the biggest, the best. We might not have the most of everything or be the fanciest of this. We are down Dominican Republic, been down there many times, Brother Siddler, and um Uh one of the times I was down there several years ago, uh that he's got guys out his church starting churches all over that little nation And uh he says, I want to take you uh one day, uh uh take you to this fellow's church. He's just starting it, it's just a few months old. We went there. His church was an alley. I mean, we're right in the middle of the city And there's this little alley, probably about the width of this aisle here, maybe a little wider, not much. And every Sunday morning He goes there and he's got a little uh vehicle and he brings out chairs and he sets up chairs and their church is in the alley That's all they had. They didn't have any property, they didn't have any buildings, but there's people need to get saved. And so they had church in the alley. And church time came. That little alley was packed full People came out. There was another one. We took us to another place. Now they they didn't have the service there went there. But he showed us his church. It was a canopy. You know, like we set up for registration Bible time. They had a canopy. They set up in this little empty lot. They just set it there and they put chairs and they had church and people came out from everywhere. They didn't have the fanciest of this. Now I think we ought to do the best we can. We ought to be the best we possibly can But if we don't have everything uh that uh some people have, man, let's use what we do have. Let's use what we do have. Ed Wilt, anybody recognize that name? Our founding pastor He sh hit our church first met, and Brother Miller, Donna, and them back there they know, met down at Tom and Eddie's restaurant downtown. Anybody know where that is? Right across the bridge. That's where they met. They had church there. That was church. It wasn't a restaurant. It was a church. And it started growing. They didn't have room for Sunday school, so we got a bus, and they had Sunday school out on the bus behind the building. Remember that, Harry? I don't remember it, but I heard about it What? You can't have Sunny school in a bus. You need something fancier than that. Oh, they're using what they have I was did her Bible time rally out in Southport, Colorado. Beautiful, right up in the mountains, down south central Colorado. Right on the other side of Wolf's Creek Pass. Just beautiful. Brother Daniels was the pastor. And so I was Tina Banjo. They just had a little church about the size of our fellowship hall, maybe smaller. That thing was packed with kids. I had the teens. I said, where are the teens going to meet? He said, well, we got an old bus, and we're going to have teen class out on the bus. And it says, all right, who are my workers? He goes, I don't have any workers. You're by yourself out there. Yikes. But um it went great. We saw souls saved. My point is this. She took what she had and she used it. The creativity of faith. Alright, this is what we have. How can we use this? How can we use this for God's glory? How can we use this to advance the will of God? Number three, I put this down. She was cunning in her placement. Look here again, it says she placed, she laid it in the flags. That flag there is the same thing as bull rushes. She laid it in the flags by the river's brink. In other words, she didn't just go down to the edge of the river and say, oh, Moses, I'm praying. God bless your buddy. Push a mountain. She didn't do that. She was very strategic. She obviously did a little bit of research. She obviously paid attention and made some observations. And she puts him right on the brink of the river, just on the water, just barely off the bank. There's bull rushes growing up everywhere. And she takes that little ark and she puts it there in those bull rushes, those tall reeds, 13 to 30 foot tall, and she puts that thing right down there in those reeds. Probably she knew where Pharaoh's daughter would come down and wash herself. She knew it was going to be a place where there was not a lot of public attention. If Pharaoh's daughter is coming down to wash herself, it's a very, very private place, right? So there's not people, it's not like a it's not like a city park. It's a very private place, probably exclusive. This is Pharaoh's daughter, so there's probably some sort of security around here of sorts, I would guess. She knew what she was doing. She knew. Listen, when we have faith in God, it doesn't mean we check our brain out at the door. We think. She looks. She makes observation. And she goes down here and very strategically places I said no. Moses' ark right there, where she, no doubt, anticipated Pharaoh's daughter coming down. Now, um Maybe, maybe she had watched Pharaoh's daughter. Maybe there were rumors about Pharaoh's daughter. We don't know. Maybe she thought Pharaoh's daughter is tender-hearted. Pharaoh's daughter will probably be touched by seeing a little baby. And so she put it in a place where Pharaoh's daughter would see him, not the public. But she was confident he would see that. And so she was very cunning in her placement there. I put this down. God's plans always include man's participation God has a will for your life and my life. God has a will for our church. But he expects us to use our heads In fulfilling that will planning, think things through. Don't be reckless. Don't be foolish. Trust God. Use your head and serve Him. And use what you have. So, number one, the courage of their faith. Number two, the creativity of their faith, faith-based creativity. And I'll end with this real quick. The concern of their faith. Now notice here verse number four. And his sister, who would that be? Miriam. They say, this reading about her, she was anywhere from seven years old to maybe 13, possibly 16 years old at this point. So she's a young girl, and Miriam stood afar off to wit what would be done to him. So they anticipated something happening. The concern of her fate. That phrase she stood afar off, it means she placed herself in a position Where she could observe without being observed. She situated herself where she could see the ark She could see the approach of Pharaoh's daughter and her entourage, yet she would not be observed by them. She stood afar off. And then it says, to wit, that phrase, it means just see how things are going to play out. See what's going to happen to my little baby brother. Now here's the question. In fact, I have it written in my margin from devotions many, many years ago. Was she there? Was verse number four, she stood afar off to see what was going to happen. Was that out of anxiety or anticipation? Why was she standing there? Because she was worried about whether Moses would be okay, or was she anticipating something happening like what did? Now I could understand her being anxious. I could understand her the mother and father being very, very anxious Uh this that would be natural. Would you agree with me? You take your little take chase and put them in a lark, put them in a river, and then uh I I would be anxious, right? I'd be anxious if you did that I mean that's normal to be worried or concerned or afraid what might happen. That would be the natural response. In fact, uh, it's a very dangerous thing what she did. The Nile River is known for its crocodiles. They're deadly and apparently they love little baby boys. They've been feeding on them. They've been throwing them in there. You have crocodiles there. The ark could tip over, and the little baby could drown, wrapped up in blankets, could drown. Soldiers could come by and see that and just throw him out in the river. Someone else could come by and report. Maybe Pharaoh's daughter isn't tender-hearted. Maybe Pharaoh's daughter hates the Jews. Maybe she supports her father's. uh policy of killing all the uh the babies uh boys um and maybe she supports that there's a lot of this is very very risky And she stands afar off. So was she anxious about that? It's possible. However, what we know about Moses' family suggests to me Is that they were not anxious, they were anticipating what God was going to do. Now, come back to Hebrews, and I'm going to end with this. Come back to Hebrews. Look what it says about his parents. Hebrews 11. And look at verse 23 with me again. And notice it tells us, it gives us some insight here. It says, verse 23, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. Alright, three months is up Because they saw that he was a proper child. Look at this next statement. What does it say? And they were what? Not afraid of the king's commandment They had absolute confidence that God was going to take care of their baby. I believe That Miriam was there not out of anxiety, but out of anticipation. Anticipating that God was going to do something. Anticipating God's intervention. Over and over, the Bible tells us, watch and pray. Jesus said, if you believe what you ask. I'm telling you, we come to God and we pray, we serve the Lord, we ought to be anticipating God responding. I taught when I taught soul winning class, Pastor Matt teaches now he pro thing I don't know. But I taught in my soul winning when you go out sharing the gospel, you go out soul winning, knocking on doors You ought to anticipate somebody getting saved every time. Does somebody get saved every time? No. But I go out anticipating somebody trusting Christ every single time When I get up and preach the gospel, I try very hard. Whenever I preach the word of God, whenever. I anticipate God speaking to hearts and God doing what he says he will do. And that's what they did. They anticipated their faith in God was strong. Watch and pray. When we pray, then get up and wait on God to answer that prayer. I've had people say to me, and I pro hate to admit it, but I've probably thought this way times over the years, but you pray this prayer and then you get up and say, I don't see how in the world that could possibly happen. Right? Oh, I don't know. Yeah, I'll I guess we'll just pray. Good night. Let's pray and anticipate God. We have so many prayer promises. Powerful prayer promises Let's anticipate God. Let's pray to God. Father in heaven, I ask that we can learn from Moses and the Ark, just to have faith in you, the courage of our faith, and be creative in trying to reach people And then being confident that you will do what you said you will do, that you have a plan and a purpose, and we can trust you. I pray our community would see a church that has faith in God. I pray our children would see in us as parents and grandparents. That we're people of faith. We believe God. There's peace in our heart. There's purpose in our life because we trust God. We believe Him. We follow his instructions. So I pray you'd help us, Lord. Heads above, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I know my faith needs to be stronger? My faith needs to be more courageous, more confident. Anything like that. I just need to start trusting God. And maybe you're praying for something and you're looking for God to do something I'm saying to you, start anticipating. Just waiting on God, waiting on God. Watch and pray. Pray and believe And trust the Lord. If it's not his will, he'll adjust things, he'll change things. But we anticipate him responding to our faith. God bless you. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.