Begin reading in verse number thirteen and down through verse seventeen. Exodus chapter four, verse thirteen, it says, And he said, anybody want to guess who the he is there? Moses. Moses is responding back to God. Remember, they have this back and forth going. And so now Moses speaks up, he says, and he said, Oh my Lord. Send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. Now, I'm sure we're all aware of this, just but just make sure everybody's on Same page here. The sending is God has chosen Moses to send him down to Egypt to lead the Hebrews out of slavery, out of captivity into the promised land. So I know we're all aware of that, but I just want to clarify. Now notice how the Lord responds. Moses makes that statement, verse 13. Notice how the Lord responds. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. And he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well, and also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee. And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people, and he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth. And thou shalt be to him instead of God. This is Moses' last objection to God's commission for him to lead the children of Israel. The Hebrews are called at this point for the most part. um to lead them out of Egypt. His last objection. We're not going to get to all of it tonight. We're going to look at Moses' objection. We're not going to look at God's response till, Lord will, next Wednesday. So let's pray together. Father I ask Lord as we pick up our study here in the life of Moses and particular hit particularly his call, Lord, you give us a lot of details here about this. And I take from that there's significance and there's lessons here for us. to take uh take away from this. So I ask that your Holy Spirit, through my lips, would take these lessons and apply them to our hearts and lives, these principles that we can glean. And help us, Father, to be a little stronger in our faith that we can trust you and obey you when you call us and you instruct us to uh to different tasks that we would have faith to trust you and and agree and submit to that call. And so fill me with your spirit is always my prayer and uh speak through me, guide my thinking And help us to be a stronger church. Help us, Lord, to be an obedient church, a church of faith. Our homes would be characterized by faith and trust. And our individual lives. So please bless now as we look at this in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, there's uh Moses has five objections. God appears to him at the burning bush uh take thy shoes off thy feet, the ground at which thou standest this holy ground, all that event, and all that was setting the stage for God to give this commission to Moses Send them back down into Egypt, confront Pharaoh, demand from Pharaoh that he release the Hebrews from their slavery, their bondage. And bring them out. All that was in response to to the Hebrews' cries to God for the affliction they were having down there Of course, you remember, uh the Egyptians were just have gotten incredibly abusive and violent towards the the Hebrews. And so God heard their cry and He's going to deliver them. The five objections, just to recap. The first one he says, Moses basically says, I'm incapable. You got the wrong guy, I can't do this. I'm unable to do this Well, God reassured him that it wasn't Moses actually doing it. God would do it through Moses. God would enable him. God's going to do all this. I'm just using you to accomplish that. So that settled that objection uh to an extent. And then his next plea back in chapter three was um ignorance. So I don't know what to say, I don't know what to tell him when I get there. Who am I gonna You know, what am I going to tell them? I don't know what to say. And so he pleads ignorance. And God responds to that. He says, Well, tell them I sent them. And then his third objection was incredibility. He says, they're not going to believe me. I'm not credible. Now, whether he was referring to the back 40 years earlier, when he killed the Egyptians and the Hebrews rejected them And he had to flee for his life into the wilderness for 40 years. Maybe he's referring back to that, saying, no remember that. They're not going to believe me or or whatever his thinking was. He was his argument was They're not going to believe me. So God uh gave him signs. All right, do these signs, a snake, Rob turns a snake and all that, though and and you'll be credible. They'll listen to you His fourth objection, if you remember, the last one we looked at was, he said he was inarticulate. I can't speak good. I have a slow tongue. And uh I'm not a very good speaker, and you don't you don't you got the wrong God. God says y I sense a little bit frustration on God's part, uh if you can say that And God says, listen, I'm the creator. I made you. I made your tongue. I can give you words to say. That's the least of your worries. It's not your ability I'm looking for. It's your availability is what I'm looking for. God didn't choose him because he was a good speaker. God didn't choose him because of his great intelligence. God had a plan Now we're at his fifth objection, as I said, and this objection I uh I just defined it with one word, unwillingness. It's not ignorance anymore. It's not incapability. It's not he's not able to. It's not that they won't believe him. It's not that he can't speak good now. He says, I'm not willing to do this. I'm not willing to do this And so that's our our fifth objection. It's his final objection. There are no more after this. God's going to respond to this objection. He's going to settle it once and for all. And Moses is going to, here's a spoiler alert, Moses is going to end up doing what God's been instructing him to do through all of this. Very patiently working with him, very graciously trying to alleviate his concerns. I have two observations from this objection in God's response. The first observation I make is Moses' honesty. I get that from verse 13. And we're going to look, this is what we're going to look at tonight. And he said, Moses again, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. Now we're going to dissect that here in a bit, what he's saying. But he's being honest with God. I'm not convinced, and this is going to come out, I think. You'll see here why I'm saying this in a few moments. I'm not convinced that Moses was sincerely concerned about whether they would believe him or not Now that was a legitimate concern, but I don't think Moses was sincere in expressing that concern. I don't think he was sincere in expressing uh his inability to speak or his credibility I think he was looking for excuses. Have you ever found this? That we can always come up with an excuse No matter what the situation is, we can always come up with an excuse. And sometimes excuses, you know, on the surface can seem legitimate. And sometimes they are. If it's genuinely sincere and legitimate, then it's not an excuse, it's a reason. Moses did not have any reasons he couldn't do this. He had excuses. God eliminated the excuses, so there was no reason why he couldn't. So now He's being honest, I think. He's stating what his mindset was through the whole thing And then the second observation I make in the rest of the passage, verse 14 down through 17, then we have God's anger. And just again, another spoiler, I'm jumping ahead here a little bit, but um this is the first time we find God getting angry with Moses objecting to what he's telling him to do. You ever say to your kids, I'm not going to tell you again. Right? Clean your root. I told you 45 times, I'm not telling you again. That's basically where we're at with God now. And God gets angry. Would you agree with me? You're in a bad situation when God gets angry at you. That's not a good place to be. And that's where Moses is going to find himself. So I want to look at his honesty. This is what we want to take a look at. He says again. Verse 13, and he said, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of whom thou wilt send. I think he's taking the mask off. He's finally being straight with God where he's at, what his mindset is. This last objection is not a concern of his. If you notice, he doesn't say, well, this is the case, I'm not able, this and this. He's not giving reasons anymore, he's making a statement He's not arguing with God. He's not really objecting over a circumstance. He's making a statement. Here. And the the thing is, verse 13 is worded in such a way that we're uncertain exactly what he means by this. I think there's two ways. I did some research. I looked at it and I come to a conclusion. I looked to see what some other people that are no doubt smarter than I am, what they Understood this verse, what Moses is saying here. And it basically boils down to two ways to interpret what he's saying to God. I agree with one of the two. That was my conclusion before I looked at what anybody else had to say. But there's two ways to interpret this. The first way is and a number of great men, um F. B. Meyer, whom I tremendously admire, he suggests that this is not Moses This is Moses being reluctant but submissive. Reluctant submission is what the idea is. Now what does it mean if somebody's reluctant, what does that mean? Y'all need to talk to me now, all right? We're in the winter, it's cold. I just got back. I got in bed about 11. 30 last or 1230 last night. 1230 this morning. I am in jet lag. So I didn't have a chance to study this, so you guys need to help me. Actually I did study it. What does reluctant mean? Anyone want to tell me? What? I still don't hear you. They don't want to do it. What'd you say, Derek? Hesitant? Anyone else? If someone's reluctant to do something. Let me ask you this. Does it necessarily mean that they're unwilling? Not necessarily. But they're reluctant. I'll do it if I have to. I'll do it. If you can't, alright, alright, alright. If you can't get anybody else, I'll do it. And so that's some people take this to mean it's it's submission to God, but very reluctant. Reluctantly. I did looking up the word reluctant. Now it's not used here in Scripture, but I looked it up and it means to be, uh it doesn't mean unwilling. Uh it would involve unsure. But the point is it's not unwilling. If someone's reluctant, I'm willing to do it, but I'm not sure about it, I don't know that this is a great idea Did you ever get in trouble? Somebody suggested something, you said, I don't know about this, and you went ahead and did it, and it was a bad idea. That's kind of the idea in Moses thinking here is what they're saying It's hesitant, lack of eagerness, just wary about it. I don't know. The thought is this, okay, God. I'll go if I have to. I don't want to, but if I hadn't, if there's no other choice, if you can't get anybody else, all right, I'll do it. Sometimes I'll ask somebody to teach a class or something, or I'll ask them maybe to fill in for me when I'm speaking. It'll be, uh, you you can find someone else, right? They don't want to say, no, I'm doing no, I'm not doing that. Now some people have no problem. I'll ask, can you preach? They'll say, no. Ain't no way, ain't happening. I'm not going to name names. But I've experienced that. Then others will say, well, can you get somebody else? They're willing to, but they really don't want to. That's possibly what Moses is saying to God. It's kind of like, I was saying, how do you illustrate this? And I think you all get the idea, but it's kind of like going to the dentist. I don't know anybody. Uh I I changed dentists recently, but uh I used to go a pretty good little ways and they would always they give you like ninety-five There's a reason they give everybody 95 reminders leading up to your appointment. Anybody know does anybody else doc dentist do that? Man, I'll get emails, I get text, they'll call me up. You know why Because most people don't want to go. They're reluctant, oh I gotta go, I've got to go. I don't want to, but I've got to And uh the one place used to call me and they say, Oh, you're you're due to the dentist, we've got to fix that tooth. And I always said to them this, I always said, Oh, I can't wait. I'll be there. I can't wait We were talking about sarcasm on the trip and um they were talking about a preacher that something about being sarcastic. Somebody had the nerve to suggest I was sarcastic And uh I said, if you knew how much sarcasm I wanted to say and didn't say, you'd be proud of me. Alright, I don't want to, but I will. So that's the idea here that maybe the Moses is saying. Send, I pray thee, by the hand of whom thou wilt send. If you can't find anybody else, all right, send me, I'll go. He's not the if that's the case, he's not the only one in Scripture that submitted to God, but they did it reluctantly. In fact, it's more common than what you might think. People that God had a plan for them, had a purpose, had a had a job, so to speak, for them to do. They really didn't want to But God, they trusted God, and they did it, even though they did it reluctantly. I want to look at a few of these. If you would bear with me. Let's go, and we're going to use our Bibles a good bit in the time we have Go with me if you would to Judges chapter number six. We're going to look at a couple in the Old Testament and one in the New Testament. Judges Chapter number six. And just a couple verses, verse 14, 15, and 16. Here we have Gideon. And the Midianites are terrorizing Israel. This is years and years later after this event with Moses, hundreds some years later. And um probably several hundred years perhaps. And the Midianites are terrorizing the Israelites, and um they're intimidated, they're afraid. And God approaches Gideon. And notice how Gideon responds. Here's what I'm trying to point. If Moses is being reluctant, he's not the only one in Scripture that That had that frame of mind. Verse 14, it says, And the Lord looked upon him, Gideon, and said, Go in this thy might. And thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee. Now would you agree with me? That's similar to Moses' situation, right? He's going to use Moses to get the Israelites out of a bad situation. That's what he's going to do with Gideon. Now notice how Gideon responds. And he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? He said, How can I do this? Similar to Moses' argument, one of his objections. Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I'm the least of my father's house. He may be suggesting, Lord, I don't have any credibility. Israel's not going to follow me. Very similar to Moses' concerns. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee. Almost exactly what God told Moses. And thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. Then he says, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. And so Gideon, he isn't saying, no, I'm not going to do this, God. Find somebody else. He doesn't say that, but he is reluctant, right? Did everybody pick that up? Man, God, I don't know about this. I'm nobody. I can't do this. I'm not able to do this. And God goes through, and we know most of us know the story there. God does uh numerous things to get Gideon in a position where he's willing. But the key is this Gideon is willing, even though he's reluctant Question, did God use him? Oh yeah, miraculously. This is what I want us to take away. We're going to look at a few others. I'm going to repeat this over and over. The willingness Part is what enables God to use us, not the ability part. And we've been emphasizing that all through here. Even though he's reluctant, even though it's not, he's not sold in his mind That he's the guy and that he's going to be able to do this. God is competent. And when God's confident, then we can be confident. And so he is willing. I put it this way, he's not unwilling, he's just uncertain whether he can do it or not. And God says to him, listen, you're not the one doing it. I'm the one doing it. Just trust me. Go with me, if you would, to Esther. Just a few books here after 12 Chronicles. Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther. Right before Job. If you hit Job, you went too far. Look at chapter 4. Now we know the story of Esther. Naaman, wicked Naaman's gonna kill all the Jews. He convinced the king. Mordecai says uh tells Esther, listen, you need to do something. You're the queen. You need to get in there. Notice in verse 4, verse number 10. And Esther spake unto Hatak and gave him commandment to Mordecai. Now Mordecai had sent up, listen, they're going to kill all the Jews. You need to step up, you need to say something. Now notice how she responds. And gave him commandment unto Mordecai. And all the king's servants and all the people of the king's providence do know. Now this is Esther responding to Mordecai's call for her to help. Speak to the king. All the king's servants and all the people of the king's providence do know that whosoever, whether man or woman Shall come unto the king into the inner court who is not called. There is one law of his to put him to death. Except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden scepter that he may live. But I have not been called to come into the king these thirty days. So what she's saying, she's saying, listen, Mordecai, uh the king has set up a law that if you try to come into his presence uninvited, Without that scepter being extended off with your head. You're dead. You don't want anybody coming in Unless he invites them, unless they're bidden to. So she writes back and says, Man, I I haven't been in there 30 days. He hasn't invited me. I show up. He's going to kill me. Would you agree? Reluctant And who blames her? Mordecai says, they told that and they told to Mordecai Esther's words. And Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, think not with thyself that thou shalt escape the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed Who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? He basically says, Esther, listen, if you don't, you're going to die anyway. If you go in uninvited and he doesn't extend the scepter, you're dead. If you don't, you're dead. Maybe God puts you there for this time, for this purpose. Maybe you're there for a reason. Notice how she responds. Then Esther bade them return to Mordecai this answer. Go, gather all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me. Neither eat nor drink three days, night or day, I also and my maidens will pass likewise, so will I go unto the king. Which is not according to the law. Do you notice rez rez um uh reluctance And if I perish, I perish. So here's the thing: with Esther, she is reluctant, but she is what? Willing. And if if it means I die, it means I die. And we know how it plays out. He did extend the acceptor. She interce intervenes, and the Jews are spared. I got two more, real quick. I want to show you. I found this fascinating. Jeremiah. If you would turn with me to Jeremiah. Jeremiah has a little bit similarity to Moses. Chapter 1, Jeremiah chapter 1. This is his call to be a prophet. And Jeremiah, uh, it was a very difficult circumstance. He he's never going to get married. Nobody's gonna listen to him. They're all gonna hate him, they're gonna throw him in prison repeatedly, nearly kill him. God calls them. And notice what he says in verse number four. Then the word of the Lord came unto me, mo Jeremiah's testifying here, so to speak. Saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Then said I, Ah Lord God, behold, look what he says, I cannot, what? We heard that before. Moses said almost the same thing. I cannot speak. I'm a child. I'm ignorant. I don't know what to say. I'm not able to. I'm immature in so many ways. But the Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces. Look at this For I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Very similar to Moses. So Jeremiah, do you see the reluctance there? But he's willing. God, I know you can't do this, I don't do it, but okay. And God views him. He is one of tremendous prophets, one of the most respected prophets in Scripture. But he started out very reluctantly. I got one more I want to show you. If you would, go to Acts. New Testament Acts Now I hope we can I hope the Holy Spirit will help us, that this will help us when God we come across something God instructs us to do or God leads us to do something. And our initial reaction is, I don't know. But if we remained willing Even when we we even though we cannot lean on their own understanding, says, I don't know that this is a good idea. To don't lean on our own understanding, we trust the Lord with all our heart, and then God uses us. I've got one more, Ananias. Chapter 9. Acts chapter 9. Look at verse 10. That's Paul just got saved. What do we know about Paul? He's wreaking havoc in the church. He's having believers killed for no other reason than they're a believer in Jesus Christ. He's throwing them in prison, women and children along the whole Shabang. Coming into the church, hauling them off He gets saved. Everybody knew about Paul. Everybody knew his, he was, he was, uh, uh, he was feared. By the church. Now look, and God, Paul gets saved, and now God tells Ananias to do something. Look at verse 10. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Behold, I'm here, Lord. A little hint of willingness. And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go to the street which is called straight And inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus. Right there, I can see Ananias' eyes get real big. Huh? For behold, he prayeth, and hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias. That's you, Ananias. Coming in and putting his hand on him that he might receive his sight. Now notice Ananias is reluctant. And Anaias answered, Lord, I've heard by many of this man how much evil he hath done to thy saints in Jerusalem. And here he's come to Damascus. He has authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. All right, there's the reluctance. Lord, I don't know about this. His own understanding, his own reasoning said, I don't know that this is a good idea, God. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way. For he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings for the children of Israel, for I will show him how great things He must suffer for my name's sake. So God explains a little bit what the s situation is, and so Ananias understands And notice how Ananias responds. Verse 17, the first three words. And Ananias what? He went, Lord, I don't know about this. Pause, come on. God explains a little bit, and then I says, all right, I'll go. So reluctant but willing. Ananias was not unwilling, he was just afraid. But he went anyway and trusted God. How many times have I seen that, and even in my own life, different points? Um, you know, Lord O Lord O Leed, I was telling them down there, is that it was nice thing about preaching there, I can use all my old illustrations. I haven't heard them 95 times I was telling about when Jim McRoby got saved and Ina asked me to go visit him and she said uh she goes, Oh she said, Will you go visit Jim? I said, Sure. I never met in my life. I was a new pastor and she goes, Oh I said, sure, I'd be glad to. I was all excited, I'll lead him to the Lord. She goes, oh, by the way, he hates preachers. He's going to cuss you out and throw you out. I said, Oh, great. Praise the Lord. And so my thinking was, really? But I went. Alright, Doris. Alright, I told her I would. So reluctantly I went and talked to him. Well make you know the story, long story short, he ended up getting saved, gloriously saved, and became a great blessing to me, a blessing to our church, bought a new sound system for us and so So maybe Paul or maybe Moses, when he says, send by him whom thou wilt send, maybe it's possible. There's one way to interpret that. He's saying All right, if you can't find anybody else, I really don't want to, I don't think I can, but if you can't find anybody else, I'll do it. It's possible he's saying that I'll go. If that's what he's saying, I do know this. It's very, very different than Isaiah's response, and we won't turn there. Because I'm running out of time. But Isaiah's response in Isaiah six, chapter six, verse eight, God said, Whom shall I send? And what was Isaiah's response? We sing at every missions conference. Here am I, Lord. Send me. No reluctance, no hesitancy Well a little bit earlier he says, I'm a man of unclean lips, but that had nothing to do with him willing to do what God wanted to do. He just was under conviction. In the presence of the holiness of God, he realized what a sinner he was. So there was no resistance to God's will. In fact, it sounds to me like he's eager. Lord, I'll do it. I'll do it. Here am I, here, Lord. You ever see the little kid in school? Ooh, ooh, ooh. That's Isaiah. So, back to Exodus chapter 4. Is that what Moses is doing? Maybe. Possibly. I wouldn't argue with anybody whether it was or not. But there's another way of looking at this. And maybe There's a different take on this. Again, it's worded in such a way here that it's not real clear what he's saying. So we look at the context, like any other time you study scripture, you Look at the context. Look how other portions of Scripture see how it plays out. It wouldn't be unusual if he's just being reluctantly willing. The other option is rebellious refusal. Rebellion. Saying, no, I'm not doing this. Find somebody else. What is rebellion? Anybody want to take a shot at that? What does it mean if somebody is rebellious? They're going the opposite way. They are they choose not to do what they know they should do. You guys were more de more involved on reluctant than you are rebellion. You guys are rebelling. Doing whatever they want to do. I put it this way: a deliberate refusal to submit to legitimate authority. Deliberate It's not misunderstanding what I'm being instructed. It is refusing to do what I clearly understand I am instructed to do by a legitimate authority. Of refusal to comply with clear, understandable instructions. Would you agree with me? Rebellion is a very serious issue. Very serious issue. We got a little bit of time. If you guys will bear with me, I've been going a while. Let's go real quickly. Keep your place here. I want to go to one other passage, then come back, and then we'll quit 1 Samuel chapter 15. How many people knew I was going to go to 1 Samuel 15 when I said rebellion? It's the classic passage. On rebellion. 1 Samuel 15, Saul, King Saul, has been instructed to kill Agag the king and all that. He doesn't do it. He rebels, he deliberately, knowingly rebelled against what God told him to do. And notice what Samuel the prophet says to him. This is classic. This ought to be underscored in our Bibles. Verse 22, 1 Samuel 15, verse 22. And Samuel said to Saul, King Saul, when he rebelled, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Now look at verse 23. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. Every one of us here would be appalled at the idea of getting involved in witchcraft. Am I right or wrong? Absolutely. We want nothing to do with it. I was walking through the airport in San Francisco yesterday, or whatever day, I don't know what it was different days. I was walking through, I think it was yesterday, and there's this gal standing right in the middle of the concourse there and uh I mean just black, long black dress, long black hair, just creepy, and just standing there staring straight ahead. I don't know what it was, but it I'm guessing it's some sort of witchcraft. She was just staring at everybody for a long time. I went way over here, way around her. Say, did you give her a track? I didn't Rebellion is a sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness. Don't raise your hand. I wonder if any of us have been accused of being stubborn. Stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. We would be appalled at the thought of bowing down to an idol. But notice how serious God takes rebellion and stubbornness. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. So rebellion Is very serious. Reluctancy with willingness, God can still use it if we'll just trust Him. But rebellion, that's another story. That's another level. The thought is this. Moses is saying, no. When he comes back to Exodus, he says, um, now therefore. He says verse 13, and he said, O my Lord, send I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. The thinking is this, he's saying, No, I'm not doing this. You've got to get somebody else I'm not going to do this. Send by the hand of someone else. I looked, I like to look and see what other fellows said and There's one fellow that's kind of a scholar on languages. He suggests that the original wording that this comes from It's very short, a very harsh response back to God. In fact, he used the word disrespectful. That this response to God was, no. I'm not doing it. Say, alright, which of those two is right? Was he just being, Lord, uh all right, if you can't find anybody else, I'll do it. Or was it No, you find somebody else. Find somebody else's hand do all this. I am not doing this. I think, this is my humble opinion, I think Moses ran out of excuses. God answered every one. And now he states what his attitude was all along. No. My opinion, I might get to heaven and find out I'm wrong. I thought I was wrong one other time, but I was mistaken Um but I I may I may be wrong, but I think right when God first told him what to do, I think he made up his mind, I'm not doing this. And then every one of these objections, although they were Some of them had some legitimacy to them. They were simply excuses to try and get out of something he already decided he wasn't going to do. I tell you, that's a bad place to be To decide ahead of time before God even tells me what to do. Or when God tells me to do, say no. Say no to God. We need to be careful about that. This is the reason I think that. Now I think I have a bate biblical basis for coming to that conclusion. And maybe I'm being overly harsh on Moses. I don't think so. Look with me. If you're there in Exodus, look at the first part of verse 14. And this is why I say this. Everybody with me still? And he says, and the what? Anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. He didn't get angry of any of his objections. But when he says this, when he makes, when Moses makes this statement in verse 13, the very next record we have is God's angry. He didn't get angry when he said I'm not capable. He didn't get angry, he said nobody's going to believe me. He didn't angry, he said, I don't know what to say. But when he said no, God got angry. I looked at all these other people, and there's a reason we went to look at these other folks that were reluctant. Gideon, Esther. He said, no, and there's scores others in scripture. I just pulled a few out. Not one time did God get angry at somebody for being reluctant. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where somebody said, Ah, I don't know God, alright. I never I I can't find anywhere where God got angry about that. But here, when Moses made this statement, it It triggered God's anger. I think it's because there was rebellion. I think Moses had turned to rebellion. And we t we saw that in Samuel that rebellion in God's eyes is as the sin of witchcraft. God takes it very, very seriously. I do have one more verse. I promise this is the last one. Galatians 5. Here's my statement I want to end with, and this intrigues me. I've enjoyed this study on Moses and God going bantering back and forth here, and it ends with this. But in Galatians chapter 5. And verse seventeen, I want us I want us to notice something. Here's what I want to end with. All of us are in rebellion against something. Right now, every single one of us are in rebellion against something or someone. Look at verse 17, Galatians 5. For the flesh, question, flesh good or bad? Bad In me and my flesh there dwelleth no good things. Look at verse 19 through 20, 21. The works of the flesh are awful and terrible. For the flesh, which we all have, that sinful nature, lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are, what's the next word? Contrary one to another. The word contrary means enemies in opposition to polar opposites. Contrary one to the other, so that you cannot do the things you would. And that's referencing Romans 7. He says, What I want to do, I end up not doing. What I don't want to do, I end up doing So there's this, there's these two forces, there's these two influences in my life And I'm either submissive to one and rebellious against the other, or I'm submissive to the other and rebellious against the other. Either I'm submitting to the flesh, and in doing, I'm resisting the Spirit, I'm rebelling against the Holy Spirit's leadership in my life, or I'm crucifying the flesh, rebelling against the flesh, and submitting to the Holy Spirit. So every one of us right now throughout our lives I'm either in rebellion against the sinful nature that's still in me, or I'm in rebellion against the Spirit of God that's in me, trying to lead me to do right. One of those air. Does anybody understand what I'm saying? We're there. And who we yield ourselves to, that's who we're going to be servant to. Who we rebel against. That's who we're going to be in opposition to. I'm either in rebellion against God. And submissive to the devil and the flesh, or I'm in rebellion against Satan and the flesh, and then submissive to God. It's one or the other, one or the other. And so I think, whatever my thoughts are, whatever work value they are, I think Moses Is submitting to the flesh here and rebelling against God, saying no. And God responds in anger. Now we know how it plays out. I wish we didn't, because it would add more suspense to this If we didn't know how it played out, we would think God squishes him and goes finds, gets his brother. We all know God doesn't squish him. God gets angry at him. But God's anger is part of the development of Moses' maturity and getting him to a point where he finally Submits to God. But I think at this point he's in rebellion. Let me let me end with this. Where are we at? Am I rebelling against my sinful nature, against the world? Against the devil, am I fighting him, resisting him, saying no? James says, resist the devil, he'll flee from you. Rebel against him Or am I submitting myself to God, presenting my body a living sacrifice, holy, submitting to God, or am I Submitting to my flesh and letting the flesh have its way and saying no to God, rebelling against God. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take this one statement from Moses and help us learn from it To be submissive. And Lord, I know sometimes you call us to do stuff that we have a we don't understand and we don't see how in the world we're capable of doing it. Lord, I know you wouldn't call us if it wasn't possible. And so help us to, even if we're reluctant, be willing. And Lord, if we're rebellion, let's repent and submit. The heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I know there's some things God wants me to do, and I'm willing, but man, it's hard. And man, I just find myself being so reluctant, but I'm willing to do it, and I need God to help me. Is there anything like that? I'm like that a lot And we can grow. Grow out of that and get like Isaiah. Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this. This is between you and God, but I wonder if the Spirit of God didn't speak to some hearts Say, you know, this is rebellion against the will of God. This is rebellion against the plan of God. You need to submit to this. Resist the devil, crucify the flesh, the works of the flesh, and submit to God. And if that's the case, I urge you, submit to God. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation now. In Jesus' name, I pray. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, just a