Hid three months of his parents because they saw that he was a proper child and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Now that's a New Testament passage on what takes place in Exodus chapter 2. So if you would come back there. Second book of the Bible. And chapter number two, I'm going to begin reading in verse one. And there went a man of the house of Levi and took to wife a daughter of Levi, and the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. Did you notice in Hebrews it said his parents? Hid him. Where here in Exodus we're told it was actually his mother that made that decision. And when she could not long when she could no longer when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink, and her sister stood afar off to wit what would be done to him So here you have Moses' mother, Jacobed. They're in Egypt, and all the circumstances we'll look at here in a moment. And she makes a decision. To act in faith and to hide her child so that the Egyptians wouldn't take her and kill, take the son and kill him. So it says she made a little arc, it's a little boat, little um a little basket that floats basically, and she put it out in the in the bushes there by the Nile River and pushed it out to see what would happen. I thought of this. Motherhood, and I entitled the message this, and I want to change a little bit. I entitled the message Motherhood in the Last Days. I've been thinking more and more, and I've heard more and more people in the last four or five months comment to me that they believe that we must be in the last days. The days just before Jesus Christ comes back. I've been thinking about that a lot. The days before Jesus Christ comes back, the Bible's very clear, are going to be very difficult days. They're going to be very dangerous days. They're going to be hard days, particularly for God's people. I looked at Moses' mother. And I noticed that some of the characteristics that she faced, that God's people were facing in Egypt, are very, very similar in some ways to what God's people will face. in the days before Jesus Christ comes back. And so my message is this motherhood in the last days, or I tweaked it a little, motherhood in difficult days. Let's pray and look at God's Word. Father, I ask that you would bless our study of your word now this morning. I ask that you would speak to our hearts, challenge us. We are so grateful for mothers And Lord, I just can't help but believe that in the day and age we live, motherhood is more important now. It's always been important. But Lord, I just so desperately need mothers. Godly mothers of great faith. And I pray you'd help all of us to trust you and look to you and let you lead us and direct us in life. That your will can be done and that we can be people that are pleasing to you. Fill me with your spirit, I plead, Lord, with all my heart. And speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Moses is without a doubt a major character all through Scripture. I personally believe that Moses was perhaps the greatest leader, humanly speaking, the greatest leader of all of history. And how God used him an amazing way to lead millions of Jews out of Egypt through the wilderness and right up to the gates of the promised land. But my focus this morning is not on Moses. This morning we could spend years studying the life of Moses. This morning, I want to look at Moses' mother, Jacobed. We're told very little about his mother in Scripture. We have a few passages that I read here that reference her and give us a little bit about her. And the little bit we're told about Moses' mother. This thing stands out in my mind That Jacobed was a woman of great faith in God. She believed that God could and would do what he had promised he could and would do. She had great faith in God. Having faith in God is the greatest virtue a person can have. I would like uh it's a great thing to have said about someone that person has great faith in God What a compliment that is. What a great virtue. I believe having faith in God is pleasing to God, whether it's a mother, a father, a young person. To trust and obey God, to have faith in God. The Bible tells us without faith, it is impossible to please God So having faith in God is a great virtue. Having faith in God is very pleasing to God. Having faith in God is the foundation of our spiritual growth. I cannot grow as a Christian. I cannot develop my walk with God if I do not learn to have faith in God and trust Him and let Him lead us. It's a great blessing to have parents or parents who have genuine faith in God. And let me say this to our young people. Young people, if you're mom and dad, if you're parents, you have a parent that loves God And uh wants to do right, believes the Bible, is trying to live by the Word of God, encourages you and urges you to be in the house of God and to trust God and pray. You ought to thank God every day for a mom or a daddy that has faith in God That is a great blessing. I like what Abraham Lincoln said. He said, No man is a poor man who has a mother, a godly mother of great faith. That's a great statement. And so Moses had a mother who had faith in God. He was blessed with parents. That believed God and trusted him and obeyed him. As I said initially, Jacobed gave birth to Moses in difficult days for God's people. They had been in Egypt. The Jews had been in Egypt for 400 years. I think most of us know the story behind this Uh that Joseph had been sold of his brothers through jealousy, and he ended up down there with Potiphar's wife and the accusations. He ended up in jail for several years in the Egyptian jail, just a poor, unknown young Jewish boy falsely accused, forgotten away in the jay in the prison system of Egypt of that day And lo and behold, he interprets a dream. God gives him the ability to interpret a dream for some fellows, and that comes before Pharaoh. Next thing you know, Joseph is at the right hand of Pharaoh, and God uses Joseph to save Egypt from a terrible seven-year famine. Well the years go by. Joseph's family comes down, moves down there, Jacob and his brothers, and uh the years go by and they forget about Joseph. And God's people begin to multiply down there in Egypt. And um and uh and uh the Egyptians become threatened by the Jewish population there in their country And they begin a process, a very systematic process, of intimidating and persecuting and restricting the freedom of the Jews. I put down three things that were characteristic of the of the Jews in Egypt when Jacobed gave birth to Moses. First of all, there was intense persecution. If you're here in Exodus with me, if you would, come over to chapter 1. Let me just give you a little illustration of what they were facing. In Exodus chapter 1 and verse number 8. Notice it says, Now there rose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, verse 9 of Exodus chapter 1, he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass that, when there falleth out any war, they join unto our enemies. And fight against us, so get them out of the land. Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities from uh Pithon and Ramses. And so they begin this intense persecution. We can read on down here in uh verse number twelve. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor. And they made their lives bitter, with hard bondage, in mortar and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field, and all their service wherein they made them serve was with rigor And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one was Shphra, and the name of the other Pu'ah And he said, When ye do the office of midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the stools, if it be a son, then ye shall kill him, but if it be a daughter, ye shall uh then shall uh she shall live. Do you see what the Egyptians are doing to the Jews? There's an intense persecution. They're restricting their freedoms. They cannot come and go as they want. Can I put can I suggest this? They cannot assemble together freely as they want. They are very restricted in their movements. They're very restricted in their ability to uh uh get together and fellowship and worship as they want. They're required to serve with rigor. They are for their mandated abortions. And it came to the point in Egypt where it was declared, if a if a woman, Jewish woman gives birth to a boy, that boy is to be killed. Mandated abortions. Listen, if you follow the news at all, you know that in our our world it is uh there are countries where abortions are mandated. China, I believe North Korea has some things in place where abortion is mandated. And this was the situation that the Jews faced. Very hard days when Moses was born. Very hard days for Jacobed. to give child, uh to give birth to a child and raise that child up in intense persecution like that. Not only was there intense persecution, I put this down, there was severe opposition against the Jews As you study through the book of Exodus and the experiences that Moses had with Pharaoh and with the people of Egypt, you find that they despise the Jewish faith. The Egyptians hated the Jewish lifestyle that God had given them. They hated their convictions. Pharaoh openly mocked Their God. He said, Who is God that I should fear him? He openly mocked their form of worship, and the Egyptians set out to destroy the Jewish faith. That is the world that Moses was born into. That is the world that Jacobed was to be a mother and raise up a child in an atmosphere of intense persecution. an atmosphere of severe opposition to her faith in God and their lifestyle as it was pleasing to the Lord. But there was also another aspect of Jacobed raising up her child, not just the persecution and opposition, but there was an overwhelming seduction by Egypt to the Jewish, particularly young people. Israel was in Egypt. They could not control that. God had a plan, and they were in Egypt. But here's where the problem came: Egypt got into Israel And by that I mean this. The lifestyle, the philosophies, the priorities, the values of the Egyptians began to seduce the Jewish young people. They began to draw them, and the Jews began over a period of time began to adopt and embrace Egypt's culture. They began to adopt and embrace Egypt's godless values. The Jews had been given very clearly on uh uh uh what God's will was for them and God's directions for them, passed down from their forefathers. And the Egyptian culture began to seduce the Jews away from their faith in God. They began to adopt the Jewish, the Egyptian priorities. They began to adopt the Egyptian principles. And it got to the point that when finally Pharaoh let God's people go, and Moses led the uh the Jews out of Egypt, You could barely make distinction between who the Jews were and who the Egyptians were. The Bible says a mixed multitude. came up out of Egypt. That means there was uh there was Egyptians, worldlings, Egyptians, that were acting just like the Jews, and there was Jews who were acting just like the Egyptians You could barely make a distinction between their lifestyle. I believe it's a day very similar to the day in which you and I live. A day when God's people have been so seduced by our world That you can barely tell the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian. You can barely tell the difference between an unsaved person and a saved person. You can barely tell the difference Between a child of God and a person of the world. We have been so seduced by our world. We've adopted this world's pleasures We've embraced this world's values. We've abandoned God's priorities. And there's little distinction between the people of God and the people of the world. It's very much the way it was in in in Moses' day, when when Jacob gives birth to a little child, and the Jews were losing their faith and they were in such intense persecution The Bible says in the days preceding the coming of the Lord, it's going to be very difficult days. It's going to be days when Christianity will be characterized by lukewarmness. It's going to be days when the when uh people, God's people love the world, uh when God's people adopt the world's pre pleasures and the world's values. And there's very little difference between the two. I have an overwhelming sense. This is me personally I have an overwhelming sense that there is a very real possibility that within my lifetime Jesus Christ may come back, the rapture take place. I believe that is a very real possibility. I believe it is a very even stronger possibility that if not in my lifetime In the lifetime of my two sons, very real possibility, very strong possibility that my boys may see with their eyes, experience, the rapture of the church and the return of Jesus Christ If it's not my sons, then perhaps my grandchildren. Now I want to be quick to add, I do not know when Jesus is coming back again. No man knows the day nor the hour. It could be within the next seven days, or it could be within the next seven hundred years. We do not know the time. But I do know this: that we are living in the last days. And the Bible is very clear that in the last days as we approach the coming of the Lord, evil men and seducers are going to wax worse and worse The church is going to get colder and colder in its love for the Lord. God's people are going to get more and more worldly in how we live our lives. There will be less and less distinction Between the people of God and the people of the world. And it is going to be difficult days to raise a child up for God. Jacobed had a challenge. God gave her a little son. God had great plans for that little boy. And she was to give birth and raise him up in very difficult, difficult days. I believe Jochabed is a good example, not just for mothers, but for all of us in living for God in what I believe could very well be the last days before Jesus Christ is coming back. I believe she's an example for us. in raising a child in difficult days. Let me give you three thoughts real quickly about Jacobed and her faith in God and how it displayed itself. I put this down. Number one, her faith had convictions. Her faith had conviction. Look at Exodus chapter 2 again with me and verse number 1. Let me get back here. Exodus 2. And uh verse number one Let me get here. Bear with me. Alright. And there went out a man of the house of Levi and took to wife a daughter of Levi. I see here that Jacobed had her faith had conviction. Now let me say this: every Christian should have strong Bible convictions. Every Christian, whether you've been saved for forty years or you've been saved for four days, every Christian ought to establish Good, strong Bible convictions for their life. Now, what do we mean by Bible convictions? What are we talking about? A person having convictions. Conviction is simply this: the unshakable belief That what God says is right is right. And the unshakable belief that what God says is wrong is wrong. And Jacobed had conviction. When God said that something was not to be, then she believed it ought not to be. And when God said something ought to be so, she believed very strongly that it ought to be so. She was a woman of conviction. You say, where do you get that out of that verse you just read? Well I noticed that she married within the people of God. I believe Jacobet had a conviction that a saved woman should only marry a saved man. Come on, help me out now here. I'm getting it's a little lonely up here this morning. A saved woman ought to only marry a saved man. She was within the people of God. In fact, the New Testament tells us very clearly that godly Christians should only marry godly Christians. uh in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 4 tells us that uh that uh sh that we ought to marry within the family of God. So I want to challenge our young people If you want to grow up and be a young be a person that lives for God and has a family that's pleasing to God, have a family that brings glory to the Lord and be able to raise up children in the faith, you ought to be very, very careful who you marry Come on now. You ought to marry a good uh young lady or to uh marry and I I suggest you ought to only date a good, strong, godly young man. Loves God, lives by the Word of God, knows the Lord as Savior, is dedicated to Lord Jesus Christ. And a young man ought to only date, ought to never even consider marriage A woman that is not saved, uh has great faith in God, uh dedicated to the Lord, believes the Bible, lives by the Word of God. That's God's plan And so Jacobed had some convictions about herself. She says, I'm not going to marry an Egyptian. I'm not going to marry somebody outside my faith, outside the people of God. And so she married uh a Levite there within the family. So she married, right? And I put this down, she had a conviction she respected life. Look at verse number two. And a woman conceived and bare a son. Alright, what was the law? If it's a son, it's to be killed And when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. She goes, I'm not going to abort my child. Come on now. I'm not going to abort my child. I respect life. I respect the fact that a little child conceived in the womb of a mother is a living person. I'm not going to let that child be killed. I will go to my grave before I let this world take my child from my womb. Would to God we had people in the United States of America had a little more conviction about the respect and a little more respect for life The sanctity of life. God have mercy on the United States of America killing hundreds of thousands of babies a day and a week and their most defenseless state in the womb of the mother God give us some convictions. And God have mercy on the churches that don't stand up and cry out against that ungodly sin. She had some conviction. I'm going to marry right. I'm going to make sure my home is the kind of home that is pleasing to God. I'm going to respect life. God has given me a child. I'm going to accept my responsibility to raise that child up, to fear God, to meet that child's need, and do what I believe God would instruct is the best thing for that child. And so, I thank God for Jacobed. She had great strong faith in God, and that faith had conviction. As I said, every Christian should have strong Bible convictions. We ought to go to the Word of God, and we ought to determine what God says is right and what God says is wrong, and if God says it's right, then I'm going to do it. And if God says it's wrong, I'm not going to do it. Can I get an amen? Convictions. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell students down at Tennessee Temple. He used to say, Young people get you some Bible convictions. And he says, if you can't get your own Bible convictions, you borrow mine till you get some of your own. As good advice. Number one, her faith had conviction. Number two, her faith was very confident Now, you have to come back to Hebrews on this. Now keep your place in Exodus. We're going to end up there. But come back to Hebrews chapter 11. And it kind of references this here in Exodus also, but I like the way it's worded in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse number 23. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. Alright, they exercised faith in God. We're not going to let Pharaoh kill our child. And uh so they hid him as long as they can. Now look at the reason they hid their child. Because they saw he was a proper child. Because he was a proper child. I thought, well, that's an interesting way. What does he mean he's a proper child? I believe this is what they're saying. They saw that their child had great potential. Here is a little human being just come into the world. And Jacobed, and we notice it was Jacobed back in Exodus that prompted all this. Jacobed believed that God had a plan for that little baby. She could not possibly conceive what that plan was. But she believed that God had a plan for her child. She believed that her child had potential. She believed, I like this. She believed, she was absolutely convinced that that little baby had something to offer this world. And boy, did it ever God had a great plan for that baby. Now, there was plenty of children born in that day. And there was plenty of mothers hiding their children, doing everything they can to keep the Egyptians from killing them. And only Moses was chosen of God to be that great, great leader. But I want to suggest this to you. Every child born into the world, God has a plan for that child's life. Every child born into the world, regardless of what the circumstances may or may not be, that child has a purpose and is not an accident and has great potential in the plan of God. And we've got to believe that. Jacobed was convinced. She had no idea how it would all play out, but this child's a proper child. Exodus says it's a goodly child There's something this little baby, God has a plan for its life. This is the most valuable thing in my possession, this little child. I've got to care for this child. I've got to take care of it God may use him in a great way someday. God may use him in ways nobody else sees it, but God has a plan. I came across this years ago. I thought it very convict. If children live with criticism, they learn to condemn. If children live with hostility, they learn to be violent If children live with fear, they learn to be fearful. If children live with pity, they learn to be victims. If children live with ridicule, they learn to feel worthless. If a child lives with jealousy, they learn to be envious. If children live with shame, they learn to continually feel guilty. If children live with encouragement, they learn great confidence If children live with patience, they learn to be patient. If children live with praise, they learn the value of appreciation. If children live with acceptance, They learn to love. If children live with approval, they learn confidence. If children live with recognition, they learn to develop goals. If children live with sharing, they learn to be generous. If children live with honesty, they learn to be truthful. If children live with fairness, they learn justice. If children live with respect, They learn to be respectful. If children live with security, they learn to be secure. If children live with friendliness, they work learn that the world can be a nice place to live in. What I'm saying is this. Jacobed believed in her child, that there was potential there, that that child had something to offer. I tell you, it breaks my heart, and I get out and visit And you hear parents screaming at their children, You little, you little, you're no good. You're always like that. You're terrible. And they run their children down and they treat them worse than they treat the dog. God have mercy. I've always believed that if a young person is convinced that the parents believe in them, they can be something for God. And so Jacobed was very confident. She believed in the potential of her child. Our children need to know that we believe in them. Our children need to know that they can be great Christians. You say, you don't live with my kid, he's a mess. No, but God can do a great thing in his or her life. We've got to believe that She was a mother of strong, godly faith. And that faith had conviction. That faith was very confident. And last of all, her faith was courageous. Her faith was courageous. She understood that she could trust God. Come back to Exodus one more time with me. Exodus chapter 2. And look with me if you would. At the last part of verse 2. Exodus chapter 2, in the last part of verse 2. Says the woman conceived bear son, and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. And when she could not could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's bank, and his sister stood afar off to wit what would be done to him. Can you imagine? Put yourself in Jacobed's shoes Taking your little child, just a few months old, getting a little boat, a little ark as it's called there, and pitching it around so it's waterproof, putting blankets in there, putting your baby in, and going down to a river. And pushing that child out and say, God, I'm putting my child in your hands. If I keep it in the home, he'll be killed for sure. The Egyptians will hear it. He has no chance in my home God, I'm just going to trust you, I'm going to put my child in your hands. I tell you what, that would take some courage The Bible doesn't tell us this, but I can't help but believe as she pushed that child out and walked away, there had to be tears streaming down Jacobed's face. There had to be a knot in her stomach. But she was courageous. She says, I'm going to trust God. Motherhood sometimes takes a lot of courage Motherhood sometimes requires hard decisions. And there's no doubt in my mind this was the toughest decision Jacobed ever made To push that little baby out and say, I'm going to trust you, God, and trust you completely. Thank God for courageous mothers. That are willing to trust God and say, I'm going to go against this world's values. I'm going to stand against this world's ungodliness and the sin and wickedness of this world. And I'm going to make hard decisions. And I'm going to raise my child up to fear God and do what is right. And I'm just going to trust God that He will deal with my child, that He will lead in my child's life, that He will direct and use my child. I'm going to trust Him. If only I'll if uh God will take care of them. Faith in God is a positive thing I think when, as I said, when Jacobed pushed that little boat out and um walked away, no doubt there was heaviness in her heart, no doubt there was tears in her eyes. But I also can't help but believe she believed that God would take care of that baby. I put this down, faith in God is positive. It believes that God can enable us to do what we ought to do. Faith in God believes that God can enable us to do right. That God can see us through the darkest hours. Of course, we know the story. God honored Jacobed's faith. She puts that baby out, his sister there watching, see what would happen. Pharaoh's daughter comes down just by quote-unquote coincidence Sees that baby there, hears it crying, takes it under wing, says, this is one of the little Jewish babies. They're trying to protect their child from my father, Pharaoh's daughter says. She goes, go find a Jewish woman to nurse this baby. The sister steps up and says, I know a lady will nurse it. And how about this ladies? Jacobed got paid to raise her own kid. Isn't that something? And God had a great great plan. I just am with this. Mothers are important Mothers are important. Mothers that are here this morning, you have small children in the home. Don't ever take that responsibility lightly. God has given you an awesome, overwhelming responsibility. To raise up a little child. If you've got a godly husband, a godly man there beside you, thank God for that I know in our day and age there's many single mothers trying to raise their children to love God and do right and be what God intends. God bless you. Mothers are important. Mothers have profound impacts on their children's lives. I quoted earlier, Abraham Lincoln said, No man is poor that has a godly mother. Friday night I sat in the back of the mother-daughter banquet out at the community center. We kind of helped here and there. I felt kind of obligated to help eat some of the food and different things like that. Test the dessert. We didn't want to just serve it to the ladies without making sure it was alright. And a dear friend of Kathy and I, Terry Clark, Mike and Terry have been friends of ours for many, many years. Back before we came here, I think we knew him. God called Mike and Terry to go to Russia as missionaries. Mike knew that God had plans for him was to preach the gospel and pastor someday, but he didn't know where or how as he was going through Bible college. He met Terry, they got married, God called them to Russia. Over in Semmer Poful, over in Crimea where the all the issue is going on now, the Russians come that's where uh brother Mike and Terry pastored, started a church there. Tony Hass now has the church. that uh Mike and Terry started years ago. While they were there, Terry conceived the child. They're excited. They're on the mission field, the baby's born. As far as they knew, everything was fine. The medical care there is not what it is here in the United States. As far as they knew, everything was fine. After several months the baby was growing and and they were rejoicing in the Lord. Suddenly something wasn't well. The child wasn't well. And to make a long story short, before they knew it, God had called that little infant home to be with him. And they were stuck there in their home with the body of their little baby. They had to travel for hours to get to the closest medical facility and brought their little child's dead body Into there, and then that from there the process of coming back to the States. Perry told the story Friday night. Imagine the devastation, heartache. Came back to the States and decided they'd better come back here and just kind of regroup while they were here just for a few months before they went back. While they were here, uh she conceived again. I said, well we'll stay here and have the baby in the States The baby was born with all kinds of medical problems, heart conditions. They said the baby's going to have to have surgeries after surgery after surgery for years. And it wasn't long until God called that second baby home. You imagine. You imagine the temptation to get bitter at God. You imagine the temptation to say, I quit. I give my life, I leave my homeland and family, only to have two babies taken And Kathy and I watched Mike and Terry over the years. And I'm sure in the private hours together they had their dark times. I have no doubt that there were times when they questioned. But we watched them. And as far as I can tell, I never saw one time their faith waver one bit. They trusted God. And they stayed true to God's call. He came back to the States, passed it around a few places, and finally God says, This is where I want you. And there outside of Pittsburgh, Brother Mike has planted a church, pastoring that church, that thing is growing. He's told me the other day by the end of the year they plan on be completely self-supporting and uh a self-indigenous church all themselves. Here's the thing. God put him right in the middle of a Russian-speaking community. They had no idea. And their testimony, how God saw them through those dark days, and how God was faithful and gave grace. They use that now to win others to Christ, encourage others. Motherhood is important. And God will see us through the dark times, but we must trust Him We must have faith in him. Let him lead us and direct us. The challenge this morning is to all of us. Number one, do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Without Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you're outside of God. You're still in your sins. If you die in that condition, the Bible's clear all eternity in a horrible place called hell. We need to know that Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, we must make that decision to accept Him as our personal Savior. Once we made that decision, then we need to choose to live for God. Live by faith as the Bible instructs us. Trusting God and obeying Him, doing what He says to do, avoiding what He says to avoid, letting Him lead us and direct us. And then we come to the point where we say, Lord, I just want to dedicate my life completely to you as a Christian I commit my life to the Lord Jesus Christ to live for him. Where are you this morning? How's God speaking to your heart? Let the Lord have his way this Mother's Day. And God will bless you. And in these dark days, in these difficult days, maybe the days preceding the coming of Christ, we can still have God's hand and blessing upon us. And see him do great things. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. You know our hearts, you know where we're at. We need you, Lord, to lead us and direct us, help us to have faith in you. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed this morning. How many folks would say, Preacher, I know that when I die, I'm going to heaven? I know I have that settled. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. There's no doubt about it. That's a settled fact But you would say, preacher, God spoke into my heart. And there's areas of my life where I need to grow. There's decisions I need to make in my Christian life. Maybe you've gotten away from the Lord this morning I want to renew my commitment to him. Maybe you want to come this morning and say, Lord, as a Christian, I just want my whole life to count for you. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray with me. God has spoken to my heart this morning And there's areas in my life I need to renew and commit and get in line with Him. God bless you all around. Young and old. Convictions we talked about. Right and wrong, decisions we made. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind would want to go to hell. And Jesus Christ can forgive you and save you if you accept him as your Savior. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me that God will help me settle this in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven Pray that God will help me settle this in my heart and life. Any at all. By the uplifted hand, all around. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. We're grateful for our mothers. Help us to have faith in you and trust you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together ahead