Um 13 through 16 is just a little brief section. And to me, that's the one of the first points. And he talks about our role in the world. And those verses there. Let's just quick review this a little bit. Verses 13 through 16 He tells us that we're two things in this world. As a child of God, we're two things. What is that? We're salt and we are light. And uh the significance of that to the crowd, we talked about that. Then verse 17 all the way to 48, the end of chapter 5, uh is what I consider one section, and he begins by addressing what the Pharisees consider to be righteousness And as far as their righteousness was concerned, as long as you look good, as long as you did these external things and you did this right and you didn't do that and you met you filled out this list, well then you're righteous if you do these things And the Lord says, listen, your righteousness, if it's going to be accepted by God, has to exceed just some superficial uh list of do's and don'ts and all that And he gives six illustrations, if you remember. He went down through there and he says, listen, this is what they say, but I'm telling you, righteousness is this. Now we get to chapter six And he's beginning a new section. And he's touching on a new topic. And I've tried to take, I think the whole chapter uh is basically on this, and we break it down into sections as we go through But pretty much what he's talking uh in chapter six is about practical Christian living and how it plays out. This section here, verses one through uh um Let let's read verses let's go down verse one through four. Uh he says this, Take heed, chapter six, take heed that ye do not that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them. What does that sound like? Pharisees. That's what he was just exposing about the Pharisees outward. He says, Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them, otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound the trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth, that thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly And then he goes on, we won't take time to read it, but he goes down through there and he talks about prayer and then he talks about fasting. And so he's talking about Christian living. And uh then the rest of the chapter, I I I I I kind of broke it down three topics that he looked that he talks about in chapter six. One is our motives We're going to notice this here in a little bit. Motives in our giving alms, our compassion we show, motives in our prayer, and motives in fasting. He talks about our motives. And later on he gets about our values Things we treasure, what are important to us. And as a child of God, how that ought to be in place. And then he ends the chapter with our priorities, what we're seeking. and what not to seek after. And of course Matthew 6. 33 is that classic statement, but seek ye first the what? Kingdom of God and his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you So he's talking about our living here on the planet, just practical living as a child of God. So let's have a word of prayer. And uh I just want to look at verse one tonight, and uh and uh let's uh let's pray. Father I ask now you'd bless. Laura been running around here a little bit, and I ask now that you would just help us focus our minds on the Word of God here. I pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge myself and all of us. to um examine our motives on why we do what we do in our Christian life. And I pray that you would challenge us and prompt us to search our hearts. I pray your Holy Spirit would search our hearts. And fill me with your spirit as my prayer. I yield myself anew and ask that you would speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. Now in verse number one, let's look at it again. And I'm going to try and break down verse one. I'm separating verse one from verse two, three, and four. And I'll explain why Notice first one he says, Take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them, otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Verse two, the first word is what? Therefore Because of the statement in verse 1, the following needs to be true. So, statement in verse 1, I think verse 1, the Lord is stating a general principle. And he's just making a general principle when you do your alms before men, take heed when you do these alms before men that you don't do it to be seen of them. For your father in heaven is not going to reward you if you do that. Then he goes on, all right, because of that statement, that's my premise. That's the point I'm trying to make. Now he goes on, he says, all right, in almsgiving, in prayer, and in fasting, and he kind of illustrates or expounds on that initial statement Now he uses the word alms here in verse one, then he does again in verse two and down through there. But I'm separating the two. I think, and this is me just studying it, I think he uses the term alms in verse one Just is a term to address just general compassion. He's not p not when he gets to verse two, he's being a little more particular exactly what you're doing. But verse one He's just kind of making a general statement. You know, when you do things, when you do things in your Christian life, you do these alms or whatever, make sure your motive is correct. And so he's making a general statement about our motives, and then he applies it in showing compassion, prayer, and fasting. So let's look at verse 1. First of all, I notice he gives us a caution. He gives us a caution. Look what it says. Take what? Take heed. To your uh take heed that you do not your alms before men. Take heed. That's a neat statement. I got studying that, looking it up, and uh Uh it's kind of an interesting meaning to that. Now, what when you hear somebody say, take heed, what does that mean to you? What are they saying to you? What is it? Pay attention. Or would you say, be careful? Take heed. You go up there, take heed. It's icy going up those steps. Right? The word itself, that phrase take heed, actually, if I understood the wood my study correctly, it comes from the idea, it's almost a nautical term And I had the idea of bringing a boat in beside the dock, tight in against the dock, tying it up to the dock, keeping it close and tight. And I think the statement, what he's saying here is, keep what I'm about to say to you, you need to keep this very close in your thinking. You've got to don't allow your mind to drift away from the statement I'm about to make, this truth I'm about to make I believe what he's saying to us is that the statement I'm going to make, the truth I'm going to give to you, is something that needs to be tied up to the dock of your mind. It needs to be there. You've got to keep this. You've heard me make the statement, you've heard other people say it, but uh uh uh there's several things when I'm preaching, I'll say this is something that we need to keep in the forefront of our minds. You ever hear somebody say that? I know I've said it. Keep this in the forefront of your mind. What are we saying? Keep that in your thinking at all times. Keep that, be aware of this at all times. And I believe that's what the Lord's saying here. When he says, take heed, he's saying, all right, here's the truth You've got to keep in the forefront of your mind at all times. You've got to be aware of. What he is giving us here, I believe, and we're going to look at it, is very important to living the Christian life. He would not say, take heed to this, if it was not vital. The Lord is saying, by using that little phrase, he's saying, listen, be careful A lot of caution here. This is something that is vital and important in the Christian life. It is a mistake for you and I to think, or to communicate to somebody, that salvation removes all troubles. That re salvation removes all difficulties. Sometimes these guys on TV, I don't know if they deliberately salv, I figure they probably do, but they'll come across as if well you get saved And everything's going to be wonderful if you have enough faith and everything's going to be great and everything's going to be wine. That is nothing farther from the truth. In fact, I have found in my own life and in s observing others, sometimes when people get saved The troubles are intensified. Sometimes the difficulties are even greater after I get saved than before. I tell you what, it's better to go to heaven with a difficult life than to go to hell with an easy life. Right? And so getting saved does not mean there's not going to be difficulties. Getting saved does not mean I'm not going to have to be careful. I'm not going to have to deal with stuff. Now, I want you to think with me a little bit What is it about being saved that would cause difficulties? A person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior. Now they've got some challenges, they've got some issues, they've got some difficulties problems maybe that they did not have before. Why would that be? What is it about being a child of God that would produce difficulties? What's that? Alright, you're a new creation, but think of think it through a little bit. Alright, I put these down. Uh I put this down, suddenly right doing right right and wrong is more important to me now than it was before. Right? Before I got saved Who cares if it was right or wrong? Just do it. You don't worry about it. Now I'm safe. Being doing right is very important to me. And now I've got to make these decisions. And sometimes doing right is not easy Sometimes doing right is very difficult, and doing right may cause some problems. And uh, but if I want to grow, if I want to be that Christian God wants me to be, if I'm gonna be the person God saved me to be I've got to make some difficult decisions sometimes. And you'll see that. And uh and uh i it's just the way it is, human nature, but you'll see that in a church where the gospel is being preached and people are getting saved And sometimes you'll see people come in, they'll get saved, they're all excited about it, and they'll go a little while, then soon they start fading out, they start dropping off. And I always struggle. Why is that? What's the story here? I think some of it is they're growing, God's leading them, but now they've got some decisions they have to make. If I'm gonna go on for with God and I'm gonna live for God, I'm gonna be that Christian God wants me to be. There's some hard decisions I've got to make. There's some problems I have to deal with. And sometimes they're not willing to deal with those decisions, not willing to make those decisions and deal with those problems unless they walk away from it. So one of the reasons difficulties are in the Christian life after a person gets saved is right and wrong uh are uh uh are important now and that be can that can cause problems. Can you think of another reason Why getting saved might be a difficult might cause difficulties. Alright, being dedicated to Christ would would be involved. But I I thought of this. Now suddenly Satan is opposed to what I'm doing. Before I got saved, I was on his team. I was going his direction. I wasn't a threat to Satan. I wasn't. But you get on fire for God and you start living for God. Suddenly, Satan is my enemy. Suddenly, Satan is opposed to me doing right. And I'm telling you, uh Satan can cause problems. Can I get a witness? Satan can cause problems. You think things are going great and God is blessing And lo and behold, like Billy Sunday used to call him, old Smutty Face, raises his ugly head up. And man, you got all kinds of problems on your hand. And so sometimes there's difficulties after the Christian life now because doing right and wrong is an issue. And before I didn't care, you know, a lazy person can do wrong. Doing wrong is often very the easiest thing to do. Doing right sometimes requires character, c uh character and discipline and effort and uh decision and commitment And uh so that's a problem. Now Satan is fighting me. I got an I put another reason down why there might be difficulties and problems in the Christian life. One is right and wrong is a priority. Two, Satan's opposed to me now. I put a third one down. Anyone else think of something? What about this? We're going the up. Go ahead. Okay. Okay, I'm concerned about having a testimony, so therefore I'm making some of these tough decisions. I put this down. Now I'm going upstream against the world. I don't fit in this world anymore. How many folks, you've heard me say it, how many folks here, the longer you and the more you grow in your faith, the more you feel out of place in this world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I feel like I am a fish swimming upstream And this whole everything is going the opposite direction. And man, after a while, it's like everybody's, what are you doing? You're going the wrong way. And I say this so often, this world is an expert at making that which is good look so bad And that which is bad looks so good. And you and I are going the opposite direction. And I tell you, that can cause problems. That can cause difficulty. So the Lord says here, he says, take heed Be very, very careful. Keep this thought in mind. You're going to have to deal with some things. There's going to be issues. There's going to be problems that you deal with. In fact, this whole chapter, chapter number six and into chapter seven, is very, very humbling. Because I want to do right and I want to live for God and I want to please the Lord and I want to have that testimony But I keep finding myself struggling with this and struggling with that and I think I'm doing really good. And then I go to church and the preacher preaches something and it just blows it out of the water. It's like, oh man I'm not even I haven't arrived yet. Can I get a witness? And uh we were talking today and some folks, you know, they want to go to church and it doesn't matter where they're at spiritually, you just want to be patted on the head, everything's fine and And um uh you know, rub the cat the hair the right way on the cat. Like what Billy Sunday said, uh he said, people criticize me, I'm rubbing the cat the wrong way. He said, Well turn the cat around. I thought that was pretty good. But uh you know, you think you're think you're doing pretty good. And then you read something like this and he says, Oh, you're doing alms for the wrong reason and I examine my motives. It's like, oh man, my motives aren't even right. So this is a very challenging uh and humbling portion of scripture. The Lord exposes us for what we really are and he challenges our motives And uh you know, we think we're doing so good. And then we read what the Lord says and it's like, Oh man, I got a long way to go. And so he says, Take e Be very very careful. What I'm about to tell you, you've got to keep it close in your mind, keep this in the forefront of your mind, because this is very, very important for you to be uh the Christian God intends should be. So number one, he gives us the caution. He gives us a caution there. Number two, I notice in verse one, uh he expresses a concern That we need to watch out for. Take heed, now here it is, that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them He says, all right, keep this in front of your mind. And all your Christian living, and all the aspects of your Christian life, in your interaction with other people, keep this in mind. Take heed to this. Do not do what you're doing. Just so people see you. Now let's break this down. The word alms there, and again he's using it in a general sense. Verse 2, he'll begin a little more specific, but it really applies to any charity Particularly sometimes it will refer to a donation to the poor. Remember in Acts and different places in the Gospels, there'll be a blind man asking for alms And uh they'll just uh, you know, they're looking for some sort of donation. And that's the idea there. It really, in a general sense, as often is applied just to any act of compassion Just somebody has a need, somebody has a situation, and my heart is stirred and I go and I want to help them. And so the alms here in a general sense is any act of compassion I do, and you could apply it in in many different ways. But then he says this, take heed that you do not your alms before men. And that phrase before there has this idea deliberately in front of them Take care that when you show compassion and you do something and some sort of Christian service, make sure, be careful, take heed, that you don't do it deliberately in front of people. To be seen of that. Follow what he's saying? See where he's going with this? I'm not delivered. Oh, there's some people standing. What can I do? I'm going to go do this. I got a thing uh uh on computer and I used some of the different social medias and there's some preachers that were on there and I guess they're basically good guys I guess. I know 'em, some of 'em personally And uh you know they had one time, this was a couple years ago, they had a picture of the preacher and uh there's like this uh street guy or um we to call him winos years ago, just a guy on the street. And he's over there and he's it's all sti you know he's posing, giving the gospel tract to this guy sitting in the gutter and handing this tract and he's smiling for the camera. And I tell you, I don't know, you know, I I don't want to judge his motives, I don't know, but to me it just looked such a sham. And to me, that is exactly what the Lord was talking about. I mean, don't do your charity, don't do these things deliberately in front of people. Don't look for a camera when I'm doing something, whatever. And so the phrase uh before has a has a very specific meaning, deliberately in front of. And then he says, um Take heed that you do not your alms before men. Maui touches on our motive to be what? Seen of them, as this idea, so that they look at you. The whole motive here is so that people will see me, look at me, giving these alms. Now, he said, listen, you ought to be very concerned that you do not do that. You do not do that. Now here comes a problem. Go back to chapter 5 of Matthew and look at verse 16. What does he tell us to do in Matthew 5 verse 16? We already preached on this. This is part of the same sermon. Matthew chapter 5, just a chapter 4. Look at verse 16. What does he tell us we should do? Let your light so shine before men. That they may see your good works. And glorify your father which is in heaven, or uh how it's worded there, glorify your father which is in heaven. Huh! Do you have a contradiction here? 516 he says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. Chapter 6, verse 1. Don't do your alms before men to be seen of them. The difference is what? What's the solution? What's the the motive? The motive behind it. When he tells us in chapter 5, verse 16, in the early part of the same sermon, this is all one sermon. He goes, do let your light shine before men so they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. In other words, do it in such a way and for such a motive that when people see a change in your life They see the love of God being shed abroad in your heart. They say, Man, what an amazing God he serves. What God has done in his life, what the Lord has done there Glorify your Father which is in heaven. What he's talking about in chapter 6 and verse 1 is these people are doing us so that they say, wow, what a great Christian he is What an amazing person he is. Look how much he cares about poor people. Look how burdened he is for the lost. Look how what a great Christian he is. Two completely different motives. In fact, the whole rest of this section, on down through to the end of verse number 18, he's addressing their motives. Why we are doing what we're doing. Their deeds were good. Giving alms is a good thing. Showing compassion is a good thing And done in the right motive, it brings glory to God. God wants us to do that. Their deeds were right, but their motives were wrong. Now why Why would I want people to see me? What's the motive behind having people see me? Give some alms. The flesh is the desiring behind ego. Aha, that's what I was getting to. It boils down to a love of self. I want myself to be exalted. I want myself to be praised. I want myself to be lifted up and exalted. The whole Implication here is it's my pride must be fed. Because I want to get the most likes. On my Facebook thing for me doing that, huh? Uh some of y'all know what I'm talking about. I want to get the most tweets, the retweets. Everybody says, wow, this is amazing. Pastor Liman gave a tract to a poor guy in the street. It wasn't my picture, by the way. But uh that's the whole thing. And the Pharisees were eat up with this. That is what they lived for. For people to praise them and exalt them and think so highly of them. They were eat up with it. Let me show you a few verses. Come back to chapter 23 of Matthew. The Lord addressed us over and over and over. Now, before we jump over the Pharisees and they're guilty, we'd be very, very careful because we have the same flesh that the Pharisees did. And we have the same issue with pride and self that they did. And so we have to be very, very careful. This wasn't preserved so the f so we could jump all over the Pharisees. These verses were preserved for us so it will help us. Not fall into that same trap. Look at chapter 23, verse number 5. He's talking about the scribes here and the Pharisees, verse 2, and you come down and find. But all their works they do for to be what? seen of men. They made broad their phylacteries, that's the little thing they wore around their garments, and enlarge the borders of their garments. They love the uppermost rooms of ph And the chief seats and the synagogues, man, if I could only sit on the platform, that would be so awesome. That's what their thinking was. If I can just be up in front of everybody Uh the greetings and the markets and to be called of men rabbi, rabbi, and be ye not called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ. So he he rebukes them there. Come over to Luke chapter 16. Some of these are classic statements the Lord made on this subject. Luke chapter sixteen and verse number fifteen And then we're going to look in one in John. Luke 16, verse 15. Verse 14. And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, Heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves where? Before men, not before God. But God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God. Is it possible to show compassion to somebody? and God consider it an abomination? Sure. If my motive is to exalt myself, as my motive is to get the praise that God deserves, come over to John chapter 5 We have to be very, very careful about this. John chapter 5, and then verse number 41. He says, You will not come unto me, verse 40, that you might have life. I received not honor from men. And boy, that was the truth. They derided him. But I know you that ye have not the love of God in you. I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not. If another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. How can ye believe, look at this, which receive honor one of another and seek not the honor that cometh from God? What's that last word? Only. God will not share his honor with anyone else. And he is very, very jealous of the fact that he gets the glory. Listen, if anything good comes out of your life or my life, it is simply because of the grace of Almighty God. And He will not share that glory from anyone else. And we try and steal that glory that God has done in me in that The heart that God has given me to serve others, and I try and steal the credit for that, and I try and steal the glory for that. I won't get glory from God. There's two fundamental principles touched on here, I believe In this one little statement. One is this, and this is important. Maybe you want to jot these down. The most important relationship I have is my relationship with my God. I think it's implied here. Listen, you're wanting the the praise of men. You're looking at men, you're looking to men's attention and men's praise. That is not the most important relationship you and I have. Our most important relationship is with the Lord. That's my m most important relationship. I think the greatest cause of failure in the Christian life is when I forget That the number one relationship in my life is my relationship with my creator, with my Savior. If that's in place, you say, Bray Three, you need a I should love God more than I love my spouse. Absolutely Because until I love God like I should, I will not be able to love others like I should. I want to say it was F. B. Meyer, but I don't think that's a correct fellow. But he was uh he was engaged to be married. It might have been FMR, but I don't think that's correct. He was engaged to be married. And his fiance, just a few days before the wedding, if I have the story correct, said something like this to him. And they said, she said, uh, sweetheart, is there anybody in this world that you love more than me? And without hesitation, he says, yes, there is. She said, who is that? And he says, it's my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And she said, good, then we're going to do just fine. And she understood the most important relationship in my life is the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not what other people think of me. It's not whether I'm in good standing with other people or not. My relationship that's number one priority is my relationship with Jesus Christ. So that's implied in here. And then I think there's a second thing implied, and I may be stretching a little bit, but I think there's a second thing implied here, and that is this. I live constantly in the presence of God. The whole idea here, and as you go down through here, he keeps saying stuff like this: God knows what your motive is God will reward you in secret. God sees what you do secretly. Your right hand doesn't know what your left hand does, but God knows what you're doing. And the whole implication through all this here is God sees my every action I do. God knows my every thought. Not only does He see my actions and know my thoughts, he knows my motives. He knows why we do what we do. He understands us completely and thoroughly. Not only just not just what we do, but why we're doing it I want to show you a couple verses, two in particular. One is in Psalms. Come back there with me. I'm going to read a pretty extended portion of scripture, Psalms 139. One of my favorite chapters in all the Bible. Psalm 139. Actually ask me next week and there'll be another favorite chapter in all the Bible. I'll read another one. So this is a fluid favoritism. Psalm 139, I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. Pay attention to what he's saying here. I've got this whole section underlined in red in my Bible. Psalm 139, verse 1. Everybody got it there? Look what he says. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. That word searched has the idea thoroughly tested me. Thou knowest my downcity and mine uprising. You know when I'm up and when I'm down. Look at this next statement. Thou understandest my thought afar off. And the whole idea is kind of like this. When I'm daydreaming, God, you understand what's going on in my life. He doesn't just know it, he understands it. My thoughts are the thoughts that nobody else could possibly know. God knows them. Uh thou compassest my path and my lying down and art cleaning with all my ways. There is Look at this, for there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Now that phrase, oh not a word in my tongue, I don't I don't think that's referring to words I've spoken. These are the unspoken words. Anybody here ever Tom Tom and I joke about this, but do you ever think of something to say and you bite your tongue and you don't say it? Anybody here know how many people here wish you did that more often? Yeah, me too This is saying the Lord knows that unspoken word. Yikes. Um Thou hast beset thou hast Verse 5, thou hast beset me behind him before, laid thy hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful, meet it's high, I cannot attain to it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Whither shall I flee from thy presence? What's the answer to that question? Nowhere, I can't. If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the undermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. Surely, if I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night sh uh shineth as the day, the darkness and the light are both a light to thee Isn't that amazing? God knows everything about me. He knows everywhere, no matter where I go, He knows what I'm doing, no matter what I think, He knows what I'm thinking. Even if I don't say the word, He knows what the Word is So the implication in Matthew is that I am constantly in the presence of God. He knows even the motives of the good things I'm doing. I want to show you one more verse, if you would. Come back to Hebrews, and I like this verse. Hebrews chapter 4. And um verse number thirteen He says, verse thirteen, neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his God's sight. But all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. There is nothing hidden from God. Now what does that have to do? You say what does that have to do with Matthew 6 verse 1? Has this to do. God knows my motive. He knows what I'm doing, and I must be very, very concerned that the things I'm doing for the Lord, the things I'm doing in my life, the good things I'm doing, I need to be very, very concerned that I am not doing them To draw attention to myself and to exalt myself. God knows why I'm doing it. And we have to be very, very careful about this. If these two truths that I just gave you, one, uh I am uh my most important relationship I have in life is my with the Lord, and God, I'm continually in his presence If those two things would anchor themselves to the dock of my mind and tie themselves up to the dock of my mind And from the moment I get up in the morning and every step I take and everywhere I go to the moment I fall asleep at night, I keep in the forefront of my mind, docked up to my thinking The fact that Jesus Christ is the most important relationship I have in my life, and he knows and sees and understands everything I do, I'm telling you, that would transform our Christian life. And when we forget about our relationship with God, or we neglect it, or we think we're getting away with something, or nobody knows, that is when we start messing up. We keep those things in mind. And he says, take heed, tie this up, don't do your alms to be seen of men. God knows it. He sees you're not fooling anybody. You're not fooling God. Then he gives one last thought, and I'll try and end with this. In verse number one of chapter 6 of Matthew, take heed That ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Now look at this statement. Otherwise, ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Huh. The third point is this. There's a compensation that can be lost. In other words, you've done this good deed, you've done this wonderful thing, this almost alms, that's wonderful But you did it so that people would see you. You did it so that people would praise you and exalt you. You did it for your own ego's sake, and because of that, you're not getting any reward from God in heaven You're not getting any reward. The word reward there just means what you think it would mean. It means the uh uh uh uh the uh the one definition was this a wage for my efforts The fruit of my efforts was another definition I found. In other words, I do this, and God gives me something or does something for me because I did that. It's a reward. Um they used to have in the Wild West. Reward, dead or alive, find this guy. And if you find the guy, and if you kill him and drag his body in, or if you get him alive and bring him in, you get a reward, $100 or whatever it was. You did this and you were compensated. You received something for it. Now, it's important to understand, I think we all do, salvation is not a reward. Salvation is a what? Gift. God gives to us freely. God does not save us as a compensation for us doing something. All we are as sinners on our way to hell, there's nothing we can do. He offers us a free gift of salvation, and we simply by faith receive it. We simply accept it. He's done it all. But Once we are saved, this is the amazing thing about the Christian life. I still have not gotten over this all these years. God saves us from hell completely free. He pays all the punishment for our sin He pays all the wages of our sin for us. Eternity hell. He pays all of that for us. All we do is just accept it. He gives us a free gift. I simply let him give it to me. And then he says this, I'll do all that for you. Then if you live for me, if you live for my glory and my credit, I'll reward you. My thinking is, good night. The least I can do is live for him. I mean give me anything, surely. I mean that's like somebody You're drowning, and they jump in the water and they save you. And you were that far from drowning and dying. They come up and uh they say, uh, all right, listen, if you're grateful, I'll give you a hundred thousand dollars Are you kidding? You don't have to give me $100,000. I'm grateful. Don't give me anything. I'm grateful. You follow what I'm saying? But the Lord is so amazing. He saves us for free, pays the whole price for our sin. himself and then says, if you live for me, if you do things right, I'll reward you the judgment seat of Christ. That is an incredible deal Um some people say, well, you know, I don't think this idea of rewards for Christian that that ought not to be part of the Christian life, living for God's rewards Well, I mean you can think that if you want, but all through the New Testament, God talks about rewarding his children, rewarding his children, rewarding his children. In fact, the judgment seat of Christ, he rewards those that live for him. He's got five crowns promised. To those who live for him. All through the chapter here, he talks about your reward from your Father in heaven, your reward from God. We're going to see it in Sunday school in 1 Corinthians. He talks about getting a reward. And so God rewards those who live for Him. But a factor is our motive must be right. If our motive is wrong, if we're looking to be rewarded for those stuff we do in our Christian life from men, then we will not get our reward from God the Father. Couple thoughts under this and I'll end. Number one, seeking rewards from God is legit. It's legitimate. Say, well I want uh I want God to reward me. I do too. I really, really, really I fail to live up to this, but I'm telling you, I think most of you probably feel the same way as I do. I really really really want to hear God say when I stand before I really want to hear that. That's a reward. It would be an amazing thing to get one or two of the crowns the Lord has promised for soul winning and those that love is appearing. There's a crown, do you know there's a crown for preachers that preach the gospel? There's one for them That do it faithfully. I would really love to get that reward. That's a legitimate thing. You know, Jesus did some, uh Jesus died on the cross for a reward. It says, for the joy that was set. Before him, he what? Endured the cross. Hebrews 12, too says that. In other words, he didn't go for the cross because he liked the dying and suffering hell. He endured that. He despised the shame of that. But what was on the other side, that is what he had his eye on. The joy that was set before him. Abraham searched for a city whose builder and maker was God, Hebrews 11 tells us. He was out there, he was looking for a city, he was living for God and going on and exercising faith because there was something out there Moses, um uh in uh Hebrews chapter eleven it says uh the recompense of the reward. He despised the shame and and and uh the riches of Egypt. And he'd rather suffer affliction with the The people of God for the recompense of the reward. He knew that God would bless him and reward him for it. So my point is this living for God so that God will bl reward us And we'll hear God say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. That's a legitimate motive as far as the Bible's concerned. And number two, my second thought is this: there will be no rewards from God. To those who seek rewards from men. Did you get that there in Matthew? Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Otherwise Ye sh have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. So the idea is this. If I do my alms not to be seen of man, but to bring glory to God, then God says, I'll reward you. I've got a reward for you. And so do you see here the importance of motives? That's the whole point. Why am I doing what I what I'm doing? Why am I serving God? Why am I living for Him? Oh, so folks that church will say, oh brother Letterman, he's something else, boy. He's no no no. We ought to uh we ought to be as we ought to turn a deaf ear. Now I'm gonna be careful But I'll say this. We ought to turn a deaf ear in a sense to praise as much as we do to criticism. Somebody put it this way: if praise puffs you up, criticism will crush you And I ought not to respond to either. I ought to live for God, whether I get praised or criticized, I ought to live for God because I love God and I want him glorified. And God says if you do that, I'll reward you. I'll reward you. Now don't misunderstand. And we'll look at this a little later. God's reward is not necessarily a million-dollar house and a $50,000 truck. That's not the rewards. Read Psalm chapter 1, the blessings of God, peace of mind and heart, and the joy of the Lord, and fulfillment and purpose. I tell you there's some folks who are very, very poor. I'd much rather have what they have than some folks who are extremely wealthy and are miserable. We talked about that Sunday. And so the rewards of God, be careful, but they're legit to live land. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you check our motives, Holy Spirit, stir us to serve you and be involved and And investing in other people's lives and doing good works that men may see our good works and glorify you. But Lord, check our motives, search us and challenge us. Jones and with our heads bowed eyes closed and we're not going to be able to give an invitation tonight. I I don't like that, but because the way it is, maybe just there at your seat, you want to make a little altar in your heart Before God. Maybe there's some tonight say, Preacher, pray for me. I really do need the Lord to help me and my motives. And that doing what I'm doing is not to please any man or to bring attention Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me that God will help me check my motives. God bless you. Number of hands are out. God bless you. My desire also. Father, you know our hearts. Help us to be active and busy serving you and faithful. But Lord help us to have the right motives, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen