And we're gonna read Matthew chapter 9. We're gonna read at the very end of the chapter, we're gonna read from verse We're going to read from verse 35 down to verse 38. Matthew chapter 9, verse 35-38. If I could ask you just to stand in reverence for the Word of God if you're able to. As we read God's Word, here's what we're going to do. We're going to read verse 35. I'm going to read start with verse 35, and then I'll ask everyone to read together verse 36 And then I'll read verse thirty-seven and then everyone together we'll read verse thirty-eight. Are we ready? Alrighty. Well I think half of you are ready. So let's start. Okay? So verse 35, I'll read it first, and after everyone will read 36, and we'll go from there. Alright, here we go. Verse 35. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the king. But when he saw the multitudes, Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that you will send forth laborers into his heart. I want to talk to you about this morning about a challenge that Jesus gives. About being moved with something. Being moved with something called compassion. Being moved with compassion. Are you moved with compassion? You may be seated and let's have a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you so much for this day. Thank you, Lord, very much for how you've worked in our lives, Lord, and how you how we have the opportunity, Lord, to be used of you in a special and a unique way. Lord, I pray that you will please move through your word. I pray that, Lord, in a special way we can understand what is it that you want from us, that we'll learn to listen to your voice, to what you want us to hear, and not to what we want to hear. And that Lord God, I pray that also we'll know how to live a submissive, obedient life to your will, Lord. We love you, Lord. Thank you so much for this opportunity Thank you for all that you're doing and thank all that you're going to do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, someone once told me that our life is just like a coin. You think, how can your life be like a coin? Well, a coin has value. And just like a coin, your life has a lot of value to the Lord. You have a lot of value. No matter what your past is, no matter what your abilities are, you have value to the Lord. And you are worth something to God. And I can tell you for sure, you're worth someone something to somebody here. You are special and God loves you just the way you are and wants to use your life. But can I tell you the sad truth is that though your life is a coin and it has value, it's only one coin. And it's only one life. And you know, the minute you spend that coin, you can't get it back. And can I tell you, the minute you spend your life, you're not going to be able to get it back. The minute you spin it, whether you're sixteen or sixty-six, the minute your life is done, you're not going to get another chance in life. You're not going to get it back. And it's gone. The Bible says that our life is something very, very fragile. It's kind of like a light. A light that is here for a moment and then it's gone. You never know how long our life can last. It's kind of like you think of a piece of paper. You can put your age On this piece of paper, whatever your age is. And this whole paper can sum up your life. And you could think, wow, I have my whole life before me. I have a beautiful life. I I've lived a good life. But you know what? In God's eyes Though you think you have a long, prosperous life, the real reality is, is our life, though it's there, it's going to be gone in just a moment. Just like that in a flash. And when it's gone, you can't get it back. So how is your life counting? How is your life going to count today? How is your life going to count on this earth? Because one day, you're going to be standing in front of eternity, in front of God. You're going to be standing there. If you're saved, you're going to be there in heaven, yes. If you're not saved, if you're not saved from your sins, you're going to be before God in judgment. Whatever it is, you're going to be before God, and God is going to look to you and present you the question you had 24 hours in a day 60 minutes in every hour. You had all that time, 60 seconds in every minute. How did you use every one of those moments in your life? How did you use it? Did you make account for something How did you use that life? Because now you're in eternity and you're not going to be able to get that life back. You know, someone who really makes an impact in this world is someone who is moved by something. And I can tell you everyone here is moved by something. We have people who are moved by something. Whatever you're moved by is what's going to get you up in the morning. to get going. Whatever you're moved by is going to define how you're going to spend your hours, your money, your time every day. Whatever you're moved by is going to define your life. There's people who move by all kinds of things. I know people who are moved by money. They'll do anything for money. There's a really crazy game. I don't know if they have it. It's like a reality TV game or something like that. It's called Wipeout And uh I don't think they have it, but I always loved watching because I laugh at the people who do it because you would go through this obstacle course and the key was not to get wiped out But they're going through that and they're like getting thrown back and forth like raggedy dolls, you know, like you know. And the goal I think is a million dollars or something like that, and if they get wiped out they're out But I'm like, why would you put yourself into such torture? I mean I mean oh goodness gracious. I mean carry up tail up. I'm proven with you with all the wipeouts you're gonna get. But they're going through all this So they can get a million bucks. They're motivated to suffer all of that because they're motivated by money. You know there's people who are motivated by fame. They want to How many have ever heard of the book called the Guinness Book of World Records? You ever heard of that book? Oh man. I love reading that book. There's all kind of crazy people in that book. It's crazy. I think they even made a television show. But they have all kinds of crazy and there's names of people who broke all kinds of world records There's one guy, he decided to lay inside a bathtub and have them pour live cockroaches all over on top of him. And these roaches were all walking all over in his ears and eye and you know all this stuff and you know, and he had all the cockroaches and he got famous, but he broke the record for having the most cockroaches thrown on top of him. Yeah, I was like, Wow, you got your name. You didn't get her girlfriend that probably, but you got your name. Well you're very famous But he broke a record. So he was motivated. Why would he do such a crazy thing? Because he was motivated by fame. Did you know there's people who are motivated by other people? Did you know that? How many people who are so motivated by the next celebrity? What is that? celebrity gonna do? What are they gonna eat? Oh if they're gonna eat cow tacos, I'm gonna eat cow tacos. They're gonna eat organic uh uh Meat made from grass. I'm gonna eat that. Oh my goodness. Whatever it is, whatever the fashion is, man, I've gotta do it. Oh I that person is my idol. And they're motivated by other people. They'll do crazy stuff. Those people will even alter their figure. There they they came out I think on the news of a f of the person who was like the human Barbie or something like that and she did all these plastic surgeries. I mean she couldn't even smile. Probably she could So she was just like but and she wanted so much to look like Barbie and she No, she looked like a haunted version of Barbie. You know, it was really weird. But she was so ex you know, sad about that. But people do anything because they're motivated by other people. There's all kinds of crazy things like that. But people are all motivated by something. And can I tell you today You're seated here, and if you're a human being, you're motivated by something. Whatever it is. You say, oh no, I don't have any motivates. You are motivated. Oh, I don't have any purpose in life. Well, you're motivated by having no purpose You're motivated by something. All of us are motivated. That's what defines our life. That's where we invest our money. That's where we invest our time. We're motivated by video games. We're motivated by movies. We're motivated by other people. We're moti Painted by our jobs Something is motivating us today. And you know what? Jesus Christ here though gives the challenge of the priority that the thing that should motivate a Christian above everything else. A Christian should be motivated by this one thing. And if they're motivated by this, their life is going to count for something. Their hours and energy and money is going to count for something. Not for this earth, but for all of eternity. And it's going to be worth something that's far more than gold, far more than popularity. It's going to be worth forever. Where it will last all the fire. It will always last forever And that one thing is called compassion. Can you say that with me? Say it with me. Ready? One, two, three. Compassion. Let's say it with more conviction. Ready? One, two, three. There you go. Compassion. Are you moved with compassion today? Are you moved to do something? Because you're moved with compassion. Is compassion the thing that defines your life? Look at me, in verse 36, Jesus says, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with what? He was moved with what? That's right. You get a pin and circle that. Make it really circling. And then get a highlight and highlight that. And then color and then put a sticker on it. And put a star. Just make it really clear because that there's something special about that. That phrase, move with compassion. Jesus Christ, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. You know what compassion is? You know what compassion is, girls? You know what it is? Compassion is different than pity. Someone who has pity is someone who just feels bad for somebody. Man, I feel bad for that brother Seth. He couldn't get a wife for a long time, and man, God's been good. Man, I feel bad for him. Man, you you feel sympathy for somebody. You you you feel sorry for somebody. You know, you feel you feel that you you almost feel that pain That is what we would call sympathy pity. But compassion goes beyond that. Someone who has compassion is someone who looks, hurts for someone, but they only hurt They don't even feel bad. They feel such a desire to do something about it that then they are moved to action. They're moved to do something about it. Compassion is always followed by action. It's gotta be with action. There's gotta be something to do with it. You've gotta do something about it. That is someone who's moved by compassion Someone who wants to make a difference or wants to do something about it. And they'll go to any extremes. They'll sacrifice whatever is necessary to make sure it happens because they are moved with compassion That is what Jesus Christ challenges us as Christians to be defined by, to be moved with compassion. Are you moved with compassion? Are you moved with compassion with your bus kids? Are you moved with compassion for your Sunday school? Are you moved to compassion as you cling the church? Are you moved to compassion for your neighborhood, for your family relatives, for your coworkers, for those who are lost? For your friends at school, are you move the compassion or you only feel pity? You hear the preacher talk about it and he's like, man That's true. Yeah, we need to reach the people. We need to reach the souls. We need to do something about it. Man, man, I feel bad for them. Man, I man, that's so sorry. Oh man, I see those images. Man, it's like a National Geographic documentary Man, uh I feel sorry. I feel sad for them. Man, that may make you feel sympathy for them, but then you don't do anything about it. That is not compassion. Someone who's moved compassion is going to do something about it In the 50s, there was a young man who grew up in a Christian home. He always had missionaries visit his house. He loves to get to know missionaries. His parents weren't in ministry. But he loved to hear about missionaries. And he was so motivated by seeing hearing the missionary stories that he felt like God was doing something in his life. So then he went to a college, a Bible college, and while he was in college, he felt like God wanted him to become So he was so keen on becoming a missionary that he would spend every moment, every minute to make sure he could reach his goal. He was studying so he could graduate in time. He was studying all the geography of different locations, the need, the population, all these things, statistics, because he wanted to make sure he was going to a place that God wanted him to go, a place that needed it In fact, there was even a girl he met in college and he felt like this was the right girl. He he he already fell in love with her, he and she really liked him, loved him, but he Didn't even want to date her then because he didn't wanted to make sure she wasn't going to distract him for whatever his goal was unless she was called to the same thing. Well, after college he got so motivated, he got some friends, they started uh uh examining every and they felt like God wanted to go down to South America, to the jungles of Ecuador. And so then he raised up money, got on the ship, went down to Ecuador, and when he got down to Ecuador, he got there and he made sure he found a village of Indians and he started to work there and started a mission. He started working with the Indians. Eventually that same young girl he met, she went down to Ecuador too to do a missions work. They found out they were in the same country. They got together. They got married. The Lord worked. They had a daughter. And it was wonderful how the Lord started working it. Well, with all that, there was one certain isolated region in the Ecuador jungle, the Amazon, where there was some Indians called the Aca Indians that needed to be reached, and he was so He he knew he needed to reach them. He felt this need. The government won't let them come because they were violent. They were killing other tribes. They were killing each other. But he wanted to make sure that he reached them the level of Christ. So him and a friend they got this wooden yellow airplane and they got in this airplane to fly over the village every time to check it out to see the the tops the see the huts and the of the village and the Indians they would come out and they didn't know what that airplane was so they would point spears in it and they they looked at it and they called it they thought it was a big giant bee. So they called it a wooden yellow bee And they would look at it and they see that plane fly. Well eventually that missionary and his friends they decided to start giving gifts. So they put gifts in these buckets and they would lower it down with the string from the airplane and they would lower a gift down to the Indians and the Indians would get it and they didn't know what it was and they thought That was amazing. And they started giving gifts. Well eventually one of the Indians gave a gift back and they was like, we're making contact. So finally decided one day to make contact. They found a girl from one of the days From that Indian tribe who they were took her in, learned a little bit of the language. They then on a certain day they landed on the beach nearby the Indian tribe. They got off, they got prepared, they learned a couple of words And they got ready to meet the Indians. Soon enough they saw those Indians come out to meet them. They were so excited for the great time, for the moments where they could c me make contact. And then an hour later, that missionary and his four friends were floating in the Amazon River, their bodies pierced with spears. killed by the very Indians they were trying to reach. That man's name was Jim Elliott, who was trying to reach those Indians. The Time magazine and all the magazines in the United States published the article and said, why would a handsome, good-looking guy, young guy Give his life and they put the the theme of the article, what a waste. And they put all these things out and they thought, what a waste of time Why would he do that and be killed by the same minions he was trying to reach? Why? Because he was motivated by compassion. That's what moved him to get to the point where he gave up his life, gave up his plans, his future plans. He didn't even get to see his little daughter grow up because he was moved with compassion to reach someone With the love of Christ. Are you moved with compassion to do something about it? I want to share with you three things that defines a person who is moved with compassion. That is defined as a characteristic of somebody who's moved with compassion. The first thing that someone who has compassion is moved with compassion is, look in verse 36. It says, Jesus Christ. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. And you know what? Someone who's moved with compassion here today, someone who's going to make a difference, is first of all, they see the opportunity of the harvest. They see the opportunity of the harvest. Look what it means, verse 36. It says, but when he what? But when he what? But when he saw, when he saw the multitudes He was moved to compassion about that. Jesus saw a great opportunity in front of him. He saw an opportunity to do something about it. And what he saw moved him to do something about it. But his eyes affected his heart How many know that famous passage in Lamentations? It talks about how my eye affected my heart. Whatever he saw affects you to do something about it. He had a vision and saw an opportunity in front of him. Me and Susanna were in Washington, D. C. last week, and we went through the Holocaust Memorial Museum. And we saw so many images of the horrors of the Holocaust, of what happened to the Jews, and all these things, and hearing testimonials. And it was amazing because everything we saw, it moved our hearts. And they put that memorial museum why so that people can never forget the horrors of the Holocaust, so that what they saw could affect their hearts and can move them to do something to prevent something like that from happening. You know why? Because they know that the eye gates It the eye is the gate to the heart. And you know what? Whatever we see will affect our heart. I remember when I was down in Mexico, I visited an orphanage there of uh uh and there was kids There were such sweet kids that would come and give me a hug, and I made some animal balloons for them. There was one little boy he was so shy and I thought he just didn't want to be friendly. And so I tried to make a balloon for him, give it to him. He didn't want to take my balloon. I was like, man, that kid he just doesn't want to be friendly But I noticed there was a certain a big lump on the side of his head. I was like, wonder what how that happened. I asked one of the orphanage workers what happened And she said, when he was a little baby, his mother was crossing the street and a car hit her and the baby was thrown to the other side of the street. He he fell on his head and miraculously survived. The mother died immediately. The the driver was drunk and the government was so corrupt they placed the blame on the mother and the baby. They said it was their fault that the driver hit them and that little baby, of course, having no mother, was torn in the orphanage, and grew up without a mother, and he had this huge Huge scar on his head that showed it. And I was and I when I saw that it affected me, I thought, no wonder he's so reserved. Probably never felt that mother's love like another normal child would Because and then what I did, I wanted to reach out and love him. What I saw affected my heart. You know what, if you are going to be able to make a difference, you're going to have to open your eyes and see that there's a great opportunity out there. There's a great opportunity harvest, and whatever sees you must move you to do something about it. Someone who is defined and moved with compassion, when they see the opportunity, they look beyond all the ugliness that they see in front of them. You know, when Jesus Christ saw it, he saw multitudes scattered. He didn't see people who were, he didn't see the ugliness of the person. He didn't see all their problems. He saw that there was they needed someone. He will look beyond all the ugliness of someone who was maybe had a bad attitude, and you look beyond the bad attitude and see that they needed someone to love them. Do you look beyond all the piercings and tattoos that someone may be wearing and the disciples maybe back away and say, oh, or somebody normal a Christian even would say, oh no, no, I I I don't mess with that kind of people. And you look beyond that and say, no, maybe they're wanting some attention of some kind. He looked beyond someone who is maybe an addict and using drugs all the time and realizing maybe they're trying to find something to satisfy them. They needed something. A Christian who's moved with compassion, they're going to look beyond all the ugliness of it, and they're going to see that there is an opportunity there to invest and make a difference in someone's life. But in order to do that, you're going to have to open your eyes. Often as Christians, we get so focused on our own church group, on our own little organization, on our own get-togethers, and we get so focused on interacting with each other. And we get focused on making sure we all look good, and we forget the opportunities that are out there. We forget to get the vision for the opportunities that harvest to make a difference to someone's life. Someone who's moved with compassion, they're going to open their eyes and see that there's a great opportunity out there and they can make something about it, do something about it. Jesus, when he saw it, he heard for them because Because he saw that they were scattered, they had no leader to guide them, and they needed someone to love them. It was like a disaster scene. Have you ever seen the news when a tornado or earthquake goes through? It leads to destruction. It doesn't make it nice and neat. It leaves it all destroyed. People are scattered, houses are thrown about. It's all destroyed. It's a mess And you know what? When Jesus saw, he saw a disaster scene. Something to be done about it. But second of all, look with me in verse 37. And verse 36 says, and we're scattered abroad, sheep having no shepherd. In verse 37 it says, Jesus says, And then saith he unto his disciples, the harvest truly is splentious, but the labors are few. That is the next step. Someone who is motivated by compassion, as Jesus Christ was, not only do they see the opportunity of the harvest, but then they recognize the obligation of the harvest. They recognize it is their obligation to do something about it. You see, because someone, they can see the opportunities around them They can see all the needs around them. And if you look, you'll see there's opportunities all around. There's endless opportunities. But you see, someone it does it's not enough just to see the opportunities. You have to recognize the obligation that you have to do something about it. And someone who's moved with compassion recognizes their obligation, their responsibility. Jesus realized that not only he had the opportunity, but he was his obligation to make an investment, to invest in someone's life Can I ask you a question? Who is it today or who is it this week that you've invested in their life? Who have you invested? Who has the Lord used? Who ha who in your life has the Lord you used to impact? Make a difference in their lives? Someone who recognizes their obligations, they're investing in someone. They're making a difference. They're making sure they are changed by the Word of God. And can I tell you, to invest in someone's life, it's not always easy. It always makes uh you get your hands dirty. Someone once told me that investing in someone's life takes time, money, and a whole lot of love. And you know what? Even when that love is not given back, it's that unconditional love. It's realizing it is my responsibility, as someone saved the believer in Jesus Christ, it is not the pastor's responsibility. It is not the missionaries' only responsibility, it is not the Sunday schools, it is my responsibility alone, it is my obligation alone to do something about it and invest in someone's life Have you invested in someone's life? Because you see, they might not, you may not even see the fruit right away, but it's for eternity. It makes a difference. I won't forget my dad. He worked on the bus route in college. And there was this one kid. His name was Jamie. And Jamie, you would always pick him up. Every Sunday, every Wednesday, you would always bring him over to church. And Jamie was just one of those really good bus kids. He just was always there on time, always make sure he got on the bus, always was there with his Bible, you take his little sister with him him and he was just really faithful. One day my dad came by and Jamie wasn't there at the house. And he went and knocked on the door and he found out that there is a the the the the house was closed up and his Jamie and his family had moved away. Jamie didn't even know. They just moved away right that week and they moved far away and my dad didn't even know where they went. You lost complete contact with him He thought, I'm never going to see Jamie again. Well, years, years later, my our family, as a family, we're in Atlanta, Georgia, and we're at a church there presenting the ministry, and we got a phone call, and we answered it. And on the other side, there was a grown man's voice, but he said, Is this is this Mr. Sean? My dad's name. And my dad's like, yes. He's like, this is Jamie. And he's like, what? He's like, Jamie, the buff kid And he's like, what? What are you doing? He's like, yeah, I I heard you're here in uh in Atlanta. I want to meet up with you guys. So we finally met up with Jamie. And my dad showed the story with us of how he would pick him up by the bus kid. Damien, of course, is really tall now, probably not different than when he was a bus kid. And we sat down and he started talking to us and the whole time he was sharing and he started sharing. He's like, you know, I never forget, Mr. Sean, when you would pick me up as a bus kid And you would take me there and I was so sad when my family moved away. But I saw how important it was for you to always pick me up. So I said, if it's important for you, then it must be important for me that I still keep going to church. So the next city we went, we found this church, me and my sister, and we started getting involved in youth group, and man, we started getting excited about things of God, and they start teaching us. And then I felt like God wanted me to go to a college, a Christian college. So I went there. And then I felt God wanted me to be a missionary. So I started to be a missionary. And now I'm missionary to England And I got married to a godly girl and now we're we're missionaries in England now. We've been there for about three years. And the whole time they're telling us we're just like, Huh? Huh? What? What in the world? What happened? And Jamie is telling us all this and we couldn't believe our ears. Right after dads were getting ready to go. My dad had been praying for so long for a certain amount of money to be able to pay off our building down in Brazil we were building on As we were leading Jamie comes and slips a check inside my dad's hand. He said, thank you for your faithfulness in picking me up. Every Sunday. Jamie walked out, and when my dad opened up, it was the exact amount for that building that we needed to pay off. We had no idea that a little bus kid would one day become a missionary who would give back to missions. God used that because of one purpose was faithfulness. You know, your fruit may not be seen right now, but it counts for all eternity. Are you realize your obligation in making a difference in someone's life? Virginia, can you help me out here real quick? I need you to help me out here with this thing. I want you to tell me you can come and stand right over here so everyone can see. Virginia's really shy. Alright, Virginia, I want you to try to solve this problem for me, okay? I want you to try to discern which one is bigger, okay? Just tell me, alright, which one is bigger? Either this one or this one. Okay? You ready? Okay. Which one is bigger? This one? The bottom one? Okay, the brown one. Okay. Well look over there, I think. Okay, Virginia. Now you said the brown one was bigger, right? Okay. So is the brown one still big? Is that the big one? It is? You sure about that? Which one looks bigger, guys? The yellow one? Oh! I thought you said the brown ones. You sure about that? Okay, well Okay, Virginia. Well you said the yellow one. I know that for sure. So it's the yellow one, right? The brown one? Oh my goodness, what is this girl thinking? I think you wrote up woke up on the crazy side of the bed. Oh my goodness. What okay. It's gotta be the brown one, right? The yellow one Virginia, look right here, right in front of you. Which one is bigger now? The brown one Virginia, you said the yellow one. Which one is bigger now? Well Virginia. I hate to spray this to you, but it's actually what we call an obstacle illusion. These are actually the same exact size. The yellow one and the brown one. They're the same exact size. I played a trick on you. You're not going crazy. Not yet. Okay. But you know what? How often do we as Christians get optical illusions about the Great Commission that God has for us? You know, we often look and think, wow, the Great Commission, missions work, investing people, reaching people, reaching souls, that is reserved for the man of God The pastor and missionary and even Sunday school teacher. That is the person who should be doing this. We even pay them to do this. We send offerings. They're the ones. And me, poor lowly old me. I would just sit in my seat and watch them do it. Because the calling was for them. It's not my calling. That's not up to me. But can I break the news to you? In God's eyes, the calling is the same. It's just as much as you who are a layperson as it is to the missionary. We are all have the same obligation. Thank you, Virginia. We all have the same calling. We all have the same responsibility. Are we recognizing that obligation that we have in front of us? But third of all But not least, we see a person with compassion, they are, they see the opportunity to harvest. There's opportunities all around. They recognize their obligation. And last of all, a person who is in the compassion is when they take ownership of the harvest. When they take ownership of it That is the point where we take action. That is when we not only see it And not only recognize it, and I keep on dropping, but now we do it. We own it. We take action. That is a point where we not only realize a responsibility, but we do something about it. And you know what? God wants us all to take that step of faith. And when God shows us that opportunity and works in our hearts about the need that we our the need what we need to do. Then now that's when we take the step of faith and do it. I remember when I first started wanting to learn how to drive. I was so excited about it. And I remember I was 15, almost 16, and I was so excited about learning how to drive. Couldn't wait to get my driver's license. And I remember I had a couple of times maybe sat behind the wheel and everything, but I Couldn't wait to where maybe I could actually use a car, you know, stuff like that. And I was just so excited. And I remember one day I walked into the garage in the The the the one of our church bands was just sitting in the garage and I looked inside and the key was still in the ignition. Oh My fingers got all tingly. I opened the door. I got in, slowly closed it, made sure no one was looking. I said, I'm just gonna turn the initiation. Just turn the motor on. I went and turned it and the motor roared alive. Oh, woo! I was like, I'm just gonna back up out of the garage. That's it I slowly started backing out. It was a stick shift. Slowly started backing out out of the garage. I'm so excited. I was like, okay, I'm just gonna drive down the road, the street of my neighborhood. That'll be it. Started driving down the street. I've made it this far. I I'm just gonna turn the corner and go to the next block. Okay, so I turned the corner, went around the next block, and right before me was the interstate What an opportunity. And I realize it's my obligation to get on the interstate since I made it this far, you know. I'm in behind the wheel So I went, I knew on the interstate you had to speed up. I slowly got into the interstate and I started stepping onto the gas pedals. 50, 60, 70, 80, 90. Oh my goodness. I was getting so excited. I roll down the window, start feeling the wind hitting my face, and it's like, oh, you know, this is So great. I'm going, going, going. And I'm just enjoying, enjoying. And I realized I was passing the sign and said it was nice visiting Sao Paulo. I was like, What Man, I'm leaving the city already. Oh my, I'm can't I get I'm gonna keep going. So I started going down, down, down, and now I realized I wasn't too far from the state line of Sao Paulo I was getting ready to go into the next state. Well, I made it this far. What an opportunity. I crossed the state line. Oh my goodness, I was in the next state. And that state wasn't that big as the next state. So I just crossed over into the next state line. Before I know it, I see not a state line, but the border line to go into Argentina. I'm like, what in the world? What an opportunity, right? I slowly got to that border and as I pulled up to that border I closed my eyes, couldn't wait to get it, and I heard my dad say, Seth, get out of the car, and I opened up my eyes and I was still sitting in the Garage. I didn't go anywhere. I took a field trip in my mind. Oh my goodness. It was good up here. Man oh my. But you know what? How many of us as believers, we are filled with dreams of what we want to do for the Lord, but we don't take that step of action. We don't take that step of faith. We're taking all these mental field trips. Man, it's wonderful. Man, I see them doing all these things. Man, it's great. Look how God is using that person. Oh but I I can't do that. You know, have all these limitations. Oh and we we we even dream about it. We even have a desire. But when God shows us and gives us opportunity We don't want to take the step of faith. We only dream about it. And you know, some believers, unfortunately, they're going to get to the end of their life, and all they have is dreams Dreams of what they could have done for God, but they're just going to go up and smoke. And they're going to miss out on the great adventure that God has for them. I pray that you're not that person. Jesus took action. And you see in this one passage, all the action he took place. Verse 1, he cures one sick of a palsy. Verse 9, he calls Matthew the service. Verse 10, he's a publican as sinners. Verse 14, he defends the disciples for not fasting. Verse 20, he hears a woman and blood issue. Verse 23, he raises Jarius's daughter from the dead. Verse 27 gives sight to the blind man. Verse 32, he heals the dumb man. And then verse 36, finally, after all that, he then he has he it talks about having compassion on the multitudes. Did you get the idea? Jesus was a man who was moved with compassion and took action. He took that step of faith, was the example for us. And the militant call is to all of us to do something. I want to finish with this illustration. Brother Matt. Pastor Mac, can you help me out over here? You can just stand right here. Uh let's see. What's someone else? A really strong man. Well, I see here. Um let me see here. That's over here. Hmm, maybe oh you're you are on the bus. You can come and help me out. And you'll help me out too. Come on and help me out. I need one more person. Let's see here. Where's my friend, Brother Stewart? Where is he at? Brother Stewart, is he is he busy right now? Are you busy? Are you busy? I see him on the window. Oh, can you help me out real here real quick? No no? Yes? Maybe? Okay, well actually someone else. You can help me out, please. Come over here. Don't worry, I won't embarrass you too much. Bear with me. I want to make these guys my firefighters. Okay? So you guys are going to be firefighters, part of the firefighting team. Now, when you meet someone who's a firefighter, what are they supposed to do? If they're a firefighter, what are they supposed to do? Fight fires. Isn't that their calling? Isn't that what they were signed up to do? They're supposed to fight fires, correct? Okay. So if they're firefires, what are they supposed to be doing? By fires, correct? Yes? Maybe? Yes. Alright. You're firefighters, alright? Congratulations. But why you're not fighting fires? You'll be you got to keep yourself busy somehow. So back at the station, you guys are doing something else, alright? So you while you're back at the station, your job is to be washing the truck. Okay? So can you wash the fire truck for me Go ahead. Show me how you wash the fire truck. How would you wash a fire truck? You get one hand right here. There you go. Okay. And then get the other hand right there. Now both hands. There you go. Oh good. Let's give him her finger clap. Finger clap. Good job. Keep it up. Keep it up. Oh, good job. Keep it up. Spread that silk. Spread it. There you go. Alright While he's doing that, your job, keep it up, keep it up, don't stop. While he's doing that, alright, your job, you're gonna be feeding the dog. Okay. We have a rescue dog, his name is Toto, but he's he he's been suspected of rabies sometimes, so you've got to be careful, but you gotta you gotta feed him. Alright? So go ahead and feed the dog. Go ahead and see them. Oh nice, gently. Oh nice. Keep on watching that truck. Make it nice and clean. Okay? Very good. All right? Now while he's doing that, you are gonna be busy rolling out the hose for the fire truck. Is that the way you do it? Okay, there you go. Whatever I that's tangling up the hose. Okay. Let me see, is that truck clean? Keep it up, keep it up. How's the dog doing? Oh. Oh yeah. Yeah. All right, how you're rolling up the hose. Okay. Really good. Now while he's doing that, you know what you're doing? That dog eats so much that he poops a lot. So you're gonna have to scoop up the poop for the dog, all right? So you're the pooper's pooper, so go ahead Scoop it up and throw it away. There you go. Oh, not on me. Alright, keep it up, keep it up. Alright, help me out here guys. What is this guy doing? Washing the truck. What is this guy doing? What is he doing? More like tangling up the hose. Alright. And what is he doing? Yeah, pooper scooper. Right there. The most important job. Alright, keep it up. Keep it up. Alright. We have the fire alarm sounds. Alright? Stop what you're doing. We need to go and stop the fire. Come with me. They come down. Come on, speed up, speed up, speed up, up. All right, back around over here, back around. There you go. These are the slowest firefighters I ever met. Alright, you can stop right there. Awesome. Very good. You're in front of a blazing fire. It's right there. Now what are they called to do? Are they firefighters So they're supposed to fight what? That's what they're supposed to do, right? So you're standing in front of a big fire, and as you see the fire, you know you're supposed to fight the fire, and you know what he does when he sees it? He starts washing the truck. Go ahead. And you know what you do? Start feeding the dog. He's already stuck, but he's feeding him more. And what are you doing? Roll the hose up. Rolling the hose up and you keep on scooping that poop. There you go. Keep it up, keep it up. The fire is burning. Is this what they're supposed to be doing? If we saw firefighters doing that, man, what a scene. Goodness. Is this what they were called to do What were they called to do? Is this the what they're doing? Are they enjoying doing this? Maybe. I don't know. But here's my point. They weren't called to do that. Maybe in their free time they keep themselves busy, but their main goal is to fight fires. They might be good. He might be good at scooping poop. But that's not his main goal. He might be good at rolling up the hose, but that's not his what he was called to do. They may be good in their responsibilities on the side, but their main objective is to fight fires. That is their obligation. That is where they have to take ownership. And as believers, our responsibility is to fight the fires of hell, is to reach people with the gospel. Doing church work, all those things, the normal church activities, that's good. But that's not our main goal. Having a big church activity, having big play and big musical, that's good. But if you're not doing it for the point of reaching people the gospel, what's the point? We're just becoming another social organization, a charity work Our main goal, calling, to fight the fires of hell. That's what we are called to do. That's where we need to get out of our comfort zone of what we're accustomed to doing. And do what we are called to do. Thank you very much. Are you, have you stepped out of your comfort zone and done what God has laid on your heart to do? God's given us all a calling. He's not going to force you to do it. He gives you the opportunity. You've got to recognize it's your obligation. And take ownership. Man, I think of what Jesus Christ did for me on that cross. How he gave everything. He saw an opportunity to save me from my sin. And you realize as the Lamb of God it was his obligation only Hugh could safely. And so he took ownership. He didn't hold anything back. He gave it all up for me. So why do I think I have a right to hold something back from him? My life all belongs to him anyway. He gave it all for me. When I was in college, there was a little boy named Johnny who impacted my life. He always came to junior church, would sit right up front right here You would always thank me for the story. Yeah, these freckles and these the the these green eyes and these this orange hair He was he was oh sweet boy. He always wanted me to visit his home. I never got a chance. Finally one day I visited his home. When I visited his house, it was sad. He slept on the floor Parents couldn't afford to get him a bed. Never met his dad. But he loved his mom so much. Even though his mom treated him mean, she he loved her so much, he would make little magnets and stuff to try to get her attention. He was trying to do everything so he could just show how much he loves someone. I remember I felt so sad what I saw. I was like, we gotta do something. I got my church workers. And we made a big basket for him. And we gave it to little Johnny on the last day before I left. I remember as I presented that basket to little Johnny, we were so excited to give it to him, and I was sure he was going to get excited. And when he looked at it, he started crying. And I said, little Johnny, why are you crying? This is, we've got all this stuff for you. You're supposed to be happy. And he said, Mr. Seth, I'm very happy for the basket. But that's not why I'm crying. I was like, why? He says because you're going away. I was like, oh, but Johnny, there's somebody else who will always come. He said, no, but Mr. Seth, you don't understand. It wasn't the basket. Because you really were somebody who loved me. And I never had somebody who loved me like that. Then I realized It wasn't the basket that was going to change Johnny's life. It was the love of Christ. It was the love that was shown through someone that didn't. You know, every time when I I get sad, I'm investing in someone and maybe they hurt me back or they don't take my love, I realize the only thing that's going to change them is not all the stuff I buy for them Or how goofy I am, or how popular. It's going to impact them and change them. It's the love of Christ that's seen through my life. That is a person of moving compassion. They are filled with that love of Christ. And they take action, but always filled with that love of Christ. You can take all the action you want. But if you don't have the true love of Christ behind that action, it means nothing. Removed with compassion. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. I'm sorry, I took more dime than usual. Our eyes bowed or our eyes closed and heads bowed. We're going to do a quick invitation here. I'll turn over to Pastor Matt. I never want to leave without presenting this question. The first question is, are you saved from your sin? You can't be you can be doing all these good stuff for people, but if you're not saved from your sin, if you don't know if you're going to heaven when you die, then they don't mean anything. The Bible says, for by grace are you saved. Not of works lest any man should boast. By faith in Jesus Christ is recognizing He gave it all for me, recognizing I'm a sinner, I can't save myself, ask Him by faith, believing that He can save me and ask Him to save me. That is the key. If you're not saved today, today may be your opportunity. You can go up to any one of these the church folks, the deacons, brother Pastor Matt. Go and talk to them about it. Now if you are saved, I want to give you an opportunity for you to come and lay that need that maybe God's placed on your heart on the altar. I'm going to ask the pianess just to play real softly. And it just give you a quick opportunity. If God works in your heart, don't hold back. Don't be concerned with what other people think about you. Don't be thinking that person needs to go to the altar. Realize how God wants to work on my life personally. The piano is going to start playing softly.