Chapter 25. 2nd Chronicles chapter 25. Glad to see some young people here tonight. Well there's a big section right there, over here on the right side, my right in the middle. And uh when we stand up for the reading of the Bible, some of you might want to move just right over there. You don't have to be on the front row, but Maybe fill in that section. Here's why. First of all, it's hard preaching to empty pews. Secondly, I'm afraid the building is going to tilt. Because everybody's on that side. I mean Pastor Matt would take up about ten people on that side. But if somebody want to get over and uh kind of get on this side and just even things out a little bit It makes a little bit better, but uh if you don't, then uh God bless you. But 2 Chronicles chapter 25. Let's stand up together for the reading of the Word of God. Second Chronicles chapter twenty-five. It looks better already. Amen. Oh hold on, Derek. Don't go over there. Now it looks bad again. All right, but anyway, 2 Chronicles, 2 Chronicles chapter 25, please, and verse number 5. Let's look at that together Moreover, Amaziah gathered Judah together and made them captains over thousands and captains over hundreds, according to the house of their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from twenty years old and above, and found them 300,000 choice men, able to go forth to war, but can handle spear and shield. He hired also a hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for a hundred talents of silver. But there came a man of God to him, saying O king, let not the army of Israel go with thee, for the Lord is not with Israel to wit, with all the children of Ephraim But if thou wilt go, do it. Be strong for the battle. God shall make thee fall before the enemy. For God has power to help. And a cast down. And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I've given to the army of Israel? And the man of God answered, Let's read the rest of this verse together out loud. The man of God answered, Ready? The Lord is able to give thee much more than this. The Lord is able to give thee much Much more than this. I have a sermon, I have an outline, but I pray that you won't miss the message. In my sermon and in my outline. There are times where preachers are guilty of losing the message In the outline and the points and the subpoints. I don't want you to miss the message. The message is this whatever God requires of you Whatever God asks of you, whatever it is that God said, I want this or that We may count the cost, Charles Spurgeon said, we may count the cost as rigidly as we please and shall find it is always best to obey the Lord. When God requires something, the Lord is able to give thee much more than this. I want to speak on that subject much Than this. Father, help us tonight. May the Word of God have free course. Thank you for this good meeting. Thank you for the liberty. To the preaching, to the fellowship together, for the great singing, and God just bless our time together. Thank you for it. We pray that you'll touch lives. I pray that every person in this room that's not saved, who does not have the assurance of eternal life I pray that every one of them will trust you tonight. Thank you for what you'll do. We give you the praise and the glory together. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text tonight is a great event that occurs in the life of a man whose name was Amaziah. If you study your Bible, you will find that Amaziah was the eighth king of Judah. We've learned this week through the preaching that at the time of this writing, the people of Israel in general were divided into two kingdoms. There was a northern kingdom of Samaria. And that was the kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. They had broken off the northern kingdom. had broken off a number of years ago. Whenever Solomon came into power of the people of Israel, they broke off. And Rehboam and some others took the ten tribes of Israel And went and started their own kingdom of Israel. The kingdom of Judah and the Levites stayed in the city of Jerusalem. Now They have uh gone they have uh begun to go on the course of life. They had their Passovers, they had their feasts, they did all the things God wanted them to do. Now Judah is into their eighth king king in succession. He is father's name, who was uh uh was before him, his name was Joash. And his father had come into a conflict with the Syrians and had a hard time defeating them. Joash had some issues. He had some troubles where he did not follow God wholeheartedly, and eventually Joash was killed in a conspiracy in his own home Now his son Amaziah begins to come uh into the kingdom and he starts to reign when he is twenty-five years of age. The Bible said that he reigned for twenty-nine years, and he started to reign somewhere around eight hundred B. C. He was a good king. The Bible said he did what was right in the sight of the Lord, but not with a perfect heart. In other words, he did overall in general good and r and right, but not perfectly. I can say this to you. Uh I don't want God to say of me, well Lou is a pretty good fella He sort of served the Lord pretty well, but uh, you know, he had some issues. How many want God to say of you that you serve the Lord wholeheartedly Amen. And so you don't want to be that guy, so well he was a good man, he had this problem and that problem. Now I know uh most of us uh whether we know it or not, have an issue or two. And so uh how many of you have at least one or two issues? How many you're married to somebody's got some issues, all right? So understand that we all have some issues, but I'm not talking about spiritual failure, a spiritual flaws, a spiritual sin that keeps us from serving God. So this man is coming into power. Now he is going to get an army together Because he's gonna he's gonna go do business and finish up what his father could not finish. Sort of like George Bush tried to do for his dad and go into the Middle East and clean up and finish up there. But understand that He comes in and begins to uh try to clean house and he's going to come in and he's going to come against The Syrians, as he does, uh he begins to pull all the troops of Israel together in our text. The Bible said in uh verse number nine, or excuse me, all the way back in verse number five, Amaziah gathered Judah together. made them captains over thousands, captain over hundreds, and the Bible said he numbered them from twenty years old and above. Three hundred thousand choice men able to go forth to war that can handle spear and shield. I mean that's a pretty good sized army He's got three hundred thousand choice men. That means good men. That means uh that means men uh of war. And he got these men that were above twenty years of age because he wanted men who had some experience and some maturity. They knew how to handle both the spear and the shield. They knew how to uh to come conduct combat offensively and defensively. They knew what they were doing Now he's got a great army. He's got three hundred thousand men. But the next verse, in verse number ten, or verse number six, he hired also A hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for a hundred talents of silver. So he calls on these mighty men of valor. I mean these are the special ops. These are the guys that are like the seals or the uh the rangers or Green Beret. These are the guys that are go in go in and conducts serious business on the battlefield. He gets a hundred thousand of these men and he hires them for a hundred thousand talents of silver So he said, I'm gonna make sure that we win this battle. I'm gonna reinforce the army and I'm gonna get these crack troops from up north I mean these guys are the best of the best and the baddest of the baddest, and I'm gonna get some of these men in here and we're gonna mop these people up, we're gonna win this battle And have a great time. I can see them now gathering together, getting ready to march against the Syrians. I see them the night before. They had their standards all set up in order uh in the camp of Israel. All their standards were set up. There was Benjamin and Nathali and all the tribes of Israel. Of course there was Judah. And all there were all the tribes represented, just like They were supposed to bait. For combat. I see them singing the songs of God. I will sing unto the Lord. He hath triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider have he thrown into the sea I see them singing songs and calling out to God and saying, we're going to have great uh victory, great revival, and this hundred thousand men are singing. God kill the Assyrians, we're gonna have great spoil, we're gonna have all kinds of money We will go back home to the Northern Kingdom as mercenary soldiers, soldiers of fortune, if you will, and we're going home and we're going to be very, very well off and take money and spoil home For our families. Everything's going good. But then if you look at it, please, verse number seven. Verse number seven. But there came a man of God to him. Now wait a minute. You'll see that many times in the Bible They're having a great time. They're having a great celebration. All is well. Yippee and everything else. And a man of God comes and And I I can tell this well it seems like my pastor is always preaching against everything. Say amen to that. I mean It's it's like he finds out all the stuff we like all week long, finds out what fun we have, so we can he can preach against it on Sunday morning. And I can tell you this, uh having preached the the Word of God for a number of years now, more than forty years, and uh been behind pulpits all over America and of course and two churches that we pastored. It is a difficult thing to stand up and preach against much of anything, especially today. People don't like it. Say amen? They don't want to hear that there are sins that you shouldn't be involved in. There are activities that you ought to put aside. And this man of God comes faithfully, and he confronts the king of Israel, the king of Judah, and says to him, the man of God said, O king Let not the army of Israel go with thee, for the Lord is not with Israel to wit, with all the children of Ephraim. This man of God knew that the people of Samaria from up the northern kingdom, they'd given themselves to idolatry. They had given themselves to Baal and Baalanism. We learned about that the other night. There were also at the time of this writing, uh Molech was coming on the scene, and the Ashira was coming in and these pagan idols that were very ungodly and wicked, they were starting to trend with the people of God. And he said They're bringing idolatry in. We don't need idolatry. We don't need some little pagan statue. We have the one true living God and we don't need that. And so he takes the stand against it. And then he and to a degree He uses uh some sarcasm. He said, if thou wilt go, do it in verse number eight, be strong. For the battle, God shall make thee fall before the enemy. You see, if you do this, you're gonna be all on your own. So you better be strong. And you better get it done. How many of you believe this? It is not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. And he said, You if you're going to do this, you need to be real strong. And God Is able to make thee fall before the enemy. For God has power to help and to cast down. He's faced with a choice. He is faced With a big choice. He's already paid a hundred thousand dollars to an or a hundred thousand talents of silver That was far more uh a hundred tallons of silver, excuse me. That was far more than a hundred thousand dollars. That was the equivalent of a large fortune. I've studied it. I can't get the exact amount, but it's a lot of money, more than most of us will ever have. And he had paid it already to them And so he's got a problem here. He also knows these men of Israel are not going to be happy if he goes to see them and say sorry. Uh Brooke, guys, keep the money but go at home. Sorry, we can't have you here. The man of God prophesied It said that God is not with you. He's with us. So you can't go in. You know, people don't really take that very well. So amen to that. So you're not allowed in here, sorry about that. You don't act right Uh we don't want you to come. No, that that's not that doesn't go well. He knows what's gonna happen. And Amaziah said to the man of God Verse 9, what shall we do for the hundred talents which I've given to the army of Israel? And the man of God answered, The Lord is able to give thee. Much more than this. I love what F. D. Meyer said. He said, You say that you have already entered into so close an alliance that you cannot draw back. You've invested your capital. You have gone to great expenditure. Yet it will be better to forfeit these. than him. Better to lose the money than to lose the power of God. Better to lose what you've already spent Than to get out of fellowship and out of touch with your Savior. He said, The Lord is able to give thee much more than this. I can tell you tonight I'm Uh I'm fairly young. Please somebody say amen. I'm 69 And uh I'm sixty-nine, that's that's not really that old of an age, I don't think. Uh being sixty-nine years old is pretty young. So uh And I don't feel real old some mornings, yes, but uh I've been around a while, been preaching uh most of my a lot of my adult life. I've been preaching the Word of God, and I can tell you this, one of the observations I've made, that when you give it all for God The Lord always gives a whole lot more back. And I don't mean just money. We're not prosperity preachers. Say amen to that. He gives you a whole lot more. But the Lord is able to give thee much more than this. I've been at the deathbed of men and women that in their last dying sentences of life, the last words they spoke, I wish I could have done it. all over again. I had a man that was weeping in front of me. He said, I'm wealthy. I have everything that I could ever want. He said, I would trade all that in if I could have lived the last few years of my life with peace and with friends and with family. He lost it all. And he understands the fact if he had just said yes to God, he said, the Lord is able to give thee much more than this. I wrote down a few things about this. First of all, he's able to give you much more than this is salvation. We think that salvation is going to be the worst thing that ever happens to us. I ran from God for several years I think I told you I was a rock and roll drummer and uh lived in a lot of sin. I played work construction by day and played music by night and did all the bad things I could that went along with that And I thought I was having a really great time. And all that goes with the whole rock world, especially back in the seventies when I was a young man, and all the sin and ungodliness that goes along with it, I thought I was really having A great time. My mom got saved. She prayed for me and begged me to get saved. My dad got saved. He tried to witness to me. I ran from God. I said, I don't want anything to do with that. Several friends got saved. One of my brothers got saved. They all tried to witness to me, and I kept saying, I don't want that I'm having a time of my life. I love partying. I love all this sin that I'm involved in. I heard a preacher stand up in a meeting and say, Young people, sin is no fun. No, that's not what the Bible says. The Bible said there's pleasure in sin. But what? The season. So uh I was still in my pleasure season. I was still having a great time. But I'm going to say this to you. When I finally came to Jesus Christ, when I finally came broken in a lot of trouble with God, with the law, and everything else. When I finally came to him and put my faith and trust in him, I thought God would just make my life miserable. I would be as miserable as many of the Christians that I had met I would look like I was mad at the world. I would look but come to church with a big sour sour uh face like I see with Christians. Some Christians look like they got baptized in lemon juice, amen? I mean they look miserable And so uh uh no wonder uh some people don't get saved. I got saved. I trusted Christ on a Sunday morning in September of nineteen seventy-six, and God changed my life. God worked in my life. I said, why didn't I do this a long time ago? I got the peace of God with pass it all understanding. He gave me Joy, unspeakable, and full of glory. Most of all, I was no longer looking over my shoulder and wondering when I was going to die and spend eternity in a lake of fire I knew I got saved. I didn't expect all that stuff. I never heard one of these Joel Osteen's m messages where he said, You can have your best life now. I didn't hear any of that I just knew I was lost and on my way to hell and needed to get saved. And I said, God, uh, here I am. I'm sorry. And I asked Christ in my life and put my faith in him alone. And here's what God did. John chapter 10 verse 10. Jesus said, the thief cometh not, but for to steal And to kill and to destroy, but I have come that you might have life and have it more abundantly Man, I entered into the abundant life that God gives. Here's what God said about salvation. The Apostle Paul wrote to the church at Corinth, he said in 1 Corinthians 2 9, I have not seen, neither ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man. the things which God had prepared for them that love him. I can't tell you how many Friday nights I went out after working all week long with a big pot pocket full of money and woke up the next day didn't even know where I was the night before, spent all of my money. Young people, you're not coming up here, I'm coming back there. Amen. So uh listen to me carefully. You think the world's gonna give you a grand time You think sin is going to make you happy, but I'm going to say you this uh you'll wake up miserable and hurt and lonely and wounded, but Jesus has a wonderful life for you. You have no idea what he has, whatever you have. And whatever he's calling you to give up, he's able to give you much more than this. Man, I thought I thought for sure once I got saved, Pastor, God would just make me crawl the altar and live in the back room of the church somewhere and just uh clean the the the pews and take care of the the commodes and take care of the I I thought I was so ungodly and so unworthy that God would never let me do anything but the most menial thing and I was glad to do it And don't you know, after all that, God called me to preach and asked me to start lifting up the unsearchable riches of Christ and letting people know that Jesus paid the price for their sin And they asked me to speak at a youth rally for our church and said, give your testimony. I said, well, what's that? What's that? They said, just tell how the Lord saved you. I didn't even know what to say. I got up as some kids, a trio sang, Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so. I never heard that song in my life. That was the first time. I stood up before about 150 teenagers weeping, so I never heard anything like that before. They were looking at me like that guy's really weird, amen. And and I gave my testimony And a bunch of kids got saved, and God worked through my life. And I said, This is the greatest thing I've ever done. This is the greatest thing I've ever been a part of. And I can tell you, it's a wonderful thing To serve the Lord. And on top of all that, I had some strange views. I really thought God was going to punish me for the rest of my life for all the horrible things I did. And I I'll be honest with you. I thought he was gonna make me marry, you know, some homely, ugly girl just 'cause I was so bad And by the way, I have not much to look at either. I said, well, and he gave me the most beautiful, incredible wife. I was in Bible college, went there and prayed all the way to school and I walked into the foyer and I looked across the room and I saw my wife, the first girl I saw, and I saw her. I thought, she looketh good to me. Amen to that. And And God put us together in a high school bible club and she wasn't just pretty, she loved the Lord and wanted to serve him with her whole life and glorify God and magnify him and honor him. And I can tell you this, I had no idea if you'd have told me back then I'd have five beautiful children and eight wonderful grandchildren and have friends and uh friends like Pastor Leatherman to be uh my friends for life, a lot of friends like that across America. I would have thought you lost your mind But the Lord is able to give us much more than this. Salvation. The Lord is able to give us much more than this when it comes to submission To his perfect will for your life. That was what Amaziah was faced with. Are you going to do what God wants? Or are you going to follow your plan and your scheme? Are you going to glorify God and say, the Lord, He's able to save? God is able to He's able to He will give us power. He's able to be strong, for the Lord shall make thee fall before the enemy. God has power to help And the cast down. You want to be on the help side or you want to be on the cast down side of God? And he said, you're going to have to obey him. And he said, I want that help side. I want God to help me. And the issue was submission, saying yes. To his perfect will for your life. Now the Bible said in her Hebrews 13, 17, obey them that have the rule over you. And submit yourselves as they that must give an account. In other words, the pastor and the spiritual leadership of your church is going to give an account for you. And therefore, it's important for us to make it easy. Are you a difficult Christian to lead? Or do you come in and say, What do you need, Pastor? How can I serve? How can I give of myself? When Pastor warns you about something, I've had people in the churches that I pastored and I saw they were making bad decisions and going in a different difficult direction and I'd say Uh should I even say something to them? I know they're going to be offended. I know they're going to be mad. And I gotta take the risk and say, you know, I love you and I don't want you to do this I'm praying for you. Oh, what are you some kind of a dictator? I'm going to go to a church where the pastor loves everybody. No, you need to go to a church where the pastor loves you enough to tell you the truth Say amen. And to warn his flock. And as he sees one of his flock going over by a precipice about to fall over a cliff, to be a man of God and take that shepherd's truck and pull them up near and say, don't do that. Well I'm going to do it anyway. You seen the picture of the little lamb with the broken leg, uh the tank well the the picture of the lamb around the shepherd's neck like this. He's done that 'cause he's been wayward, he's been a little troublemaker, and he has to break his leg in order to put him around his shoulders Carry him everywhere with him, so he endears that little lamb to the heart of a shepherd, and he won't wander off. I don't want broken legs, say man. I don't want God to have to chasten me. We need to be easy To lead and direct. God said to submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. James 4:7. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man For the Lord's sake, first Peter two, verse number thirteen. And so to be a submissive Christian, when I got saved, I had blown it on every level of life. Not going to tell you about all the bad things I did They were bad. And you can use your imagination, it's not bad enough. And God saved me out of a mess. And I'd been going to church for a little while. And it was like something started dealing with me and said that you are now 21 years old. You have made every bad decision a person could make up to this point You need to start listening to your mom and dad. I said from now on, Lord, I'm going to obey my parents. I hadn't even read Ephesians chapter 5. I know some of you have read that all your life. Ephesians chapter 6. Children obey your parents in the Lord. This is right. I know some of you had wallpaper in your room growing up uh with that and uh your dad had a little paddle on the mantelpiece and said I need thee every hour. But I mean I wasn't raised like that. I I was raised in a a good people, but we didn't know the Lord. And I knew I had no idea what that meant And I said, Lord, I'm going to obey you. And I'm going to start listening to my mom and my dad. I was seeing a girl who lived out in gr out in the valley of uh uh out there in Towson and a beautiful area outside of Loch Raven, just a gorgeous area of pastures, farmland, and uh I forget the name of the area, but Beautiful place. And her dad owned a big farm out there and uh I was seeing a girl, somebody fixed me up with her and started seeing her and I Church girl and in church and everything. And I I'd go out there, and he was an Italian fellow. I mean his name was Mr. Lou, and I'd go see their and go to their home and he'd say, Hey Luigi, how you doing? And he hugged me and he kissed me on the cheek, pinched me like that. Ah, you're a good guy. I like you. I like you. He said, I like you. You're gonna marry my daughter. I said, well we'll see about all that, Mr. Looty Yeah, you're the one. And I I go to his house and I mean Pastor, I pull into his driveway. His driveway was about a quarter of a mile from the road Big beautiful home out there. He had exotic cars over there parked. He had uh Mercedes, the Corvette, he had a uh a Porsche and all that, all that And he goes, taking my car out today. Go use my car. I mean he let me use his car and stuff. I thought, man, I'm getting used to this real fast. And he said, uh And a big construction company. And I knew a little bit about that. And he said, uh, Louise, you're gonna be my son-in-law, you're gonna be Run the company. And man, I'm I'm thinking maybe this is God's will, amen. And he said, uh, yep. I said, well, Mr. Lou, I believe I'm God's calling me to preach I think I'm being called to be an evangelist. He said, Well you'll be a rich evangelist. All right. So that's fine. That sounded better. And it was all moving right along. I went home. One night I was leaving with my mom. I was walking out. She said, Where are you going? I said, I'm going to this girl's house and she said, Okay, go ahead. I said, wait a minute, hold on, you are you upset? She said, No, I I don't want to talk to you. I said, Well no. What do you mean, Mom? And she said, No You won't listen to me. I said, Well what do you what ya what's the problem? He she said, I don't think that girl is God's will for you Boy, I acted like a three-year-old kid. A little brat. I said, Oh, I guess I can't do anything right. Here I am, I'm cleaned up, I'm not going to nightclubs, I'm not doing all this, I'm not rocking out anymore. God's changed my life. I got my hair cut. I look good. Uh I I'm serving. I guess I can't do anything right. And I stormed out of the house, got on my Volkswagen square back. I was so mad that I didn't have my sports car anymore. I tried to be dramatic and get rubber with that thing. It just went ring, bring and nothing to it. And I drove up Harford Road. Never forget it. And God just spoke to me. It was like I didn't hear the voice of God, neither did you. I didn't hear audible voices. But it was like I knew that God was trying to deal with me. And that still small voice just reminded me of that commitment I had made to my mom and dad. I finally pulled the car over. There was a payphone there. How many remember payphones? Pulled out a dime, believe it or not. Ten cents. Put the ten cents into the payphone Doll my mom's house. I said, she answered. I said, mom, she was crying. I said, mom's me. I said, I'm I'm sorry I got upset. I said, Mom, I promised the Lord just a few weeks ago that I was going to start obeying you and Dad. I even found this verse in Ephesians 6 that tells me, children, obey your parents in the Lord. Well, this is right. I said, I know I'm twenty-one. I'm not a little child anymore, but I live in your home. I'm going to do what you say. She said, honey, I just want God's will for you. And that girl's a nice girl. She and she was a nice girl and all that, but he said, she's not the will of God for you. And I just know her heart is not toward ministry. It's not toward God and the ministry. She goes to church. She's a good girl, but that's not her goal. And I said, well, you're not wrong. And I said, okay, Mom. I hung up, drove up there, Mr. Lew was waiting at the door. Hey, Luigi! He was all excited. I think I was more in love with him and his daughter, say man Louisi, he said, come on. I said, hey, Mr. Lou. He said, uh, I said, Mr. Lou, I got bad news for you. I said, God's been dealing with me I think I need to maybe cool this off and end this relationship. I think God has somebody better for her and God has somebody different for me. He got so mad, told me to get out. Get out of here! You ever see an Italian man, especially from Sicily? Get out of here! He told me to get out and uh And I I said, Well yeah, but oh get out of here, I'll tell get get out of my house. And he and man I got out in the car in the driveway, drove down the driveway, look at those cars. I love you and I got driving and uh went down the road And I can't tell you, by the time I got to the driveway, the end of it, the peace of God which passeth all understanding. It flooded my heart. I sensed the presence of God in my car. I felt that God was just working in my life. I started weeping not because of losing the girlfriend or anything else. I started weeping because I said, Lord, I'd rather have your presence than anything in my life In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are pleasures evermore. What's an amazing thing? We got little sixth and seventh grade girls that are all in love with boys and little boys and they're they're dumber than boxes of rocks. But I mean uh got little girls and they're watching all these Hallmark channels and all this other bad stuff, especially on Twitter and all these uh TikToks and all and by the way moms and dads, you ought to be really, really involved and careful about what your kids watch. I said you need to be very involved and careful about what your kids watch. They're not playing with Ken and Barbie anymore. It's a different world. And you need to be careful. And And these kids are way beyond what we ever were as kids growing up. The kids, by the grace of God, you ought to say, I'm going to keep myself with the Lord and glorify him. I'm going to serve him and I'm going to tell you that rather than run after some boy that's twelve or thirteen years old who looks at you and winks at you a little bit and Uh you think, oh he's so cute. And you want to get the thrill of talking to your little friends. He's so cute. He wrote me a poem. If a boy wrote you a poem, you need to run. Say amen to that. You need a boy that knows how to have a shovel and shovel dirt and knows how to work, say amen. And instead of one of these budding poets that they have on the Hallmark channel. And I'm saying that you need to get a guy I gotta take two minutes. Yeah. My daughter said, Daddy, please watch The Hallmark with me. She's special needs. And I sat down and I watched The Hallmark, one of these Christmas movies Oh man. Girl comes back. She comes in from uh the New York City. She's coming back to her call small rural home. Back in Oakland, Maryland or someplace like that. And uh comes back home and everybody's kind of backward, gets out of the cab uh trips over the curb and r falls into a boy. Oh Gilbert. Oh hi and he's the boy from her uh from her boyfriend uh back in high school goes home they're trying to help mom and dad mom's having trouble Rubble with the heart with the home and she's there to fix everything. She's a jet setter, she's fast, she's got everything going and uh somewhere in the midst her boyfriend or fiance shows up from New York in his BMW Hallmark. Anybody who's has money is always a scumbag. Say amen to that. Anybody who's successful and doing it you know doing well And only the guy who is a budding artist with a flannel shirt and jeans, and he's always down at the pastry shop. They're always at the coffee shop. They never work And they're down there at the coffee shop or they own the coffee shop and he's caring, he's considerate, he's so nice. And he says, uh, is this really what you want? And he starts questioning her, and finally, of course, you can always tell right away who's gonna get married Who's gonna not? Who's she gonna break off with? In five minutes, I'll give you the whole story. Go do something profitable. Amen to that? And turn that off. And I'm saying to you that End of it all, she breaks off with the jet setter, and he turns out to be a bad guy anyway, marries the budding artist who's all come out of the jet world, now he's just a homeboy now and happy to drive an old pickup truck They finally get engaged. Well I don't know what we're gonna do for money, don't worry about it. My aunt left me five million dollars. But anyway, it always is the same. That's not life, say, man. Life is serving God. Life is living our life in submission to God's will. And I can tell you, girls, girls, listen to me carefully, look up here. I'll tell you who knows about the boys Your daddy knows them. You ought to run him by the dad scanner. Let dad check him out. Let dad look him over. And right away he's gonna tell you, nope, stay away from him Guys, I can tell you who can spot lemon. Your mama. Let her check them out. Mama, what do you think about this girl? Get some counsel. Be wise in your dealings. Well, she's a cute girl, but she's a straight up Jezebel. Say amen to that. Your mom can spot a Jezebel a mile off. Amen. You say, My mom thinks every girl's a Jezebel. Well, she probably does. But I'm saying To be godly, be in submission. If you do that, the Lord will give thee much more than this. How was I to know just a few years later God was going to call me to Bible college, God was going to call me to full-time ministry? How would I know that I would need a wife that loves God with all of her heart, soul and mind. A wife that called me this afternoon just before I was getting ready to to put my suit on and stuff and Tell me about preaching. Say, Come on, honey, just keep preaching. Hey, I've been reading the book of Ezra. Tell me all about it. Say, man, you need to take a stand, Lou, go on for God. And encouraging me in the things of God Instead of crying, we don't have enough money, I gotta buy more jewelry, I ran out of makeup, I need a couple more gallons, and I don't know what to do. I don't you don't need that person. Say amen to that. So submission And the Lord's able to give you much more than this. I'll hurry just a few more points. He's able to give you much more than this by the way of supply. God told him, I know you're giving up this hundred talents of silver. It's a lot of money. Amaziah this is going to cost you something. But let me say this to you. If you give it over for God God is going to give you much more than this. Have you found out when you started tithing that God Gave you much more than you ever imagined. He's been good to me. You might not have the, you know, you might not have the a palace somewhere. You might not have millions in the bank But he has made it very clear. David said, I am young, I have been young, now I'm old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. And God shall supply all of your needs. If you don't have it, you probably don't need it. How many of you went out here and pushed the envelope and bought something anyway? Had to have it And boy, a month later, you go, what was I thinking? Anybody else who's ever done that? And live in regret and loss and everything else? No, if we trust him. He's able to give us much more than this in supply. 2 Corinthians 9:8. is able to supply or is able to give thee much more. And God is able to give us much more. Grace God is able to give us much more and uh and meet every need in our life. The verse escapes me uh that God is able to do uh much more abundantly than we could ever imagine And supply, according to 2 Corinthians 9:8. And so understand the fact that God wants us to get to the place where we love Him with all of our heart We serve him, and he said, Give and it shall be given you with good measure, uh, pressed down, shaken together, and and running over shall men give into your bosom. That's what Jesus said. So to give And learn how to give graciously, hilariously, and yes, confidently. God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things may abound toward every good works. 2 Corinthians 9. 8. He made it clear, as we give to God God is well able to give back to us in supply. In supply. I'm not going to get into it, but I have a beautiful Ford expedition out there alongside of an incredible RV. And that expedition, I picked it up in January. I think it was the eighth vehicle That a gentleman years ago called me and said, uh go out and get a new car. God spoke to me and told me to buy you a car. I said, What? Excuse me? He said, Yeah, go buy a car. I said, well, um, he said, I talked to my pastor about it. I'm already tithed and given off our business and my company. He said, I want to buy you a car. I said, why? He said, because I God told me to buy you a new car I said, okay, what do you want me to get? He said, any car you want. I like that. I'd like to have that dream someday. I mean not it wasn't a dream. I was like, no, this is not happening. He said, anything you want, just go get it. And man I went down and bought a a truck for my RV that I was buying at the time. It was a beautiful Brand new crew cab dually Ford F-350 69 diesel in it. And uh he kept telling me that's not each call. I'd call him, say, what about no get a better one, get a better one, get the best one you can get, and I did. And I drove off the lot, and it was over $24,000. Can you imagine a duly brand new off the lot for $24,000? Yeah, that was a while ago. Amen. And I drove off and realized I looked at the bill of sale. My wife and I had been led of God in a missions conference, just kids starting out to give an amount to a missionary. It was all the money that we had. And we gave it. And it was literally a hundred times more than what that was. A hundred times God gave back to us. In a few days he gave us a brand new RB, brand new truck and trailer. We didn't go out and with shoes holes in our shoes. I didn't go around crying to people and asking people. God was able to meet that need, and he's done that, and that's I think the eighth one every couple of years will say, go trade your vehicle and get you another one. And I've traded that in and bought it and there it is. I mean I wasn't looking for that. I don't require that. How many say I'm just happy to get here? Say amen to that. I've driven old Jeeps and you name it and Hondas and stuff. broken down and Toyotas and I love it when somebody say, Hey Brother Ross, we have a car. We have a car we'd like to give you. Well yeah, sure. You go over there, well their new one is in the in the driveway But their old beat up one is there. There it is, brother. But I've taken them and driven them and been happy as it just could be. God has been good. Very good to us. Please say amen. Don't get quiet. He's able to give us much more than this by way of strength. God Is able to strengthen you. He's able to give you what you need. You see, he said, God shall make thee fall before the enemy. For God has power to help. And to cast down. He said God is able to kick in. You don't need that hundred thousand soldiers from up north. You don't need those heathens. God is able to lift you up. Just do what he says. He's able to give thee much more than this. I know people everywhere I go, and I'm trying to close. Stay with me. People everywhere I go I said, well, Brother Ross, see I love the Lord, but I'm getting tired. I'm getting weary. And I've been serving the Lord years for years in a church. Twenty-five years ago I made the mistake uh of raising my hand as a volunteer. I never raise my hand again. Say amen to that. And uh and I mean uh I'm getting weary or I've got f health issues and I can't serve anymore. Everybody ought to be doing something. For the glory of God. The Apostle Paul was weak in body. He had ophthalmolia. Most people think his eyes were bad. He wrote to the Galatians and said, See which large letters I have written with my own hand. He was stricken, but he cried out to the Lord. And besought the Lord thrice that his thorn in the flesh would be taken away, his physical ailment. And the Lord came. He said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me, 2 Corinthians 12, 9. I was preaching a revival in a church in Kansas. The pastor said, Have you met Aubrey and Betty? I said, No, sir, I haven't met Aubrey and Betty. He said, Well, you will. And they're going to ask you to meet them over in Ark City, and they have prayer meetings in towns around this area, and they pray for revival all day, every day. And uh after the meeting, a lady came up, said, hello, brother, I'm brother Betty. Another man, his her husband came up, I'm brother Aubrey, he had two canes, he could barely walk I'm Brother Aubrey. He said I've been been through five major surgeries. They pronounced me five times and I was gonna die. And he said, Every one of them doctors is dead, and I'm still living. Say amen. He was a character, man. He was something else And he said, we pray. She said, we just love to pray, Brother Rossi. She said, I'm pretty well blind. I'm legally blind and he can't walk. We go to from town to town and we just pray for revival. Would you like to join us? I said, I sure would And uh they told me where to meet them the next day. I saw their little car over there. I said, Pastor, is that their car? He said, Yeah. I said, Well who drove? Said, Betty. Remember legally blind, Patty? Said, she puts on tapes. She said, I'll put a tape on, some music or a preaching tape, and I'll forget where I'm at. I drove through little towns 90 miles an hour Said, preacher, uh the the police pull me over. Said uh ma'am, did you know how fast you go? Oh, it's Miss Betty. She said, pray for us, Miss Betty. Everybody knows her. And somehow she misses disaster. They're godly people And I said, Well, how do you do this? She said, the Lord gives us strength. God gives us strength. And I mean they prayed for us. She called me. We were in Chattanooga, Tennessee, living there. We had a great need. It was a health need and I owed a very large amount of money. We had insurance, but it was uncovered for some reason. It was thousands of dollars. And she called me. She said, Brother Rossi, this is Miss Betty. You remember me? I said, yes, ma'am. Me and Aubrey are on the phone. And he said, hey, hey, brother. And I said, hey, Brother Aubrey. She said, brother. You have a great need. God spoke to us about it, and it's going to be in the mail today. I said, excuse me. It's okay. Don't you fret. Don't you worry. God told us he's going to meet that need for you. I went to the mailbox and there it was, sure enough, every dime that we needed. They knew because they had the strength of God involved and it wasn't from them. They didn't know. They didn't know who sent it And I'm saying that God is able to strengthen you. You say, well, I can't do a whole lot. How many believe you can do more on your knees in prayer than you can anywhere else? and to seek the Lord and to call upon him and beg God for revival in your church and beg for God for pastor and beg God for the hand of God in this ministry. A dear man came to me and said Man, our pastor, I just don't know this there's something wrong with him. His preaching is just not right. He just doesn't have it anymore. I said, How much time have you spent in prayer for your pastor this week? Well, you know, I said, no, I mean how much time have you prayed for your pastor? I said, I would say first of all you wouldn't be criticizing him. Say amen to that. Number two Maybe you ought to pray that God would give him power. And the man took the admonition. Strength. The Lord is able to give us much more than this. And strength, and the Lord's able to give us much more than this by the way of security. Amen. He's going to give us everything we need. He said, Amaziah strengthened himself. Well, the Bible said in verse 10, Amaziah separated them to whip the army that was come to him out of Ephraim. He obeyed God. To go home again. Wherefore their anger was greatly kindled against Judah. They returned home in great anger. They were angry. And Amaziah strengthened himself, led forth his people, went to the valley of Salt, and smote of the children of Seir. 10,000. I mean the poor. They have victory. They have power. Because he goes not in the strength of Amaziah. He goes not in the strength of Of the northern kingdom. He goes in the strength in the Lord his God. We live in we're living in perilous times. We're living at the end of the age. If you believe that, say amen. The Lord's getting ready to come back soon. If some worried, what's going to happen? And over and over and over again The Lord Jesus was tell his disciples, and he would tell us, Fear not, for I am with thee. He would use that phrase so often. The angels of God would appear, fear not. Fear not. You know why? As long as we have our eyes on him, we have nothing to be afraid of. We have nothing to fret over and worry for. Our security Is in God Himself. He would let His disciples know in John 13 about the nearness Of his crucifixion. He let them know that he would be crucified, they would bury him, and he let them know on the third day he would rise from the dead. The disciples didn't like that message. They changed the subject. Every time he talked about the cross, they said, oh, well, wait a minute. No, you're not going now. And he said, this is all going to happen. In John chapter 13, he said, one of you will betray me. And he said, uh we're not going to who? Is it I? Is it I? The one around the room. And then Peter, and he said, You'll deny me. And Peter said, I'll never deny thee. And he looked at Peter and said, Peter, verily, verily, I say unto thee. Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter couldn't believe that. He he could never deny Christ, and he did, indeed The very next chapter, the Lord Jesus begins to speak to them. He says, Let not your heart be troubled You believe in God? Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. But where I am There ye may be also. He said, Don't be worried about these things. I'm going to make thee a place. He said, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you He said, I'm going to build you a mansion. I'm going to make you a place. And I can just say that most Christians spend such little time meditating and thinking. on what heaven's going to be like, what eternity's going to be like. We're going to have glorified bodies. Say amen to that. No more sickness, no more pain, no more sorrow, no more glasses, teeth, all those things, hearing aids all thrown out. We're gonna have glorified bodies in Christ and spend eternity with him. Forever. I took my brother that was lost. I prayed for him for a long time. He was a hard case. His name was Tony Tony was a tough guy, was bigger, like he was a fighter, a rough and tumble guy, drove a Harley Davidson when he was sixteen, started shaving when he was probably three or four or something. I mean, he was a rough guy. And and I tried to witness to him again and again and he just wouldn't listen. We went out to Falston, Maryland to a Christmas tree farm and to cut trees down and And uh I looked across the valley and I said, hey, and he said, look at that house, man, look at that thing. Beautiful, great big house, probably 15,000 square feet being built on the side of the hill. I said, that's beautiful, big brick home It had brass inserts around the windows. Never saw a house like that before. I said that's a beautiful house, Tony. Beautiful home. My wife and I had moved to Tennessee the year before. I said, I have a house that's way nicer than that being built. He said, What? I said, Oh yeah. He was a contractor And he said he said, What do you mean you're b uh yeah, we're having a beautiful house built. It's amazing. I said, and make that thing look like a shack And he looked at me and I said, Yeah, I've got and I'm I don't know if this is true, but I said, I've got gold around my windows. I've got a driveway, pure gold. He said, What are you talking about? And that whole Jim Baker air conditioned doghouse was coming out at that time. He said, wait a minute. I knew you're an evangelist. You're not one of those Jimmy Swaggard guys, are you? You're not one of these Jim Bakers. I said, no, we're just having a really beautiful house built. He said, why do you have me do your foundation? I said, your company's not big enough to build my house. That really upset him. And he said Is this down in Tennessee? I said, no, it's not in Tennessee. I said, my house in Tennessee is eleven hundred and thirty-five square feet. Little small rancher. Well, where is it? I'm glad you asked. It's in heaven. It's where Christ dwells. And he's got a construction company that's out of this world and he's building me a beautiful home. It's going to be amazing when you walk in the front doors. I'm going to have spaghetti gravy just going all the time on the pot. You'll smell it at all moments. I mean an amazing, amazing place and oh that okay, yeah, I don't want to hear that stuff and yeah. So he brushed that off. A few years later I got a call and I was in Chattanooga They said I and my sister said our brother's paralyzed from the neck down. He can't move. And he probably's not gonna make it through the day. I said w he said, no, he's got a horrible syndrome and he can't breathe. I had to put a trach into his throat just to for him to breathe a little bit. He can't breathe. I said, okay, I'll be there. I I had a I was in a prayer meeting when I when they called. I said, men please pray for my brother. I took off and drove as fast as I could. I got up there in the middle of the night, St. Joseph's Hospital and in Baltimore and I finally got in early in the morning and walked in to see him, and he was laying there and he was paralyzed. He had his hands up like this. He could just barely move, just a little bit, and he looked over at me and He had his neck up like this and he looked at me had a hole in his neck. And I said, Tony. I started crying. I said, Tony I said, man, what happened? He said, I don't know. He put his finger there, uh, I don't know. He said, How'd you get here? He called me Lou Baby. How'd you get here, Lou Baby? I said, I I drove up and okay, Satoni, you're gonna die and go to hell. I'm so afraid you're gonna die. And go to hell. I was in a prayer meeting. I could see you. I could see you in a lake of fire. You need the Lord. I said, please, Tony, please get saved. He said You're too late, new baby. He said, I got saved last night. I thought I had a connection. A Presbyterian preacher had gone by his bed. And put the wonderful track written by Ford Porter. That all, you know, what does it mean to believe whatever one it was, I forget the name of it But it was that Ford Porter track, billion millions of them been distributed, and it was How to Know You're Goin to Heaven. How to Know You're Saved He set it right there on his chest. And in the middle of the night, my brother started reading that track. And he called him the Lord Jesus and trusted him as a Savior. He died a a while back. He got through all that, recovered, and everything else, and then he died uh maybe fifteen years ago pretty suddenly. When God took him out of this world, I've got great news. I'm going to see my brother again. You see, the Lord is able to give you much more than this. If you've never been saved. You don't need to make new commitments and new resolutions. Tonight you need to come and trust Christ as your Savior. He died for you and paid the price for all your sin. You say, What do my friends think? God will give you better friends. What'll others say? The Lord's able to give thee much more than this. What about all my sins and the things I love so much? God's able to give you a whole lot better than that. And those of you tonight that are saved, and you're in the middle of decision Make the right decisions for God. God is able to give you more and better than you could ever imagine tonight. Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer. Thank you for listening so well There may be one of you or several of you tonight who would say, Brother Rossi, I'm not sure that I've ever trusted Christ as my Savior. I would like to do that. Not sure that you're going to heaven when you die, but you would like to be. If you're not sure about it, I'd like to pray for you. Could I see your hand, please? Not sure you're going to heaven when you die. Could I see your hand? All around the room. Just raise it up. Pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. Not sure that I'm saved. We'll help you with it. We'll show you what to do. We'll pray for you and with you. Anybody at all like that? Others here would say, I know that I'm saved, but I want to submit myself to God. I want God to have his way in my life. That means there's some things on your cell phone or your social media, your computers you might want to look at and take them off. There's some habits that you've developed that you might need to quit and get out of. Whatever it is, gotta give you something far better. I say, please pray for me. I want to submit to God. Could I see your hands, please? Many hands. Thank you. There may be somebody here is in maybe in not the best relationship, young people especially. And I mean, so I'm going to wait for the right relationships that God has for me. I'm going to have the right people that I'm involved with who love God, want to serve Him. Pray for me. Could I see your hands, please, all around the room. I want the Lord's will. Submission. God bless you. Amen. Someone said I need to just start giving again. Satan hates it when we tithe and give. And I don't know how to tell you to make it all up. That I need to say from this day forward, I'm going to make sure I get my tithes in, my offerings. It's a house of God. I'm going to do more than I have in the past. Please pray for me. Could I see your hand, please? Thank you. God bless you God bless you. It's so easy to put it off and just just neglect. Just get back. And to say, God, I'm trusting you. For every need. I like as our sister plays and uh whenever she has selected. God is speaking to your heart. Let's all stand together