Thank you, Messenger. Amen. Let's take your Bibles this evening and turn to the book of Jeremiah. I like when you have your kids up in front of the congregation. That's our church of the moral and that always excites me when I see kids up. I wanted to thank the church also for their uh their music this week. Amen. I I appreciate good sound music. I appreciate our old hymns. Pastor's already related to it several times, but but uh I do appreciate it. One of the things That we get to see as we travel, and we're seeing more and more of, is the emphasis put on to the by the churches that are If I can put it this way, moving to the left is the the emphasis they put on the love of Christ with the absence of the fear of the Lord. Yeah, yeah, that's right. It's not there. And when we do that, when we put ourselves in that kind of position We lose the understanding of how God loves us and why God loves us, and therefore we cheapen the image of Christ. Now I could back this up with scripture, but it's happening today. I read a illustration recently and and I really liked it. I I think it's one of the probably the most misunderstood areas is dealing with the fear of the Lord, but it It's talking about a mother who was during a really bad thunderstorm was putting her little boy to bed. And as she was tucking him in, she reached down and she kissed him on the cheek. Of course, she said, I love you, and she went to turn out the light and with a trembling voice she said, Mom, uh, could could you maybe sleep with me tonight? And she went back over by the bed, she laid down next to him, and she said, Well honey, she says, I I have to sleep in daddy's room tonight. And he kind of drew his eyes down and pooched his face out a little bit and she took a few steps and then turned around and looked at him and he said, Big sissy. Truth of the matter is, daddies get afraid too, don't they? Uh that's when we get attacked, isn't it? In the hours of the night when we're woke up by the by the storms of life that's personally internal or maybe external, maybe things that we're dealing with Recently I was searching out and doing some study in the area of fear, and I came across the statistic, and I thought it was unique because it took the fears of man enlisted them by order of what they put their importance on. In other words, they started at number 10 and worked their way up to number one. And the first one was Losing their freedom. People were afraid of losing their freedom. That was number 10. The second, people were afraid of the unknown Do you ever notice how we have a tendency to always make more out of a circumstance because we really don't know what's going to happen, and we always make it to be worse than it really is. We have a tendency to do that The third, or would have been seven, was pain. People were afraid of pain. Then it was disappointment. Then misery, then loneliness, then ridicule, then rejection, and I was surprised. Now listen to this. Number two was death. Preacher, I would have thought death would have been first. People were afraid of dying, but it wasn't. The number one thing that people are afraid of is failure. And I got to thinking about that because we're all afraid by nature because we're all born sinners. And don't you think that it's kind of inbred in us that we know that we're going to fail? Don't you think we understand in our conscience that by nature we're imperfect? And we're going to fail. I've talked a lot with preacher about my dad this week. I I love talking about my dad, even though my dad's not with the Lord yet. I I I still can walk in and sit next to him in the bed, but but I've not had any relationship with him now for almost five years. And uh my dad did something later in my life And I wish he'd done it when I was a young man, because my dad was bigger than John Wayne to me. My dad was always my hero Uh my dad was just one of those individuals that just excelled in everything and and to me was the most fearless individual I'd ever met. I listened to his war stories, I watched him do things. I pulled up to an accident and and the state police wouldn't even go into a truck that had overturned an individual trapped and and before they could say anything my dad would be down there inside the truck trying to get the guy out. I mean that's just the way my dad was And when I was when I was in my middle forties, when they first decided to vote me in as the senior pastor, and he was going to be a pastor emeritus. I was standing with him in his office, and I looked at him, and I said, Dad, is there anything that really intimidates you? And my dad turns and looks at me, and my dad wasn't a huggy type of person, but he puts his one arm on me, he puts his other on me, and he actually drew me to him. Kind of like I did Grant the other day, okay. And Dad kind of laid my head, and I'm a much taller than my dad, laid my head over and he said, whispered in my ear, he said, son He said, I've always been more afraid of failing than anything else. He said, in fact, I wasn't afraid to die or anything else. He said it was always I didn't want to fail. And I actually pushed him back away from me I said, why didn't you tell me that 25 years ago? Why didn't you share that with me? Because I think I could have had a better understanding of him, because the thing that drove him so often was he was afraid of failure We all have fears. Absolutely every one of us. But very few of us understand what it means to fear the Lord. It's almost confusing to us at times. Looking there at Jeremiah chapter 10, I want you to look down at verse 6. In verse 6, the Bible says, For as much as there is none like unto thee, O Lord I appreciate the fact that it's all capitalized there. Thou art great. And thy name is great in might. Who would not fear thee? Isn't that a statement? In other words, if you truly see the greatness of God I don't almost don't like to use it because the ecumenicals are used the word all the time, but the how awesome God is. If you saw, maybe even I could twist a little bit, how terrible God can be. That our God is a consuming fire. And like we said the other night in John chapter 3, that if you're not a believer and you do not accept the finished work of God, that his wrath abides on you. In other words, that greatness, that awesomeness, that consuming fire will consume you. Then all of a sudden you start getting a perspective of how that well, it shouldn't be so hard to fear God. Let me finish the passage. He says, Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? For to thee doth it appertain, for as much as among all the wise men of the nation and in all their kingdoms, there is none like Look down at verse 10, it says, But the Lord is the true God, He is the living God, and an everlasting King. At his wrath the earth shall tremble. And the nations shall not be able to abide his indignation. He has made the world, the earth, by his power. So the Bible saying here that he's great, and he's great in might, and that we should fear him And at his wrath the earth shall tremble. And he made the earth by his power. He hath established the world by his wisdom, and has stretched out the heavens by his discretion. Listen, I serve an awesome, powerful, consuming God tonight. Now I'm going to lay two scenarios out for you. I'm going to try real quick because I've got a visual and an object lesson I want to use tonight and I want to be able to move through that pretty quick because I don't want Grant to have to be up here very long, okay? Because he gets kind of nervous with me. He p I promised him I wouldn't put a blindfold on him. Okay, so but the first one is a a frightening vulnerability I want you to think about what I just said. A frightening vulnerability. It's the unbeliever's position in the face of God. September 11th, 9-11. Everybody in here, I'm sure, can tell me where they were at that morning. Everybody in here. I'll never forget because I actually had a man in the church, was a dedicated man, and had told me that he was leaving the church, and I was upset. I'll never forget it because I was really concerned about him. He'd worked in our teen department. He was he was he was not a real old in the Lord and they would groan and I was really concerned about his condition and I told my wife I said listen as soon as I get to church I'm gonna have a word of prayer. I'm gonna get in my car and I'm gonna go over and sing. And so I got in the car and I went over, but my wife had contacted me and she said, listen, something has happened. She said, and I went early. Something's happened. She said then and and they think it it it might be sabotage or we might be having somebody attack America. And I was thinking, what I didn't know what was going on. So I get to his house and when I I was invited in the door and he was expecting me to be honest about it. And when I got in there, he's got his TV on and we actually sat there together and watched that second plane hit the tower. Now, I don't know how it was with you folks, but I've tried to put myself in the position of those people that was above the plane. I mean, they were put in a position or a circumstance that was hopeless. I mean, don't you think you'd have to be in a hopeless position to jump out the window, to break a window and jump, knowing that you have absolutely no chance of survival? How many stories did we hear about later of the people who got on the cell phone and said their last goodbyes? Of people that were texting or emailing, giving their last wishes. They were confronted with a power and an influence. That was bigger than them. Would you agree with that? And because they were placed in that position with a power and an influence that was greater than them They realized that they were unable to overcome the circumstance. And they were indeed true, right and right, weren't they? Because those people were consumed either by the smoke or the fire traveling up through the floors or from them jumping out the window or from the tons of millions of tons of steel and concrete that crushed them as they fell. I don't know about you, but that is a frightening vulnerability. If I can compare God's greatness to that You cannot stand up against the greatness of God. That consuming fire. I want you to get that picture. I want you to see that hopelessness. That's the state of a lost man. That's where he's at. He doesn't realize it. But the truth of the matter is that's where he stands. I had a bunch of illustrations in the Bible, but let me throw two of them out real quick at you. Belshazzar. Belshazzar thought he was ruling the world. Belshazzar thought he could snub his nose at God. He could snuff his nose at the holiness of God and the righteousness of God, that he was greater than God. But he was struck dumb by the finger of God writing on the wall, was he not? And the prophecy was laid before him showed that he would not survive the next day, and he did not. Is there not a hopelessness in that? And then I thought to myself, well, I'll just jump to the New Testament and go to the book of Acts, chapter 5, and then we've got Ananias and Sapphira. Who had the hidden things, the soldier possession, that in their heart they wanted to hold on. But God is a consuming fire, ladies and gentlemen. Brothers and sisters, there's a hopelessness when you come up against the greatness of God Do you understand, or can you even get a hold of, or have you ever been in a position where you were that afraid? Afraid for yourself or afraid of one for one of your loved ones or afraid of the knife coming down or or the or or the or the unknown or the failure that is in front of you. Have you ever been that frightened? See, that's the problem with us today. We're in a position in America that we just do not fear God because we've raised ourselves up, like we said the other night. But we have a vulnerability about us because God is bigger than us. And the unbeliever is under the wrath of God. Let me switch it over real quick. How about being in the position of those people in the tower? And all of a sudden they get to see a fireman. How did he get in here? There's two of them, now three of them. Covered in dust, covered in the smell of smoke. But there they are. And all of a sudden they're leading us down the steps. We were in a hopeless state. We were in despair. We had a power facing us that we could not conquer. In fact, we had no control over at all. And all of a sudden, all of a sudden, at the sight of that fireman, what jumped into our hearts but hope. And all of a sudden they start taking us down the stairs, and we start out walking, and then we're running, and they're running, and you can hear the building creaking, and you can hear the steel cracking and popping And you can see the concrete moving and you rush and you run and you run and you run and all of a sudden, all of a sudden, you see light through the glass And you run out into the streets. And you can hear the steel and the concrete going down behind you, and you just keep right on running. I don't know about you. But I can't imagine the motion the emotion of being in the position of utter and complete holiness in the face of the greatness of somebody like God, and then all of a sudden I receive the To a complete opposite, I get hope and I survive. I don't know about you, but that's what happened when I got saved, preacher. But until we see the greatness of God, we'll never understand the goodness of God. And we've got a listen, we've got churches out here that all they preach about is the goodness of God, but you can never appreciate the goodness of God until you see the greatness of God. You've got to see him as awesome. You've got to see him as a consuming fire. You've got to understand that the wrath of God abideth on you. That's what drew me to salvation. I didn't want to go to hell I understood that he was holy, then I was a sinner. That's the comparison. That I'm vulnerable. And it's a frightening vulnerability. That goodness of deliverance, that's the believer's fear. If you can just translate that, to go from the vulnerability and the greatness of the power to the joy of security. And knowing that that same power that could have destroyed you is now going to keep you. That I mean that's that's that's going from the valley to the top of the mountain, isn't it? Amen. It is I've read, and I know your pastor has said it, I have read countless definitions on the fear of God One guy was simply said, the fear of God is to be afraid. It's to be in awe. It's reverence. I've read so many different definitions. I've written down a definition. Listen to the definition I have. It is the awe and reverence left over when the frightening vulnerability becomes the greatness of God before the greatness of God is mixed with the joy of security on experiencing the goodness of God. Let me read it again. It is the awe and reverence left over when the frightening vulnerability before the greatness of God is mixed with the joy of security on experiencing the goodness of God. I'm almost ready to go into my second as many points, okay? I just want to move through this. Now listen to this And we're not going to go read it because I don't have time to. In Acts chapter 27, the Apostle Paul is headed to Rome. Now he's headed to Rome under guard of the centurions. And it's going to take him a long time to get there. I don't even remember how many times they switch boats. But when they get ready to leave, they have the fair weather. But Paul tells them, under experience, he says, listen, I don't think this is a good idea. He tells us the centurion that. And we know that as they begin to go out, they begin to have problems with contrary winds. And then they move into a position of tumetrous winds and and and blowing winds and and then they got to the point where they were going to be blown upon the rocks and then they were going to be destroyed and they start casting things into the sea and and and the apostle Paul actually goes to supplication and prayer and fasting and and and the and and the the Lord Jesus Christ actually comes to him And tells him, he says, Now listen, uh I think there was like two hundred and seventy-six people on the ship. He says, Listen, if they'll listen to you, then they'll all live. And he goes to the centurion and tells him that. So they were facing the rocks, and they were facing the storm, and they were facing the winds, and the winds were contrary, and they were up against them. In other words, they were facing the greatness of God The hurricanes and the tornadoes of this world, this life, the consuming fire that was in front of them. That's what they were facing. But if they would listen to the Apostle Paul, They could know the goodness of God through salvation. In fact, he said, all of you, every one of you, if you listen, you're going to survive. To me, that's a perfect picture of the fear of the Lord. That going from the greatness of God to the mercy and salvation through faith and grace. John Bunyan stated, and I just love this quote, he said, where the fear of God, now listen to this, where the fear of God is not growing. The grace of God cannot thrive. I think that's absolutely unbelievable. And I said to myself, and I think, well, Howard, do you fear the Lord Because unless you fear the Lord, then that means you don't see the greatness of God. You really don't see God the way God is, according to the Word of God. And that means you're not really experiencing the goodness of God the way it should be. And there's a very good possibility that You're not really fearing God in your own personal life. That means that that the faith of God that that that that keeps you each day and the grace of God that gets you through each day, it may not be thriving in your life So that's where I'm at. That's where we're at right now. Now if I could get where's he at? Grant, come on up here. Shed that coat. There we go. That way I don't have to do all this running around. No, we're not gonna do it that way. I want to I want to picture this for you as best I can. It's very simple, okay? Nothing in this life by the believer can ever be done without what? Faith. Without faith, it is impossible to please God Unless you have faith, you cannot be saved, you cannot fear God, listen, you cannot know the grace of God. Hey listen, the only thing you will ever know is the consuming fire and wrath of God without the faith of God. And it is not of you. It's his faith. He provides it for you. You understand that? There's nothing that you can do. God does all of this through you. See, listen, the truth of the matter is those there was no difference between them people that died in that building and those people that got out, except that half of them had got hope and got out and the other half didn't That's the difference. The difference between me and a lost man is as I'm on my way to heaven because of the faith and grace of God, I accepted the Lord Jesus Christ. The other guy didn't. Okay? Now I've got holes all the way around this, so the truth of the matter is I could wear it, you could wear it, pasta court, anybody wear it. So just get that thing strapped around. Strap it around pretty good on you, okay? There you go. I'll let him get buckled in Now while he's getting buckled in, I want you to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter six. Yeah, that sounds gr uh that's good. Yeah, just like that. Just like that. That you get her strapped in and And get her around there. Put them hooks her on your far side there. Hebrews chapter 6. As soon as you get Hebrews chapter 6, look up so I can I can see you. Because I want to try and picture the fear of God in each of our lives tonight. That's what I'm wanting to do I want to be a help to you this evening, okay? Because I'm going to be honest with you. I struggled with this early in my Christian life, and I really believe that if we really feared God, we wouldn't have the battles with sin in our lives that we do. I really believe that. We just don't see God the way God is pictured in the Word of God. We make him now smaller than He is. He is great. I don't know how else to put it. God is a consuming fire. He's a terror. He is great. Okay? But through his faith, I can know hope. I can be salvaged. Okay You're with me on this. Okay. Hebrews chapter six, verse eighteen. That by two immutable things in which was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation who have fled for refuge to laid hold. on the hope set before us. Wow, that's the goodness of God. That's what we're looking at here. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure And steadfast, and which entered into that wherein the veil, whether the forerunner is for us, entered even Jesus, after the order of Melchizedek. Now, if you take the time to go back to Acts chapter 27, you're going to find out that the last resort they picked Paul's way. In fact, at one point they had four different anchors out trying to hold them back from the rocks, preacher. But their anchors wouldn't hold them. And then when they finally accepted what Paul had to say, they cut the ropes of those anchors. What I'm telling you this evening is, as a born-again Christian, until you see the greatness of God, you'll never have the goodness of God And listen, until you're willing to step out by faith and cut the ropes on the anchors that you think are getting you through the fears of life, instead of fearing God like we should, you'll have no victory in your life Okay. I want you to move right over here just a little bit. We don't have a ton of room, but right in there, okay? Now what's happening is he's listening he's wanting to trust by faith. But the fears of this life are taking him everywhere Okay, just like on that ship. He's getting tossed to and fro. Hey, listen, he may be in the light this morning, but he's in the darkness tonight. That's what life is, folks. Hey, listen, I may be on top of the world tonight, but hey, tomorrow I may have something happen that I just don't know how I'm overcome. See, the greatness is out there. We're just, listen, we're just man. We're just dust That's all we are. And you don't have any control. The older I get, the more I realize how little control I have. I'll be honest with you, when I was 20, I thought I had control of everything. But the older I get, the more I realize. Now, what did he call? He called Jesus the anchor of my soul. Amen? But there's a problem because here's my anchor. And there he is. There's nothing attaching him to it. Okay, so we're gonna move through it real quick. I'm gonna try and get through as quick as I can. Got my ropes. Amen. Anchor's no good without a rope. I've been in that position in the boat, by the way. You got the anchor and no rope to throw it out. What is the fear of the Lord? First of all, it's salvation by faith. Now the truth of it is, you can't know the goodness of God until you're born again. And you can never know the fear of God until you're born again. So the truth of it is, well he starts this way now, so just go with me. Right there. Hey listen, he's attached. But the truth of it is, the terrors of this world And the fears of this world, if you're just going to depend on this, this will get you to eternity. This will get you to heaven. Okay? This will take care of that. But the truth of it is it won't take care of this. And the fears are still there because of this flesh? Listen, they can ruin you. This is very important. I'm going to step over the line so we can see that I want you to look at something. In fact, you don't even look at it. Just listen to me. Acts chapter 9, verse 3 it says, and he journeyed and he came near Damascus. And suddenly there shined right about him a light from heaven, and he fell on the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutes thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecuted. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks And he, the Bible says, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? This is, listen, we all talk about the Apostle Paul getting saved. The Apostle Paul didn't get saved as he saw the greatness of God. Listen, the Apostle Paul had to be blinded on the road to Damascus. That was a man that was well learned and he was full of himself and he was on a mission to kill Christians and listen when God confronted him he showed him his greatness And it was three days while he was being led around, and God was saying, I'm great! I'm great! I want you to see how great I am, I want you to see how awesome I am, I want you to see the terror of me, and through that, listen And God began to show him his goodness. And he got saved and born again. You'll never know the fear of the Lord unless you're born again. The unsaved world, listen, the unsaved world is on their way to hell. And the only thing they know is the greatness of God. Secondly, we've got to get to know Him. Being saved will get me to heaven. But listen, I will never understand that greatness until I get to know God. This is a holy living, folks. And the truth of it is, we don't have holy living living in a lot of our churches today, and I'm not just talking about the ecumenical churches. In fact, that's why we've got rock music in the churches today. That's why it's there. That's why they're using ever version because they don't see the greatness of God. So therefore they they don't understand the goodness of God. In fact, a lot of these people they understand that they must be born again, but they've made God little. And you can't do that to God. This white robe sometimes we must have and need it is more than a knowledge of God, but it's a know God. It's something that we must have and need. Proverbs 1533 says, The fear of the Lord is the instrument of wisdom. And before honor, now listen to this word is humility. The fear of the Lord is humility, and the wisdom is the honor Psalms 131. 1 says, A song of degrees of David, Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor my eyes lofty, neither do I exercise myself in great matters or in things too high for me. Before listen, before you're ever honored with wisdom, you must have humility. That is the fear of the Lord. What I'm saying is, listen, there's no way, as he gets tossed to and fro in life, there's no way that he doesn't understand that God is so great. that God can keep him in in a state of hope at all times if he'll just get to know God. And the more he gets to know God, the bigger God gets to him. And the bigger God gets to him, the smaller he gets What what Job learned through the whole life of Job finally that God was everything, God was sovereign, and he was nothing. What does that do to us? That humbles us. That's why I love the altar. The place, listen, this is a place of humility. This is a place where I come down here and say, God. You're everything, and I'm nothing. And God, I know you know me, and you know that I'm but dirt. And and and I know that you know my heart. But listen, I want to know you better that I can depend upon you because I know In all the circumstances of life I go through, that you're the only ones that can get me through it, around it, over it, under it, or by it. It's you and you alone. But you've got to be holy, and that means you've got to be attached to Jesus Christ because He's steadfast and unmovable. Why do we have Christians around road coaster all the time? Why do we have people in and out? Why do we have people that get in so far and then they say, well, I'm just not willing to take that next step? I'll tell you why, they don't see the greatness of God Therefore, they don't get to enjoy the goodness of God. Therefore they're miserable when they come into church and they're making themselves come all the time. Oh, that he's steadfast and unmovable. He's my anchor. I can depend upon him. He's immutable. He's unchangeable. He's not going anywhere. Though I change day and night, as long as I'm anchored to him, as long as I'm with him, no matter what the storm, no matter what the darkness, no matter what the devil wants to throw at me, no matter what my flesh wants to do, the truth of the matter is, as long as I see his greatness, I'll enjoy his goodness. And I'll enjoy that deliverance. As long as I'm willing to get close to him. It's a tough one folks. But if you fear the Lord, you'll have this. You say, what in the world's that one? Well Proverbs 8:13, the Bible says, The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogancy, and the evil way and the forward mouth do I hate. There's a toleration today of sin in our churches. There's a toleration of sin in our homes today. And it proves to me That we don't fear God. Because if you fear God, you'd hate sin the way he hates sin. You know what? When I walk up to my daddy's bed, I hate sin Well, granted, I hate it. Because sin's made my daddy that way. The disease that riddles his body, that's a result of sin. That's the consequence of sin. I found out about two months ago that I've got a niece. And she's pregnant out of wedlock. Makes me hate sin. I despise sin. I despise the fact that she's been lured into this circumstance. And now everybody around her is going to pay for that. Everybody that loves her is going to be paid for that, pay for that. And we're too tolerant of it. We're too tolerant in our churches. I was in a church just recently. And the pastor had to have a meeting that night to vote a young lady out of the church who was actually practicing as a lesbian. She has saved a member of the church. The problem was she was one of the deacons' granddaughters. And this young preacher had tried and tried to get this young lady to repent and went and went to the deacons and finally he had to take it before the church to vote to the young lady out. And he said, Could y'all stay? So, preacher, we just sit out by our table the next hour and fifteen minutes. I w I never wanted so bad to go in and help him out Because that deacon kept standing up and he was just trying to defend his granddaughter. And he's saying we need to love her. And he says, this is the way we've got to love her. Don't you understand? This is the only way we can love her now. And he gave scriptures for everything. I was so proud of that young preacher. I mean, buddy, he didn't make a personal, he just went to the Bible. I was so proud of that. And when he came out of there, I wanted to kiss him Then I I was I just kept walking to the door and then I'd have to walk away and I'd walk through the door. And when that church dismissed, you ought to see the shame on their faces, they come out and had to face us. It was all over that that whole church. And they probably had about forty or fifty more than you've got in here right now. Because everybody knew they were having a business meeting. You know what? Three weeks later, that young lady came and repented and that preacher got up and says, It's done. We'll never talk about it again. As long as you're right with God, you're right with us. Man! We can't tolerate sin. Can't tolerate it in our lives, but we don't see the greatness of God. So therefore we become vulnerable and we become hopeless. And we fear the things of this world instead of understanding that we have the goodness of God in our life and we can depend upon Him and we have hope Amen. We can't be tolerating. We've got another one here. I like this one. This is one of my favorite ones. And this is what it takes for this church to grow. This one right here. Proverbs 14, 27, the Bible says, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. To depart from the snares of death. You know what, when God saved me, he didn't just give me eternal life, folks. He made me a fountain of life. He made me a pitcher of light for the world. He gave me, listen, divine purpose in this life. And if I really fear the Lord, listen, if I really fear God, then the truth of the matter is, I'm going to grow. And people are gonna see me growing. And people are gonna see the action of this church. Preacher was talking to me about the public schools and how many times he's had to battle in the public schools for the kids to hand out tracks. Hey, the truth of the matter is, that's what we do because we're a fountain of life for this world. And a church, listen, a church that'll win souls, and a church that'll reach out past themselves. And listen, you understand that you on your own is a very small package You do understand that when you leave here tonight, that very few people are going to sit and think about you, even the people in this church. But you know that God's always thinking about you. And when you begin to think about others, your world goes from a very little world to a very big world. And God says, I'm to be a fountain of life. I'm to be an individual that has water to give to everybody. And that only happens if I see the greatness of God. Therefore I can enjoy the goodness of God. Therefore that means I fear the Lord because I love Him. And I passed that on to other people. I don't know about you, but this looks pretty strong now. You see what I'm saying? It's not enough just to be saved. You've got to be holy. You've got to get to know Him. And you've got to get to the point where you hate sin. And then you've got to get to the point where you have divine purpose in your life, and nothing will deter you from that. I go into a lot of churches, preacher, and the truth of the matter is I I play football and I love football. Uh but I've reached a point in my life where I'd catch myself on Sunday afternoon saying I'll spend another ten minutes watch the game. I'll spend another ten minutes watching the game. And I'd get myself so worked up, especially if we were losing That I was in no state to go to the pulpit. Now, that's not for everybody. Some guys can just turn it off and go on. I'm not that kind of guy. I'm competitive, and I'm just not that kind of guy. So God just kind of took that thing from man And I'll be I'll be honest with you, people go, boy, do you love your birds? Well I enjoy my birds, but the truth of the matter is what I do for Christ is what it's all about. And I can I can personally walk over to one of them birds and wring its neck and go right on. It you know it's no big deal. It's a bird I mean if the Lord wants to use it for people who get saved, but uh the what I'm trying to say is we ought to have perspective. We only get that through the fear of the Lord. See, that's where we get that. Got one last one here. I love this one. Because this brings us full circle. I'm gonna hook this one on first because I want you to see something. All this other stuff It's all wrapped up through the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ and that divine hope, that divine protection. A divine shield. Hey, listen, God wraps it all up saying, Howard, I love you. I love you. Howard, I love you. That's why I want you to fear me. What is the fear of the Lord? It's our hope. Let not thine heart envy sinners, but be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. For surely, I love this, for surely there is an end. And thine expectation shall not be cut off. Last week, I mentioned you folks that my daughter surprised me coming in from Wyoming. Do you ever notice when family comes in and you're so glad to see them how short the week is, how short the visit is? I just hate that. And you'd think that I'd get used to it, but I don't. And my daughter's, my oldest daughter, she's she's a lot like her mom. And she loves the Lord so much. And the Lord's allowed her to suffer in a lot of ways. And when they got ready to leave on Friday morning, I put my arms around her and I always just pick her up because she's so little. Hurts my back to just bend over so far, so I just pick her up. And the little thing, she don't weigh 110 pounds. And I kiss her on the cheek. I don't know about you, but listen, it won't be long. I can't wait till we get to heaven and we don't have to say goodbye anymore. But it's almost done. And don't you understand that he's steadfast? He's my anchor? Hey, listen, he is the greatness of God. Remember what I said? All things have been put in his hand. He has the ability to take care of you and to keep you. And he is my hope. He is your hope. But if you don't fear God, then every time you turn around, you're going to have something in the world scaring you to death where you're ineffective for God. Afraid to take the next step in serving the Lord. Whatever it may be in your life. Psalms 84, 11 says, For the Lord God is a sun and a shield, the Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing, no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. Proverbs 19, 23, the fear of the Lord tendeth to life, and he that hath it shall abide. I love this, satisfied. He shall not be visited with evil. In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. And his children shall have a place of refuge. Hey, listen, I don't care about the storms. As long as I fear him, but that means that I'm saved and I know him and I hate sin. And listen, I'm serving because I love him and fear him. And I have eternal hope. I have a shield and a protection. Hey, listen, no matter how much dust, no matter how much creaking is going on, no matter what comes into my life, if I fear God, God, listen, God will take care of me. I'm done. We want, listen, we want God to calm the storm, don't we? But what God wants is us to fear him and allow his spirit to calm us. Let the storm come. If I fear God, He's great and He's good. And whatever He wants, He can do. Spurgeon said, If God be everywhere, and I fear him, how can I dare to break his laws in his very presence? He must be a desperate traitor who will rebel in the monarch's own halls. Those eyes which have no fear of God before them now shall have the terrors of hell Before them forever. Let's bow our heads. Every head bowed and every eye closed. We're closing things out tonight as far as Jason and me and Debbie. This church is going to go right on. Amen. We're going right on. Let me ask you a question tonight. Just how big is God to you? Do you understand that without him you're absolutely hopeless? And with him, you have nothing but hope? Is he your anchor? Does he hold you steadfast and fast tonight? Are you saved? If you are saved, do you really know him and are you working each day to get to know him better? What's your tolerance for sin? Do you despise it and hate it? Do you laugh and jeer at the jokes and watch things that you shouldn't watch, do things you shouldn't do? How about your service? Well I'm as good as the next guy. I didn't ask you that. What's your service like? How big of a fountain are you for those that are around you? And then lastly, and this is the real test as far as I'm concerned, let me ask you a question. Does fear rule your life? Or does the God of heaven in the hope that he delivers unto us rule your life? Are you living life by faith? Are you motivated by the goals of not failing? Think about that a minute. Well, their heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, Preacher, he's not the anchor of my soul. If I died tonight, I'm not sure I'd go to heaven. I'm concerned about my eternity. Pray for me, preachers. Or someone like that tonight. God bless you, little buddy. Someone else. If I died tonight, I'm not sure I'd go to heaven. I'm not sure. Just put your hand up and back down Anyone? God bless you. God bless you. Anyone else? If you died tonight, do you know that you'd go to heaven? Do you have the assurance that you belong to Him? How about you to call yourself Christian? Do you fear the Lord this evening? Do you have an understanding to know that God loves you, but you've got to fear Him. It's the consequences of seeing the greatness of God and then appreciating the goodness of God. And the result of that, the byproduct of that, is the reverence and awe and humility that's brought into us of knowing that God loved us so much that He would deliver us. From the awesomeness of the power that he has, that I'm kept by that very same power. Do you fear God this evening? How many say, preacher? Now that it's put that way, I have a problem with fearing God. There's an element that you discussed tonight that makes my road not so strong. My trust in God is weak off times. I allow the fears of life to stop me in my service for God. And I'm concerned, preacher. I I realize that oftentimes my pride lifts me up and I need to humble myself before God because He's a great God. And I want to know the full goodness of God in fearing him. Preacher, pray with me tonight. And we just, God bless you all over the auditorium. We've got folks raising their hands. Okay, let's stand to our feet.