Psalms 84, if you would, notice verse 11 and 12. I'm going to do something I don't normally do. I normally just pick a small passage and preach from maybe a statement or a verse I'm going to try and cover this whole chapter this morning. So um buckle in. And uh now w with just a few thoughts. But I want us to begin and highlight verse eleven, Psalms eighty-four For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. I've been titled the message, My Beloved Lord. My beloved Lord. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity we have to get together here on the Lord's Day. We've assembled in your name, Lord, the name of the Lord Jesus Christ And that's who we want to be glorified in what takes place here on this campus this morning. We pray that you would meet with us. I pray that your presence would be here, Lord. In a very evident way. We know you're here. We just ask that you would manifest yourself in speaking to our hearts, bringing your word to our hearts I pray, Father, that you would help us to be open-minded to your will and your word as it's presented I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and my body. I present anew and ask that you would speak through me. Dear Lord, and that we would leave here encouraged, strengthened, challenged, convicted if necessary. And Lord, whatever we need in our heart and soul, I pray you would help meet that need. In this hour. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I want to begin with a statement. I believe God. And uh I believe God's word We hold to this book. I've dedicated over 40 years of my life to the study, the teaching, and the preaching of this old book right here. And I believe with all my heart. And I believe every word is true. I believe it's given to us by inspiration from God. And I believe God has preserved it for us in His word here that we have this morning. I believe the Bible. Don't let anybody ever undercut your faith in God. You hold to your faith in God. Amen or not? That's what it's all about. That's what it comes down to. Having faith in God. And don't ever let anybody anywhere undercut your confidence in God's Word, the Bible. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church believes the Bible is God's Word. We take it at face value. I like what uh you mentioned reference Bob Jones Sr. He used to say of God, uh whatever God says is so. And I believe that with all my heart. Psalms 84 is a book about God, is a chapter of the Bible. That's about God. It's a psalm about God. About trusting in God, about having faith in God, about loving our Lord. If you would notice verse number one, he uses a little phrase there. He says, How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. He begins this psalm, which is actually a song that was sung by the uh Israelites as they would assemble at the tabernacle. They would sing this. Many years later, many of the um sa uh uh synagogues that were later established during the uh captivity much later on they would establish synagogues because they couldn't get to the temple And they would put, I'm told that they would put many of those ancient synagogues, they would put at the entrance, they would put some of the words from Psalm 84. There's a psalm about God. Look at the last verse, chapter verse 12. It says, O Lord of hosts. Lord of hosts. He starts off the psalm referencing the Lord of hosts. He ends this psalm referencing the Lord of hosts. Now, as best I can tell, according to my research here, at least 284 times the Old Testament, God is referred to as the Lord of hosts. Now, what's significant about that? If God uses, if that phrase is used in reference to our God over 284 times, there must be significance to it, right? If your mom told you to do something one time, you better pay attention, right? She told you 284 times something, you better listen to it, right? So what's the significance of it? The word, the phrase, the Lord of hosts, has this idea. What he's saying is this: Our God is an unchanging God. He's the same as he's always been. He he is, I like this definition, this explanation. The Lord of hosts is telling us this that our God is our all-powerful security. In other words, we can trust him. He's the Lord of hosts. He will keep us through thick and thin, through valleys and mountaintops, sunshine and storm. He's the Lord of hosts. And we can have confidence in him. We can have faith in him. As this idea, our God is our protector. He is our shield. In fact, he references that throughout the chapter. He is our confidence. We can trust God. I said this back after the choir saying I want to reiterate it here again. If there's anything we walk out of this service this morning being assured of, then it's this. God is good and we can trust Him. I can have confidence that what he says is so. I can follow his instructions and be confident that that is best for me. The Lord our host. He begins the Psalm with that phrase and he ends it. It's used, I think, once or twice within the Psalm itself. Psalms 84 is a declaration that God is good. And that those who learn to trust him will experience his blessings. They will know joy and peace and confidence that others do not know. Been in the ministry coming up on 40 years here, and another couple of years be forty years in uh 20 2025. If we're still alive, it'll be 40 years that I've been in the ministry. And I've observed a few things. I've observed that those who trust God Those who have faith in him have a peace and a security and a confidence. That those that do not trust him, they don't have that. You follow what I'm saying? I look at this whole world and it's like an ocean wave just changing, turmoil, restless. uh going just a mess. Anybody pay any attention to what's going on in the world? Would you agree with me? It's a mess. But I'm here to say in the middle of this mess that we find this planet on, you and I can trust in an unchanging all-powerful God who is good to us and he will lead us and direct us if we'll just trust him. That's what I take away from Psalm 84. God is good. We can trust Him. We can have a peace and a joy and a confidence. Even when all around us is sinking sand, we can stand on the rock of our Lord, the Lord of hosts. I think Psalm 23, of all the 150 Psalms, I think Psalm 23 is probably the most popular. Let's take a little vote. How many people say Psalm twenty-three is the most popular? Raise your hand. How many people say Psalm 23 is not the most popular? Raise your hand. How many people aren't going to raise their hand no matter what I say? Raise your hand. Yeah. That that survey thrown out the window. But I think Psalm twenty three is probably Uh no doubt the most popular psalm. We s we read it at funerals, we read it at weddings, uh we read it often on get in the hospital, somebody's having a trial, sickness, illness. We'll read Psalm 23 It's perhaps one of the most encouraging of all the Psalms that were given. Psalm 23. I love Psalm 23. Someone has said that Psalms 103, and we don't have time to look at all these, but Psalms 103 is perhaps one of the most joyful and uplifting of all the Psalms, 150 Psalms we have. There's no doubt in my mind, Psalms 51, if you're familiar, Psalm 51 is one of the most humbling And convicting Psalms, the Psalm of David's prayer of confession after he committed horrendous sin. And he comes to God in humility, he comes to God in repentance, he comes to God seeking mercy and restoration. What a powerful Powerful Psalm 51 is I think every Christian ought to be familiar with Psalm 51. Psalms 119 is perhaps the most uh exalting of the word of God of all the songs. Nearly every verse, 175 verses I think Nearly every verse references the Word of God and the excellence of the Word of God and the power of the Word of God to save souls and change lives. Psalms 119 Every Christian ought to read Psalm 119. Then we come to Psalms 84. And I thought it was interesting. Charles Spurgeon, great preacher back in London 100 some years ago. He said he felt like Psalm 84 was perhaps the sweetest of all the psalms, the most peaceful of all the psalms. He said it was his favorite psalm, Psalm 84. We don't know who penned Psalm 84. I like to do a little research if I know who God used to record this. We know God's the author, but who he used to pen this Psalm down, we don't know. We're not told. We know nothing about this fellow. We don't know who his parents are, what time frame he lived. We guess a little bit. We don't know anything about the fellow. We don't know anything of the background of the psalm Other than, if we look down through it carefully, it seems to be penned by a fellow who really, really longs To get to the tabernacle. There's something going on. Wherever the tabernacle was at this time, perhaps Jerusalem, probably Wherever the tabernacle was at this time, there was something going on there, a feast or some kind of special day, something was going on. And this guy wanted to be there bad. And he couldn't. And he pens this, again, under the inspiration of God, he pens this psalm down, expressing his desires To be at that tabernacle, to be a part of that, and what God means to him. That's all we know about it. We pick that up from it As I was doing working on the message and what I would say this morning, I thought about sometimes there's folks or shut-ins And they love the Lord. And they love the Bible. And their heart aches to be With God's people, maybe a special day, the Lord's there, something going on, and their heart aches to be there and longs to be there, but because of their circumstances, they're physically unable to do that I think that's the heart of the man that penned this psalm. So we don't know who he is. We know almost nothing about the background, just what we can kind of surmise from looking through, reading what he's saying here. But there is a statement, and I don't do this often. It's a little aside here, but I noticed in the title of the psalm, the heading of the psalm, if you would look there above verse number one It makes a statement that I've seen a thousand times. I never paid much attention to, but I got looking at it. It says, to the chief musician upon Gitteth That's an instrument, I believe. So this is a song that was penned to be sung by Israel at their At their uh Sabbaths and their synagogues. It was a song to be sung. But notice it says a psalm for the sons of Korah. This was penned, and it was for the sons of Korah for them to take. Now who were the sons of Korah? The sons of Korah at this point in time were what we might call the music directors of the tabernacle. Later the temple. The sons of Korah were the uh the choir directors, the music leaders, the song leaders. There was a shared responsibility, much like what Austin or uh Brother Mark would be here at our church. They were responsible For the songs that were sung and the music that was used in the special days, the services for Jerusalem for Israel at the tabernacle and later the temple Now, here's where it gets interesting. The sons of Korah would be the sons of who? Korah? You guys are brilliant. You're right here with me this time. I was wondering if uh they're the sons of Korah. Alright, that helps. Breach are big deal. Who in the world's Korah? Ah, this is where it gets interesting. How many people recognize the name Korah from the Old Testament book of Numbers? Korah was one of the most notorious, the most rebellious, the most Proud men in all of Israel. In Numbers chapter 16, we have him rising up as an apostate, a rebel against Moses. And against God's instructions, and he gets a gathering of at least there's 250 leaders in Israel gather around Korah And it's in Numbers, what did I say, 11? Numbers chapter 16. They gather around Korah, and he challenges Moses to his face. And says, who do you think you are? You think you're the only one that can approach God? You think the only one with authority? And he leads this insurrection, this rebellion against God's man, Moses. One of the most blatant Rebellions in Israel's history, at least up to this point. They had little scuffles before, but this was serious. And uh it is judged by God, this rebellion, this insurrection is judged by God immediately. And severely, in fact, God did something that had not happened up to this point. God actually, he instructed Moses, tell everybody to get away from these people. Everybody, get away. Get away from them and their tents. And as Korah and his co-rebels stood there in defiance against God, in a hard-hearted, proud rebellion against God. The earth opened up and swallowed them up. And it says they went alive into the pit. Pitt, I think, referencing hell. They went alive directly into hell. Would you agree with me? That's pretty serious. Yeah. Good night. These fellows that Psalm 84 is written for, is given to, presented to, are that man's sons. Whoa! How in the world does a man like that, with that hard heart, that hatred and rebellion against God, how in the world does someone like that his sons end up being music directors in the temple of Israel, of Jehovah. Take your Bible now, keep your place here. And again, this is a little aside, but I found this fascinating If you would, come to Numbers chapter 26. Numbers chapter 26. The fourth book of the Old Testament. And look with me, if you would, at verse number eleven. Actually, we'll come up verse 9, kind of get the immediate context here. And the sons of Eliab, Nemuel and Dathan and Abraham. This is that Dathan and Abraham, which were famous in the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah. When they strove against the Lord. Now look at verse 10. And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah. When that company died, what time the fire devoured 250 men. And they became a sign. Now look at verse 11. Notwithstanding, the children of Korah died not. What does that tell us? That tells us that Korah's boys refused to join him in his rebellion against God. They said, Daddy, we're not doing that. We're not going down that road. We're not following that example. We're going to stay true to God. We're going to stay true to our Jehovah God, our Lord of hosts. We're staying true to Him. You know, sometimes we're going to be faithful to God. Sometimes, if we're going to be true to God, we have to take a hard stand in difficult situations. Now I don't know about you, but that would be awfully tough, I think, to take a stand and say daddy's wrong, he's he he's for daddy's uh uh wrong in this, and I'm not going down that road I think I may be talking to some young people, you may have a daddy that is involved in things. You may have a daddy that's done different stuff. Not living for God. Listen, I'm here to tell you, you love your daddy, you honor him, you respect him, but I'm telling you, we don't have to go down a wrong road, no matter who's going down that road I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. The attitude I have on this, I'm not trying to be uh suggest be disrespectful or anything, but we don't listen, I guess I'm saying this. There's nobody in the world worth going to hell for. There's nobody in the world. Not a family member, not a friend, not a co-worker, not a neighbor. There's nobody in the world that's worth sacrificing your eternal soul for Be faithful to God. Be faithful. I've seen it. I'm I'm talking, I don't know why. I'm talking about being in ministry uh forty years. I think I'm feeling old. And uh not quite forty years there yet, but I've seen it so many times. I've seen so many times a young person will sacrifice their testimony to fit in with the crown, to go along with somebody. They'll sacrifice their walk with God. They'll sacrifice their testimony, their integrity, because they want to be accepted by somebody in the world. I'm here to tell you, the most important person to be accepted by is our God and Creator, Jesus Christ. So I saw that phrase at the top of this tremendous psalm. Psalm 84, what Spurgeon said is one of the sweetest, most peaceful Psalms in all 150. And it is given to these young, these men, these sons of Korah, they're adults now, older no doubt. Maybe sons of sons, but it's given to some folks who remain faithful when it would have been very, very difficult to be faithful And they stayed true in a situation, it would have been very easy to go along and compromise and sacrifice their integrity, sacrifice their purity and their godliness. But they stood true for God. And now God's using them and their offspring generations later. Isn't that a wonderful thing? The sons of Cormah. And this psalm is given to them, the sons of Korah. Oh, by the way, let me say this to the daddies. Let's be careful we don't put our children in that situation. I would never, my my even just thinking this now here at this very moment, thinking this, my heart sinks. If I would put my boys in a situation where they had to choose between being faithful to me or faithful to God Or they had to be remained true to me or true to God. I would want my testimony. I would want my Christian life to be such that being true to God Would be being true to daddy. You follow what I'm saying? I don't want to put my kids in that situation. Dads, let's not compromise. Let's not let's not disobey God. and force our kids to have to choose go our way or God's way. Our way ought to be God's way. That's what I'm saying. Sons of Korah, sons of Korah Now they're living to please God. They're praising God. They're leaders. Highly respected. They remain true to God. Now, come back to 84. That was my little Brief documentary, beginning of the message. I want us to notice three things this morning from this passage. Whoever the writer was. This penman, whoever he was, the first thing I noticed, he loved God's presence. He loved God's presence. Look at verse number one. He says, How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! Verse 2, he says, My song longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. The tabernacles, verse 1, the courts of the Lord. Look at verse 3. Yea, the sparrow hath found a house. And the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. In the altars, apparently, in the altars that were around the tabernacle there, the various altars they had, little sparrows. Had come and found a little niche on the side of one of the altars or a little underneath a little ledge. And these sparrows had come and built nests. Here in the tabernacle, on the altars of all place, the most sacred pieces of furniture in existence. Little sparrows had come in and built nests there and had their little eggs in there, raising their young, flying in and out. Swallows had come and and and uh settled in there and built little nests all around. Now the Jewish historians tell us that the Jews would not chase those sparrows off. They let them stay there. They let them build their nests and raise their young there in the tabernacle of God. Those little birdies would raise their young, and the the Jews would respect that. H. A. Ironside said that sparrows were about the most worthless birds there are Um, you know, I don't know anybody anybody have a sparrow in the oven at home fixing the eat it for lunch? No. Uh anybody pet sparrows around? No He said they're about the most worthless thing, bird there is. But Jesus said there are two farlings, one of the smallest coins in existence for a sparrow. Listen, they may be worthless in the eyes of man, but God thought they were worth building their little house there on the altars. What I'm trying to say is this, you may look at yourself and you say, I'm not I'm not worth much. I'm just a worthless old sinner. All that may or may not be true, I don't know, but I'm telling you, in the eyes of God, He wants you. He loves you He wants you in his presence, that where he is, there ye may be also. A. J. Ironside, the sparrows, he said they're the most restless birds they are And they're just always darting here and there. Anybody work a farm or anything, have the uh the the swallows. Uh man, those things just everywhere. And he says, even the r this old restless world, your heart's so restless Your heart's so empty. There's no purpose there. You just feel like you're grabbing for things in life. I'm here to tell you you can find purpose and peace and rest in the presence of God. Whoever this fellow was, he loved the presence of God. Notice in verse number four, he says, Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. He's referring to the tabernacle That Old Testament tabernacle, the courts of the Lord were about the tabernacle, uh the altars were in there where the sacrifices were made. Thy house, the tabernacle was referred to as God's house, where God met with his people. And in verse number one, he says, How amiable Are thy tabernacles? That is a word we don't use much, or if at all. Amiable. What in the world does amiable mean? It just has a tremendous meaning. It means deserving of love. Worthy of love. He says the tabernacle, the place where your altars are, where these courts are, and these little birds are making their nests around here, that place Is worthy of love. It's deserving of our love. Now, here's the question I had. Why would a building made out of material things, much of it was skins. Why would that be so worthy of our love? In fact, if you do a little research you find out that the tabernacle was very, very plain structure. There was nothing fancy about it. There was no ornate architecture. It wasn't really colorful. Now it had some color to it, there's no doubt. But it's not something you would walk by and say, wow, what a place. I was talking with Lewis Howe this past week. They had meetings down in New Zealand and um we've been down there several times for him. Our good friend Brother Norris Belcher was down there and they went to There's uh in Auckland there is uh what they call Spurgeon's Tabernacle. Now Spurgeon's Tabernacle is in London. But his son pastored for many years down in Auckland, New Zealand, and they build a tabernacle there identical to the one that his daddy had in London. And um Lewis was saying that they think they can get permission for us to hold meetings in there in twenty twenty-six. And he says uh he said I'd like for you to come down if you could and would and we'll hold meetings in Spurgeon's Tabernacle. I said, uh let me pray about that. Um But the what I'm getting at, I'm joking around here a little bit, but what I'm getting at is this: you walk by that building, you say, Wow, what a structure The pillars and the architecture and the the art of the uh uh the the design. It's wow I love this place. This place is something. But you wouldn't say that when you walk by the tabernacle. You say, well that's doesn't look like much. Like a big tent. It has some expensive furniture in it, but as far as appearance is concerned There was nothing to love about it. So why does this guy say the tabernacle, oh, it's so worthy of love? It's deserving of my love. It wasn't because of the building, but it was because of what the building represented. And the building represented the presence of God. That is where God met with his people. That is where God, that is where man's sins were covered by the blood of these sacrifices. This is where a man who was away from God or a woman who sinned against God in their guilt and shame of what they've done They can come to the tabernacle and find forgiveness and cleansing and find their relationship with God restored, and they could walk away in joy and gladness of forgiveness It's a place of meeting God. And he says, I love that place where God's presence is. The Ark of the Covenant was there, and that represented the very presence of God. I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think God has blessed us with nice facilities. Yea or nay? I don't think we have anything that's overly ornate. Nobody would say, oh, Mount Lake the uh 1005, the building there on the property. Boy, that's the most uh fascinating architectural structure in Oregon County. Nobody would say that. I like for our facilities to be practical Clean and neat and nice, presentable, but practical. Because you know what's special about this place? It isn't the buildings. What's special about this place is the presence of God when God's people get together here. That's what I love about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Last night we had prayer meeting and fellas, a bunch of us prayed down here and and they they they all headed home. Afterward I always stay after and do a few things. I like to just walk up and down these pews. I just think about who's sitting where. I thought you were going to be sitting over there, so I prayed for you over there, but you're over here. So And I just pray, Lord, whoever's sitting in this pew, brother so-and-so, sister so-and-so, this family, maybe some visitors, I just pray and ask God. When we assemble together, would you meet with us? Would your presence be here and stir hearts, touch hearts, open hearts to who you are and what you are, change lives, save souls? He loved the tabernacle not because it was a beautiful building. He loved the tabernacle because whose presence was in that building? God Almighty. He loved the presence of God. His heart longed to be in God's presence. His heart longed to be where God is His Creator, there was a vacuum in his heart, there was a empty n in his life that only God could fill Look out at this whole world has tries to have every answer, some of the answers to man's emptiness and and man's restlessness are so perverse and so bizarre I'm telling you, the answer to man's problems is found in the presence of God. We need God in our life. We need the Lord in our life. And until that happens, there's going to be an emptiness there. Until that happens, I'm here to testify. We have people all across this auditorium who could stand and testify. Before I found Christ, my heart and life was so empty. Frustration. No purpose. It was just grabbing and aggravated. I found Christ and I trusted him. Now my life has purpose. Now my life has meaning. Now we talk about the presence of God. We understand God is omnipresent. Now what do we mean by that? God is what? Everywhere all the time. So you can't go anywhere where God isn't. Little boy was walking home from Sunday school one time, the neighbor didn't believe in God or anything, and boys walked by Hazlobio. He said, Son, uh uh w what'd you do? Oh, I went to Sunday school. He says, I got a question for you. Where tell me where God is. Little boy says, tell you what, you tell me where he ain't. God's everywhere. You can go to the deepest depths of the ocean. You can go, they're talking they're putting men on the moon. Musk fella is talking about putting uh people on Mars. Guess what? You're going to find God on Mars too The heavens of the heavens can't contain them. Our God is an omnipresent God. You cannot run from God. Far as you go, you're going to run into them. So God is omnipresence. So what are we talking about, God's presence in the tabernacle? I thought he's everywhere. And he is, that's true. As believers, the Bible says, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God is present everywhere. But when we trust Christ as Savior, we have God's presence within our bodies ourselves, in the person of the Holy Spirit. The third person of the Trinity is we refer to the Holy Spirit. He indwells every person that trusts Christ. Christ in you, the Bible says. Not only do we live and exist in the general omnipresence of God, but we have the immediate presence of God within us. The person of the Holy Spirit as a believer. But then there are times and places and circumstances. Now, some of y'all are going to know what I mean by this, where God shows up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's just God's presence is evident. God's presence is manifest. God's presence. I'm sure it's true for many of us, but there have been times where I've come into a church service or a special meeting and you just walk into the crowd. And you sense the presence of God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? He said, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst. And sometimes that is incredibly obvious. The presence of God. One of my prayers, I think I pray as much, just about as much as any other prayers, I pray, Lord, manifest your presence in our service. Help us help people, myself and all of us to sense That you are here. I'm telling you, the presence of Lord, there's fullness of joy. There's peace There's comfort in the presence of God when He manifests Himself. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 28, he says that we go into all the world and preach the gospel. He says, Lo, I am with you always in a special way. And there have been times, I'm sure, Brother Salyer, for you, but I know for me, there have been times when I've been sharing the gospel with somebody. I'm thinking about four times right now, specific events. Where I'm with someone sitting in their living room as a one, and I have the Bible out, and I'm showing them how to be saved. I'm showing them that uh we're all sinners and the wages of our sin is to die and spend eternity in hell. It's a Bible truth. And that Jesus loved them enough to die and suffer hell, be buried and raised again from the dead. That whoever calls on him puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ can be forgiven, can be born again, a new life, a new purpose Eternal life, assurance of a home in heaven, not go to hell. And as I'm sharing that, I'm telling you, there have been times the presence of God was so evident, it was like he's sitting right there on a chair in the meeting in the room with us. The convicting, empowering presence of God. That's what this fellow longed for. He goes, I want to live my life in the presence of God. Not just in a general sense, he's everywhere. Oh, everybody lives in that realm. But he said, I want to be close to the Lord. I want to see him working in my life. I want to sense him moving in my heart. Purifying me and changing me and helping me and strengthening me, the presence of God. He loved the presence of God. Years ago, I w when I was in college, I worked at a carpet mill in North Georgia, just a short time. I worked third ship. We started at 11. We finished up at 7 in the morning. My first class was at 8 o'clock one semester, so I'm buzzing from work right to class. Now worked in this carpet mill and just doing whatever. The school would provide sack lunches for students who worked off campus. And you'd go by before you go to go off, we had to leave about 10. 30 or so to get there, swing by, we'd be able to during the day, we'd get a little sack lunch. And that was what we would eat when we took break. But one day I forgot the sack lunch. I was running, end up, got to work. And it's like two o'clock in the morning. That was lunchtime And so I get an I'll call, oh man, I forgot my lunch, I was starving. At classes all day and studying And uh so I said to the foreman, I said, Is there any place around, a little you know, convenience store, something I can get a sandwich to run down to? He goes, Oh yeah, it's a little place, go down the block here, one block, go over another block, it's a place right there, they got good sandwiches I said this time of the morning he says, Oh yeah, they're open. So I went buzzing down, I had a half hour, I'm running down the little road there, starving to death, go down, go down this road, come up. And there was hardly any signs or anything in front, but there was lights on, you could tell the place was there was no windows, but there was lights out front. And so I busted through the f two doors, there was t double doors, and there was like a little foyer, but there was nothing in there, it was just empty, but there was a set of doors, a little foyer area, lobby area, and then another set of doors. As soon as I went through that first set of doors, something in my heart and soul Alarmed me. Now I don't want to get weird, but something inside alarmed me. And I pushed, I went and pushed the second set of doors open, and here was a wicked, ungodly, drunken rock and roll. light nightclub or something going on. And as soon as I went down in those second doors, down in my heart and soul, it was just this is evil I turned around and went back. I decided to fast and pray that night. But I learned something. Now, God's presence is everywhere. I understand that. But this was a place where the presence of God was absolutely absent. Anyone follow what I'm saying? Before I was saved, I've been in places where it was absolutely evil. You could sense the evil. I tell you, I've been in places where God's presence was incredibly manifest. You could sense God's presence. I'll say this, I'll take God's presence over the other any day of the year. And that's what this fella is saying. He says, I want to be where God is. I want to be in the presence of God. The tabernacle is where God meets with us. And I love the tabernacle because that's where God's presence is. God's presence, in the presence of the Lord, there is joy, there is peace, there is hope. Say, preacher, I'd like to have some hope in my life. You come to the Lord. It's where hope is found. So I'd like some peace in my heart and soul in mine. It's restless. You come to the Lord. Lord Jesus. You'll find peace, comfort, rest. Say, preacher, I'm so uh I need forgiveness And I look in the mirror and I look at myself and I see a sinner. I see a failed morally and spiritually in my life, and I need forgiveness. You come to the Lord, that's where forgiveness is found. I'm telling you, there's not a church in existence that can forgive your sin, only Jesus can. This fellow, Psalm 84, he loved the presence of God. If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I plead with you this morning. You come to the Lord Jesus Christ. He'll forgive you, He'll save you, He'll give you a new life. It'll give you a home in heaven. It'll give you a purpose. I only have a minute or two left. Let me give you the second observation. Number two, he loved God's people. Look with me if you would at verse 6. He says, Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well, the rain also filleth the pools. Say, what in the world is the valley of Ghaka? The valley was a place, it was a valley in Palestine back then. And it was very dry. It's a very difficult, rugged, dry, little or no script, uh little or no moisture, little or no water And it's very difficult for people to go through. And if they had to go through the valley of Baca, they knew they're going to have a difficult time. It's going to be long stretches with little or no water. Difficulty getting over the terrain and through is a tough time, tough place to travel. And he says, I want to be, I want to be able to make a well. In this valley of Baca. And this is what I think he's saying. He's saying all of us are going to have to go through Valley of Baca sometime. It's going to be difficult times. There's going to be tough times. There's going to be dry times. He said, I love God's people, and if anything, I can do. When folks are going through dry times, these difficult times, that I could be a blessing to them, that I could somehow refresh them in their heartache, in their sorrow, in their sadness. In their pain. If I could just be a well to those people, he loved people and he wanted to be a blessing. He wanted to make a well in the valley of Baca. When we love God and God's presence, we can we want to be a blessing to others. And our hurts, I hope you'll get this statement, our hurts, our valleys of Baka, when we go through them, God can use that hurt that we experience. to help others who go through the same hurt. Anybody know follow what I'm saying? You say, praise your man, I've gone through it. All right, you stay faithful to God, you look to the Lord, you live in the presence of God, and someday God will be able to use your time your experience to be a well to somebody else going through there, and they can help you through it I thought of Dr. Lee Robertson was my pastor for a number of years down in Chattanooga, Highland Park Baptist Church. And he told many, many times. In fact, he has a sermon that he had published. On this event, he was preaching up in the northeast of Tennessee. He lived in Chattanooga, southeast. He was up in northern Tennessee somewhere. And he was preaching a meeting, and the evening, just before he was to get up and preach, they got a phone call. And they said, Dr. Robertson needs to come home immediately. Your little newborn child, joy, has died unexpectedly. He said his heart was broke, his heart sank, he was shattered And he said, I jumped in the car, excused myself, and the church was very understanding, and said, I just drove home through the night. He said, I came to a place on the highway where they had a detour set up. And he said, I had to get home to my wife. I had to get home to my family. And here was a detour. He said, I had to go out of the way. I was so frustrated. I was so angry. He said, but God taught me something. He said, God was allowing me to go through this valley. Because he had something he could use to help others. When he got back and had the funeral God stirred his heart to start a camp ministry. And the name of his daughter, Joy, Camp Joy. And for fifty plus years, probably more than that, sixty years, Camp Joy outside of Chattanooga, Tennessee, in Harrison Tennessee, Little Camp Joy, has been bringing boys and girls out of the ghettos, off bus routes, anywhere that would come, free of charge. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands Boys and girls come in and heard about the Lord Jesus, saved and living for God. He went through a valley of Baca. But he made it a well. He loved people. I think that's what this psalmist is. He goes, I want to be a blessing. Hey, listen, let's quit worrying about any whether anybody's blessing us or not. Just stop it. And let's start focusing on being a blessing to others. Let's stop sucking our thumbs and whining and getting all self-pity and say, all right, yeah, it is tough, and yeah, this hurts. But God, if I can help someone else, if I can get my eyes off myself, let's get rid of the ingrown eyeballs and start seeing other people. That's what he's saying. And then last of all, I gotta end with this. He loved God's presence, he loved God's people, and he loved God's person In the last nine, verse 9, 10, 11, and 12, he loved the Lord exclusively. He said, I'd rather be one day in your house, Lord, than a thousand days in the tents of the wicked. I'll tell you, the Lord's more precious than anything this world has to offer. Charlie and I were talking about the ungodliness on television. And I didn't see it, uh this uh big Super Bowl and they had a halftime show, apparently, just demonic And uh of the devil. I tell you what, you can have that all you want. I'd rather have one day with the Lord than a thousand days with that garbage. I don't know. I maybe I'm maybe I'm weird not maybe. I'm weird. Alright, I'll I'll take that. Oh oh. The older I get, the less comfortable I am in this old world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like I don't fit in this place. He says, I love the Lord. I love the Lord Himself, not just what He gives me, not the blessings I get. I love Him. A lot of Christians love what God does for us. But we need to get to the point where we love the Lord Himself. Who he is and what he is. He loved it exclusively, he loved the Lord expressively, he spoke it out openly, he wasn't ashamed, it was evident, it was visible. The way he lived his life matched the words he said, and then he loved the Lord extensively. In other words, he just kept on loving the Lord and loving the Lord and loving the Lord. There was a lady, Rhea Miller. Her daddy was a drunk. Her mother was a good Christian lady. He'd steal money, her daddy would steal money from his mother's purse to buy drink. He'd spend the whole paycheck he got, then he'd come home and steal what money she had. Just get enough money to buy another drink. That's what she grew up in Little Rhea would walk to church sometimes through snow and rain, sleet, mud. It's years ago, back before a lot of vehicles, just to get with God's people Her mother would go with her just to get with God's people. Finally, her mother's testimony started working on her daddy's heart. And he saw, her daddy saw that his mother, her mother, had something he didn't have. She had a peace, a confidence, a purpose. One day he said, I want to go to church with you. He went to church with her mother, three of them. And he heard God's word preached. God stirred his heart and he came. And he trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. God took the drink and the cursing, the hatred, bitterness, all that, took it all away, changed his life. And one night he stood up to give testimony. And he said, I just want to testify. I would rather have Jesus than all the gold and all the silver this world has to offer. His daughter sat there and heard him say that, and she took a pen and she wrote it down, I'd rather have Jesus. And she went home, and that phrase, what had happened in her daddy's life, and what he said just rung over and over and over in her mind. She wrote a little poem. I'd rather have Jesus than silver or gold. I'd rather be his. Than have riches untold. I'd rather have Jesus than houses or lands. I'd rather be led by his nil pierced hands Than to be a king of a vast domain or be held in sin's dread sway. I'd rather have Jesus than anything this world offers today I'd rather have Jesus than men's applause. I'd rather be faithful to his dear cause. I'd rather have Jesus than worldwide faith. I'd rather be true to his holy name. He's fairer than the lilies of rarest bloom. He's sweeter than honey from out the comb. He's all that my hungering spirit needs. I'd rather have Jesus and let him leave I'd rather have Jesus. I think that's what the psalmist say. I'd rather have Jesus. I'm here to tell you, this world has nothing to offer that comes even close to what the Lord has to offer for you and I. Let's trust him. Let's let him lead us and direct us in our life. Let's follow his instructions. Let's heed his warnings. Let's claim his promises. Let's love him with all our heart. America needs churches that have fallen back in love with Jesus. Our churches need people, Christians, who have fallen back in love with the Lord. Push out this love for the world and fall back in love with the Lord. Amen. Father, bless our invitation. I pray you challenge us. Help us in our walk with you, in our spiritual condition. Help us to come to Christ. And to love you, Lord, and live for you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how we say, preacher, I want God's presence in my life. I want God's presence in my home. I want the presence of God to anoint my home. You say, preacher, I long for that. sense the Lord working in my life. Is there any like that? Sure. God's people want that. Goodness I wonder if some say, preacher, I need to fall back in love with God's people. Sometimes we see people's faults and we forget to see the Lord. And we just need to get our eyes off ourselves on others. And I wonder if there's some who say, preacher, I need to seek to be a blessing to others more. Quit worrying about whether I'm being blessed And try and be a blessing. Any like that? Uplifted hand. I want God to use me, be a blessing. God bless you. Hands all around. Holds dying to self. And then maybe there's some say, Rachel, I just need to fall back in love with God Himself. Just love Him. Any like that? Uplifted hand. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, not to hell. Jesus. Loves you and he wants to save you, wants to give you eternal life. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, while you're praying for all those others, if you would, pray for me And I can know for sure that my sins are forgiven, that I go to heaven and not to hell. I'm concerned about that. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me I'd like to have that settled in my heart and soul that I know my sins are given. I go to heaven, not to hell. And you don't. Father, bless our invitation time now. I ask in Jesus' name