Verse twelve, Psalm chapter forty, working our way through as I said. Notice verse twelve. This is David, of course. King David is penning this under the inspiration of God. And really as we work through here, I don't know if you've picked this up, but it's like David is just pouring his heart out. He's just uh the term we use sometimes, he's spilling his guts. He's just telling what's on his heart. And in verse 12, he gets to this, he says this, for innumerable evils have compassed me about Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I'm not able to look up. They're more than the hairs of my head. Therefore, my heart faileth me Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. I notice that phrase at the end of verse 12. He says, My heart faileth My heart faileth. I want to talk about his heart failing. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless. As we look at this small portion of Scripture. Out of this tremendous psalm and and what it's meant to millions of people over the years, the truth here, what it's meant to me personally And I pray now as we consider these statements from the lips of David and from the heart of God that you would challenge us. And God, my prayer for myself. And for my home, and my prayer for our church and the homes and the individuals that make up our church is that we could be pure and God, we could have victory over sin And God, our lives would please you and our hearts would not fail, but our hearts would be strong in faith and strong in the Lord. And God, I ask that you would help us to do what we need to do so that we can have the joy of the Lord in our homes, our lives. And have confidence and boldness in living for you and serving you. So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit And I pray that you would take your word and speak through my lips to each of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've gone over this a number of times, but we've I've I noticed three uh clear divisions in Psalm chapter 40. We already looked at most of these, but the first five verses we have David's personal testimony He said, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me and heard my prayer, and he brought me up out of a horrible pit, and out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. If you remember, we spent a good bit of time on that, but we don't know what David got into. Whether it was own doing, I suspect it probably was. Whether it was his own doing or whether somebody else's actions affected him, but he was in what he described as a horrible pit and miry clay. And he couldn't get himself out And he prayed, he sought the Lord, and he waited patiently on God, and he prayed diligently, and God heard him. God got him out of that pit, got him whatever mess he was in, whatever situation that uh uh that was uh he was in. God got him out of that and got him up, set him, got him on a rock, established his going, got him set, and got him on the right path And so he praises. He is this testimony of what God did for him. Put a new song in his heart. Then verse 6 through 9, his focus Shifts a little bit as he's seen what God has done for him, how God's helped him and changed his life. Now his focus is on the Lord Jesus Christ. In verses 6 through 9, and it's actually a prophetic statement about the coming Savior and a little bit what we preached on this morning and the sacrifice he would make The perfect sacrifice. And so his eyes go from what God had done for him, what the Lord had done for him. Now his focus is on the Lord himself. And on the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we get to verse 10 through 17, the third portion of this psalm. And he's praying for mercy. He's praying for mercy. The other week, I think it was the last time we were in this psalm a couple weeks ago, we noted that the closer David got to the Lord, the less impressed he was with himself. And we note it all through Scripture. We see numerous great men of God throughout Scripture, the closer they got to the Lord, the more they understood who God our Creator is and his characteristics, and the more they understood about the Lord, the less impressed they were with themselves. And we see that in these last these last several verses. I think we need to be careful. And we're going to look here at verse 12. We're not going to get to all this. We're just the first part of verse 12 tonight. But I think we need to be careful. If I find myself habitually belittling and criticizing and condemning others If I find myself doing that habitually, that's an indication of spiritual immaturity. That's an indication to me that I really don't grasp the love and mercy and grace of God that He's shown me. And then I looked down on others. The Pharisees were notorious for this: finding the faults of others and accusing others and criticizing others and belittling others. If I find myself doing that, I need to be very, very careful and realize that that's an indication of spiritual immaturity on my part. I really don't have a clear grasp of God and who he is and his love for me. In our text, it's interesting if you pay close attention. David's concern is not for others' sins. His focus in verse 12 and 13 is not on others' faults And others' shortcomings and others' failures. His focus is on his own. Again, look at verse 12, and we'll break this down here in just a moment. He says, for innumerable evils have compassed me about. What's that next word? Are you looking there? Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me. He's not focusing on the sins of others. It's himself. There's an old song: it's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. I think that's what David is saying. Lord, it's me. It's me. And so his focus was not on others' shortcomings, but mine, where I've come up short. Now, in the following verses, we look at this, verse 14 and 15, he does address other people's issues. Look there at verse 14, he says He says, let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. So there were some people that were out after David. In fact, most of his life there was somebody after him Saul and later his son Absalom. There's others involved. And so verse 14, he does address some issues that others were dealing with Verse 14, he says, they seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Let them be desolate. Let them be desolate for a reward for their shame that say to me, aha, aha. So he does address others issues that are going on, but not until he deals with his own. Not until he addresses and deals with his own iniquities, his own sins Jesus addressed that same issue in the Sermon on the Mount. If you would, keep your place here, but come with me to Matthew chapter number 7. Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7 is what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount. Phenomenal message It's not for unsaved. It's for saved people. It's for disciples of Jesus Christ. And he's basically preaching on how a disciple behaves. The first several verses of this sermon in chapter five, he talks about, he addresses how a disciple thinks, the attitude we should have. If I'm a disciple of Christ He talks about the attitudes we have, our treatment of others, our behavior. And if you get to chapter 7, he's about two-thirds of the way through his sermon. And he says in uh in uh chapter 7, and I'm going to pick up in verse number 3, verse 1 and 2, he talks about judging, making judgment on others And that's a subject for another message sometime. But look at verse 3. Most of us are familiar with this. And why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye? Now he allows for the fact that there may be a moat in the brother's eye. There may be an issue with this other person. He allows for that. But why beholdest the moat that is in thy brother's eye? But considerest not the what? Beam that is in thine own eye. How wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye, thou hypocrite! First, cast out the beam out of thine own eye, then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote of thy brother's eye. He allows for the fact that your brother may have an issue. They've got a moat in their eyes illustrating they have an issue. They got something going on that ain't right or whatever. That needs attention. But he says, don't you dare try and correct your brother with the moat in your eye, and you got a beam in your own eye. Now a moat is a tiny speck, like a little splinter. Little piece of sawdust got in there. And he says, you got a beam in your own eye. The word beam means exactly what it sounds like, this huge beam. Now he's using a kind of, you know, he's he's exaggerating. I'm going to be careful about how I say this, but he's kind of almost being ridiculous in the illustration. You got a beam in your eye. Who walks around with a beam in their eye? But what he's doing is illustrating the hypocrisy of tolerating and overlooking sins in my own heart and life. While at the same time trying to correct someone else. And I think that's what David is doing in Psalm chapter 40. He doesn't say a peep about the other issues, he says. Innumerable evils have compassed me about. Mine iniquity has taken hold of me. Paul addressed that same subject. In Galatians chapter 6, if you would, turn over there. A little bit farther back in your New Testament, Galatians. And Paul is writing to these churches in Galatia. He's dealing with a lot of doctrine. But he at the end of the The book of Galatians, he's addressing practical Christian living. And notice in chapter 6, Galatians 6, notice with me verse number 1. Brethren, all right, if he says brethren, who's he talking to? Saved people. Talking about folks been saved In the family of God. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, he's doing something wrong, he's doing something he shouldn't do. He has a there's a fault there Ye which are what? Spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. Now look at this next statement. Considering what? Thyself, lest thou also be tempted. What's he saying? He's saying, listen, you've got a brother or sister, someone in the church Another saved person, whatever, maybe it's your family member, a neighbor, a co-worker, somebody that's in a ministry in the choir, whatever. And they got something going on, they got a fault, and you're aware of it, you see it What Paul is saying, again, under the inspiration of God, he says, before you ever go and try and correct that fault in them, you make sure you're spiritual. You make sure you're right with God. You make sure you don't got some faults of your own that aren't being addressed. You deal with them first. And then may then you can help the brother. And notice he puts another qualification on this. He says, Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of what? Let me get back here. Restore such a one in the spirit of what? Meekness. That's humility. That is the polar opposite of self righteousness. I'm right, you're wrong. That is not meekness. Meekness says, I'm no better than you. I could be caught up in this just as easily as you are. I have a sinful nature just like you do. I've got my own issues I'm dealing with just like you are. I'm not coming to you in a superior, holier than thou attitude. I'm coming to you humbly and want to help you get right, but first I need to make sure I'm right. Everybody with me? Follow? This is a clear teaching all through Scripture. Again, this is something the Pharisees completely failed at. They were characterized by a holier than thou attitude. In fact, Jesus rebuked them multiple times for their self-righteousness. They saw no fault in themselves and they looked down on others. They brought to Jesus a woman that was taken in adultery in the very act, is Jesus' words. They brought him to Jesus Christ. They said the law says she should be stoned. What do you say? And you know the story. He let them think on that a little bit. They pressed him. What do you say? The law says stone her. Jesus, you know what he said? He said, You that are without sin, you cast the first stone. Beginning at the eldest down, they walked off. He said to the woman, he says, Where are their accusers? She goes, I have none. There are none. I find that interesting. Again, this isn't my message, but I find it interesting that this woman, can you imagine the shame? That was in her heart and mind as she stood there, caught in the very act of adultery by a bunch of self-righteous men. Bring her publicly to the Lord Jesus Christ. And she stood there. And she didn't run. I don't know. I I would think in that situation I would have been out of there the first chance I can. But she didn't She stood there. You know why I believe? I believe she saw in the Lord Jesus Christ the love and grace of God. And that this man did not condemn her, he forgave her. Now he says, Neither do I condemn thee, but he didn't stop there. What did he say? Go and sin no more. He didn't justify her sin, he didn't overlook it, he didn't excuse it, he didn't ignore it. But he taught us a lesson. He taught us that before we go judging others and condemning others and criticizing others and belittling others, we need to make sure our heart is right. I need to make sure my heart is clean and pure. My attitude is what it ought to be, and there's humility there I believe that's what's happening with David back in Psalm chapter 40, if you would come back here. And in verse 12 and 13, he's addressing his own iniquity. He's addressing his own issues before he ever says a word about anybody else's. Notice I see three things in these two verses. I'm looking at 12 and 13 together as a unit. I divide it up in three portions, and we're not going to get, we're only going to look at the first one, but the first thing I see is the strength of sin. The first part of chapter 12 or verse 12. And then I noticed David's sensitivity to the sin. He says, My heart faileth me. His heart wasn't hard, his heart wasn't stiff against the sin. It was sensitive. It affected him. The fact that he had sinned affected him. We'll look at that another week. And then in verse 13, I notice he seeks deliverance from his sin. So I want to give a few thoughts about the strength of sin tonight in his own heart, in your heart, my heart. Not someone else's, mine. David had great deliverance. Verse 1, 2, and 3. Brought me out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, established my goodness, put a new song on our David's life was changed. Whatever the circumstances were, God got him out of it and put him on the right track. He's stable, he's secure, he's got joy, he's got a song in his heart. David had great deliverance, but he still had ongoing struggles. Now as I was studying this and trying to make sure I understood exactly what was being said here At first I thought, well, David is just dealing with, he's just becoming more aware of the fact that he's a sinner. There's no particular sin in his life he's addressing. It's just he's getting closer to the Lord and he's becoming more aware of the fact that he's a sinful being, he's far from perfect. And um and that bothers him. But the more I studied this, I don't think that's the case. I think David had gotten into sin. I mean particular sin. And the reason I say that is look at verse 12. He says, innumerable evils have compassed me about And again, that next word, mine iniquities have taken hold upon me. Something came, something happened. Something he got into something, and it was wrong And I believe this is after he was brought up out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He had great deliverance, but he still had struggles. He still had struggles It amazed me as I'm studying this and looking at the life of David anew. And we studied his life some time ago on Wednesday nights. And it amazed me, it amazes me, as great a man as David was, and he was a great man. He was a man after God's own heart. He was a warrior, a king. He had authority. He had the presence of God in his life. But it amazed me how much David struggled with sin. You look at some of the Psalms he wrote, and he references over and over and over how sin, he fought sin, sin got the best of him. Sin, the strength of sin. Paul understood this And then we could spend some time looking at this, but if you read and study Acts chapter 9, we find that the Apostle Paul had a great salvation. Great deliverance on the road to Damascus. The Lord appeared to him. He got saved. He was a murderer. He was persecuting believers. He hated Jesus Christ. And he met Christ and got saved, and God changed his life, and now he's living for God. He's serving God. He had a great deliverance. But when you get to Romans chapter 7 Paul's struggling with sin. And he says in so many words, and we reference this pretty often because it's all of our experience, I think. He says, the things that I and he's talking as a great man of God, and he says, the things that I know I should do, I find myself not doing. And the things I know I should not do, I end up doing. I end up doing. Can anybody relate? David, great man of God, yet we find him struggling with sin over and over. And I mean serious stuff. All sin is serious. But some serious stuff. Paul says that. Come on, Paul. Yeah. Yeah. Strength of sin. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1 references besetting sins. It says, lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us. That word beset kind of has the idea of just hounding me. Just constantly I'm having to deal with this sin. I believe the Bible teaches, and I've found in my own experience, Is that all of us tend to have areas where we are vulnerable in. Right or wrong? We have certain areas that we tend to be weak in And for no no it's not the same for everybody. And I I think I've touched on this just in a recent message, but what What areas that Brother Wilbur might be vulnerable in might not be the same areas I'm vulnerable in. And the way areas I'm vulnerable in, Helen might be not the same for her But I believe we all have what are called besetting sins, areas where we tend to be weak in, tend to be vulnerable. And I think it's wise on our part to study ourselves and find out what my besetting sins are, where I'm vulnerable at, and then Take action to counter that, right? See I Schofield, the ought not not Not uh Brian Schofield, C. I. Schofield, the editor of the great Bible, the Schofield Bibles. I mean, I'll use it. I've used one for decades Use the Schofield Bible. He was saved out of alcoholism. He was a drunk. A lawyer, but he was a drunk. God saved him and changed his life and delivered him from that, but he knew that he had a weakness there. That was a besetting sin for him, and he gives testimony in his biography that he was out of Philadelphia, started the Philadelphia College of the Bible, attended there a year. Not when he was there, it was a lot later. But um he said from his office to his home he'd have to walk past a liquor store, a b a pub, a a tavern. And he said when he would get there and he'd go by that, he felt it Man. And so he knew that that was an area of vulnerability. He knew that was a besetting sin. A great man, a man of great faith, a tremendous Bible scholar. Author denotes in the Schofield Bible. He said when he would get about a block away from that place, he'd take a left, go several blocks, and he'd take a wide berth. around that bar because he knew he was besetting sin. It amazed me as I'm studying this, it shocked me, and I don't know, I I'm sure I saw this before. But how much David struggled with sin. How many times in the Psalms and places he deals with sin? Of course, we know about Bathsheba. We know about him numbering. But he had five or six wives, maybe more. That was an issue. Not everything he got involved in is recorded. Now I'm not trying to be disrespectful to David. I'm not trying to trash David. I'm simply saying he was a sinner just like everybody else And he had struggles just like everybody else. You say, preacher, I'm a saved, I love God, I want to live for him, but I struggle. You're not unique. You're not unusual. You're not a freak. You're a sinner saved by grace. Amen? And if I know Christ the Savior, I'm in Christ. I'm secure and safe. But fighting sin is going to be a lifelong battle. It's going to be a lifelong struggle. And we can have victory. But we will never be without the battle. We're always going to have that. We're always going to have that. So David is dealing with the strength of sin. And I'm not going to get through this first point. I can see that. I notice, I'll just give a couple thoughts here under this, and then we'll quit. But I noticed the sin confined him. Whatever this sin was, he's struggling with, and he doesn't tell us specifics. He just refers to it there in verse twelve as something evil, and then he says it's iniquity So he doesn't give us the specific, he just uses those terms. And whatever it is, it confined him. Notice, he says, innumerable evils have compassed me about. Now that word evil there, it simply means something that is bad. Whatever it was, it was bad. I don't think I need to say this, but I will. All sin is bad. There's no there's no good sin. The word evil means unpleasant. And I remind you, there is pleasure in sin. For what? For a season. For a season. The best part of sin is when I give into it. The worst part of sin is the afterword part. And I'm here to tell you, and every one of us know this is true. If you've been saved any length of time, you know this is true. The bad part of sin is so much worse than the good part of sin is good. Anybody, and this is between you and God, but I wonder how many of us we ever messed up and afterward we thought, man, I'm such an idiot. This cost poor. This what this wasn't worth it Right? Anyone know anybody at all know what I'm talking about? And so the word evil there means bad. It means unpleasant. It means hurtful. Let me say this: all sin hurts. None of us are a better person because we sinned. None of us. It means wickedness. So we don't know what he got involved in, other than it was evil. It was bad, hurtful, unpleasant, and wicked. But we are told that it was more than what he could deal with. He says, innumerable evils have compassed me about. That word enumerable, it has the idea of a swarm of bees. And they're just coming at me, coming at me. They're innumerable. We're told that whatever this evil was, whatever this was that he had gotten involved in Compassed him about. Now that word compass about is an interesting word. It means to surround. It has this idea to confine my movement. To restrict my movement. It's kind of like this. David is saying, I've got this evil one. It's just All around me, it's encompassed me about, and I try and go forward here, and I can't, and I try and go forward here, and this evil hurts and and it's Confines him. In other words, he could not progress spiritually with this evil in his life. As long as this evil is in my life, I cannot progress spiritually. I can't go forward. I can't grow. I can't serve God effectively. With this evil in my life. It confined him, it restricted his spiritual service. It restricted his spiritual growth. Sin hurts us. It hurts me spiritually. It hinders my spiritual growth. Sin hurts a church. The church can't grow. It can't have the effect that it should have. If there's sin encompasses us about Somebody put it this way: sin will take you farther than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you more than you want to pay. He couldn't get out of it. He couldn't get out of it. So the sin compassed him about Confines him. And then notice there in verse 12, real quickly, notice it controlled him. He says, Mine iniquities have taken hold of me. I think that phrase taken hold is a key phrase in this whole verse. I think that is the focus of this verse. These iniquities have taken hold of me. They have a strangle hold on me. That word take and hold has the idea of arresting me or controlling me or it's kind of like a prisoner of war. Got me, I can't come and go as I want. Controls me. In other words, I think what he's saying here is these iniquities, I'm being led about by my iniquities. I don't want to be this way. I don't want to live this way. I don't want to behave like this. But I have no control. My iniquities have taken over. They've taken hold of me. This is David speaking, King David. He says his iniquities are leading him to do things. And he does not want to do. And he knows he shouldn't do. But they've taken hold of him. They've taken hold of him. And then I'll end with this. His sin confused him His sin confused him. Look at verse 12. He says, so that I am not able to look up. I'm not able to look up. I think what he's saying is he's overwhelmed with guilt and shame. The sin has such a hold of him, I can't even look up to God. I'm ashamed. I think he's saying I can't see clearly. I can I can't make good decisions spiritually. I can't see my way forward with this. This is King David. Say, man, alive, what in the world? Come back to chapter 38 of Psalms, just a page over there. He says something along these lines. Psalm 38, look at verse 3. Says, there is no this is David speaking. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. God was angry at him for something. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of what? My sins. They're killing me. I can't sleep. Mine iniquities are going over my head as a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. My wounds, I think he's talking about spiritual wounds that the sin, iniquity has brought on him, my wounds stink. And are corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. Man, he's struggling, he's defeated by the sin. David, I mean, this is the guy that just a few verses earlier saying I waited patiently or I called on him and he heard my cry, brought me up out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet on a rock, established my goal. He's put a song in my heart. Jesus Christ is my Savior. Now I'm messed up. Messed up. Sin is confined to me. It's controlling me. It's confusing me. As great of a man as David was, and as good as God had been to him, he still struggled greatly with sin. And he struggled with its consequences. I wish we could go through this whole passage and get to the good part where the deliverance is. And I'll just say this: the deliverance is found in the Lord. He couldn't do it himself, but he had a God in heaven that was able to deliver him again and again and again and again. And bring him up and get him back. What I take away from just this first half of verse number twelve is this sin is not something to play with. Sin is not something to toy with. It is not a pet. It is a deadly evil. And it has been the curse of mankind throughout man's history. Sin. Sin. Six years ago we dealt with COVID. I can't believe we're still talking about that. I'm telling you there's something far worse than COVID that we've been dealing with for millenniums, and that's sin. That's sin. I put this down, sin is to be hated and avoided like a rattlesnake. Like a rattlesnake. Brother Mark knows a little bit about rattlesnakes. He got a ton of them out there. The best thing to do with a rattlesnake, well Let me say, just stay away. Just stay away from him. How about that? See me later, I'll talk to you Amen. I hate to end here, but I'm out of time. This is a terrible place to end. But I'm here to tell you, he goes on, he prays to God. And God is the great deliverer. And when we find ourselves in a situation, we get ourselves in a situation we think we can't get out. And it's just confined us and it's controlling us and it's confusing us. I'm glad that we can come back to the Lord and He's patient and He's gracious. You know one thing David says over and over and over in his writings? The mercy of the Lord endureth forever. Proverbs says, A just man falleth seven times. We see that in David. And what? He riseth up again. I don't know what's going on in your life. I don't know that I'm just working my way through this psalm. But I know God deals with my heart. I trust He's wherever we're at spiritually, He's dealing with us. Let's not cover our sin. Let's do what David did. Let's confess it. Forsake it and look to the Lord to lead us and deliver us. Amen? Treat it like a rattlesnake. Treat it like a rattlesnake. Father, I pray you'd take this. And Lord, I hope this isn't a bad place to end this subject, but I pray that you would grant us deliverance. I pray for great conviction. The Lord, I also pray for great repentance and great deliverance, because it's available. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I don't know how to give an invitation on a subject list appropriately I think the vast majority of us, maybe all of us, are honest enough before the Lord to acknowledge when God deals with us and God points stuff out, and maybe God right now it's on our minds But whatever it is, let's be honest with ourselves. Let's be honest with God, like David was. Get our eyes off of others and clean our kitchen up. We got our get our eyes clear. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.