40. We're working our way through here. We began this couple verses, began looking at verse 12 and 13 last Sunday, and we got noted one thought from verse number 12, the first part of verse 12. I'm going to read 12 and 13 again, and I want to pick up at the end of verse 12 and down go into 13 and tie this together. I've entitled the message, if you remember from last week, My Failing Heart. And I get that from the end of verse 12 there. But let's read it. Verse 12 says, For innumerable evils have compassed me about Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of mine head. Now here's where I got the title from. Therefore, my heart faileth me Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. My failing heart, let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight before we go home. Father, Pray now you'd bless now as we uh look at this uh little portion here of this great psalm. And I don't know if anybody else, Father, has gotten much out of this, but this has sure stirred my heart, this whole series I pray as we continue on that your Holy Spirit would continue to draw out from these statements, these verses that were given, this information that you give us in this Psalm. I pray you'd help your Holy Spirit would draw it out and apply it to every one of our hearts as we have need, as you know we need. And uh Lord, there's a lot I don't know about a lot of folks, but I know one thing. Those of us that know Christ, we struggle with this old sinful nature, these besetting sins, and we see David here also And so help us learn from him what he says here. Fill me with your spirit as always my prayer. As I yield myself anew to you, my body, present my body. And ask Lord you would please speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Psalm forty, of course, we it's a tremendous Psalm He starts out praising God for getting him out of that horrible pit, that miry clay, set him on a rock, put a song in his heart. He's praising God And his eyes, throughout the psalm, his focus moves off of what Christ had done for him, and it focuses onto Christ himself And he makes that great prophetic statements there that are quoted in Hebrews in verses 9 there, in verses 6 down through 9. And he's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you'll remember, we pointed out, I think, is an important observation, and it'll help us if we all get a hold of this. And the closer he's getting to the Lord, the clearer he's understanding the Lord, the more disappointed he is in himself. There's no disappointments in Jesus. But the more we see Jesus, the less impressed we are with ourselves. And if you remember, last week we noted the first part of verse 12, verse 12, David states that he's aware of the strength of sin. And he mentions three things that sin was doing to him. As great a man as he was, he still struggled with sin. The greatest men in scripture. The man, I believe, if I studied it correctly, I believe Samson. I think it said about Samson more than any other Old Testament figure that the Spirit of God came upon him Would you agree with me? Samson struggled with sin. I mean he struggled with it. He was defeated by it many times, but yet He had the power of God on him repeatedly. And so if someone the caliber of David and Samson, and Samson's in the Hebrews Hall of Fame there, chapter 11, and Samson's mentioned. If these men are struggling with a sin nature, you and I ought not to be surprised that we're going to have that same struggle also. We are going to have the same. So David did. And he pointed out that sin had him confined. He said, It surrounds me. He said, Innumerable evils have compassed me about. I can't go forward. I can't, I'm not free. I can't grow as a Christian. I can't progress in my spiritual life because of the sin I'm fighting. He said that sin controlled him. Verse 12. Again, it's taken hold upon me. Mine iniquities have taken hold of me. They have a stranglehold on me. They've arrested me, they're controlling me. And sin will do that. Sin will control us If it's not checked. And then he said that sin confused him. He said, I can't I'm not able to look up. I can't even see. I'm overwhelmed with sin. I'm overwhelmed with guilt. I can't see clearly. I'm just bowed down. I can't go forward. And so the strength of sin. If you remember, we ended last week with these couple statements. Sin is not something to be played with. Sin is not something we should toy with or ignore. It's not a pet. Sin is to be hated, and it's to be avoided at all costs With all our strength, we need to fight it. With all our strength, we need to fight it. And David had that struggle. The second thing I want to notice in this thought, and that's where we'll pick up tonight. At the end of verse 12, he says, Therefore my heart faileth me. And the word, therefore, is because of the sin, the struggle I have going on, and the sin's power, because of the sin's strength. My heart is failing me because of my iniquities and these innumerable evils that have compassed me about. Sin had a profound effect upon David. It affected him. He listen, uh we cannot think we are fooling ourselves if we think we can toy with sin and not have it affect us. We get this idea. See see if anybody can uh understand what I'm saying. We get this idea that I can have my little pet sins, my little pet rattlesnake. And I can just kind of keep it in a compartment and keep it in a back room and it's not going to affect me. And God's not going to know about it and it's not going to have any effect upon me. And we're only fooling ourselves And David says, sin affected me. My heart is failing me because of the sin that has controlled me, that's got into my life. A great man, he's delivered from the mirror pit, delivered out of the horrible The horrible pit, the miry clay. Man, his feet are on a rock. He's got established, he's got purpose, but yet he still has this besetting sin he's fighting. And it's affecting him. His heart is failing him. The word therefore means as a result of, for that reason, the effect that sin had upon me. Is uh uh the the sin had an effect upon me, and it caused my heart to fail. So David is very sensitive to this sin. Because of his sin, he's very, very sensitive. His iniquities caused his heart to fail. We said this numerous times, and I think I said it just a moment ago. The closer David got to God, the more Uh the more he understood the love of God, the more he understood the holiness of God, the more he understood the will of God for his life, the less impressed he was with himself. And we've been pointing that out But I noticed something else here. The more he understands the Lord, the more he focuses on Christ, the more he realizes the goodness of God to him. The more sensitive he becomes to sin, the more sensitive he is to sin. Now, my question is this: what does it mean to be sensitive to sin? I say David is sensitive to sin. It affected him. It made his heart fail. It's very sensitive. Well, I think being sensitive to sin means two things. Number one, I become aware of the presence of sin in my life. If I'm sensitive to sin, when it shows up, I'm immediately aware of it. I'm immediately aware of it. We're on dangerous ground. When we can involve ourselves in sin and it doesn't affect me. Doesn't bother me. Oh yeah, oh that's right, I sinned To be sensitive to sin means I'm aware of its presence in my heart, in my life. I say something I know I shouldn't say. Maybe I use some language that a Christian ought never to use. And immediately I'm aware, oh I said that I sinned. That's being sensitive to it. Maybe I do something. I go somewhere. A Christian ought never to go. Do you know there are some places Christians ought not to go? There are some things Christians ought not to say, child of God. And to be sensitive to sin, whenever that, if that, if and when that takes place, I'm immediately aware of that, because I'm sensitive to it. Actions I take, words that come off my lips, maybe an attitude I get towards someone. Anybody here ever get an attitude towards somebody? I mean, not right now, I mean at some point. I do, I have to be honest with you. Sometimes I do. Somebody says something or does something and it crosses my flesh a little bit and that attitude comes up. Y'all looking at me so pious. Come on now. Can I get a witness? And immediately, just talking with my wife not too long ago, I had that happen to me I came in, I said, I told her, I said, I had to pray right away. Holy Spirit, please help me to die to self. Holy Spirit, help me to quench that flesh because it reacted, and I got an attitude. Being sensitive to sin means I'm immediately aware of the fact that my attitude isn't right. I'm immediately aware of the fact that what I said was wrong. I'm immediately aware of the fact that what I did I ought not to have done or I didn't do something I should do. Sensitive. David was sensitive to sin. He had these struggles, and man, his heart failed him. Why? Because he was aware. That there was sin in his life. Um, attitudes, thoughts. A thought goes through my mind. I like what Tom Malone said. I heard him say this a couple times, but over the years, and um He would say something like this. He says, you can't stop a thought from going through your mind, but you can avoid dwelling on that thought. He said it's like a bird. You can't stop a bird from flying over your head, but you can stop it from making a nest in your hair. Some of us would be a Am I sensitive to sin when it comes up in my life? Am I aware of it? Am I aware that that sin, oh yeah, that's not right. That's not right I've seen over the years people get saved. Well, even for my own self, I got saved on Monday night on that next day at work on Tuesday, and I'm ashamed to say this But I mean everything was so different in my life immediately. And the next morning I used some words and just in conversation That 24 hours before never bothered me at all, never even entered my mind about that. That would not be something I should say. But say Monday night, Tuesday, I I I used some language And man, immediately my heart pierced me. That sensitivity that the Holy Spirit puts in us towards sin. An attitude, words we cross words we use. Bitterness comes in or anger towards somebody, and the Spirit of God pierces us, and we're sensitive to that. David's sensitive. He says, therefore, because of that, my heart fails. And so part of being sensitive to sin is, first of all, being aware of the presence of sin when it shows up. But also, I think it involves the aware of the potential of sin In my heart and life. In other words, I'm immediately aware of the seriousness of this sin in my life. We have to be very, very careful about dismissing sin or minimizing it or saying, well, it's not that big a deal. Well, it wasn't that much. I tell you, sin never stays a little, sin always progresses. It all it's like cancer. It just if you don't deal with it, if you don't get that chemo or whatever radiation in there, man, it'll just keep growing, growing, growing. That's why, you know, you get a little spot on your ear, your cheek, or your um neck, your nose. And I say, oh, we need to take that off. We don't we don't want to let that there. We don't want that go. The potential of that that cancer, little s cancer spot on your skin, we need to deal with it right and right now because of its danger because of the seriousness of it. And they'll take that off. And that's being sensitive to sin. Man, it comes up And I don't tolerate it, I don't excuse it, I don't try and cover it up. I realize this is serious. You say, oh, it's just a word. That's more than a word. It has to do with obedience to God. It has to do with my testimony. There's a seriousness to it. Remember when Peter denied the Lord? He said, Lord, I'll never deny. I'll die before I deny you. Jesus said, one of you is going to deny me. He said, I'll never deny you. I'll die before I would do that. And he denied the Lord, not once, not twice, three times. And when the Lord Jesus looked at him, what did he do? Anybody remember? He wept bitterly. There was a sensitivity there in his heart. And and he and he said things he ought not to have said. And he was, by the way, he was in some places he ought not to have been. And he said things. He said lies. He lied. He denied his Lord. And Jesus Christ looked over and their eyes met. And immediately David's heart failed him. Or not David, uh Paul's. Who am I talking about? Peter's heart failed him immediately. And he wept bitterly. He realized that this was not just some little thing. This was serious. This broke the heart of his Lord. He denied his Lord. Sensitivity. If you would, keep your place here. I just want to show you something in Luke, the book of Luke. And I I think most of us are very familiar with this, but I think it illustrates what David is saying here. He said, therefore, because of this, my heart fails me. There's a sensitivity there. He was aware of this Sin in his life, and he w he was a he was aware not only of the presence but the potential, the danger of it. Look at Luke 15. Here you have the prodigal son. Come down to verse 17, and we know the story. Takes his inheritance, he gets impatient. Daddy, I want my inheritance now. And so the father gives it to him And rather than invest it and use it for the cause of God and for the good of others and for his future, he squanders it all in a far country. You know the story. He's in the pig pen, he's in the pigs with the pigs, the swine in the fields, he's feeding them. He's so hungry, he wanted to eat what the pigs eat. And notice what it says there, verse seventeen. And when he what Oh, he's aware of his situation. I didn't think about any of this before. There was no sensitivity there to what he was doing. He was living in pleasures of sin for a season. But now it dawns on him. And he comes to himself and he says, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread and enough and despair? And I perish with hunger. He immediately became aware of his situation, the presence of his sin in his life. He never paid attention to it, never thought about it. Now he does. And he realizes the seriousness of it. What have I done to my life? What have I done to my life? I don't want to live this way. I don't want to be this kind of person. And he was sensitive. His heart failed him. And his only hope, and we'll see David does this here back in Psalm 40, his only hope is to go to the Father. I go to my Father, he'll help me. I go to my Father, He'll straighten out, He'll help me. And getting a little ahead of myself, but in Psalm 40, verse 13, David says, Lord, I'm looking to you for help. And so there was a sensitivity to sin, an awareness of its presence, an awareness of its potential, the danger, the devastation. In Luke chapter 18, we have a publican, he's in the temple. And he won't even lift his eyes up to God, and he smites himself and he says, God have mercy on me, a sinner. He was aware of the fact that there was sin in his life, and he realized how serious that was He said, God, I can't tolerate this. I don't want this. He was sensitive to it. And he sought God to have mercy on him. Have mercy on him. So come back to Psalm 40. David is sensitive. To his sin. He says, therefore, my heart faileth. Now I got looking at that word fail there. My heart faileth. And it's interesting. It has two ideas behind that word fail. There, in fact, the word fail is translated other places in script, the word it comes from is translated other places in our Bible to divorce. My heart has divorced me. My heart has forsaken me. My heart has abandoned me. My heart has deserted me. That's the idea behind the word there. And I think what David was saying was, my own heart The very core of my being, what makes me what I am, my own heart has failed me. My own heart is not loyal to me. It's forsaken me. Rather than helping David be the man that God created and be and and saved him to be, that God did did that God desired him to be. Rather than being the man he should be, his heart was disloyal to him, was pulling him into sin. His own heart. Rather than helping him be a good Christian, a man of God, it was failing him. The sin caused his heart to turn on him. Proverbs 28 and verse 26. I was going to turn to all these, but we won't take time. But Proverbs 28, verse 6 says, He that trusteth in his own heart is a what? Fool. He that trusteth in his own heart. I'm here to tell you, our heart, we cannot trust our own heart. It will fail us every single time. The world says, how many times have you heard someone say, well, just follow your heart? My Bible says you're a fool if you do that. Because your heart will not be loyal to you. My heart will not be loyal to me. And David says, My heart failed me. My heart divorced me, walked away from me when I was trying to live for God. I was on a solid rock. I established my ways and my heart failed me. I don't know if he's suggesting that he started trusting in himself and And trusting in his own heart, whatever the case was, but his heart divorced them. There's another thought behind that word faileth. It means to disappoint. In other words, kind of goes along, but I could no longer trust my own heart myself. I cannot trust my heart. Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. So David is very sensitive to sin. It affected him profoundly He was aware that the sin was present in his life. That's what he's saying in the first part of verse 12. Then he was aware of the potential, the danger of this sin. And he said, I looked to my own heart. My own heart failed me. My own heart wasn't loyal to me. My own heart didn't help me. It failed me. And then last of all, I am with this. He seeks the assistance of God. Look at verse 13. My heart faileth me. Verse 13: Be pleased, O Lord. To deliver me. He's not looking to his heart anymore. He's not trusting his heart anymore. He's trusting the Lord. He's looking to the Lord. Oh Lord, make haste to help me. Make haste to help me. He asked God to do two things for him. Number one, he asked God to remove these iniquities that have compassed him about, the evils that have compassed him about, the iniquities that have taken hold. He's asking God, deliver me from these. Deliver me. Remove it from me. The word deliver means what you think it means, to take them away. Tear it out. I found that having sin that takes root in our lives and gets a hold of us We come to God and say, God, I want you to deliver. And the word deliver means to tear out, to rip out. Very seldom is that an easy thing. Very seldom is that a very pleasant thing. Sometimes for God to deliver us from some sin, we have to go through some very difficult time. Much like surgery. They go in and they have to remove that tumor. And God to remove the sin, this iniquity that's gotten a hold of me. Sometimes Sometimes it requires very difficult decisions. And I've seen people who've gotten saved and they were in situations and in in uh an involvement in involved in things that they were deeply involved in and it was they knew it wasn't God's will and they knew uh that that I I I should not be a part of this. But it was a very difficult thing to extract that out of there. How to make some very difficult decisions. David says, please deliver me Deliver me. Uh and very seldom is it easy, very seldom is it pleasant, sometimes it's very, very difficult for God to deliver us from something that has a hold of us. When I was in Bible college I read a book I very much enjoyed. In fact I read it a couple times. in my years in Bible college. It's called Hind's Feet in High Places. It's an allegorical book. Hannah Hernard, I think, is the law author's name, a lady And it tells this story of this young girl and she's her name is Much Afraid. It's very similar to Pilgrim's Progress type thing. She's making her way up to the high places in close fellowship with the Lord, walking with the Lord, being in the image of Christ, being transformed into what God would have her to be. And she it's a it's this allegorical account. And on the way, she discovers, she becomes aware of the fact that there is a thorn had gotten in her heart And was causing her problems and was causing her grief and much pain and hindering her progress. And she prayed that that thorn would be removed from her heart, that she could grow and be what God wanted her to be. And in the story, and I I I I'm not telling it exactly the way it's told, it's it's much better it's mu much more descriptive in the book. But to take that thorn out of her heart was a very, very painful process. But it was necessary and she submitted to uh to that process so that she could have that removed and then she could make progress and live for God and be what she wanted God wanted her to be. And sometimes deliverance, for God to deliver, sometimes it's a very painful thing, it's a very difficult thing, it's very unpleasant. But God has to extract that So my heart can be clean. David prayed in Psalm 51, create in me a clean heart. Renew a right spirit within me. And sometimes that's not an easy thing Sometimes there's difficult decisions that need to be made. So he prays, Lord, deliver me, remove these iniquities, take them away, extract them from me. It literally means tear them out. And then he prays another prayer. He says, Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. And then he says, O Lord, make haste to help me. That word help means to assist. To help me with something I cannot do myself. God, these iniquities, these evils have compassed me about, these iniquities have taken hold of me. Lord, deliver me, rip them out and help me. I can't do this on my own. Again, Psalm 51, he says, create in me a clean heart. He doesn't say, Lord, I'll clean my heart up. Doesn't say, Lord, I'll straighten this mess up. He doesn't say that at all. He goes, Lord, I need you to help me. I need you to deliver me, to deliver me. I think what he's saying here when he says, Lord help me, I think what he's saying here is, make me clean, make me right, and keep me that way. Keep me that way. He's praying for consistency and persistence and not fluctuating, but stability. Lord help me, Lord help me. I'll just tell you, and be safe, I hold the office of pastor, and that is a phenomenal responsibility, phenomenal privilege. But I'm here to tell you the pastor is no different than anybody else. Sometimes I refer to the pastor as the shepherd of the flock. Well, I'm here to tell you the shepherd is a sheep. Right? Everybody okay? Everybody okay? And um uh you know you need the Lord to help you. You need the Lord to help you. He says, and David says, Help me be what I ought to be. Make it lasting, and give me a clean heart, a pure heart. Help me to be what I ought to be. And uh oh, what I was getting at, I knew was and what I was trying to get at there is, you know, even in that position in all these years, I cannot live the Christian life without the help of God. That's what I was trying to say I can't be the Dennis Leatherman. God wants me to be in my own strength and my own power. My own heart isn't even loyal to me. I need the Lord to help me. I need the Lord to enable me. I need the Lord to deliver me. And we all do, don't we? David did. We all do. That's such a key factor. That is such a key understanding in the victorious Christian life is I need God to help me. I cannot do it myself. I cannot do it myself. So how do I have a sensitive heart? Say, preacher, I need to be uh uh I I don't want to become callous to sin. I don't want to become indifferent, numb to sin. I want to be sensitive. When it shows up, I want to immediately be aware of it. And I want to understand how serious it is so I can deal with it, so God can help me. Um, I think one is we ought to spend quality time in God's Word. I'm gonna be sensitive to sin. I need to spend quality time in God's Word. I need to know who God is. I need to know what he's like. I need to have a basic understanding of his holiness, of his love for me, and I get that all from the Word of God Hebrews chapter 4 verse 12 says that the Word of God is sharp and somebody help me uh glor uh quick and powerful And sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even through the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and the joints of marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And so I come to God's word and He shows me, Hey, your heart, your heart don't trust your heart. Listen to me, this is it Number one, spend quality time in God's Word. If you're not in the habit of reading, spending quality time in the Word of God on a daily basis, you really need to do that God told Joshua, the great military leader of Israel, going into the promised land, this book of the law shall not depart out of mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That's quality time. Number two, I put this down. I need to seek God's inspection. In Psalm 139, at the end of the chapter, David said, Search me and try me, see if there be any wicked way in me. I think I need to on a regular basis, not just once a month at Lord's Supper, but on a regular daily basis. Lord, search my heart. My heart, I don't trust it. God, I need you to show me. Search me, try me. If there's something out of whack, you show it to me. So we can deal with it. Number three, if I'm going to have a sensitive, be sensitive to sin, I need to respond to Holy Spirit conviction. How many people know what I mean by Holy Spirit conviction? He speaks my he shows something, he puts his finger on some area of my life, says this needs attention. It's not the preacher doing it. It's not my mama, it's not my papa, it's not somebody, it's God's Holy Spirit touches me and says, you need to pay attention to this. And he convicts me about something. And I need to respond to that Holy Spirit conviction. I need to do it immediately. I found that if God speaks, if God points out something in my life that's not right, He convicts me about it, I need to make that right right away, because if I don't, that conviction begins to dull. And my heart becomes calloused. And after a while, I can do something that's not right. I know it's not right, and it doesn't bother me And that's a dangerous place to be as a child of God. That's where chastisement starts kicking in. I need to respond to Holy Spirit conviction immediately, and I need to do it thoroughly. I like what Lester Roloff said. He says, most people are satisfied. They'll come to God and they'll want to be cleaner than what they are, but they don't really want to be clean. Be cleaner, but not clean. But when the Holy Spirit speaks to me and he points something out, don't just whitewash it. Be thorough. Get that thorn out. Completely. Get it all. And then I put this down. Number four, safeguard your heart. This cart cannot be trusted. Proverbs 4 verse 23 says, keep thy heart with all diligence. And this is the idea we get, and this this is true to an extent, but the idea we have is man don't let bad stuff come into my heart. I need to keep my heart, I need to guard my heart so bad stuff don't come in Listen, it's not the bad stuff out there coming in. It's the bad stuff in here getting control. That word guard there means keep your heart under control. Keep it under wraps. Keep it chained up. Keep it locked up. Because if you let your heart have its way, man, you're going to have, Jesus said, out of the heart proceed murders, adultery, hatred, lying, all these ugly, nasty stuff. Comes out of our heart. And so I need to ask God to safeguard my heart. Don't keep that thing diligently. Keep thy heart with all diligence. And then this last one, and this one helps. Focus on the cross. Focus on the cross. Say, preacher, I want to be sensitive to sin. And I do too. And we put our eyes on the cross, and as soon as something comes in our life, we say something, we do something, we go somewhere, whatever. As soon as that comes in, oh I look to the cross and I see, I see what my sin did to Jesus Christ. How he took responsibility for what I just did. What I just said, the way I just acted, Jesus took responsibility for that. And he suffered the wrath of God for me. I tell you, you see the Savior dying for your sin, I see the Savior dying and suffering for my sin. It'll help us be sensitive to our sin. You with me? So spend quality time with the Lord in His Word. Ask Him to search your heart. Ask Him to search my heart. Try us. Show us where we're missing. The Holy Spirit points things out, respond immediately, get it right. If you have to stop what you're doing, get alone, get on your knees and make it right, make it right You need to make hard decisions and make difficult, take difficult actions to be right with God. I'm telling you, do it And then safeguard your heart. Don't let that heart have free reign and focus on the cross. Father, I ask you to help us tonight to learn from David's experience here. What a great man. And yet what great struggles. And we can relate. So I find ourselves in those same shoes. And I pray you'd help us be sensitive. And we ask you would help us and deliver us. Father, if there's someone here tonight in the service or maybe online, And there's some evils have compassed them about, some iniquities have taken hold. Lord, we ask you to deliver us. We ask you to help us and help us be sensitive. I'm not going to ask you to respond raising hands or anything. This is kind of personal stuff between us and God. But whatever God's dealing with, your heart, I want to urge you, don't ignore it. Respond, Father, bless her imitation. Let's stand together. Has her