Make your Bibles turn back to Micah chapter number seven. Appreciate that song, good song. My father-in-law was a uh very much enjoyed bagpipe music. And uh I remember before he passed away he had um some uh albums or whatnot or cassettes I guess of uh bagpipe music. I came across this recently of a bagpipe player, a guy that That's very good at it apparently. He said this. Recently I was asked by a funeral director to play at a graveside service for a homeless man. He had no family or friends, so the service was to be the pau at the pauper's cemetery in the Kentucky back country. I was not familiar with the backwoods, I got lost, and being a typical man I didn't stop for directions. I finally arrived an hour late and saw the funeral guy had evidently gone and the hearse was nowhere in sight There were only the diggers and crew left, and they were eating lunch. I felt badly, I apologized to the men for being late, and went to the side of the grate. I looked down and the vault lid was already in place. I didn't know what else to do, so I started to play. The workers put down their lunches and began to gather around. I played out of my heart and soul for this man with no family and friends. I played like I never played before for this homeless man. And as I played, amazing grace, the workers began to weep. They wept, I wept, we all wept together. When I finished, I packed up my bagpipes and started my car. Though my head hung low, my heart was full. As I opened the door to my car, I heard one of the workers say, I never seen nothing like that before, and I've been putting septic tanks in for twenty years. Micah, Chapter Seven So I hope you know where you're at this morning. Verse 7. I'd like for us to read this verse together. Would you read it with me? Therefore, will I look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. Reading through my devotions earlier this week, came across that little phrase at the end of verse 7, My God will hear me That stirred my heart. I want to speak this morning on that subject. I've entitled it, My God Hears Me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we do ask that you would speak to our hearts as Pat prayed a few moments ago And I pray that you would open our hearts and minds to your word and your will for our lives. God, I present my body to you anew this hour. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me And Lord, we pray you would be glorified and that believers would be encouraged. Lord, if by chance there be somebody under the sound of my voice that does not have the assurance of sins forgiven at home in heaven That today would be that day. Holy Spirit, have your way and move in our midst, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Micah is a interesting prophet. He's probably not real well known among uh most church folks His ministry was uh he was a contemporary, you could say, of the great prophet Isaiah. Most of us are familiar with Isaiah and his tremendous prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ in Isaiah chapter 53. uh various other great verses given in the book of Isaiah. Well, Micah's ministry ran concurrent with Isaiah's. His immediate audience, the book of Micah, just seven short chapters, his immediate audience was the northern kingdom of Israel. Remember, Israel was a divided kingdom at this time. He had the northern kingdom of Israel, you had the southern kingdom of Judah. There was one nation, God's people, yet it was divided. His particular focus in the book of Micah was the city of Samaria Which was the capital of the northern kingdom of Israel. His message, the book of Micah, is a mixed message, Most of the book of Micah is the declaration of God's certain judgment on the nation of Israel. They had, if you read the book, you'll find that Israel and other chapter, other books in the Bible, you'll find that Israel had persistently disobeyed God. And God would send prophets like Micah and Isaiah and Jeremiah and others. He would send men of God, and they would declare the Word of God. And yet, Israel persistently rebelled against what God The other side of the coin of Micah's message is he addresses what is referred to as a remnant. Within the nation of Israel. The vast majority, the vast population, overwhelming majority of the population, was living in disobedience to God. Like we touched on in Sunday school, they were doing every man what was right in their own eyes. They completely disregarded God's authority, God's instruction. But within that nation, there was a remnant A group of people who held to the Word of God. They had been faithful through the various judgments and they responded to the messages that the man of God brought from God. And they trusted God and they obeyed him, and they had a testimony as such. The society of Israel had become thoroughly corrupted. I don't know if how close attention you were paying as Brother Pat read down through the first several verses here, but you don't have to get far into the book, and you can pretty much open the book of Micah anywhere And you find that this nation, the society, from the king down to the pauper in the street, have become so thoroughly corrupted. Morals had completely deteriorated. The political establishment, the king and all his governors had become completely corrupted. The man in the street, just your average guy in the marketplace, had no regard for the Word of God. Had no regard for the will of God. The one commentary I was reading on the book, and just refreshing my understanding of the background, said that they had it was society was thoroughly run So it's a bleak picture. The nation is not pleasing God. They're out of the will of God. And Micah's message is that God's judgment is coming. That small remnant that remained faithful, God would preserve them, God would take care of them. Ultimately they would uh they would uh their offspring would uh fill the land and the kingdom would be established, but judgment is coming. Severe judgment. Now, I can't read the book of Micah without sensing his broken heart. These are his people. This is his country. These are many of the people. The country is family members. They're away from God. They're living under the judgment of God And his heart is broke over the spiritual and moral condition of his nation. Now, as I'm reading through this, all this is coming to the surface and coming to mind. Then you get to Micah chapter 7 in verse 7. We just read it. Let me read it again. Therefore. Now it's a dark book. It's a dark message. Therefore, I will look unto the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. Now, I believe there's a principle given in this passage right here, and in another verse we're going to go to in a moment. Micah, his heart is broken over the condition of his people. His heart is broken. You can't read it and not sense his the burden on his heart. I I can see as he's proclaiming this message as it was originally given, proclaiming it, I can see tears in his eyes. Certain places in the book you just sense where he has to stop and sob as he brings God's dreaded message. But the principle is this: rather than being focused on the wickedness of the society he was in and of his nation, he set his sights on the Lord. He had a dreaded message. The situation was bad. But he says, I will look to the Lord. I'm not going to look, I'm not going to focus on the wickedness. I'm not going to focus on the corruption of the political establishment. I'm going to keep my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to keep my eyes on Almighty God That is where my focus is going to be. Keep your place here. We're going to come back, but I'd like for you to turn with me to the book of Psalms. Psalms chapter 25. Now, as I said, there's a great principle given throughout Scripture. And in Psalm 25, David brings this out in verse number 15. I would like to be able to say I have consistently followed this principle in my life. I can say that I've been aware of it for a long, long time and I n and I've made an effort, I believe, a sincere and genuine diligent effort to follow this principle, but I wish I could say I did it consistently. But notice Psalm 25 and verse 15. Mine eyes are ever toward what? The Lord. That's his focus. But look what the rest of the verse says. For he shall pluck my feet out of the what? So here's the here's the word picture. David's feet are in a net, so to speak. But he's not focused on the net. He's not dwelling on the net. He's not letting that net discourage him. He's not looking at the net. His eyes are everywhere. Towards the Lord, the one who can get his feet out of that net, the one who can change it. Now here's our problem. So often we spend our time focused on the nets that we find ourselves in, the circumstances, the situations, that which is hindering, we feel it's hindering us, that which is holding us down. And all we do is focus on that, and all we do is dwell on that, and we just all we can think about and all we can talk about is the net, the net, the net I found myself in David says, I'm not looking at the net. I'm not going to look at my circumstances. I'm not going to let the situation that I'm in drag me down and pull me away and discourage me. I'm going to keep my eyes on the Lord. He's the one that can change the situation. Now the circumstances behind Psalm 25 are interesting. David is being pursued by King Saul. The net that he is referring to here, now it's just a metaphor for his situation, but the net he's referring to is the situation where he's fleeing from his life from King Saul. Saul's out to kill him, not because David did anything wrong, but rather David did right and he did it very well. And Saul became jealous. And so therefore Saul wants to destroy David. And David says, I'm not going to focus on what he's doing. I'm not going to focus on the problem, the situation. Now he had to deal with it, but he kept his eyes on the Lord. Now I don't know what your situation is. I don't know what your net may be this morning. I don't know what it may be a physical ailment. It may be a family situation, it may be a financial situation, it may be some friends, it may I don't know what it may be. And we can take an hour going down all the various scenarios that people find themselves in, that are unpleasant, that are difficult. But I want to say to you this morning, don't focus on the circumstances. Don't focus on your situation. Set your eyes on the Lord. He's the one that can change things. And so you have two Christians. One is both in very circum very similar circumstances. Both their feet are in nets, so to speak. One is consumed by the net. And boy, they get bitter and they're angry and they're frustrated because they're consumed by the net. The other Has just a dire situation, but their eyes are on the Lord. And they sing. And they rejoice. And they praise God. And they have a testimony. And there is a genuine joy of the Lord in their heart and soul. Classic illustration in the book of Acts: you have Paul and Silas. And they found their feet not in nets, but in stalks, in a prison. And they didn't stand in the prisons in Acts 16 and Whine and complain about how unjust this is and how miserable this uh prison is. And brother, I'm telling you, prisons today are mansions compared to what they were in And you don't find Paul and Sinus at midnight and the other prisoners hearing them whining and complaining and how miserable it is and how unfair it is and how unjust. Uh I've never met a person in jail that wasn't there unjustly. And uh how unfair it is and unjust and miserable conditions and um my lawyer and uh No they didn't do that. Uh their feet were in the net but their eyes were on the Lord And the Bible says they sang praises at midnight. They prayed and sang praises, and the prisoners heard them. What a testimony. Now what I'm saying is a whole lot easier to say than it is to do. Can I get a witness? It's a whole lot easier. Oh, yeah, keep your eyes on the Lord. That's a whole lot easier than it is to actually do it. But nevertheless, is a biblical principle. Now, I'm not suggesting that we should not speak out against the sins of our dead. I do not mean to suggest that we should not confront wickedness in our society. Micah did, we should But our focus is not on that. Our focus is on the Lord. Would you agree with me? United States of America is in dire straits. Do you agree with me on that? Well y'all are kind of a little quiet here this morning. Don't let me wake you up, all right? Let's try that again United States of America is in dire straits. By the way, the more amens I get, the shorter the message is. That'll get you. But we are, on every hand, politically, socially, religiously, financially Our country is a mess. And I'll tell you, if we're not careful, a person can get consumed with how terrible things are. And completely lose the joy of the Lord, completely lose any kind of testimony, and be overwhelmed by the net. But rather, let's set our eyes on the Lord. Listen, I'm here to tell you, God can fix America. Yes, He can. See, oh, we're too far gone. I don't believe that for one minute. If God can bring the nation of Israel back to a nation as after 20,000 years of a dispersion, God can revive America. Now, is he going to? I don't know. That's my prayer. I know God can revive a church. Come on. Amen. God can revive a home. God can revive an individual. So we centerize the Lord. So we come back to Micah chapter 7. Micah is in a horrendous situation. He's got a very unpleasant message. It's a hard message. It's uh not real popular with the people But he doesn't look on the circumstances, he doesn't look on the situation, he focuses on the Lord. In the midst of a rotten and rebellious society, he focuses on the Lord and he claims a great promise. And that's where the last part of Micah chapter 7, verse 7 comes in. My God will hear me. Man, what a beautiful statement. I tell you, I've read some beautiful poetry over the years. And there's some beautiful songs. Many of them sung from the platform here. Connie and Brennan had a beautiful song this morning. There's a lot of beautiful songs out there. There's a lot of beautiful poetry. But I tell you, that statement, my God will hear me, has to be the most beautiful of all. That my God will hear me. What a beautiful statement. What a powerful statement. Now think about this. Is everybody with me? Think about this. This statement says, God, my God, let me put it this way: I have the ear of God. Now think about the power of that. I have the ear of God. I've had um I have a pastor friend down in Washington, D. C. and he has in his church and he has some connections with some pretty powerful people in the state of Maryland. I don't personally have those connections, but a preacher friend of mine does. And there was different issues over the years. We had to deal with the town and different things. And I can call him up and say, you know, I don't know where this is going. I need, and he says, listen. And he named a certain uh man in the in the state legislature. He said, if you have any problems at all, he says, I have his ear. I can talk to him, and he says, I assure you, he will help straighten it out. You know what that did for me? How the I can say I know someone, but I could say I know someone that knows someone But it's just a little reassuring. Hey, there's somebody there that's more powerful, have more influence than I do, and I have access to their ear. I have some influence there. And that that was good to know I say this verse is even greater than that by a thousandfold. I've got the ear of God. Almighty God will hear me. What a powerful statement. It's a beautiful statement. It's a powerful statement. It's a prophetic statement. He says, my God will hear me. I'm so tired sometimes of hearing folks talk about what God did years ago. Of the great Years gone by and boy the good old days, the good old days. Hey, I want to know that God is still working today and that he's going to work tomorrow I don't want to just talk about prayers that God answered yesterday. I want to have the confidence that God's going to answer my prayers tomorrow. My God doesn't say my God did hear me. Might say, my God heard me, and praise God, that's true. But Micah says, in the midst of this horrendous situation and coming judgment, my God will hear me. Today and tomorrow and the next week and the next year. What a powerful statement, a prophetic statement, a beautiful statement. Now, three thoughts this morning. Very, very quickly, I want to give them to you. Oh, it was interesting in Pat's prayer that he said we'd put the things of the world out of mind for the next hour or so. I thought, well, he's expecting a long message here this morning. And so I don't want to disappoint him. And um Number one, notice the c notice that Micah claims a possession. In this little statement, he claims a possession. My God. It's interesting. You can learn a lot studying the Bible by paying attention to what the Bible doesn't say sometimes. He doesn't say, God will hear me. He doesn't say a God will hear me. He says, my God will hear me. I circled in my Bible that word my. That is possession. This God is my God. I want to ask you a question. Can you say that God is your God? Jehovah, Lord God Almighty, is my God. The fact is, every man has a God. Every society that's ever been found has worshiped a God of some sort Every man has a God. The Bible in the New Testament make reference to the peoples whose bellies are their God. Huh? Well, that's a tough one to preach on in the United States. We'll just skip that one. But every man has a God. It may be the God of pleasure. And I tell you, increasingly in our society, we have people who are living for pleasure and pleasure alone. It is in every real sense of the word, they're God. They sacrifice time, they sacrifice effort, sometimes they'll risk their lives to gain pleasure, the thrill, the adrenaline. Brother, you know what the biggest church in, you know, I found the largest church in Garrett County. I mean, it has thousands. It's just right down the road here at the soccer field, football field, and baseball field. The worship of sports. You say, you against sports? Hey, I love sports much as anybody. I like football I got my teams I follow. But wait a minute. It must not become a God. Can I just can I gripe a little just for a little bit? Alright? Let's vote. How many people We sent our backyard to the football field down. Now I'm just griping, all right, so we'll block this off the tape. Um Man, those speakers are so loud. I think you can hear them out in Gorman. The music and all that is so loud. I feel bad for Betty. She lives right next door to it. And uh I told my wife last night and it went on for probably four or five hours. Finally I I was over here doing some stuff and finally I I said to myself, I've had it. I'm going down putting an end to this I did. I was ticked. And uh it was music was so I said, Kathy, what is this? A rock concert? She goes, I think it's a little sports game. I said they're not announcing anything, it's just music So I was I didn't tell her. I came over here, I said, I'm going down. I jumped in the truck, I went driving down there, pulled around the corner, here's like ten thousand people there. I said, Well, I'll let 'em go tonight. And um Can you imagine if our church did that? If we play music that loud for that long, that often, brother, we'd be banned. Alright, I'm done graping. Let's get back to the message. Every society has its God. Every man has his own God. It's interesting. You study the Bible. How many people are familiar with the golden calf, Baal? In the Bible, you're familiar with that? It's interesting. You pay attention. Every time the golden calf is mentioned in the Bible, there are huge crowds around it. Every time the golden calf is being worshipped, man, it is packed. It is the biggest worship service going on of its day. The worship of the golden calf. Everybody's in on that. Some folks their belly is their gods. Other folks, possessions. Is their God. They live to gain stuff. Pleasure. Some folks, their own intellect is their God. Man, they've got an answer for everything. They can reason God completely out of existence. What's the guy's name, Hawking? Stephen Hawking, I think, wrote a book just recently, and he said very dogmatically, God did not create the world. Well, obviously he knows everything then. Some people, their own intellect is their God. But Micah In the midst of a nation that is worshiping everything and anything but Almighty God claims that the true God The Lord God. Look at verse look at verse 7. Look at the first part. Therefore I will look unto the what's that word there? Lord, look at the letters, all capitalized. L-O-R-D. That's Jehovah, the true God. He says, of all the gods Of our nation, of all the things being worshipped, of all the things being lived for. I am determining I'm going to live for the true God. That is my God. Not the false gods of this world. My God, my God. This implies several things. He claims God to be his God. This implies several things. First of all, I put it this way: this implies a reception. In other words, at some point in his life, he received the Lord to be his God. Some point in his life, he made a decision. Of all the options out there to worship, of all the paths to go down in life, I am claiming the Lord God Almighty, the true God, to be my God. I'm rejecting all the others. I am receiving Him to be mine. If you would keep your Bibles, keep your place here. I'd like for you to turn with me to the New Testament book of John. The Gospel of John. Not too far towards the back of your Bible. John chapter number one. Now I hope you bring your Bibles to church. I hope you bring them and use them. John chapter 1. Gospel of John chapter 1. Give everybody a chance to find it there, it shouldn't be too hard. Get in the New Testament. Third book of the fourth book of the New Testament Look at verse 1. Some of us this is very familiar. Others maybe not. I highly recommend to highlight this portion in your Bible one way or another. Notice what it says, verse 11. He, the Lord Jesus, came unto his own, and his own what? Received him not. Lord Jesus Christ came to his people, and the people said, No, thank you We won't receive you. We're satisfied with what we have. We're satisfied with what we're doing. We're content. We don't need the Lord Jesus in our life Needs you to be our Savior. He came unto his own. His own received him not. Look what he says. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Micah said, The Lord God is my God. I receive him as my God. Jesus says in John chapter 1. That those of us who receive the Lord Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, God will give us the authority. God will declare us to be his sons. Through believing the Lord Jesus Christ, I remember the night that I received Jesus Christ as Savior. Let me ask you a question. Can you remember a time and place in your life very specific? A time and place where you made a conscious decision to receive Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. That is very, very important. Now you may not have the exact date down, the exact time and day it was or whatnot, but it is very, very important that everyone come to the point in their life where they recognize they're a sinner The wages of their sin is death. God's judgment on our violation of his law, our sin is that we die, be separated from God for all eternity in hell And we understand that Jesus died on the old rugged cross, suffered hell for us as our substitute. He rose again. If I will receive him, trust him as my personal Savior, he'll forgive my sin, and I can know I'm going to heaven someday There must be a reception. You say, well, preacher, I've never done that, but I'm happy with my life, and I'm happy with all this. Listen. The most important thing in a person's life is that they find Christ and have their sins forgiven. Because without that, we die in our sins. And we're separated from God for all eternity. At some point in Micah's life, he made a conscious decision: the Lord God Jehovah, the true God, will be my God. I receive him. Just as a Christian today must receive Christ. I remember the night I got saved. It was 10:30 at night. And for months leading up to that night, I struggled. And I've told my story so many times. But I struggled. I was not satisfied with my life. I saw the direction my life was going, and it was certain disaster. I saw the people I was with, what our lifestyle was leading, I saw what it was doing to them. And I'd look in the mirror and I saw what it was doing to me. And I knew Christ was the only one that could change my life and deliver me from sin and save me from hell. But I struggled with that. And I had in my mind, for months, I had in my mind that if I became a Christian, if I trusted Christ, my life would be miserable. No more fun, no more enjoyment. No, it would just be dark and drear and miserable. And I had that idea in my mind. I struggled and struggled and struggled until finally I came to the point where if God didn't save me, I was dead. If Christ didn't come in my life, it was over. And I called on Christ. And you know what I found? I could never, I could not have been more wrong. The Christian life was not dark and drear and boring and dull. The Christian life was abundant. And now I had fullness of heart and I had purpose in life and I had meaning and I knew what real joy was. And I knew what it meant to have peace in my heart and a purpose in my life and know that if the worst comes the worst, I'll be with the Lord and not go to hell. What a day! Receive Christ. Micah says, my God will hear me. My God, the one I've chosen, the one I've trusted. The one I've received. So he says, my God will hear me. That implies, he's talking about a possession. This is mine. I've received him. It also implies a relationship. Sometimes visitors come in and my wife will be there, and I'll say, This is my wife. We have a relationship. This is my child. We'll introduce this is my friend It implies there's some sort of relationship. There's interaction that goes on between the two. There's a mutual appreciation. Some degree of mutual and various relationships, a mutual commitment. Let me ask you a question. Do you have a genuine relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? What does your Christianity consist of? Is it simply going through motions? Is it simply some obligations you go through to do? Or do you have a genuine relationship with the living Savior? Is there interaction Is there a mutual affection one for another? I like what the old song says, I come to the garden alone while the dew is still in the roses, and uh uh he walks with me and talks with me. That's what Christianity is. It's a relation with a being a Christian is not simply coming to church and paying your tithe and Singing a song and going out and doing all this thing. No, it's a day-by-day relationship with a living God who loves me and hears me, and I love him and I hear what he has to say. Relationship. My dad was saved about eight, nine years before I was ten years old. I was 19 when I when I got saved. My daddy would I was ten when my daddy got saved. And many of you know the story. My dad will be here in a few weeks visiting for a little bit. She lives up in Philly. And there was a situation in the home where it was very difficult. No one at that time, anybody in no one in my family was saved, though we were religious. We went to church. I was ten, you know, young growing up. We grew up in church and we'd learned those hymns and the Bible verses, but nobody had genuinely been saved. The family was going through a very difficult time. And my daddy later told me after I got saved, we were talking the details of his salvation. And uh we had in the basement a room, a den fixed up. Down the basement was very nice, a little TV room and sopas and whatnot. My dad said he would be down there night after night. For months praying, oh God, heal this home. God, please change this circumstance And he said, as he would pray, it began to come to his mind, I don't even know God. I don't have any relationship with them. I'm just crying out. I've never trusted Christ. I have no relationship with this God that I'm asking to work on my behalf. My dad told me one night finally, he said this, he says, I knew God was not my father. I had no relationship with him. And he said, one night I broke. And he said, I confessed my sins. I called on Christ. Trust Him, come in my heart and life and be my Savior. And he said, God changed my life. And all these years now he's had that relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. My daddy's, as far as I'm concerned, one of the best Christians I've ever met in my life. For real, genuine relationship. My God will hear me. My God! I've received him, I have a relationship with him. John chapter 9 verse 31, a blind man was healed. He made this statement. We know that God heareth not sinners. What's he saying? If I have never trusted Christ, my sins have not been forgiven. God has not erased my sinful record. Those sins stand between me and my God. Those sins stand between me and the Lord God, and he does not hear my prayers. But Micah says, My God hears me. Thus, he had a relationship with God. Those sins were dealt with, they were cleared out, and there was communication back and forth. It implies adoration, my God. My God. I read this and I sense Micah's adoration of God. He's my God. That's my God. You ask, what does God want from me more than anything else God saved me, He's come in my life, He's forgiven me. What does He want from me more than anything else? Jesus said that God wants us to love Him with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our strength, with all our might, and love our neighbor as ourselves. My God! I've received him, I'm a relationship with him, I adore him, and he wants me to love him with all my heart Love him with all my heart. So first of all, come back to Micah. My God shall hear me. What a great statement. He implies here a possession. He claims a possession. My God But he also claims a persuasion. There's something he's confident of. My God will hear me. He's completely persuaded of that. He is completely confident and certain Now that's something, as I said earlier, it's easier to say than it is to actually believe. If I would ask you, if I would come, and I'm not going to, but if I would come and ask you, do you believe that God hears you? Does God hear you? Everyone else would say, oh yeah, sure, God hears me. But when it actually comes time to pray, or when the opportunity to pray is there, or when we actually do pray, I wonder if how many down inside our hearts actually believe that God is hearing what I'm saying. Simply saying a prayer is not necessarily praying. Praying is communication with God. What a great thing it is. What a great thing it is to be in such a standing with God that I can say with assurance, God hears me. David said in Psalm 66, verse 18, and we'll not take time to it's a great verse. David said, if I regard iniquity in my heart. My God will not hear me. Interesting verse Convicting verse. If I regard iniquity in my heart, if there is something in my life that is displeasing to God, God will not hear me. And it's interesting, he says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, that's nothing necessarily outvisible. So that guy's drinking and carrying on rock and rolling and dancing and everything else. God's not going to hear him. Right, but what about the person who's got sin down in their heart? It's not so visible. Regarding it, the word regard means to hold on to with pleasure, to to to uh uh cherish it. If I have some sin that's displeasing to God, forbidden by God, and I'm holding on to that, and nobody else knows about it, but it's down inside my heart and I'm cherishing it, God says He won't hear me. I can honestly say God hears me. I'm in such a relationship with God. My heart is pure. My life is not perfect, but I'm seeking to live for God and I'm seeking to maintain short accounts with God and God hears me. That's where Michael was Claims a persuasion. And then last of all, he claims God's attention. My God will hear me. The idea here is this. God gives me his full attention. He's not distracted by affairs. How many people here would, as far as our understanding goes, God would be pretty busy. Anyone here? Six point what billion people, seven billion people. How many stars out there you've got to keep them all on course keep the meteors hitting the planet, uh feed the little sparrows and the little feed the little um little minnows in the crick and the worms. and the flies. Actually they got a lot to eat in the front yard. There's a dead squirrel there. Um would you agree with me? God's probably pretty busy. But Micah says, and the Bible teaches, that when one of his children talks to him, when we talk to him, we have his attention. I'm going to shock you with this, but I have a bad habit. I knew it would be shocking to hear that. And I'm and I I know I have it and I'm working very hard at it, but I have a bad habit and when folks are talking with me, I catch myself start fiddling with stuff. Do you ever know anybody that does that? And just I'll be at my desk and they'll talk to me and I'm listening. I hear everything they're saying. I'm in it. But I end up just fiddling around. I keep catching myself. Stop it. And um I was reading this, I thought about my my bad habit. And I thought about God. You know, when we when when we pray, God's not fiddling with other stuff. We got his full attention. You say, how can he give his full attention to seven some billion different people? That's why he's God. He can do that Micah says, My God hears me. He's not distracted by other things going on. God gives us his full attention. Now I end with this. He doesn't say God will answer my prayer. It doesn't say God will answer me. Now, other places in the Bible, it does on occasion say that God answers prayer. In fact, in Psalms it says It says thou that uh hearest prayer is actually what it says. But there are too few places where the Bible says that God answers prayer. But the vast majority of the time in the Bible, it says God hears prayer. He's not saying here that my God, if I get in, if I get right with God, I've trusted him He's accepted him as my own. I get thoroughly right with him that God will give me whatever I ask for. God will do whatever I want. That's not what he's saying In fact, it would be a disaster if God gave us everything we asked for. Do you agree with me If God did everything we asked him to do, it would be disaster. Our God loves us. He gives us his full attention. But he is a good God and he is a wise God. And when we bring a request to him, that is not best for us. That is not in our best interest That will not bring glory to him. That will not accomplish his will in his life. God will hear us, but he may just say, No, I'm not going to do that And years later, we look back and say, Thank God for it. Anybody here can think of anything you asked God for sometime in the past and he didn't do it? And now you look back and say, Praise the Lord, he didn't do that. Anybody at all? Sure we can. It's just like your kids. Daddy, can I play checkers out in the middle of the road? Oh sure, go ahead. That'd be fine. No, you can't do that. I'm not going to let you do that. Thank God. God knows what's best for us. Think about this. God knows what tomorrow holds. And the next week, and the next month, and the next year. And so God knows what's coming up, and I come along and say, God, I'd like to have this, I'd like to do this. God says, hmm, and by the way, God not only knows what's going to happen, God knows what would happen if something else took place. God knows all contingencies, He knows every possible scenario. And so God's I ask God for something, God says no. I ain't never praying again. I asked God for something, he didn't give it to me. Well you're a knucklehead. You're a spoiled little brat. Come on, help me. I'm talking about you, not me. You know what I say? I say, praise God, He loves me. He knows what's best for me. And I'll trust Him. My God hears me. He hears what I say. He gives me His attention. He He puts it through, so to speak, the process of his wisdom, his love, his goodness, and then he responds as he understands his best. I believe it takes greater faith to accept and rejoice in God's no than it is to demand a yes. I tell you something sad I've seen over the years. Somebody gets in their head they want something Friends and family say, you know, it's not a good idea. Bible principles say, no, that doesn't indicate it would be in the will of God. But they get in their head that they want it. And they're determined to get that at any price. I'm gonna have this, I'm gonna have my will done. I'll pray and pray and pray and pray, I'll manipulate and lie and sneak and cheat, sneak and cheat and steal The Bible says sometimes God says, okay. You can have what you want. Psalms says God gave them the desires of their heart, but he sent leanness to their soul. But in this long enough now, I can take you to people who years ago demanded they got their way, demanded what they wanted, demanded it. They were going to make it happen one way or another. Boy, they're happy. They got what they wanted. Five, ten, fifteen years go by. And they give their right arm to Never got involved. Miserable. Miserable. Like in all the disaster he was in. The country was a disaster. He said, My God, I'm going to focus on heaven. My God will hear me when I pray. My God will take my request. He's going to filter it through his will. My God's going to take care of me. My God loves me. He'll take care of me. I don't know what net your feet may be in. I don't know what circumstance you might find yourself in. But number one, you need to know that you've trusted Christ as Savior. That's where it begins, the reception. Number two, if you've trusted Christ's neighbor, let's get thoroughly right with God Let's put the sin out of our heart and life. Let's make whatever changes we need to to get in tune with the will of God for our lives. Let's not miss his perfect will. And then when we get here, let's be confident that God will hear us and God will do for us what he knows is best. And we'll trust him. We'll wait on him. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us. Help us to be men and women of prayer, men and women of surrender. Men and women of trust. Looking to you, waiting on you, trusting you to do what's best. Our heads are bowed and eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher? I find myself, I find my feet in a net, so to speak. And my temptation is to focus on that and dwell on that and be overwhelmed by it and be brought down by it. And you say, preacher, this morning, by God's grace, with his help, I'm going to get my eyes off of the circumstance and I'm going to put it on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to get my eyes off of my net. I'm going to look to the Lord. I'm going to focus on Christ, his power, his love, his goodness. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. My temptation is to focus on my net and not on the Lord. God bless you. Hands up all around. And maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, and we're all guilty of this, no doubt. Preacher, I tend to want it my way. I insist it has to be my way. But I don't want to be that way. I want to be like Micah, and I'm going to just put it in God's hands. I want to let God hear me and let Him Make the decision what is best for me. It doesn't mean we can't make our requests known to him. Yes, we do that. But when God hears us, then we trust him. And how many would say, Preacher, I'm in that situation? I I want to trust God and just put it in His hands. Know that He loves me, He's all powerful, He's wise, He knows the best outcome. I let Him know what my request is, but I put it in His hands. How about it? Any like that here this morning? God bless you. Many hands around. One last thing. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Christ as Savior. You do not have the full assurance that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. That's the most important thing. That's where it all begins. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't have the assurance that my sins are forgiven, and I'd like to have that settled in my life. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Would there be any like that by the uplifted hand this morning? Anybody, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Now, Father, there's a lot of hands raised for various things. Lord, we find our feet in nets. We find ourselves worried. We find ourselves determined in certain things. And help us this morning, Lord, to trust you. to be yielded to you. Let you have your way. In Jesus' name I