Go ahead and go back to Second Kings. We had fun yesterday. We took there were seventeen of us uh that went up there to a youth rally. It was just a fun time. Um if you ever want to just have the most fun you can possibly have, um allow the teenagers to go buy energy drinks and um on the bus ride home, it's just so peaceful. It it's so calm, it's so serene. It's um I mean it was like like the special they just sang. It was so tranquil. It was so good. Actually it was the opposite of that, and I had a blast I think there's something wrong with me because I feed off of that. Like that's where I get my energy from. What do they call that? Like there's some people they get what is it? That that word. Yes. Some people like they recharge on peace and calm. I recharge on chaos. And it's not normal. Y'all pray for me, okay? So 2 Kings chapter 5, this is uh where we're at this morning. I'm going to talk for quite a little bit just to give everyone a background of what's going on here, time in history we're looking at, those kinds of things. Um so there's it's gonna be a a long introduction. Well, for me it'd be a long introduction, probably about 15 minutes, something like that, and then I'll preach for probably fifteen minutes, something like that, and then um we'll be done. Does that sound good? Great. So if we look at 2 Kings chapter 5, verse 1, now Naaman. Who that's the first two words, now Naman. We're introduced to this person. And I won't read the whole chapter. I'll just kind of highlight some verses here. And I may talk kind of fast to start with, but that's okay, um, because we can keep up, right? So, um, Naaman, who was this guy? Well it says who he was. He was the captain of the host of the king of Syria. If you remember, uh Israel, um that was their adversary, Syria, and they would take Uh there's different waves of captivity where they would take some captives back to Syria and um so that was what happened here. And one of the uh and one of the waves of captivity Here they take a young girl who ends up in this man Naaman's house. We're introduced to this captive slave girl in verse two And uh we see here, verse 2 says, and the Assyrians had gone out by companies, they brought away captive out of the land of a little isra of Israel, a little maid. And she waited on Naaman's wife. So one of the prisoners, one of the captives, one of the slaves, uh, was this young girl from Israel And her specific duty was to wait on the captain's wife. Now, if I when I picture Naaman, you know how you kind of picture people in your your mind, what would he look like? Don't ever go down to Sherathon because every voice you hear on the radio is totally different than what you picture him like. It's it's cool. It's kind of funny. But anyway, I picture Naaman as a a pretty sharp guy. I think he'd have to be to be the captain of the army of Syria, right? He's probably intelligent. I would think he would again he would have to be. I would think that he would be physically fit. Again, as a soldier, as a warrior, he'd have to be in in physical good condition. He probably had an aura about him that kind of made him stand out a little bit. And so when I picture Naaman, that's just kind of how I picture him. And then when I picture uh this servant girl, I picture someone, um maybe just a young kid, maybe 10, 12 years old, 13 year old, something like that I picture uh a young child here and just kind of the demeanor I would say would be just maybe just a sweet little kid. You know, that's just kind of how I picture her. She evidently had some good training from parents because even though she was a slave, she still Remembered home. She still remembered God, remembered God's prophet, and those kind of things. But anyway, so this is what's going on. Naaman has leprosy. Okay, he has leprosy, not a fun disease. Um it eats a you know, you you know what that is. It eats away at you slowly. Uh especially in those times, I mean if you got it, it was pretty much a slow death sentence. That's what that was. And uh people treated it like the plague because it was, and you didn't want to get it. So Naaman, um I was reading one commentary, I think it was Matthew Henry, but I'm not sure. It was it was a commentary I was reading And they said that even the lowest slave in Syria would not want to trade bodies with the man Naaman. So even though this man had the tower and he had the position and he had all of these things going for him Didn't matter. His body was falling apart. He had leprosy. So that's something just to kind of keep in mind there. But as uh we go through the the the story here of what's going on with Naaman He hears the girl talking to his wife about the prophet, about Elisha. Again, she had good training evidently, and she remembered home, she remembered Israel, she remembered God, and she remembered Elisha. And so he decides, I'm going to try this. And he sends, I'm going to paraphrase a lot here, but he sends a message to the king of Israel. He sends a message to the king and um basically he wants a he wants a meeting with Elisha. And so the king, to make a long story short, gets upset and rents his clothes, says my God And then in verse 8, Elisha hears about it. Verse 8, we see where he hears about that the prophet wants to get in touch, and Naaman ends up coming to his house. In verse 9. Okay. So Naaman, I find this again interesting. This isn't the point of the message or anything. This is just an oh by the way. Man with this level of power and influence and prestige was willing to humble himself to go to Israel and to go to Elijah's house. That's humbling, right? You know, may I would think that someone like that would have said sent a messenger to go get him and bring it. But no, he humbled himself. Again, I think of the passage he that uh humbleth himself will be exalted. God resisteth the proud, gives grace to the humble. These things are coming to my mind. But anyway, so he goes to um Elisha's house, and in verse ten he gets uh the directions of what to do here. Page is stuck together. Verse number ten, and the king of uh let's see, what chapter am I in I'm not in chapter three. I'm in chapter five. I apologize for that. Y'all were in the wrong chapter. Verse ten. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times. And thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. Is this is this account ringing the bell? The people you're familiar with this account, good. So he's uh told, go wash in the Jordan seven times. And it upsets him. Verse eleven. But Naaman was wroth and went away and said, Behold, I thought You know, we always think that, don't we? Like, wait a minute, God said to do this. I thought it'd be something different. Anyway. I thought he will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. You know, we always have these pictures of, you know, we got God's will figured out. So that's what Naaman was doing. I thought it would be like this or that or whatever. Verse twelve, he says, are not I don't know why this name of this body of water cracks me up. Are not a banana, uh. I I'm not gonna go take a bath in something that's called a banana. Anyway. Or not Abinah and and Farpar rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel May I not wash in them be clean. So he turned and went away in rage. He's upset by the instructions, but then of course, uh verse thirteen, his sub servant comes to him, and again I'm paraphrasing, he's pretty much saying, If you if if if you would have been told to do some great big thing You'd have done it. And again, that's how we are. We when we think of what God wants us to do, God's will for our life, or or we have a problem we're trying to solve, we know how we want God to solve it That was kind of what Naaman's perspective was here. But then of course the servant here said, you know, you would have done something else. So verse 13, we see that And then in verse 14, then went he down and dipped himself seven times Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God, and his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. So he finally you know what you're right. If I would have if God would have told me to do some big thing, I would have done it. So I'm just gonna do what God told me to do, or God uh uh uh instructed Elisha to tell me to do, and he went and dipped in the river seven times, and he was Clean. He was healed of his leprosy. Okay. Which would be pretty amazing. I I again I I always have these pictures in my mind. He D was he checking himself out after the second or third time? Like is there still some there? I mean I would have been. I I I don't know. Uh but anyway he does What are you supposed to do? And he's healed of leprosy. Now the captain of the enemy, so to speak, the Syrian army, captain of the enemy's army, he's now has his health restored. And so this guy who who remember we had that picture of him, he's he's probably in pretty good physical shape. He's probably really smart, he's got that thing about him Now he's got his health back. He's probably ecstatic. I mean he's happy. I would be happy if I just got healed of leprosy. And so he's ecstatic. So we're move on here Verse 15. And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came and stood before him, and said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now therefore, I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. Pretty much what he's saying is, hey, I'm not doubting anymore. I know the God of Israel is the real God. Amen for that. And then in verse, the same verse, he's grateful. And when God does something for you, it's instinctive that you want to do something for him. Right? Romans 12, 2 says it's a reasonable service. The fact that we live for him, it just makes sense. It's reasonable. It's instinctive. If someone gives you a gift, it's instinctive that you're thankful, like he was. He returned and said, thankful. It it should be instinctive that you're grateful for. Um if someone saves your life, i you you'd probably be grateful and you'd probably feel like you should do something for them. It's something instinctive in us that we want to re reward or or give some sort of thank you gesture or something. So that's what he again, that's what he does. Verse 16 Um excuse me, still in verse fifteen, he says, and he returned to the company of God, he and all his comp uh returned to the man of God, excuse me. He and all his people came and stood before him and said, Behold, now I know there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now therefore I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. He goes to offer him some things. Verse 16, but he said, As the Lord liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it, but he refused. We see the picture, we've heard the story. This is what happens. Man's sick, he's got leprosy, mighty man, high position, he humbles himself, goes to the man of God. Gives him instructions, he refuses, then he does what he's supposed to do, he's healed. Wow. God is God. God of Israel is the real God Hey, Elijah, thank you for what you're doing. He's grateful to God. I feel like I should do something for you. Elijah says, no. And again, I'm paraphrasing. He says, no, this isn't the time for that. You keep it And verse let's pick it up in verse number eighteen. In this the the thing, the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth in the house of Remen Rimmon to worship thee, And he leapeth on my hand and and bow myself in the house of Riman or Ramon, how would you say that? Ramon, Rimmon. When I bowed down myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardoned thy servant this thing. Verse 19. And he said unto him Go in peace, so he departed from him a little way. So he's just ecstatic, he's he's happy, he's he's rejoicing. And then in verse twenty, that's where I I did uh the scripture reading earlier, that's where we're picking it up. So does everyone know what understand? You heard Probably a lot of you are familiar with this passage. Now, I was reading this a couple weeks ago, and I don't know how many times I've read through uh you know, kings uh I mean several anyway. I mean I don't know the exact number, but I something just smacked me right in the face. Has anyone ever been smacked in the face? I'm just kidding. Uh but have you ever been reading through scripture and it's like, oh my goodness. It's right there. That's what happened to me. And so I'm going to share with you. If you've already thought of this, great, just pretend you've never thought of this, okay? Just pretend you never saw this. But I'm going to share some things with you here. Okay? So verse 20. Gehazi's servant, I mean uh Gehazi is Elisha's servant, he's he's his he's his second guy. Okay. He sees what's going on. He's there, right? He's talking to this is really deductive reasoning. But if he's talking to Elisha, that means he's with Elijah Right? Okay. So if he's with Elisha, that means they're together. Right? Okay, I'm just making sure everyone's paying attention, seeing what's going on here. So that He's right there watching this happen. He's watching the communication with Elisha and Naaman. He's watching this. Okay. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, Behold, my master hath spared Naaman the Syrian. Can you s is it just me? This isn't what I was talking about, but this is just me wondering, is there like a hint of prejudice there maybe? You you are you with me on that? Is there maybe just a my master spared the Syrian? Well, first off, God did But anyway, moving on. That was just an interjection, okay? Behold, my master has spared name in this Syrian, is not receiving at his hands that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of it. Okay. So look at again verse 20, he said That which he brought. You see that phrase? Naaman was offering to give something to Elisha, correct? Who brought it? Naaman, correct? Where did he bring it from? Where is he from? Sure. Take that, put it in your pocket, we'll pull it out here in a little bit. Okay? That's just an expression. Okay. Verse 21. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. So he had just left. This is all happening like at close to the same time. He had just left. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he had rearview mirrors Okay. Someone else is probably driving and he's maybe he's he I mean he's he's chasing after him. So that means If he's running after him, he's with Elijah. Okay, he's with Elijah. He runs after Naaman. Naaman sees him coming. Okay, there's a line of sight. Can you picture this in your mind? There's a line of sight here. Okay, put that in your other pocket. We'll come back to that in a minute. Verse 21, so Gehazi followed after Naaman, and when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well? And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me. Is that true? Okay. Saying, Behold, even now There become to me from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. Is that true? And I pray thee, take now watch this. Watch what he asked for. There's two sons of the prophets coming. I pray thee, therefore, give me a talent of silver. How many talents of silver? Did he ask for? One. And two changes of garments. Okay. When you tell a lie, some i I mean it doesn't make sense. And you can catch it. So these two guys here, they need Two shoes and one sock. Or two pairs of shoes and three socks. The math's not there. There's two sons of the prophets, two changes of garments, and one shekel of silver. Okay, that's a red flag to me. Let's keep going. And laid them upon his two servants, and they bare them before him. The two servants, oh the back up, name verse 23. And Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. He could do math. Naaman's like, you're asking for one and for two sons of the prophets, well, take two. Okay? And he urged them and bound two talents of silver and two bags with two changes of garments and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bear them before him. Does Naaman know really what's up yet? From his perspective. Think about his perspective. I've just been healed of leprosy. God is God. Wow. And Elisha just said, no, no, no, this is we're not doing this for money. Again, I'm paraphrasing a lot here. Uh uh I'm taking maybe a little more liberty than I should, but I'm saying You know, uh oh uh, you know, I'm doing this for God, I'm not doing it for your money, I'm not doing it for your stuff, I'm just doing this for the Lord. So you go, you go ahead. Okay, okay. Oh, by the way, you know what, I do want something So now if I'm naming, I'm thinking, well, is he doing it for the Lord or not? That's what he said. So, really, whose name from Naaman's perspective is being affected here? Yeah, or Elisha? Elisha. His name is affected here. Okay, now let's keep going Now, he sends it on the back of two servants that go before Gehazi. Remember, everything's in line of sight here. Okay? Where is Elisha? We're about to find out. Verse, let's look at verse 24. And when he came unto the tower, he took them from their hand and bestowed them in the house. Where is Elisha? The house. Bestowed them in the house, and he let the men go, and they departed. I think this is where the m the two servants might have suspected something's up. Wait a minute. They would have known that it was refused to start with, and they come back, oh okay, maybe there really is a need What was the excuse Gehazi gave for the need for the stuff? There's two sons of the prophets. Now they're in the house. Who's in the house? Not the sons of the prophets. So maybe they're like, huh. And then he kind of puts the stuff away. Again, I'd be like, huh, this is interesting. But then they go. He dismisses them and then they go. Verse 25, but when he went in, he stood before his master. Who's his master? Elisha. And Elisha said. Where's Elisha? He's in the house. The guys are there. Like, he's not dumb. Elisha is a s one, he's very intelligent, but also he has the Spirit of God on him. And God's watching everything, of course, as well. Verse 25, he went and stood before his master, and Elijah said to him, Whence comest thou Gehazah? He said, Thy servant went no wither. And that's another lie. And he saw you. Where's you know when when you know you hear the illustration of a kid that pulls his hand in the in the jar and takes the cookie out and he's got chocolate all over his face. Did you get in the cookie jar? No. That's what happened. He got it he got caught and he's still saying no. No, I didn't I didn't go anywhere. Okay. So let's keep reading. Verse 26. He said to him, Went not my heart with thee I find that very interesting. My heart went with thee. See, Elisha knew what was going on. And it hurt his heart, I think. Be heartbreaking. So went not my heart with thee when the man turned again from the chariot to meet thee. Is it the time to receive money? Is it the time to receive garments and oliveards and vineyards and sheep and oxen, men servant and maidservants? Catch this. The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee And unto thy seed forever. And went out from the present presence a leper as white as snow. Alright. Just some observations here. And then I'm gonna share with you what just kind of oh my goodness, it's right there. Let me pray first. How about that? Lord, I pray you bless the rest of this service here as we look at these next few points. Lord, I pray you again you bring conviction where it's needed. Also encouragement where it's needed. I pray you bless this now in Jesus' name. Amen. I think a hazey's problem started with the fact that he just wasn't maybe satisfied. Now, if I was With Elisha, I was Elisha's guy. That's pretty cool. I'm with him. I'm watching God work through him. That's pretty awesome. There is a lot of blessings that go with just being around Elisha. There's a lot of benefits, there's a lot of perks, if you want to call that, with just being around Elisha. That would be awesome. I'd like to spend five minutes with him That'd be cool. Just to watch God work in his life. He wasn't satisfied with that. He wanted more. He wanted stuff. See, you get to watch the blessings of God when you're with Elisha. You just don't get rich off of it. See, he wanted to get rich off of it. And so he leveraged his position. You know, no one in our government would ever do anything like that. But just suppose someone took advantage of being in a position like Congress or something like that, where they leverage the position to get money. I'm glad none of our congressmen do that. That would be evil. Y'all know I speak sarcasm fluently, right? Cut. But this is what Gehazi is doing He's not satisfied with what he had. He took advantage of his positions. As Elisha's right-hand man, as his servant, he would have access to things that other people wouldn't He would have opportunities that other people wouldn't, like this one. I'm j again, I'm just I'm kind of assuming here a little bit. But I would imagine the captain of the Syrian army probably had some sort of security. Probably had some guards or something. And I'm just again I'm just guessing you couldn't get too close to the leader of the army without maybe going through some people, but Gehaza could, right Elisha could because he came to them. So he's taken advantage of his position, he's taking advantage of what he had. Um he's just taking advantage of Elisha himself. That'd be like me trying to take advantage of our pastor just because I'm his assistant. Ooh, let's see, who does he know? Let's see, how can I get rich off of this? I mean, that's what he's doing. It's mess up. And so we're looking at this here. He took advantage of his position, uh he took advantage of the man that was over him, and he was just dishonest. I think I counted four lies. I mean we can go back through and count again. Let's think. He lied about being sent by Elisha. He lied about the sons of the prophets. He he lied when he said he w didn't go anywhere. Now they even went out. I think it's it. So say three. Three lies. That's enough. And usually the lies build off of each other, right? And like this, they had to build off of each other So he was dishonest. So he there's some character flaws here, right? He's greedy, he's dishonest, a little sneaky, right? There's some character flaws here. And then verse 24, and when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand and bestowed them in a ha in the house. He let the men go and departed. Now he's hiding his sin. So he's not it's not just that he took it's not just that he accepted something from Naaman. It's that he was he lied about it and he covered it up Obviously here. If if Gehazi had a need for some clothes And he says, you know, Elisha, I could use some clothes. Elisha would have said, let's pray about it. God will provide it, and God would have provided it. That's probably what would have happened. But he didn't want to do it that way. He wanted to do it his way and and and but I I think it probably was because he didn't actually have the need anyway, he had the want. So then, he covers his sin, verse 24 and 25, lies about it, covers it up, and then when he's given the opportunity, it's right in front of his face. Elisha is right there. Yeah, where'd you go? Nowhere Alright. So Eliza's watching him, knows what he's doing, he's aware when he comes back. Opportunity, opportunity, opportunity. Alright, one more. You gonna be honest with me? No. Okay. So the rest of the of the story goes, of which we already read it, and this is what I really wanted to bring out. Verse 27: The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman shall cleave unto thee and unto thy seed forever. I never caught that before. I'm going to read it again. The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman shall cleave unto thee and thy seed. It's kids. It's kids. Forever. Grandkids. Wow. I'll bet he wasn't expecting that. Now, something else Verse 27: The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman. Not anyone's leprosy, specifically Naaman's. Now This is the well back up. Let's back up. Watch this. Who's the one that had leprosy to start with? Beginning story. Who had it? Name it. Name it. Namin is from where Syria. He he then after he's healed, he presents the garments or the stuff he presents it to Elisha. Elisha says, No. Who who does the Bible say brought it? Naaman. And he came from Syria. Naaman had what? If you're wearing clothes, or if you're carrying clothes, or if you get your leprosy on something, it's contaminated. I think Gehazi forgot that leprosy was contagious. I think that's what I mean really. He brought okay, well he had his servants bring it or something like that, maybe, but he was around it And just because Naaman was healed, doesn't mean that his clothes are clean, that he brought over. Again, I'm I'm guessing a little bit here, I'm taking a little bit of liberty. Sure, I get it. But I do know that it doesn't say that he got leprosy. He specifically got Naaman's leprosy. That's what it says. And so let me just make this application here. If you want something that the world has to offer you, why don't you just go ahead and expect to get it? You want the clothes that belong to the man that had leprosy? Just figure on getting the clothes in the leprosy. He got the clothes. He got the stuff. He got two shekels of silver. Great. He's rich with leprosy. You want what the world has to offer, go get it. And everything that goes with it Man, we see we see advertisements on well I was gonna say on news networks. Does anyone watch the news anymore? I'm serious, did anyone watch that They call themselves the major news networks. I don't have the heart to tell them they're not the major players anymore. Oh, but anyway. We watch we watch commercials, you watch um ads come up on your phone or computer, whatever, and you see all the good shiny garments that Naaman has to offer. They're just tainted with leprosy. They're contaminated. Oh, we could make the application with alcohol. Oh, yeah, you see, oh, this commercial, that commercial, oh, that is just wonderful. Look how attractive they are, look how much fun they're having. Go ahead. Go ahead, go to the bar, get drunk, and get everything that goes along with it. And then when you get the leprosy that Naaman had. Don't be shocked because you're the one that wanted it. You're the one that asked for it. Again, I don't know how many times I've read through this, and that it those two things, the leprosy of Naaman. Is now on him. It was his. Now it's his. He got it from him. He caught it from him. Now it happened immediately, obviously, because it said it went from away from his presence white as snow, so he got it immediately, sure. But that was Naaman's leprosy. And who was affected? It wasn't just him. It was his seed. It was his kids. You want Naaman's garment, you go get it, you'll get the leprosy, and it'll wreck your kid's life It'll wreck your grandkids' life. Because now they're gonna have to deal with what you did. That's tough. That's really tough. Pastor Matt, is the goal to beat us up tonight? No, or this morning. What is it? Is it eleven four? Okay. This morning. It's not afternoon until afternoon. How about that? Is the goal to beat us up this morning? No. The goal is to do what Elisha was doing. Hey. What are you doing? Here's the opportunity to get this right with God. That's what the purpose of the service is today. I don't know what you're hiding in the in the house, what you're hiding in the tower, the well no they brought it into the house. I don't know what of Naaman's things, of the Syrian things you're going after. But you might be close to getting it. Well that'd be wonderful if I could have Phil in the Blank. Would it be Would it be? Again, we're we're we're you know looking at it now from youth pastor perspective, you know, we can be You'd you think, oh well teenagers they're always like sneaky and they're trying to hide things and I think all of us actually do that. You know what I mean? Well, my wife will never know. And if I could just, I'd be alright. Well, go ahead. And expect the heartache that goes with it. Leprosy is not fun. I've never had it. Don't think. No, I'm just kidding. Never had it. But it's a long, slow, painful thing. When I seek after the pleasures the world has to offer, whether it's the popularity, the the fame, whether it's a substance Whether it's uh chasing a lifestyle, whatever it is. I I don't know. I'm not preaching on any specific sin, just the concept here. You want to go after what the world has to offer. It looks so good. Man, he saw Naaman's stuff. He's again, remember, he's there. He's watching it. And uh he's watching Naaman present it to Elisha. Elijah says, No. He should have taken that warning from the man of God at that point. You know what I mean? Learned from him. But if you want what the world has to offer, and you go after it, expect to get what comes with it. And it's not fun. And then it doesn't just affect you. It affects your kids. Hey, kids are dealing with a lot. They don't need to deal with their parents getting Naaman's leprosy. They don't need to deal with their grandparents picking up the disease from the world. I hope that makes sense. If you want the world's fill in the blank, expect to get what comes with it. Expect to get the sickness. And then I want to end with this. It's eleven fifty already. If there is something you're hiding. If there's something you're hiding on your phone, on the computer, if there's um something you're you're you're keeping uh away from your spouse, if there's something you're keeping from your parents something that belongs to the world and you know it's not right, you know you shouldn't be doing it. Uh uh whatever it is. This is the opportunity to get right with God. God's loving, God's forgiving. When did he get the leprosy After the first lie? No. When it was please catch this. When he was confronted point blank with it Opportunity, opportunity. Now listen. Evan, I know you took the clothes from Naaman. Look his skin is so white, it's so clean, like a child. Sorry, I'm sorry. Sorry. I know you took the clothes from him. Okay. Where did you go? And he says, nowhere. So what the message is this morning The thing that you have hidden in your house, the Naaman's garments that you have, his his his money that you have. And you're trying to hide it from God, should have had a V8. You can't, okay? What this is your opportunity. This is the point where you're being confronted with it What are you doing? What are you hiding? What did you take that you weren't supposed to? What sin are you involved in that no one else knows about except for God? You're gonna come clean with it. And when Naaman did not or excuse me, when Gehazi did not come clean with it, that's when he got the leprosy. That's when it affected his kids. That's when it affected his seed forever. That's when it happened. So this morning, if you're hiding it, I'm not God, don't tell me. Tell God. If I confess it, see it the way he sees it, admit the guilt, God, this was wrong. You confess it to him. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive. Not saying consequences will be completely gone. But he'll forgive you and cleanse us from all unrighteousness This is the confrontation. This is the moment that Elisha had with Yehazi. What are you doing? Tell God. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I think the invitation is pretty clear. I don't need to know the gross sins you're hiding. I'm not God. I'm not God. But God is God. Teenagers, what are you hiding from mom and dad? Husbands, what are you hiding from your wife? Wives, what are you hiding from your husband? What do you think you're hiding from God? The eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good He knows. And he's giving you an opportunity this morning, at this invitation, not to come get right with Pastor Matt or get right with Pastor Leatherman or To get right with him. The way I'll handle the invitations is this. If you're hiding something and you gotta confess it to God Confess it to God. If as far as you know there's nothing between you and the Lord, great. I would say come forward and pray that God that you keep it that way. Keep a short account with Him. Absolutely Maybe there's someone you're praying for. Maybe you're the Elisha and you know of a Gehazi that's hiding something. Pray that they come forward with it. This is an opportunity that Gehazi had. He rejected it. This is your opportunity to get it right with God. I'm not really gonna even ask for a raise of hands, I I don't guess. But I'll just ask you to stand to your feet and when she starts playing, the altar's open.