It's not king yet. God's preparing them and getting them ready. 1 Samuel chapter 25. A letter came in the mail yesterday from Chester and Linda Sines. It says, Hi Jackie. It says, we're doing okay here. Pray all is good up there too Hope y'all have lots of snow, ha ha. Loving Christ, Chester and Lindo So uh when I read that I just paused a moment, bowed my head, and said, Lord, send frost. Send frost Yeah, I was glad to hear that. 1 Samuel 25, I'm going to read verse 1. We looked at that last week, but just kind of keep the setting here. I'm going to reference it a little bit right in the beginning And then I'm going to read verse 2 and 3. Bible says, 1 Samuel 25, and Samuel died. We looked at that and considered And all Israel, all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house at Rhema. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. Now we pick up some new ground here. And there was a man in Maon whose possessions were in Carmel. And the man was very great, and he had 3,000 sheep and a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in caramel. Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife, Abigail, and she was a woman of good understanding and of beautiful countenance Now, how many agree with me if it if that sentence stopped there, if everything information stopped there, you'd think, boy, what a wonderful couple, nice couple. But we are given a little bit more information. But the man was churlish and evil in his doings, and he was of the house of Caleb. I just entitled it for lack of creativity on my part. I just called it Nabal and Abigail. And I'll be honest with you, I think this chapter is going to be fascinating I've really uh enjoyed studying it. So let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts, turn my mic on here. All right. Father, we thank you, Lord, for uh the word of God and how fascinating it is. The drama and the information we're given and the record of these historical events and historical people are fascinating And I pray now as we study Nabor and Abigail, probably be a several week study, that you would um introduce them to us in a very real way and that we can learn from their lives and their behavior how we should and should not live our lives And so we ask you for wisdom and insight here as we look at this. I yield my will and present my body as I always do, Lord, whenever I'm teaching and preaching, I pray that you fill me with your spirit and that you be the teacher teacher tonight and uh help us to understand and I that your Holy Spirit would apply these principles to our lives. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Somebody said I don't I can't Get the source of this quote, but somebody said, um, God's greatest men are still men at their greatest. How many people understand what that's saying? You know, I I consider, my humble opinion, I consider great David to be uh one of God's greatest men As we're studying. That's one of my motives to study him initially. But nevertheless, David, for all the greatness that I see in him He's still a man. At his very grace, he's still a man with flaws, shortcomings, finite, limitations, and failures. And failures. In chapter 24, we studied that uh pretty thoroughly. And there, I believe, we saw David at his best I think chapter 24 is one of David's shining at one of his uh his sh shining at his shiniest Some of the one of the shiniest moments of his life. And if you remember, he showed there was three characteristics of David that rose to the top and that absolutely are commendable in every way. Uh first of all he showed respect to King Saul. Not because of King Saul as a person, his behavior, his character, but for his position. He was anointed of God. He showed tremendous respect there. And that impresses me. Because King Saul, as we know, was not a very respectable man. But David showed respect to him. That takes character. That takes character. The second thing we notice that stands out in my mind is that uh he exercised restraint or self-discipline. When every one of his men was saying, kill him, kill him, kill him, David said, No, I'm not going to do that. Now you'll never convince me that there wasn't something inside David's heart and mind saying, you know, you could end this right here and now. There's no doubt in my mind that that was there. But David was able to restrain and control and discipline himself that he was not going to do what the peer pressure was telling him to do, what opportunity was presenting to him to do, and even speculating something inside him was saying, hey, you can do this, but nevertheless he was able to bring that under control. How many people here ever got in a situation you wish you could have controlled yourself a little bit more? Yes. It's pretty much a daily basis on some. But Dave was able to do that. Commendable. That stands out in my mind. Man, here's a man of discipline, self-control. restraint. Then the third thing we notice there, and we already preached on all this, but this is the highest quality, I believe, in any man or woman of God. The highest quality. He displayed humility. And he humbled himself before King Saul. He says, I'm a dead dog. You're chasing a flea. You know, and he didn't talk about uh how great he was or how great warrior, he just humbled himself before King Saul. And my Bible says, he that humbleth himself, God will do what? Exalt him. And God giveth grace to the humble. And so I think in chapter 24, we see some of the some of the David at his perhaps his best or at least one of the best records we have of David when he behaved that way. Now we get to chapter 25. And you know we're not going to pick it up tonight. It'll be a little bit later on in our study as we work through the chapter. But we see not a bright side of David, but we see a dark side of David. We see David, the human being, comes out when he interacts and deals with Nabal. And that's a that's a future study. So what I'm trying to get at is this, to try and set the stage here a little bit tonight, what I'm trying to get at is this. When we're in victory, when we're walking with God and and uh you know those times where you think Yeah, that went good. When we get like that, don't get too high. Don't get too self-confident. Don't think, hey, I've got this And then the other side of that, and we'll pick this up at the end of the chapter in a while, the other side of that is when we blow it, when we're in defeat, don't get too low. Because God can turn that around and God can pick it back up. And God can still use us. So when things are going great, don't get too high. When things go bad, don't get too low. When you happen, on those rare occasions, we do the right thing. Don't get too don't get too hyper about yourself and then when we mess up. So we're going to see that in David. I make two observations here in chapter 25, at least in the beginning part And the one I touched on last week a little bit, but my first point is this. My first observation is we have a bit of an intermission here You remember from last week I mentioned that. This is a bit of an intermission. In chapter 24, Saul After David humbled himself and addressed him and answered him softly, it turned away Saul's wrath. A soft answer turneth away wrath. And we see that. That's exactly what happened And Saul makes this implication, King Saul makes this implication that he is, there's a peace treaty now. Between King Saul and David. Now I got looking at that very carefully, and Saul never actually says directly, all right, I'm not going to pursue you anymore. He never says that, but he certainly implies that. He says, you're more righteous than I. And uh you've you've treated me good for evil, and you're going to be the king's Someday, and I know that, and when you are, remember me and my offspring. But he never makes any promises to David. He never says, I'm not going to chase you anymore. But he certainly implies that to David And men, perhaps, that of lesser insight might have fallen for that and said, Oh, wonderful, we're buddies But David, as we noted last week, he he he saw through what Saul was saying, and he realized that this peace treaty, quote unquote, was very superficial and it was absolutely temporal We're going to see that when we get to chapter 26. Saul picks it right back up again. So Saul, we have that. And so that Saul's not chasing him right now. He backs off a little bit. Saul goes back to Rama. And um uh and uh David stays out there in the wilderness, and uh and we have this this lull, so to speak, in David's In David's what's the word I want? In in the in his danger, in his um being pursued by King Saul, there's this little low, you could say perhaps a breather. The second thing we noted, we point here under this intermission, um there's this quote unquote peace treaty, this implied peace treaty. Peace treaty. But David maintains his caution here, and I pointed that out last week also. He doesn't go back to Rama with Saul, King Saul. It says there at the end of the verse one it says um he rose and went down to the wilderness of Parent He went another direction. He maintains his caution. I put this down just an observation, a couple observations about that. One, uh some people it's best to stay away from them. Anybody learned that in life? For some people it's best just to avoid them. They're toxic. It's best just to stay from away from them. Proverbs, and I don't have the reference on the the top of my head. Um I don't have anything on the top of my head actually, but um seriously. But um There's a reference in Proverbs that says, Make no friends with an angry man. And the idea there is there's some people we ought to just keep some distance from. between us and them. We should be friendly to everybody, right? We should always be friendly, kind, respectful, no doubt about it. David was the King Saul, but King Saul was an angry man And David said, I'm not going down there. I'm not going back with him. I'm keeping my distance. And that's pretty wise. And another thing about chapter 25, we're going to see this as we get in here. Again, I'm kind of laying the groundwork for our study of Nabal and Abigail. This whole chapter 25 is an interval in Saul pursuing David. There's a little piece. There's a little breather. It's like the eye of a storm. He's chasing them, chasing them. Then there's this calm and quiet coming from Saul. It'll pick up again later. But you have this interval And it's in this interval, it's in this time of ease, so to speak, for David, that, boy, the old man comes out And he makes some actions a little bit later that are almost complete contrary to what we saw in chapter 24. He's very restrained. He's very gracious. He's very humble. We're going to notice here later on in chapter 25. He's very aggressive. He's very angry. He's very proud. Nobody's treating me that way. And it's almost uh it's almost a split personality in his reactions to King Saul and to Nabal. And we'll we'll study that. But this is what I got from that. Sometimes When the battle, when we're not in the midst of a battle and there's not a real struggle going on, and we can kind of catch our breath, if we're not careful, that can be a time of great spiritual danger. Follow what I'm saying? Our guards down. You know, we're not in that battle. And uh I noticed that and I I mentioned this often. We had a little meeting with the Bible Time Board uh yesterday and Monday. And it reminded me as I was studying this back and when I was on staff with Bible Time Help and Evangelists, a lot of times on Friday night after that week's rally was over and before the next week rally began, there's a little lull. There's a little time of quote-unquote ease for these fellas. And I noticed over the years, if a guy's going to mess up, guess when he's usually going to mess up? During that little interval there. Because when the rally's going on, man, they're focused and they're praying and we're preaching and I've got to go. And then it's like, huh. And then something comes up, something here. And I think we're going to see that with David. So that's the interval that I wanted to address and lay out. It's kind of a quiet. We don't have any little or no mention of Saul here, I don't think, even through the end of the chapter. And uh Now, and so we have this interval. My second point and observation is this, and this is the message, we have an introduction To two very interesting people. I have enjoyed beginning this study of Nabal and Abigail. They are a fascinating couple I told my wife, I was told my wife were come over about them and um man you couldn't if you and I'm not interested in this kind of stuff, but you f you folks that like um What's that Christmas time all the movies? What's the channel they show all the movies? Hallmark! Oh brother You ladies, none of you men watch Hallmark, I am sure. I am sure. None of you men That is what hunting season is for. This would be a classic hallmark To some extent. I don't know. I've heard about it. I've never seen them. I've heard of them. Alright, we're introduced to these two folks, Nabal and Abigail. What a fascinating couple. Let's look at Nabal first. Look at verse 2. And, all right, David rose, went down to the wilderness, Perrin. Verse 2, and there was a man in Maon. Whose possessions were incarnal. Alright, here's this fellow. We don't not told his name until we get down to verse 3. Now, the name of this man, of the man, was Nabal. Now I got looking up the meaning of his name. Now we're told later on his wife tells us what his name means. So you can get the meaning without even using a dictionary or concordance. But I looked it up And uh I found out that the root word, the word that the word it comes from, the root word of that means to wilt. Something you know, you have a plant that wilts. From that meaning, over the course of time and as it was used, it developed into to mean to be a failure. In other words, somebody made an attempt at something, they endeavored to do something, and they wilted. The attempt wilted, it failed. They were a failure. And then over time, as the began to be used, I guess, in the Hebrews, and that language developed, it came to mean, who knows, you tell me what it means. Nabal means what? A full A fool. Now, I got looking at that. Alright, this guy's name means a fool. I looked up years ago, I looked up my name, Dennis. I thought, boy, that's probably a very profound name, it's really. It means great man of character and dignity and probably royalty. I looked it up and it's it's the English version of the Greek god of wine and drunkenness. I thought who would name their kid? So I got looking up the name Nabel and it means a will team failure of a fool. I thought, who in the world names their kid that? Why would why I couldn't for the life of me figure out why someone We get the little baby, their little son is born, I don't know his firstborn or why I don't know where he fit in his family, but this little child, a little baby, and they say, let's name him a fool I can't come up with any reason or motive to name a baby a fool, a failure, a wilted failure of a fool. So that led me to think this. I beginning to doubt. Now we're not told, so this is all speculation on my part But I began to doubt as I studied this and got thinking about how do you come up with that name, I'm wondering if perhaps that wasn't his birth name I wonder if that isn't a name he picked up as he went through life. Because sometimes people do that, right? They pick up a name and you say, Oh, this guy's name is that and then you find out later, no, his name's really this and you say, I have no idea his name was this. that. We had a kid down in Chattanooga rode our Sunday school bus and uh he rode for years. He was a real little when he came, just a chubby. He was about he was about that tall standing up and he was about that tall laying down. He was round. Cutest little kid in the world. Rode the bus faithfully. And I to this day we never knew what his name was. Everybody, his name was cornbread. That's what everybody called him. Cornbread. Cornbread. We have no idea what his real name was. It was cornbread. So I doubt seriously mom and dad named their kit baby cornbread, but it was a name he picked up because apparently he really liked cornbread. I guess. So I got thinking, how in the world does somebody cup get a name named Cornbread? In my mind, most likely it's a name that Stocked because of doing what he was. Now whether for whatever reason the world his parents named him Nabal or whether he picked that name up as he was living his life. Either way, he lived up to his name's meaning. Come over to chap verse 25 in the chapter. Here's his wife Abigail speaking to David, and she references Nabal. This gets rough, I'll tell you. Verse 25, let this is Abigail, Nabel's wife, speaking to David. Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial. That was not a compliment. This guy's of the devil. He's a devil man. Please don't regard uh let not, my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal. Now look at this. For as his name is what? So is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. Now, this isn't his enemies speaking about him. This isn't David talking about him in anger. This isn't his neighbors even talking about him. This is his wife. Now, as pastor, I would not recommend, ladies, you speak of your wife, your husbands like that, regardless of who and what they are. But he obvious this is not the time to deal with that either, by the way. So either way, however in the world he got this name, I have no idea, however he got this name, he obviously lived up to it. And we're going to see that as we study through here. It comes through But we are told a few things about him back in verse number two and three. Let's look at Nabal here a little bit, what we learn about him, and what it might mean for us. Verse 2: there was a man of Maon. And it says, whose possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great, and he had 3,000 sheep And a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now there's significance in all of that. My first observation about Nabal is this, is he was a very prosperous man Sheep and goats and all that, that was the economy of that day. That was where people made their money. That is where the business was. Throughout the Old Testament, you find a lot of times they would go and they would kill the enemy's sheep. They'd slaughter it. They were messing their economy up. That's where the money came and went. That's where it went through. And so when he says he has all these sheep, he has these thousands of sheep and thousands of goats. The idea here is he was a very, very wealthy man. Um he was rich, materially rich. Now I put this down and say Study Nabel, we're going to see this. It's possible to be very wealthy materially and very poor spiritually. Financially, to be financially successful, it's possible to be financially successful and to be personally a failure. Personally a failure. Uh you can watch the news, you can look in media and you see that all over. People are able to make millions and millions, in some cases billions of dollars, but they can't stay married for five weeks And they don't have any friends. And they drink they're they're drunk all the time. There was a politician down and um I was with Mike Creed years ago when he first started the ministry on Capitol Hill and he took me down and we're able to just meet this guy. We're in his uh saw his office and just met him briefly. Mike told me later, he says that guy is drunk every single day from the morning he shows up till he goes home lit midnight. He drinks He is drunk. He is a functional, what how they call it? A functional alcoholic. And here he's tremendously successful. He's an extremely wealthy man But yet as a person in his personal life he was a failure. I don't know, somebody that has to be drunk constantly to be able to Endure and joy life, there's something wrong. Would you agree with me? There's something not working there. There's dysfunction there somehow. And he'd been married multiple times And so it's possible. Here's what I'm trying to get at. We live in a world, we live in a country, in a society, we live in a world that says to be successful You've got to have money in the bank. You've got to have this. You've got to have all these material things. And I'm suggesting to you can have all of that in the world and be a total failure in life. Be a total failure in life. These guys on TV that promote this prosperity gospel are dead wrong. That is not an indicator of God's blessing. And I have a friend of mine was preaching years ago and he made a statement I strongly disagreed with. He said, I give my tithe, I do this, and boy, I've got this brand new truck I drive and I've and he went on and bragged about all this stuff he had And he said it's because he gives to God. Now I believe with all my heart God blesses those who give and give generously. You can't outgive God. But giving to God is no guarantee that God's going to make you wealthy and you're going to have a new truck and a fancy house and $600 suits to wear. In fact, I know some folks personally that give very generously and live A very modest lifestyle because they give so much Lord. You know why? Because their values are not placed, their priority and their values aren't on material things, their values are on spiritual things. And that's what they're investing in. And God takes care of them. And they're happy. They're rejoicing in the Lord. And so just because don't make this idea And the world does it, you know. The world is, oh, this guy's a mul multi-millionaire, and this guy's this. And if we're not careful, sometimes It uh i it it uh hypnotizes us a little bit. We think, boy, that guy's really something. He has all this money. You know what? He might be nothing Personally, spiritually. And so Nabal was very wealthy materially, but he was an abject failure spiritually. And personally. Number two, not only was he prosperous, but he was powerful. Look again, look at verse 2. And there was a man named Maeon, his possessions in Carmel. And look at this. And it says, the man was very great. I looked up that phrase, very great, and it has this idea, and it has nothing to do with his physical appearance or his physical makeup. It means this. He carried a lot of weight. That doesn't mean he was big and fat. He might have been, but that's not what that means. He was an important person. I put it this way: he was very influential When Nabal spoke, brother the town people listened. He had uh tremendous power, quote unquote. in his community. He was very influential. He pulled a lot of weight. Now, can I say this? Let's back up and make the same application we did with his prosperity It is possible to be very influential, but yet not be very honorable. It is possible to have someone have a position of influence, yet nobody in the world respect them. I have little or no respect. But because of their wealth, because of their conniving and they work their way and they get in a position where they have a lot of influence over people, um Uh they have a lot of influence, but not necessarily have a lot of respect or honor. And that's the way Nabal was. He was a very great man in the sense He pulled a lot of weight. He had a lot of influence on the community. No doubt. He had a lot of influence on the economy of that region, perhaps. Maybe he was on boards of different things. Who knows? But we're going to see here as we study him, he wasn't very respectful. He wasn't a highly respected man, at least not by his wife or by his employees. It's possible to have a lot of influence and not be very honorable and not necessarily be very respected. So, number one, he was prosperous. Number two, he was powerful. I noticed this in verse number three, he was very unpleasant. Now we're going to get to know Nabal a little bit. Look at verse 3. The name of the man was Nabal. The name of his wife, Abigail, she was a woman of good understanding, of beautiful countenance. We'll uh look at her here in a little bit. Look at the last phrase. But the man, Nabal, was what? Churlish And evil in his doings. Huh. There's a churlish. What in the world does that mean? Anybody want to take a guess? What is don't look at your note sermon note Bibles, your study books A nasty disposition is a good definition. Churlish. Anybody know any churlish people? Don't look around. The word churlish itself means this. It has a slew of definitions behind it, all kinds of, it means to be rude. Unkind, hateful, and I thought this one was very apropos, difficult to deal with Now everybody here is trying to think, you're thinking of somebody that you say, nah, that's them, they're churlish. Well Nabal was a churlish person. He was difficult to deal with. He was rude, he was hateful, he was unkind. So he was churlish, but also look what it says, and evil in his doings. Evil in his doings. The word evil there uh means this to be vicious. Or miserable. And then when God adds on in his doing, it means in his dealings with people. He was just miserable to deal with. Uh he was vicious to try and interact with them. How many people here, now don't say it out loud, but how many people here know someone you just dread when they approach? You just anybody? You're not gonna raise their hand. Oh, you think, oh no. This is gonna be miserable. That's Nabal. That's Nabal. If you want to know what these words are trying to say, just think of the exact opposite of kind and pleasant. And there you have the character of Nabal. Success in life is not measured by the size of my bank account or the amount of my possessions. Success in life is determined, spiritually speaking, a fulfilling God's will for my life, but humanly speaking, in my ability to be a help, an encouragement, and a blessing, and an edification to others. I believe God defines success in our interaction with people, in my ability to help other people, be better people, to have faith in God, and to fulfill God's will for thy life, my ability to help them. Nabal was the exact opposite of that. Unpleasant, rude, difficult, hateful, vicious, miserable. He was a bad guy. But there's something else we're told about Nabal that I never really picked up on until I got studying this carefully. And at the end of verse 3 it makes a statement about him that became very interesting to me. Me. But the man was churlish and evil in his doings, and then God tells us this about him. And he was of the house of who? What do we know about Caleb? Caleb was a good guy. Caleb was a great guy. What about Caleb? Somebody tell me about Caleb. Yes, him and Joshua. When the remember they sent twelve men went to spy on Canaan, ten were bad and two were good. Caleb was one of those two good ones. I mean Joshua. Joshua is up there as far as great, great men in Israel's history. And Caleb's right there with him, a man of tremendous faith. I preached on Caleb several months ago. A man of tremendous faith. A man of tremendous patience. Remember he wandered 40 years Years in the wilderness, not because of his unbelief, but because of everybody else's unbelief, and he had to deal with the consequences of their lack of faith. And he did it without complaining And finally it's all over. He gets in and says, all right, I want that mountain. God promised that I'm 80 years old. My strength is the same now as it was when I was 40. Now he might have been exaggerating a little, I don't know. But what a tremendous man of faith. And then he goes in, he conquers them. Great attitude. Faith in God, claiming God's promises, encouraging others, no, we can do this. And Nabel Is a descendant of the house of Caleb. I thought, wow. I wouldn't have guessed that I could see Nabel being a descendant of maybe Korah, one of those griping, remember they are all mad at Jacob and or not at Jacob, they're all mad at um Moses and all that. I think, yeah, he'd be a descendant of Korah, one of those rascals. But he wasn't. He was one of God's champions, a descendant, and uh an offspring of that Wow. Apparently not all of Caleb's offspring shared his faith or his character. That got me thinking on this. Not all, uh I put it this way, some of God's best people had some pretty ungodly offspring. You look at some of the kings of Israel, some of the greatest kings of Israel, their kids were a mess. Terrible. Samuel had issues with his kids You go through the Bible and you find this over and over again. Now, Nabal wasn't a child of Caleb, but he was of that house, he was of that lineage, and they lost it somewhere. They lost that faith, that character, that that integrity that Caleb had, and that zeal and that enthusiasm that Caleb had. They lost it all. Here's what happens sometimes. One generation takes for granted what the previous generation accomplished. And we lose that appreciation and they lose that zeal and they lose that enthusiasm. And everything is, I am, what's the word they use today? That next daddy, grandpa, great-grandpa, they accomplished all these great things. You get a generation where they feel like they are what? Entitled. To everything the previous generation accomplished and earned. And you know what I found out? People who have an entitlement mentality generally are difficult to get along with. are generally very rude, are generally very unkind, are generally very selfish. They're not very giving. And Brother Mabel fits it to the T. And by the way, God makes some points here about the land that he has, where he was. Notice it says verse 2, he was in man and mayon in Karmel. And he was sharing sheet in Carmel. Do you know where that was? That was the land that Caleb conquered. That was the land that Caleb had accomplished, that he had part of the inheritance when they conquered the land. That was Caleb's land. And so apparently Nabal had inherited, along with no doubt the other ancestors, had inherited this land. That tells me, now I'm speculating here, but that tells me Um probably a lot of Nabal's wealth and his possessions were passed down to him. He just got it. He inherited it. And that explains in my mind a lot of his behavior, a lot of his personality characteristics. Because he he didn't earn this. He didn't have to be kind to people and interact with people to accomplish this. It was just given to him, he's entitled to it, and anybody else comes along, yeah, you're dog eat dog, that's your problem, not mine And so the stable is a fascinating man. As we go through here, we're going to see how these early description that God gives us here, how that plays out in his life and how it affects others around him. And so we have Nabal, what an interesting, unpleasant fellow he was. Then the Bible introduces us to his wife Abigail. Now she's a fascinating gal. I would like to have met Abigail. I would like to have avoided Nabal But I sure would like to have met Abigail. Abigail, her name means this. One definition I came as my father is joy, but I think probably, and I don't, I'm not an expert on this But there was another definition that said, my father's joy. And I have a sneaking suspicion that's the idea behind her name. I wonder when she was born, her daddy wasn't just thrilled that he had a little baby girl and he said, This is my joy. This is my Abigail My father's joy, the joy of my father. And so tells you a little bit just uh from her name, maybe the attitude, the atmosphere of the home she grew up in Again, this is tremendous speculation on my part, just by going by a little statement. But I wonder, maybe she didn't grow up in a very pleasant home. Where people were kind and happy, and there was joy in that home, and there was pleasantness and kindness in that home. And we're going to see some characteristics of her that prompt me to think that her upbringing, uh, that may be characteristic of her upbringing Several things were told about Abigail. Well, let's look at it here real quick. I got a little bit of time. Let's look at uh first of all, I noticed this about Abigail, and I'm going to be a little crude rude crude here a little bit maybe but number one I put this down she had brains she had brains look what it says verse two or uh verse three and her name the man was Nabal And the name of his wife was Abigail, my father's joy, the joy of the father, and she was a woman of good understanding I looked that up, how it's used in different places in the Bible. And this is the definition I kind of came up with that phrase, good understanding. To be exceptionally insightful And to have exceptional understanding of things. I think she was more than just intelligent. She was obviously a very intelligent woman. She had brains, but more than just intelligent, she had insight. She had discernment. She could read, she could see a situation, she could see a circumstance, and she immediately grasped what this was all about and what it meant and the meaning behind it and how this is going to play out. And we're going to see that in her behavior here and her interaction with her husband and with David when things fall apart there. And she was able to grasp immediately Nabal's action and what that meant to David and how David would respond and how this whole thing would play out. She immediately grasped, had insight on that, and she stepped in And um actually saved her husband's life and a lot of people's lives, probably, because she was a woman that had brains, not just intelligence, but understanding and insight. into situations. She was an exceptional lady in that regard. Exceptional lady. So number one, I notice about Abigail, she had brains, good understanding, insight, but it makes another statement about her. And of a beautiful countenance. Not only did she have brains, she had what? Beauty. Beauty and brains. Yes. A beautiful attitude, a a beautiful demeanor. Correct. I got looking it up and uh it had it has that, but is most of the definitions I found was this. She was, and this was their definitions, she was extremely attractive. Which is a very, very attractive one. In fact, w one diction Hebrew dictionary I was using, it it got a little detail. If you want to know what it is, give me a dollar afterward, I'll tell you. I'm joking. But she is an extremely attractive woman and uh interesting, the one commentator as I was trying to glean some information about this gal He said that Jewish, the ancient Jews had four women in Jewish history that they considered the most beautiful women in all of Jewish history. Anybody want to guess who one of them was? Abigail. She made the list. The Jews, ancient Jews, says Abigail was one of the four most beautiful women in all Jewish history. Anybody want to guess who the other three might be? Esther was one of them. Not Jezebel. Not Ruth wasn't on the list. Who? Rachel was not one of them. So far you got Esther and Abigail. Somebody said another one. Sarah made the list. One more you might think not think of her. I wouldn't have guessed her, but this is what they said. Not Deborah. Rahab. Rahab the Horlit. That's what they said. I haven't seen any of them, I don't know. So Abigail is an exceptional woman. She is very intelligent, extremely insightful, according to them, extremely attractive, a very beautiful woman. But not only that, I put this down. She had brains, she had beauty, but I wrote this one down about her. She was a blessing. She was a blessing. Her actions Her actions, we go through and study this, her actions display a woman of great grace. Now, do you know what I mean by that? Say, boy, that's a very gracious woman in her actions. And how she you follow what I'm trying to say? I don't even know how to describe it, but very, very gracious. Um not curt or abrupt or rude in any way, just very gracious woman. Sometimes you meet someone, you walk away, they're just so gracious and so easy to be around and so um e You know what I'm talking about? She's very gracious. Ah, as I studied it, looking at her um record here, and I I picture her as a woman of tremendous poise. By that I mean this, a woman under control. She could take any circumstance, no matter how tense it may be, no matter how chaotic it may be And she doesn't lose control of herself. It's true for both men and women, but brother, you get a woman who loses control of yourself. You have got your hands full. And she did. She was a woman of poise. And a woman very, very gracious. And a woman, I think, we're going to see this. I think she was a woman of tremendous dignity. I see a dignified, poised, gracious, intelligent, beautiful woman is how I picture Abigail. Now here, I said all that. We described Nabal, and I'll end with this. We described Nabal and we described Abigail. Two polar opposites in every category. How in the world does Abigail end up married to Nabal? How does that happen Give this entitled, rude, hateful, vicious, unkind, miserable man That's right. I didn't have that down, but that is I'm gonna write that in my notes. I can change him. What's the old saying? A guy marries a gal, she'll never change. And the gal marries a guy, I'll change them. And neither of those ever work out. Now I come up with two ways that she ended up marrying him. You know, sometimes very intelligent, insightful uh people can make dumb mistakes You know that? Some of the most intelligent people in the world can on a whim or whatever. Sometimes if if we're not careful, we can allow emotions to cloud our discernment So did she as a young lady? Here's Nabel here's Nabel growing up. Boy, he's wealthy. Everybody knows him as he's He's a rising star, perhaps, in the economic world, the business world, and uh, you know, fancy spread and nice house, and he's got all this And maybe in her emotions, she got attracted to him, emotions took over her discernment, and she made a terrible decision. Or did this happen? Or did mom and dad arrange the marriage and she had no say whatsoever in it? Most likely of the two is the arrangement. Because that was Jewish tradition. He provided dowry to mom and dad, which no doubt was probably very lucrative Maybe he pursued her, convinced her parents, Daddy's joy, convinced Daddy, hey, I'll take. I wouldn't put it past someone like Nabal to lie through his teeth. Put on a good show, make all these promises, and boy, he got a prize. He got a trophy. I think that's in the Hebrew there somewhere, actually. But he got this scale. Now here's, you say, what does that have to do with my life? We're going to study this, and here Abigail, she's in a very, very, very difficult situation that she cannot get out of. And yet she conducts herself with grace, kindness, and dignity. And what impresses me is she did not respond She did not re respond and react the way she was treated. And this is what I think. And I th we'll get to heaven and find out. This is what I think. I think Abigail had the idea, my responsibility is to be a good wife to my husband, regardless of what kind of man my husband is. And she did that to the T And she was a. She did not allow her circumstances to dictate her character. She maintained her integrity and her character regardless of the circumstance. Sometimes we find ourselves in situations and everything around us is drawing us to act certain ways. And what we need to be able to do is say, you know, I answer to God and I'm going to be the man or I'm going to be the woman that God instructs me to be, regardless of whether anybody around me is that same way or not. And I see that in Abigail. She, here's the thing, and I say this sometimes in counseling. She wasn't going to answer to God for how Nabal acted That's not she's not going to answer to God for that. He is. She's going to answer to God for how she behaved and how she acted And we're going to see that come out. It gets even more fascinating as we go through this. So, regardless of our circumstances, we need to do right in that circumstance. And what we're going to see happen here in a little bit, she was able to behave herself around Nabal in a way that David was unable to. Nabal and a day was at able Nabal was able to pull David down to his level. And David starts treat reacting to Nabal's actions the way Nabal acted. But Abigail was able to maintain, stay above that and maintain that. What a fascinating woman. And so let's pray. Father, I thank you for introducing us to these two, this couple. I pray you'd help us to learn from both of them. I pray you'd fill us with your spirit and give us some integrity in our hearts and minds. Help us to develop that and conduct ourselves as you instruct and expect us to, and not as perhaps those around us do. I must be kind and respectful and And uh gracious. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm and this is between you and God, it may be very personal, so you know it's between But maybe some would say, you know, I find myself in a situation that I would rather the circumstances be different than what they are, but they're not. So I'm just going to trust God. I'm going to be the best Christian God will enable me to be. I'm going to be kind. I'm going to be gracious. I'm going to be a witness to God's goodness. And just trust God with all the other circumstances. That's what Abigail did. How many like that say, Preacher, I I need God to help me do that? God bless you. God bless you. Father, help us in this old sinful world to live like we're in heaven in this old sinful world. Simple world in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed. James gonna play invitation hymn.