Chapter two if you would notice with me verse thirteen and fourteen, particularly the last phrase there in verse number fourteen The Bible says, verse 13, you being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he quickened. That word quickened means made alive. Hath he quickened together with him, speaking spiritually, you came alive spiritually, having forgiven you all trespasses. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, and we'll explain what that means, which was contrary to us And took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. Now the gospel of Jesus Christ is has three aspects, three ingredients, for lack of a better term. The death By that we mean the crucifixion of Jesus Christ on the cross, the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now, if you leave the resurrection of Jesus Christ off of the gospel presentation, you are not presenting the gospel. A dead Savior can't save anybody. We have a living Savior. He rose from the dead, death, burial, and resurrection. Sometimes, every now and then, someone will ask me outside the church, they'll come and say, Well, Pastor Leatherman, does your church preach the full gospel? And I said, yes, absolutely, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Nothing more than that, nothing less than that. That is the full gospel And so Jesus Christ died, and our save our sins were nailed to his cross. And that's the point I want to try and get across this morning. So let's pray together. And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and help us understand this. Father, we come to you now on this Easter Sunday resurrection celebration in a special way We are grateful that you are alive. Lord, there is no doubt in my mind, based upon your promises and my experience. That you are here in our presence right now, just as real as any others of us that are here now. We can't see you, Lord. We can't feel you, we can't hear you audibly Well, we know you're here, and you know us. You know our hearts, our thoughts, our past, our future. And God, we bow before you this morning as our God. As our Creator, unseen, yet we worship you. And I pray now that you would help us to understand the resurrection of Christ and the price that He paid for us, Jesus paid for us. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask that it would not be Dennis Leatherman speaking my opinions or my thoughts. I pray it would be the Holy Spirit of God speaking through me the truth of the Word of God. So have your way. Help us to be open-minded. Help us our hearts to be open to what you, how you apply your word to our lives. And bless this time now, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe the Bible is the most precious possession a person can have. There's no greater possession we can have than the Word of God. When we open the Bible, we are reading the very words of Almighty God. He is revealing to us his mind. It's words coming right from the mouth of God. There is no error in the Bible. There are no mistakes. It's infallible in every way. It cannot fail. It will not fail. It never has failed. It is our ultimate authority. And as a Baptist church, we believe with all our hearts, we are absolutely convinced that the Bible is the sole authority. For all matters of life and faith. This is our authority. Not a denomination, not a preacher, not organization. The Word of God is our authority. And we believe that with all our heart. Job put it this way. He said, I have esteemed the words of thy mouth, the Bible, I have esteemed, I have valued. The words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Well, Job was saying the Bible is more important to him than the food that he needs to stay alive. Now, you've heard me say this many times over the years, but the the way I understand what Job was saying was if he was stranded on the island and he could have either enough food to stay alive or the word of God, he would choose the word of God. It's how important it was to him. And so the Bible is a precious, precious possession that we have. And of course here in the United States, we are so Blessed of God to have the Bible so readily available. And not everybody around the world can say that. Not everybody around the world has access to the Word of God like we do That's why in just a week and a half we have our missions conference, and we focus our energies and we invest our resources in getting this Bible out around the whole world. So the Bible's a precious, precious book. Imagine our world without the Bible. What would our world be like? We would know nothing of the spiritual realm. Now we know that there is more to life than just flesh and blood, just material. Now we might not admit that There's a certain element of humanity that will not admit that there's more than just the material, but down in our hearts and souls we know there's something more than just what we can see, feel, and touch. Every society, now think with me, every society, every society that has ever existed has recognized in some way the spiritual realm Every society has. You go to the most remote village, isolated from the rest of the world, and they will worship something. They will recognize spiritual realities. Now whether they are accurate about it or not, they might not But they know it's there. Without the Bible, we would know nothing what this spiritual realm is like. Without the Bible, we would not know of heaven and hell Now I'm convinced that mankind is aware that there's more that there's something beyond the grave. Now our s our uh universities and Uh education system works very, very hard to try and refute that and convince people there's nothing more, that when you're dead you're done. But we know better than that. I was witnessing to a atheist. He told me he was an atheist up off of Glendale Road some number of summers ago. Just going through and knocking on doors, talking to people And uh we got talked a little bit and he didn't believe nothing, he didn't believe in God or anything of that. And I said, I said, sir, now be honest with me. We the conversation went on I just made this statement, I said, sir, be honest with me You know there's more to your existence than simply bones and flesh and blood. There's something inside there that's that's a lot. And you know he said, you know, well, I gotta admit, I I know there's something more I know there's something more. Now without the Bible, we wouldn't know what that more was. We wouldn't know what that more was. I say this often, so bear with me. You and I do not have a soul. We don't have a soul. Say, well, you know, you have your soul. No, we don't have a soul. We are a soul. That's what we are, and we have a body. And you and I inhabit this body. The Bible refers to our bodies as a tabernacle, a tent, a dwelling place. It's where we live in. You and I are a spiritual being. That's what We're looking out these physical eyeballs, but it's my spirit. Me is the spirit in me looking out, thinking, processing, speaking through this body. And so, without the Bible, we wouldn't understand the spiritual realm, the spiritual realm. We know it's there, but we don't have any information about it. And the Bible gives us that information. The Bible tells us about heaven and hell. The realities of heaven and the realities of hell. And by the way, the Bible is very, very clear: there are no other options. And uh you know say, well you guys harp on that though. We harp on it because it's true. There's there's no other options. We have this life We come to the end of our physical life and we cross that river as use biblical terms. We cross over the other side. We go into eternity. There's only two options, according to God's word. Heaven or hell. Heaven or hell. Without the Bible, we wouldn't know that. Without the Bible, we wouldn't know who God is or what is. Well we look around and we see we see his handiwork We see unbelievable design in this world we live in, incredible, intricate, technological design. In the makeup of our bodies and our eyeballs and uh all of what we see all that. Something had to there's a designer. There has to be a designer But we don't know who he is without the Bible. We don't know anything about him. What's his name? Who is he? What does he want? Why did he do this? The Bible tells us that. Can you imagine a world without the Bible? The darkness we would be in about realities that we know were there, but we don't have information apart from the Bible. The devil Angels, all this we're told in the Bible. Salvation, eternal life, new life, all this is given to us in the Bible The Bible, what I'm trying to say is this most precious possession a person has is the Bible. The Bible. Now that brings us to our text. Colossians was penned by Paul. If you go look at chapter 1, verse 1, it says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. So God used Paul to pen the words down here in Colossians. God's the author. Moved on Paul, put the words, the thoughts in his mind, he penned them down. And so Paul is the author. He probably didn't visit this church that he's writing to in the city called Colossae. Probably was never there himself But he writes to them, and you take the book of Colossians, and you could break it down into two thoughts. Chapter 1 and 2, he's addressing who Jesus Christ is and what he did for us. Chapter 3 and 4 is how to live for Christ in light of what he's done for me. The book of Colossians is a good book, is an important book in the Bible. Chapter 1 and 2, Jesus Christ, what he did for me, he died, took my sins, judged in my place, buried, rose again He's a God, he's the creator of err of all there is, everything was made by him, he's the head, and uh he gave himself for my sins as a sinner, buried, rose again. That's chapters one and two. Then in as a result of that three and four he says, all right, that's how you that's how we should live for him. If that's true, what he did for us is true. If he died on a cross, buried, rose again, he was judged for all our sins, then this is how we should respond Chapter three and four and he goes through and gives some very practical instructions on how to live as a Christian. Um We used to sing the little song we uh taught it to the kids on the buses when I was down in Tennessee. After all he's done for me. After all, he's done for me. How can I do less than give him my best and live for him completely? After all, he's done for me. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now that doesn't happen only on special occasions you get something like that. But there's a great truth in that song. All that Jesus Christ has done for me, how can I do less than give him my best, live for him completely? So the book of Colossians, what Christ has done for us and how we should respond. My text this morning, as I mentioned, is verse 13 and 14. And I want us to look, three thoughts real quick. I'm going to fire them out at you. Number one, I want us to notice in the first part of verse 13, particularly, our spiritual condition. Verse 13, and you being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, dead. In your sins, dead in your sins. Now, the dead there, the death he's referencing, is not physical death. These people were not physically dead. They were very much alive. He's writing to them. He's interacting with them. They're corresponding back and forth. So when he says you're dead in your trespassing sin, he's not saying you're physically dead. Now eventually they would be But what he's talking about, what he's addressing, is what we mentioned in the introduction, this spiritual reality that you and I are spiritual beings. We're a soul. And our natural condition because of our sin is we are dead. Spiritually, we are dead. Now that's a serious statement. Would you agree with me? Two people, praise the Lord. But the fact of the matter is, if I am a spiritual being, like the Bible says and like I'm suggesting to you, if that's true. And I am spiritually dead, that's a serious statement. In Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 1, he says the same thing again. You hath he quickened who were dead in your trespasses and sins. Our natural condition as human beings, spiritually speaking, is because of our sin, we are dead. Now a person can sing hymns and great hymns and the music this morning has been tremendous. I love the congregational singing, the specials, the ladies. It's been tremendous. But you can do all that and still be spiritually dead. You can sing hymns, you can say prayers, very elaborate and oratorical prayers. Oh, what a great prayer that was. And still be spiritually dead. You can have what I'm trying to say is this, you can have all the outward appearance of being A Christian. I can have all I can do all this religious stuff outwardly. I can go through all the religious ceremonies I want to and put money in the offering and Go through all that we do, whether it's Baptist, Methodist, Brethren, Catholic, whatever, and yet still be spiritually dead. And the Bible says that's what our natural condition is because of our sin. I can have I can have religious feelings. I just feel, I just really feel Uh spiritual. And that's you can do that and yet still be spiritually dead. Are you a follow? Because you were dead in your trespasses and sins, spiritually dead. Now that, as I said, is a serious condition. To be dead spiritually means I have no spiritual life I can physically, materially go through all this stuff, but there's no life there. There's emptiness there. I was, as our church knows very well, I was saved on May 7, 1979 Just north of Philadelphia in my home up in the attic is where my bedroom. And I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. And I came alive spiritually. And up to that point, there was an emptiness in my life. And, you know, I believed the Bible. I was a mess. But and outwardly it looked like I had my act together and Leatherman, you know, had these friends and I had my act outwardly everything looked good. But I'm telling you, in my heart and soul I was spiritually dead. There was nothing there. Emptiness, no purpose, no meaning, no confidence, no assurance of anything with God. That's our condition naturally because of our sin. Now here's the question. Our sin is why we're dead spiritually. Then what in the world is sin? If sin is what, why I'm not alive spiritually, if sin is the cause of my spiritual death, what is sin Well, we could do a whole series of messages on that. The Bible is very, very detailed. The Bible is very specific on what sin is. There's no question. There's no uncertainty about what the Bible says is sin. Now I'm going to summarize. I'll just give you a little simple statement. And we teach this to our children in our Bible time rallies in the summer. And it comes down to this, about the simplest definition I can come up with I've ever heard. Sin is anything that I say I think or I do that is contrary to God's word and God's will Let me ask you a question. Is it God's will that I lie? No! God's very, very clear. Thou shalt not bear false witness. You know what that means? Don't lie. And it's throughout scripture we're taught we should never lie. We should not lie. So if it's not God's will, the body it's against the Bible, I know it's not God's will for me to lie If I lie, then I have what? Sin. Something I said that is contrary, conflicts with God's word and God's will. Um uh the Bible says that uh we should not blaspheme God's name Use God's name in any way other than in reverence, recognizing, and submitting to his holiness. God's name gets thrown around pretty loosely, doesn't it? If I use God's name or I say something against God that is contrary to Scripture and contrary to His will, I'm sinning. Is it God's will for me to blaspheme God? No. Go home and well, telling God, saying, asking God to damn this and God damn that. Tell you what, that is blasphemy. We use God's name in such a loose way. So sin is anything I say, I think. The Bible says, the Bible is very, very clear. Is it God's will that I commit adultery? Fornication. Is it God's will I do that? No, the Bible says commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery. Can't get any clearer than that. Pretty cut and dried. And it's repeated all through Scripture. So is it God's will for me to commit adultery? No. If I commit adultery, it is what? Now here's the kicker. You say, well, preacher, I never did that. Good. But here's the kicker. Jesus took it another level. Jesus said: if you look after a woman to lust for her in your heart, you've already committed adultery in your heart. Now he's dressing us fellas, but I'm telling you the application goes both genders. And by the way, there's only two. But anyway, I'm sorry So if I if I as a man look on a woman and I have and I think ways I shouldn't, or a woman on a man ways I shouldn't, let me ask you a question, what would that be? If he said. And we could just go on and on and on and on and on. And the point is this, we're all sinners. Every last one of us, we have said things that are contrary to God's will, that are against the will of God. That violate my Creator's holiness, his plan and purpose for my life. I've said things that I'm not designed to say. We've thought things. Bitterness. Hatred in our hearts for our neighbor. We harbor that and we we hold on to it. And it's sin. And it is sin, it is because of sin that we're spiritually dead. So sin is a very, very serious thing. Sin should concern us My sin. Now here's the thing. We talked about this in a message, another message. Here's the thing. We get all worked up about everyone else's sin. But I'm telling you, what we need to be concerned about is what? Our sin, my sin. The preacher gets up here preaching against sin. Tell you, the sin the preacher ought to be concerned about is in his own heart. In my own life. And true for all of us. Sin is a v sin is a very, very serious issue Person goes to the doctor, they do all these tests, something like they say something's not right, they do all these tests. They come back and the doctor sits you down. He'll say something like this: What I'm about to tell you You need to take very, very seriously. He'll say, we found cancer. How many of you agree with me? Just that word sends shivers down your spine. Just that word worries us. I had a little thing on my chin. Doctor looked at it sometimes. He goes, it's cancer. So they got it off and everything's fine. But just him saying that goes, hmm? Sin is to the soul what cancer is to the body, or worse And we need to take it very, very seriously. And the world makes fun of sin and Hollywood makes a joke of it and and uh and uh uh religious people excuse it and justify it And do everything we can that somehow is not as bad as what the Bible says. I'm here to tell you, it isn't as bad as what the Bible says Sin is a serious issue. It's destroying our world. And it's why we are dead spiritually. It's because of our sin. You are dead in your trespasses and sins. So our condition, that's our natural condition. Twice in the Gospels, Jesus made it very, very clear that the worst thing that can happen to a person Is for that person to die, and these are Jesus' words. I can give you the reference. These are Jesus' words, to die in your sins. Jesus said that's the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person. To die in your sins. What does it mean to die in your sins? Very simple: to die with my sins unforgiven. Unforgiven, not dealt with. I'm a sin I have sinned, I'm a sinner, it's a very real issue in my life. I've ignored it, I've not paid it, I'm not worried about it, I've just brushed it aside, I've tried to justify it, I tried to excuse it, I try to minimize it. But Jesus said if we die in our sins, the consequences are devastating, are eternal. Separation from God, spiritual death for all eternity, that ultimately is a lake of fire. And he's using those terms to help us grasp how horrific it is. So that's our natural condition. You say, well, this is exciting. I went to church on Easter Sunday. The preacher tells me I'm a sorry sinner. Well, the fact of the matter is that's true. That's our condition. Notice what look at me. This isn't me. This is what he says. You being dead in your sins. And then he used that phrase, the uncircumcision of your flesh. He's referencing the Jews, and basically what he's saying, you're outside of a relationship with God. For the Jews, circumcision was an indicator that I had a relationship with Jehovah. It's a physical ceremony, but it was an indicator. He says you're outside that. You have no relation with God. You're dead in your spiritual sins because you're dead spiritually because of your sins Romans 3. 10, there's none righteous, no, not one. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, every one of us. Romans 6, 23, for the wages or the consequences of sin is death. That's what he's talking about here. If sin is not addressed, if my sin is not dealt with, the consequences are tragic. So, number one, our spiritual condition. Number two, now I'm going to use the word here, I'll explain what I mean by it, but the clemency of our Savior. Now, if a judge extends clemency to a person that's being charged with a crime, what is he doing? Somebody talked to me this morning. He's doing what? He's given leniency. He's cutting them a break. It'll include a pardon a lot of times. The word clemency means to show mercy to an offender. To be lenient towards an offender, or, somebody just said it, to extend forgiveness to somebody that has offended society or committed a crime or whatever. I'm here to tell you our Savior loves us. Say we're sinners. We've broken his law. We've blasphemed in his name. We've committed adultery in our hearts. We've lied. We've stolen. We've dishonored our parents. We've uh we've worshipped ourselves, we've neglected our Creator. How can he love me? God loves us. God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The golden verse of the Bible, most famous verse in all the world. I've traveled the world, everywhere I went, people have known this verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only gotten Son. I'm glad as a sinner that have done these things That I've just tried to point out here. I'm so glad that me as a sinner, that my God that gave me life and created me and that I'm going to answer to, I'm glad my God loves me. God is not willing that anyone should die in their sins God doesn't want you to die in your sins. He doesn't want me to die in my sins. He doesn't want anybody in Saudi Arabia or Kenya or South Africa or Paraguay. He doesn't want any little village, any little house back up, a holler. He doesn't want anybody to die in their sins. He wants to show clemency. He wants to extend mercy. To us who are naturally sinners. God is not willing that any should perish, should die in their sins, and be judged. Now here's the great thing: this is what Easter is about. God has made it possible that our sins can be forgiven God has made it possible that I don't have to die in my sins, that I can have assurance that heaven is my home and not hell. That I can have spiritual life, eternal life here and now Forgiven. What does it mean to be forgiven? Notice verse 13. I wanted to show you this verse. I got going there. But notice the end of verse 13. He says, having forgiven you. All trespasses, all these sins, all these violations, forgiven them all. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. Now, what does it mean to be forgiven? To be forgiven means I am released from the judgment that is over me. I'm released from it. Full and free. Sins removed. Full and free. Gone. Gone, gone, gone. Yes, my sins are gone. That's what forgiveness is. And succlemency, God extends that to us. Notice he says there in verse 14, I like this phrase, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances. That handwriting of ordinances is the list of things that we broke in God's law. Just this list, all these areas we broke in God's ordinances, all these re uh uh standards of God holiness requires for us to be accepted by him. Man, that list is law And the Bible says that God can blot that out. Now I got looking at that phrase blot, and this got interesting. How many folks? Everybody doing alright? Alright, we still got time. The ham will not burn. So relax. I got studying that phrase, blotted out. The ancients, when this was being written, they would many times, not always, but they would often use for their record keeping, particularly businessmen. That would interact and keep accounts and stuff like that. They would use a tablet that was coated in wax. The cover was wax, maybe an eighth of an inch thick, or just had a uh a wax on there, very hard wax. And they would have a stylus or a pen And the one end was pointy, and that's where they would engrave on that tablet with the wax, in the wax, they would engrave Dennis Leatherman owes $4,000. They would engrave that on there, and that was their record. It was kind of like our tablets today, except ours are electronic, this was wax. On the other side of that pen stylus, one end was pointy. The other end was kind of like a flathead screwdriver. It had a flat wide end. And when they would record something, they would put on their accounts, they would put down so-and-so, oh, so-and-so on this date, or however they kept record. They would engrave that in that wax. When that debt was paid, they would take the other end of the stylus and maybe heat it up a little bit. And they would take that whole record, name, date, price, cost, everything, and they would blot it out. They would just swipe it across there, melt that wax, and there is no record that I ever owed them anything because it's completely paid. Blotted it out Now, unless we realize, listen, unless we realize the gravity of our sin before our God, that doesn't mean a whole lot to us. But when we get to the point where we realize how serious this matter of sin is And how deadly and eternal the consequences are. To find out that I am able to have that sin blotted out, suddenly that means the world to me. That I am forgiven. No record. All the things, these horrendous things that these 65-year-old hands have done. The places I've gone. The words I've said, the thoughts I've had And stand before a holy God in that condition. And condemn. For all eternity. And then to find out that God says, Dennis, I can blot them all out. I'm God, I'm all out. They're not there, I don't see them. And stand before God. Clean. Accept it. I tell you what, that's something to rejoice in. Forgive it. Forgive it. They say, I've never seen it, I've read of it a number of times, somewhere upstate New York, there's this old, old, old cemetery, back pre-Civil War or pre-uh Revolutionary War days They say back in the corner of the cemetery underneath a big old oak tree, there's a tombstone. And they say you can't, the name has been faded off the weather over the years, the name is gone, you can't make it out. You can see something there, some engravings on date. But all the way at the bottom of the tombstone, they say, if you get down low and you look at the right angle on the bottom of that tombstone, there's one word that still can be read. That word is this. Forgiven. Forgiven. Whoever that person is, man or woman, we don't know. But according to that They died forgiven. I can't think of anything better than that. To be a multi-millionaire, to be the most famous person in society. And stand before God condemned is failure. You can be the poorest, most humble, unknown person, but if my sins are forgiven I've got everything. Got everything. The clemency of our Lord, the mercy that our God extends. The word blotted out means to take out of the way, to remove from the record. John the Baptist, when he was uh announcing the coming of the Son of God And Jesus showed up as he was baptizing. Jesus showed up and he immediately, the Lord recognized and he pointed at Jesus Christ And he announced to the thousands of people that had assembled to hear John the Baptist preach, he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away The sins of the world blots them out. That's the source of our forgiveness. Jesus Christ. So our natural condition is we're dead in our trespasses and sin. But God loves us. And he doesn't want us to die in our sins. And so he extends to us clemency, is my word for the day. Extends to us mercy, extends to us forgiveness to make it available. My last thought is this, and I'll end with this: the channel of that forgiveness. By channel, I mean how does it approach you? Say, Preacher, how in the world do I get to the point where I can know With assurance and confidence that God has forgiven my sins. How much money do I have to give? Listen, there are people all around the world dumping thousands and thousands of dollars in the offering plate, hoping that that will take away their sins. And I'm telling you, all the money in the world cannot pay for our sins. Can you cannot buy forgiveness from God working their uh tail off to try and work enough So that I can have my sins forgiven. Pilate washed his hands in the water, trying to wash off the guilt of his sins, and he could not There's only one source of forgiveness. There's only one channel where I can experience God forgiving me completely for my sins, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at the last part of verse 14. I read this in my devotions a week or two ago, and that phrase stuck out in my mind, nailing it to his cross. All my sins, and you, I hope you're thinking of yourself. But all these things, they come to my mind and they just kill me And Jesus Christ took all those sins, all that, and he took it and nailed it to his cross You say, what does that mean? I'll tell you exactly what it means. It means that Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God, took responsibility for every sin I've ever committed. Every thought, every word, every action, every place, everything. And Jesus Christ on that cross, I'll take responsibility. God the Father! I'll take responsibility for everything Dennis Leatherman has done. I'll be responsible for it. Judge me in his place. Pour your wrath of your holiness on his sins, on me, for his sins, on me. I'll take it. I stand over here, and I see my Savior suffering eternal hell for what I've done It was nailed to his cross. The judgment of my sin was nailed to his cross. My sins were dealt with on that cross. And get this, and I am no longer accountable. They're blotted out. He paid the price, paid in full, Jesus Christ. We've heard this before, right? We preached this before, right or wrong. In fact, I was criticized about a year ago. Somebody said you preach the gospel too much. Guilty I'm convinced the most important message mankind has to hear is that Jesus Christ took responsibility for all of our sins. Was judged in our place. Say, oh, so that means everybody's forgiven. Everybody's on their way to heaven. Oh, no, no. God don't work that way. He's not going to do anything against our will. If I'm going to be forgiven If I want to know that I'm accepted by God, that my sins are forgiven, that I have new life, eternal life. By the way, there's a whole lot more that comes with this than just being forgiven. It's a whole new life. It's plan, it's purpose and joy and fulfillment and life. That nothing this world can give. But if I want to know that all my sins are forgiven. I've got to accept and by faith receive what he did for me and accept it personally. He's died, he was buried, and he rose again. He's at the right hand of God right now as I'm standing in front of you. He is at the right hand of God the Father. And as God the Son, he knows everything about us. He knows our thoughts, he knows our condition. He knows everything that's going through our minds right now. He knows us. He's omniscient. He says, if you want forgiveness, if you want it. It's offered. Free. The gift of God is eternal life. Gift of God. Somebody offers us a gift, I can do one or two things I can accept it, oh thank you. It becomes mine. I've received it, I've accepted it, thank you very much. Or I can say, no, thank you. I'm not interested. I'm okay. I'm good. I'm cool. I'm good. I don't need it. The only way I can have my sins for the only way I can know I'm forgiven. So I've got to accept that clemency, that offer of forgiveness that God gives me in the person of Jesus Christ. You with me? You follow? So it's up to us. God's done his part. The sin's all been paid for, the judgment's all been ex uh been carried out. All I need to do is just accept it. Say, yes, I believe you did that for me, Jesus. I want what you did to be applied to my life. I receive that. For me, it was ten thirty at night, a drunken, nasty teenage boy I knelt my knees and say, God, I need you. Forgive me. I want you to be my Savior. God forgave me. It changed my life. Forty-six years later, every morning I get up, thank you, Lord, for what you did for me. But we have to receive it. We have to receive it. In 1830s, about 200 years ago, a little more There's a fellow by the name of George Wilson. George Wilson was a rascal And he robbed a mail carrier, United States mail carrier. This is before the post office and all of that, but they would have these mail carriers go out west in different places. They'd take mail back. Mail carriers carried mail. George Wilson, this rascal, decided he got this brilliant idea that he's going to rob a United States mail carrier. Federal offense Now back then the government didn't play games. Today they play games. Back then they didn't play games. You rob a U. S. mail carrier, death sentence. Would you agree? That's not playing games. He was found guilty. He's put in prison, he's going to be hanged on a certain date. They set the date. George Wilson robbing federal offense robbing a mail carrier, he's going to be hanged. Well, he had some friends in high places. And they went to the President Andrew Jackson and they petitioned that Andrew Jackson would extend clemency, that he would extend a pardon, a legal release from his punishment. to George Wilson. And lo and behold, they were so convincing that President Andrew Jackson, this guy who's guilty, admitted he was Proven guilty in a court of law, he's sentenced to be hanged. Andrew Jackson, because of the influence of his friends, says, All right, I'll write him a pardon They took the official documentation of the pardon to George Wilson in prison. It's awaiting. He's going to be hanged in a day or two. They extend it to him and says, Hey, the president extends to you this pardon. And George Wilson said, No, thank you. I refuse it. So what are you talking about? You're gonna be hanged. No. I refuse the pardon. This is documenting. You look it up, history. His friends were so distressed that they took emergency court, went to court, emergency, forcing him to accept this pardon. It went all the way to the Supreme Court The Supreme Court said we cannot force him to take something he doesn't want. And George Wilson was hanged by the neck until he was dead With a pardon setting right there beside him, he could have been forgiven. And he wasn't because he said no. I'm here to tell you there's a lot and please I'm not trying to be harsh in any way, please don't misunderstand me. But there are people in hell today that would not have to be there. If they'd have just said yes to what Jesus Christ did for them. They just said yes. I've done a lot of funerals over the years, 30 almost working on 32 years here before I came. I've done a lot of funerals. I wished I'd have kept record. And all these years as a pastor, a preacher, doing funerals, not one time have I ever had a person say to me, on their deathbed, Not one time I've ever had a person say to me, I wish I had never trusted Christ as Savior. Hundreds, I'm never not one time But I've had numbers. On their deathbed I try and win them to Christ, trying to I don't want it. I don't want it. I don't want it. A man just back here in Dennett Road, it's been quite a few years ago I think it was a Friday night, it was one week night. I went by, they asked me a business, I went by, shared the gospel. He said, I believe that preacher, I believe all that. But no, I'm not ready. Not now. Not now The next morning I had a phone call from the nursing home. Reverend Leatherman so-and-so passed away during the night. Here's my invitation. Here's my exhortation. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior if you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven. I'm here to tell you, God loves you. He doesn't want you to die in your sins. He's already paid for them. He's already dealt with them. He offers it forgiveness and new life, eternal life, as a gift. You just accept it. By faith, yes, Lord, I'll take what you did for me. I believe you died for me. I trust you as my personal Savior. That's what I did. I didn't know the books of the Bible. But I call on the Lord, He forgave me. Would you do that? If you're saved, if you've already done that, that's settled, praise the Lord. Be grateful. After all he's done for us, if that's true for those of us that know Christ, that have that seven, let's live for him. He's alive, he'll light us, he'll guide us, he'll help us, let's be a testimony to this whole world That our sins were nailed to his cross. And we're forgiven. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take these attempts to share the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to believe and decide. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, you don't have confidence in your heart and soul that When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. If you don't have that confidence that God is forgiving, cleanse all your sin, taken out of the way. He's offering it to you. And I'm going to offer, I don't hardly ever do this, we do occasionally, I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. Now, just saying these words. Well, don't do you any good. If you just lip them, it's meaningless. If in your heart you say, Preacher, I believe Jesus died for my sins. I believe he rose again. I believe he was punished in my place. I believe that. And you'd say, I want to receive him as my personal Savior. I'm going to offer this simple little prayer, and I invite you to pray it with me from your heart, mean it. You just lip it, it's no good. But if you mean it, God will hear you. You believe it. Here's the prayer. Right there, heads about ice is between you and God. I'm just offering this. Here's the prayer. You can pray it along in your heart with me. Dear Lord Jesus, I believe you died for my sins. Was buried and rose again. I'm calling on you this Easter morning, trusting you. To forgive me all my sin. Give me eternal life for Jesus' sake. Amen. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. If you prayed that prayer, you say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer a minute, I'm not ashamed. Would you just slip your hand up, any like that, all around, preacher? I prayed that prayer and I meant it. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. This is something God does in response to our act of faith. God does it. Father, bless now. Help those of us that know you, Savior, to live for you. Be a good testimony in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.