Begin reading actually in um we're in first kings and I want to begin reading in verse number eleven and I'm going to read an extended portion tonight because I want to try and cover it all in the time that we always do. And uh I'm gonna read down through verse 31 Alright? So starting in verse 11, you follow along down through verse 31. The Bible says, verse 11, wherefore Nathan spake unto Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying Hast thou not heard that Adonijah, the son of Hagith, doth reign, and David our Lord knoweth it not Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest give thine own life and the life of thy save thine own life and the life of thy son Solomon Go and get thee in unto the king unto the King David, and say unto him, Didst thou not didst not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thine handmaid saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. Why then doth Adonijah reign? Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the king, I also will come in after thee and confirm thy words. And Bathsheba went in unto the king into the chamber, and the king was very old, and about and Abishag the Shunammite ministered unto the king. And Bathsheba bowed and did obeisance unto the king, and the king said, What wouldest thou? And she said unto him, My Lord Thou swearest by the Lord thy God unto thine handmaiden, saying, Assuredly, Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth, and now, my lord the king, thou knowest it not. And he hath slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance, and hath called the sons of the king, and Abiathor the priest. And Joab, the captain of the host, but Solomon, thy servant, hath he not called. And thou, my lord, O king, the eyes of all of Israel are upon thee. That thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my Lord the King after him. Otherwise it shall come to pass when my Lord the King shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders. And lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet also came in. And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground, and Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? For he hath gone down this day, and hath slain oxen, and fat cattle, and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the king's sons, the captains of the hosts, and Abiathor the priest, and behold, they eat and drink before him and say, God save King Adonijah. But me and even thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada And thy servant Solomon hath he not called? Is this thing done by my lord the king? And thou hast not showed it unto thy servant, who who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him? And David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. She came into the king's presence and stood before the king. The king swore and said, As the Lord liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distress. Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead, even so will I certainly do this day. Then Bathsheba bowed her face to the earth and did reverence to the king and said, Let my Lord King David live forever. We're talking about the insurrection of Adonijah. Let's have a word of prayer briefly review and then I want to pick up here where we started reading. Father, I thank you so much for the life of David. Lord, there's so many lessons here, and examples to follow, and examples to avoid. And so I pray, Lord, that the lessons we learn and the lessons we tried to apply to our lives, we pray that you would steal them. Now, Lord, as we wind down this study, we look here at Nathan's response to Adonijah's insurrection. Lord, I pray for some That you would once again teach us how we can be stronger in our faith and more mature, and we can be a better witness for you. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray, Lord, please fill me and speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As I said, we're at coming down, winding down to the end of David's life, and his uh his health has deteriorated uh quite a bit. He is um He has declining health there. And in the first several verses of chapter 1 of 1 Kings, we find they're doing everything they can to try and keep David comfortable. And um they're trying to just take care of him in his final days. Well Adonijah, his fourth son, sees the situation and understands that his father is very limited on what he's able to do and maybe how he would be able to respond uh to Adonai just shit uh taking the throne. And so he uh leads this insurrection Now, if we remember, we were asking the question last week, what in the world made Adonijah think that he had any right to the throne? What made him think that he could had uh a right to make this claim? Well, you remember he's the fourth eldest son of David Of course, uh Amnon was killed by Absalom, so he was the firstborn, so he's out of the picture. The second son, um uh Chile uh let me get his name here. We believe he probably died in youth. Uh Chileab is his name. Uh he's not mentioned other than the fact that he was David's second son. He's nowhere in the picture at all, so if he is living, he's not a factor. And then we have Absalom, who of course was killed in his insurrection. His attempt to overthrow his father. So perhaps Adonijah thought, well, I'm the next in line. I've got every right to this. And so he uh takes advantage of his father being bedridden, and um he pursues the throne. You remember we said that Adonijah was a spoiled brat in many ways. In fact, the Bible tells us there that David never said no to his son. And um you can imagine what kind of child would grow up where his daddy never said no to him. In fact, go to Walmart, you'll see some right there. But uh Uh so he was the he's probably in his 40s at this point, we would guess, and he's a spoiled brat. Um he's apparently very good looking Uh the Bible says that, and um he was uh uh didn't have much character and that he would be willing to take advantage of his father when he's weak and down. And so we looked at Adonijah and his attempt to take over. Now what I want to look at tonight. is uh I want to look at uh Nathaniel's diplomatic response. And to be honest with you, as I studied this, I was very impressed with how Nathaniel responds Now who is Nathaniel? Somebody help me out. Who was Nathaniel? He was the prophet. Nathan. I'm saying Nathaniel. Nathan, the prophet. He was uh he'd been by David's side. Remember when David committed adultery with Bathsheba, who was it that confronted him? It was Nathan And so he had been right there by David's side. He had been the man of God for David for an extended period of time, for quite a long time. He was trusted highly by David. And so I'm impressed with how Nathan responds to Adonijah's undercutting of David. I think Nathaniel was a man of God in every sense of the word. He was courageous enough to act when action was needed. If he didn't step up now, if he didn't act now, David's family's in big trouble. The nation of Israel's in big trouble. And uh he was cu courageous enough to act when action was needed. And I tell you what I think we need, I think we need in our churches and in our pulpits, we need men of God, fathers and leaders in the churches who are courageous enough to stand up and act when action is needed. And if stand up and say, no, we're not going to allow this to happen, this is raw. And I I'll tell you, my hat's off to Nathan His willingness to confront the king back with Bathsheba and now his willingness to step in and put himself, his own life in jeopardy To confront Adonijah in a very diplomatic way. And so he was a man of God in every sense of the word, not just in his doctrine, but in his courage. And how he lived and how he functioned. He was committed enough to do the will of God, regardless of what the cost was. Now again, he's very diplomatic. We're going to look at it here, how he goes about undercutting Adonijah's attempt to take the throne. He's very diplomatic about that. But nevertheless, he knew what God's will was. He knew it was God's will for Solomon to be on the throne, not Adonijah. That had been made perfectly clear And he's committed enough, here's what I'm trying to say, he's committed enough to do the will of God, to see that God's will is done, that um that uh he regardless of what the cost is to himself And I tell you, sometimes we know what God's will is, but we're not willing to pay the price to do the will of God. Not appreciate a man of God here that um he's he's committed enough uh regardless of the cost, regardless of the inconvenience. Nathan could have said, he could have said, hey listen, this isn't my problem. I've been a faithful prophet to David all these years I'm going to let somebody else deal with it. David's going to be off the scene. Why should I get him off there? Let the family hash this out. But he doesn't. He knows what God's will is, and he knows this is not God's will, and he's willing to inconvenience himself. I tell you, convenient Christianity is killing our churches Nobody goes to the mission field and reaches a people with the gospel that's living by convenient Christianity. You follow what I'm saying? Nobody reaches a community or a town with the gospel of Jesus Christ by only doing that which is convenient. Nobody builds a bus route. Nobody has an impact on a community or a city or a country that simply does what's convenient. Now I thank God for Nathan and his commitment to the will of God and whatever it costs me, listen, convenient or not, we've got to make sure God's will is done. And we could use a dose of that in our churches today. He was committed enough to do the will of God regardless of discomfort. Well, um uh well that's just kind of uh sometimes I hear this, occasionally I'll hear someone say this, I'll say about doing something, they'll say something like this. Well, preacher, that's just a little bit out of my comfort zone You know what I found out? Nobody has an impact on a mission field. I thank God our mission let me put it this way. I thank God our missionaries are willing to get out of their comfort zone Pack up and go to a country like Guam or New York City, try and start a church in the Bronx, in the Queens of New York City. Uh listen, they're out of their comfort zone, I guarantee it. And so Nathan, he knows what the will of God is. He sees what's going down with Adonijah taking the throne. He says that is not God's will. And he's willing to step up as a man of God and make sure God's will is top priority And I'm telling you, the will of God is the most important issue in your life and my life. Doing the will of God. You can be the most successful businessman in the world, but if you missed the will of God, you failed in life. You can be the greatest entrepreneur, you can be a wonderful singer, you can be a great speaker. If you don't fulfill the will of God for your life, you fail. And Nathan, uh Nathan, the will of God was top priority for Nathan. His commitment to making sure God's will is done. I tell you, as I studied this, that's what I got out of this This man of God that was determined to do what needed to be done. Now he's we're going to look at how he goes about it. I put this down. What does lack of commitment look like? We look at Nathan, we see a man committed to the will of God What does lack of commitment, uh let me put it this way, what does lack of commitment sound like? Well, I know I should do that, but uh, preacher, I just don't have time. Now listen, if you don't have enough time to do the will of God, you're too busy. Right? Just other things are hot too high a priority. And will God ought to be top priority. Well, I'm just not comfortable doing that. We talked about that. It's just not convenient. Um I had some this was years ago, somebody we said about a church service and we said, uh how come you don't come to uh these one church services? And they said, well, to be honest with you, we don't feel like it I said, okay. At least they're honest with me. You know, and God's will, you know, we're committed to the will of God. Doesn't matter whether I feel like it or not. Huh? Um I'm afraid we've got a society here that what I feel like doing governs my whole life. I mean you ask you talk to some of these fellas that hire employees. They don't feel like coming in, guess what? They don't show up It's not there. I was talking to somebody the other day. They said, yeah, we had a guy, he'll come in at noon maybe and the next day he won't show up. They don't show up for a day. And he just comes when he feels like it. I tell you what, you're not going to accomplish the will of God if what you feel like doing dictates your actions The will of God ought to govern our actions. If it's right, it's God's will, we ought to do it. Amen. And Nathaniel He was committed to the will of God. He was committed to the will of God. Somebody says, they say, well, let someone else deal with it Could have said that. I came across, I heard about four different people. Four folks. One guy was named everybody. The other fellow was named somebody The third fellow was named anybody, and the last guy was named nobody. There was an important job to be done, and uh everybody was sure that somebody would do it. And anybody could have done it, but guess who did it? Nobody did it. Somebody got angry about that because it was everybody's job, and everybody thought that anybody could do it, but Nobody realized that everybody wouldn't do it. And it ended up that everybody blamed somebody when nobody did what anybody could have done. I'm glad Nathan wasn't that way. He goes, no, this isn't right. Something's got to be done, and somebody's got to do it, and I'll be somebody. And he did it. So Nathaniel's diplomatic response. Now, let's look at how he responds here. I find this fascinating. First of all, he makes this intervention. Look at verse 11. Chapter 1. He says, um Wherefore Nathaniel spake unto Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. Now he's heard what all Adonijah's done, Adonijah's had this big parade he put on. He had all these chariots and guys marching, put on this big show. He slaughters all this cattle, puts on a uh try I think he's trying to appear spiritual. Um he gets gets these key leaders around him and he declares himself king. Everybody's saying, oh uh hail King Adonijah So Nathaniel hears that, and he goes directly to Bathsheba. Now that's interesting. Why didn't he go directly to David Why would he go to Bathsheba? She's not the king. She does not have the authority to declare who's going to sit on the throne after David. The king has that authority. But he goes to Bathsheba, and look what he says. The mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggath, doth reign, and David our Lord knoweth it not? Now, therefore, come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel that thou mayest save thine own life in the life of thy son Solomon. So apparently, uh, obviously David doesn't know about it. Nathan says that. Apparently Bathsheba doesn't know what's going on. Maybe they're all wrapped up and taking care of David and they, you know, they lost touch with the administration and all going on in the kingdom And uh Nathan sees this. So he comes to Bathsheba, and um he has this intervention here Now, before we talk about why he went to Bathsheba, I think it's interesting Nathan doesn't panic. He doesn't freak out He doesn't overreact. He doesn't, oh no, and come barging in and say, oh no, guess what? Have you guys hurt? He doesn't do that at all. He doesn't overreact. Did anybody here ever have somebody something goes wrong and they freak out on you? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean they just go nuts. They overreact You know I found out panicking does little or no good. When somebody panics, they make bad decisions. And somebody panics, they say things they shouldn't say, they do things they shouldn't do. And Nathaniel has the presence of mind not to panic. But to uh address this in a thoughtful, measured, rational way. And he approaches Bathsheba. Now I put this down. First of all, his intervention was tactful. Tactful. He goes to Bathsheba. I believe there's two concerns here on David's part. Number one, he's concerned for the nation's well-being. If we get somebody, if somebody gets in position here on that throne that is out of the will of God, that's going to be bad for the nation. How if you agree with me, if you have a leader who is not God's will for to be leader, you're going to have problems. Yeah. In fact, if you would, keep your place here and turn with me to Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 28. Seems like we end up in Proverbs a lot. But come with me back. I want to look at several verses in Proverbs about leaders. about uh people in position of leadership that it is not God's will for them to be in a position of leadership. And this is my opinion, okay? I wouldn't fuss with you at all about it. But my opinion is just because someone gets elected to an office doesn't mean it's God's will for them to be in that office. Well, you know, it's God's will. I don't, not necessarily. Does anything ever happen that is not God's will? Yeah, all the time It's not God's will that people sin. It's not God's will that people lie. It's not God's will for I'm convinced that wicked people should be in places of authority. Now, if you would, look at your Bibles here, Proverbs chapter number 28, and look with me at verse number 15. Proverbs 28 and verse 15. As a roaring lion and a raging bear, so is a wicked ruler over the poor people. Uh question, a raging a roaring lion and a raging bear, is that good or bad? That's bad You know, I think, I'm not positive, I can't prove this, but I think we've had a black bear in our backyard uh two nights this week because all my bird feeder my bird feeders were torn down and all bent up And part of it was hauled off. And uh I just don't see a squirrel bending solid steel, you know. And um so a raging bear and a roaring lion are not good. And he's using that for an illustration So is a wicked ruler over the poor people. I'm telling you, Adonijah was a spoiled characterless, characterless brat. And for him to be in a position of authority over Israel would have been devastating for that country. Now, later on, they're going to have some very wicked kings and they pay the price Come down, if you would, with me to verse number 28 of the same chapter. It says, When the wicked rise, men hide themselves. But when they perish, the righteous increase. Come over to chapter 29 and look with me at verse number 2. When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. But when the wicked beareth rule, the people what? They mourn. They mourn. I think I think Nathan Steps in and intervenes here. Number one, it's the will of God, but number two, he's concerned for the well-being of his nation. I don't want my nation to be destroyed. I don't want an ungodly ruler over my nation. It's not God's will. And so he steps in on behalf of the well-being of his people. A proud, dishonest, and ungodly rulers are bad for a nation regardless of their policies. Amen. So this guy's got great policy. If he's a wicked, lying, proud, wicked person, he's bad for a country. Doesn't matter what party is. I'm talking about our context now. No matter what party is. Doesn't matter what his policies are Look with me at Proverbs 14. Come over to Proverbs 14. And I don't really mean to get political here, but Nathan's concerned for his country. He's concerned who the king's going to be. He wants God's will on that throne. Not some small, spoiled, wicked man. Look at chapter 14 of Proverbs and notice with me verse 34, if you would. This is a familiar verse to us. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Now this this might you might bristle at this a little bit, but I'm here to tell you great economic policies do not exalt a nation. Can I say it this way? Just having a conservative does not exalt a nation. I think if it's going to be righteous, it's going to be conservative. But you can you can have a person that's conservative in their politics that's as wicked as can be in their life Huh? And he says righteousness exalteth a nation. And so Nathaniel is very concerned about his country. He does not want this man, Adonijah, on the throne. Number one, it's not the will of God. Number two, he's a wicked man, and it's going to be bad for his country. So he intervenes. He intervenes here. I think he's concerned about David's well-being. David's well-being. He's concerned for the safety of his family. If Adonijah gets in there, guess who he's coming for? He's coming for Solomon. That's who he knows that that's who God's will is. He knows he's the one that was anticipating it. He's going to eliminate every threat. And so I believe Nathan is concerned for the well-being of David's family. He doesn't get worked up, he doesn't overreact, he doesn't fly off, he uses a little bit of tact. on how he addresses this. And I think churches, I think Christians could use a little bit of tact uh sometimes in our approach to things You know, you don't knock on someone's door and say, Hi, I'm Dennis Leatherman from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You're going to hell if you don't get saved. That is probably not the most tactful way to approach it, right or wrong. And so he used a little bit of tact here. He thought it through. He didn't panic. He didn't overreact. And uh he used a little diplomacy. I notice that he is urgent. And I kind of touched on this. Look at verse 12 there, 1 Kings chapter 1. He says, Now therefore come, let me pray. I pray he's talking to Bathsheba, and we're going to see why he went to her here in just a moment Now therefore, come, Bathsheba, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine own life and the life of thy son Solomon. And so this has to be dealt with. The longer Adonijah's getting away with this, the more in danger Solomon and Bathsheba are, and no doubt other uh family members. Now here's where it gets interesting. He gets clever. He goes to Bathsheba and he sends Bathsheba in to David. Now my question was, when I was studying this, my question was, why didn't Nathan just go in himself? He didn't send somebody else when he confronted David about Bathsheba in the first place. Why does he use Bathsheba to go in? I think there's several possible reasons. Speculation. I think um I think David's health Would have been a big factor. Bathsheba can come in and address this issue with King David in maybe a gentler way. She has a personal interest in this. Her son Solomon's life would be at stake. And so she may be a little bit more intimate. What's the word I want? A little bit more. uh persuasive I think is the word I want. There's an emotional attachment with them with her. I think David loved Bathsheba very much. I think he loved her dearly And with her coming in there rather than Nathan, it may be a much more effective. And so she had a persuasive advantage, is what I'm trying to say than what Nathan would have had. Nathan would have come in. He couldn't have said, David, you said Solomon would be the one and Adonijah's heir. Who knows how David would have reacted He's failing in health. So he says, Bathsheba, here's what you need to do. You slip on in there. You ask some questions. You go in gently. You go in with compassion, and you have a personal interest in this. You have a persuasive advantage. He loves you. He'll listen to you. And so she does. And so she does. And then I notice that he separates himself. Look at verse 14. He says, um He says, Go in, verse thirteen, go in and get thee to the king and saying to him, Didst thou not did not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thy handmaid, saying So she's asking him questions. She's not making accusations. She's not correcting him. She's not coming in and and and throwing accusations necessarily at Enijah. She's just asking questions. David Didn't you say Solomon would be? Can you see it's a little more gentle the way she's approaching this? And then Nathan separates himself. And he says, I'll come in a little bit later. Look at verse number 14. While thou yet talkest with the king, I also will come in after thee and confirm thy words. He's being pretty clever here. Um send Bathsheba in. Maybe she snuggles up next to David or whatever, and she goes, David, maybe she sits down beside his couch And she says, David, didn't you say Solomon would be would be the next on the throne? I can hear David said, yes, yes. Did you uh and he uh then uh Adonijah's reigning? And before David can respond, then the door opens. Nathaniel comes in. And Nathan comes in, and he says, Hey, I'll confirm what you're saying. Now remember, David had spoiled Adonijah, right? Never said no to him. I'm wondering if Nathan is thinking If we don't approach this right, David may say, listen, we're going to let Adonijah be on the throne, because he never said no to him before. And maybe Nathan was concerned that if Nahonijah wanted the throne, maybe Nathan was concerned David wouldn't say no again. And so he had to approach this correctly. He sends Bathsheba in. She introduces the situation. Nathan comes in a little bit later. He goes, yeah, that's the case. That's the story. I think he was very clever and very diplomatic on this. And so, and now I want us to notice Bathsheba's intercession. Now Bathsheba speaks up. I'm going to try and buzz through this because it's a little lengthy. But notice if Bathsheba went in, verse 15 to the king of the chamber. The king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite ministered unto the king. That's the young chick they hired to bring in, keep him warm. Remember Abishag, everybody? Yeah, she's still there And uh Bathsheba bowed and did obedience unto the king. And she goes down and she follows Nathan's instructions. She's very graciously, she comes in very graciously, very gently, and she approaches David. She says unto him, verse 12, My Lord. Um uh thou st well first she bows to him, does obeisance, shows him tremendous respect, and King David, imagine in his crackly old broken voice, his body's failing, his voice is failing He says, what wouldest thou? And she says, My lord, thou swearest by the Lord thy God unto thine handmaiden, she's saying me. Surely Solomon thy son shall reign after me. And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth. And now, my lord the king, thou knowest it not. And she goes on and describes what Adonijah is doing. And she says, verse 20, O King, the eyes of all Israel upon thee, that thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my Lord the King after him. I think it's interesting. She doesn't come in screaming and hollering. This is her son that's being usurped. I can see a scenario where a wife might come in and say, What in the world? Why are you letting this happen? And just fly off on him before he even has a chance to know what's happening. Alright? I didn't get many amens on that one there, but I could see that happening in some scenarios. But she doesn't do any of that. She comes in with tremendous respect. David is a God-ordained authority. And she comes in respecting the authority that David had as king and as her husband. She respected the God-ordained authorities in her life. Nathan was the man of God. She followed, if you read that, she followed his instructions to the T. She did exactly what Nathan said, almost verbatim. She treated her husband with tremendous respect. It was her king. And she recognized, here's the thing, she recognized that this was David's call, not hers. And I'm telling you, when it comes to authority, whatever that authority is, we must be very, very careful. We don't overstep the boundaries and assume authority that has not been given to us. God gave David the authority as king To make the call, who's going to sit on his throne. Now, God told him what God's will was, Solomon. David, we're going to see is faithful to the will of God. But nevertheless, it was David's call. It was not Bathsheba's call. She couldn't come in here and tell David what to do. That was overstepping her bounds. And so she comes in very respectfully. She very comes in with tremendous honor. She honors Nathan by following his instructions. She comes in very graciously to the king, asking questions. She gives him the information on what's taken place. But it's his call. And she says at the end there, she has all the nations waiting, David, for you to make the call here. Who is it? And then Nathaniel shows up and he confirms what she says. Verse 22. And lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet came in also. They told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And he comes into the king, he bows himself before the king with his face to the ground, he's showing tremendous respect, recognizing the king's authority and that custom And Nathan said, My Lord, King, hast thou said Adonija shall reign after me and shall sit on my throne Come down to verse 27. Is this thing done by my Lord the King that thou hast not showed it unto thy servant, who should sit on the throne of the Lord my King? What are those two statements, verse 24 and verse 27? What type of statements are they? Well, they're questions. He's not coming in and dictating to David what to do. He's being very diplomatic. I think he's being very, very wise. And he's asking David, David, is this your doing? David, is this your decision? Is this what you want done? And uh I my hat's off to uh uh Nathan, he asks questions rather than make accusations. And I tell you, we need to be very, very careful. We need to be very, very careful before we start throwing accusations around. Number one, we need to have all the information before we come to a conclusion. Most mo I want to say this, most accusations that are thrown at somebody are made with partial or incomplete information most of the time. We want to throw accusations. I'm reading in my devotions, I just finished Luke uh last night I think it was. And um uh it's interesting as Jesus Christ is coming before Pilate, it's interesting how many times the term accusers And accuse are used by the Pharisees against Jesus. And I did a study a number of years ago. I did a study about who does the accusing in the Bible. You know what I found out? Not one time does the person who's right with God, is that the one throwing accusations It's always Pharisees, it's always enemies of the gospel, it's always the people opposing the will of God are the ones throwing the accusations You don't find one time the apostles throwing accusations. You don't find Apostle Paul. You don't find Jesus. You don't find any of that And so Nathan is being very, very careful here. He's not going to accuse David of neglect. He's not going to accuse David of violating the will of God. He's going to come in and say, David, did you do this? Is this your will? Is this according to your what you your your wishes? And he gives David opportunity, number one, to Find out what's going on, and number two, make his own decision on this. And I see tremendous respect uh on Nathan's part in asking questions rather than making accusations. And then verse 25 and 26. He states the facts. He gives David accurate information. David, this is what's happening. And all my question is, is this what you want? Is this your decision? Is this your wish? And he allows the king to make a decision. I think it's interesting. He gives no unsolicited advice. Now he gave advice to Bathsheba how to approach it, but he never advises David what to do. I think if David would have asked him, Nathan, what do you think I should do? I think Nathan would have given him advice. David didn't ask him. Curtis Hudson, one of my favorite preachers in all of my Christian life, I love the preaching of Curtis Hudson. And he used to, I heard him made a statement several times when I heard him preach, and he has it in one of his books, and it just stuck out with me. And he used to make this statement: unsolicited advice is criticism. If I'm going around giving somebody all this advice and they didn't ask for it, what am I doing? I'm criticizing what they're doing. You know, you really ought to do it this way. If they didn't ask me how I think they should be doing it, then what I'm doing is I'm criticizing how they're doing it, right or wrong. And uh Nathan comes in and he doesn't throw any criticism. He's not giving advice that David did not ask for. I heard somebody else say, I don't remember where I came across this, but I like the statement. They said, Do not accept criticism from somebody you would not take advice from. Think about that. If somebody's criticizing you and they're not somebody that you would go to for advice, don't listen to their criticism. Follow what I'm saying? And so uh Nat Nathan is not giving advice here. He's not dictating to David what he should do David's the one that's in position to make that call. He gives him the information. David, what's your call? And he shows tremendous respect and honor for his king. And then, last of all, we have David's affirmation. Notice if you would, and I'll end with this. Verse 28. And King David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. Apparently she had slipped out while Nathan was talking to him. Bathsheba comes back in Into the king's presence, she's standing there before him, Nathan standing there before him, uh little uh Abishad sitting somewhere off on the side, so it's uh primarily the three of them there Look at this. And the king swore and said, As the Lord liveth, he that redeemed my soul out of all distress. Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead. Now that's what David had said previously. And he said, just as I said to you before, he says, even so will I certainly do this day. You know what David's saying? He's saying, I'm going to stick by my word. I said we're doing the will of God. We're doing the will of God. Doesn't matter who it is, it may be my spoiled son I never said no to It may be my most trusted Joab, a military leader. It may be the priest at the temple. If they're going outside the will of God, we're doing the will of God no matter what. I tell you, my hat's off to David in the final years of his life. He could have said, I don't care. I'm tired of all this. I tell you, a lot of preachers compromise in their last years of their life because they're just tired of fighting for the will of God. And David up to the point of his death says, no, if it's God's will, we're doing it. And that's a good statement right there. Amen? It's God's will, we're doing it. I had years ago a fellow, there's year a long time ago, there was a fellow, and he had some uh something going on, I forget what the exact issue was But we were talking late at night on the phone and he was he was uh troubled and um about about something. I don't remember exactly what it was, but I remember we were talking and I said and I said his name. And I said, so and so. I said, if it comes down to just you and me in the church, if we're the only ones, just you and me are the only ones left in the church, we're going to keep on doing what God's called this church to do If we have a packed auditorium, or if we have two people, we're going to keep preaching the gospel, we're going to keep going after the souls, we're going to keep on holding the standard right, we're going to stay the course regardless of who it affects. And that's what David's saying. He's saying, My word's good. When I said we're doing the will of God, we're doing the will of God. My hat's off to David. He stands his ground. And for the first time, maybe in the life of Adonijah, he hears his father say, No. You are not doing that. And there comes a point, I'm telling you, there comes a point in life where we have just got to say no to that which is not the will of God. I tell you, we uh and I'll just I didn't have this in my notes, I wouldn't plan on saying it, but I'll tell you right now, uh we are not going to change our doctrinal statement I don't care what this society does, I don't care what society says about marriage, I don't care what society says about all this other nonsense going on, we are going to stick with the old word of God. We know this is God's will. And we say no to that. We're not going to alter what we believe is right and what we know to be true. We're not doing that. And David's on his deathbed. And he says, no! We're doing the will of God. We're doing the will of God. My hat's off to David. Now I don't know how God might use this in your life and my life. It challenged me Nathan's boldness and commitment to the will of God impressed me and challenged me. And I want to challenge us tonight. Let's do the will of God. Amen. What we know is true and on an individual basis, what I know God wants me to do. Well, I don't feel like it. Well, it's just not that's out of my I know God wants me to do it, but it's out of my comfort zone. Listen, we're We're going to be in rough shape if all we do is what we feel like in our comfort zone. We're going to be a bunch of Adonijas. But we got to step out and be Nathan's. Let's pray. Father, pray you'd use these thoughts tonight