Verse twelve, Second Peter chapter two, verse twelve. Peter is uh exposing these false prophets, these false teachers, apostates. And he's describing them there. And he says, verse 12, he says, but these, referring to these people coming in the church. And again, 2 Peter 2, it runs so parallel to the book of Jude. And our study in Sunday school and our our series on Sunday nights is just very, very repetitive because the both portions here are dealing with the same thing. But he says these these apostates As natural brute beasts made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not. and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. They shall utterly perish in their own corruption What caught my attention was that little phrase he uses to describe these false teachers, natural brute beasts. And so let's pray. Let's look at this. Father. We thank you for the warnings we're given in Scripture. We always like the promises, and we cling to them, and we thank you for them. Lord, we're grateful for the instruction you give us and how to live for you. and uh and conduct ourselves. All the instruction we're giving is very, very helpful. We're grateful. But Lord, we want to be sure to thank you for the warnings. As you warn us about false teachers and wicked people that would seek to lead churches astray, lead Christians astray, and damage us and ruin our lives. So give us wisdom. Help us to learn from your warnings here. And I ask, Father, that you would please fill me with your Spirit anew, Lord, and give myself anew to you this hour that you could speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember back in chapter one or chapter 2, verse 1 of chapter 2, notice he says there were false prophets among the people, speaking of the nation of Israel. They had false prophets. They dealt with them all through their history. Over and over and over and over. And he says, but there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. So now he's warning these believers that he's writing to about these false teachers. And notice he doesn't say they might be among you, or they could be among you, or you might possibly have to deal with them. Notice how he words it there. He says, There shall be false teachers among you. It's inevitable that there are going to be people. And I'm telling you, you get a church You get a church that's on fire for God, that loves the Lord, loves one another, is trying to do our best to live by the book. I guarantee you Satan's going to do everything he can to try and mess that church up He's going to try and get in there and and stir things and get us off track and and redirect us. And so Peter's saying, listen, it's going to happen. It's going to happen. You mark it down. The question is not. Will there be false teachers? The question is, are we going to allow them to influence us or not? Because there is false teachers out there And with all this modern technology, with cable and radio and internet, they have more access to our hearts and minds than they ever have before. And anybody can very simply, easily click of a button. Boy, you're being influenced by things that we ought to be very, very careful about. I'm saying, let me just throw this out. We ought to be hyper cautious when surfing the internet, when clicking that TV around, and when turning that radio dial. We ought to be hyper cautious because they're out there. They're there. Now I jotted, and this isn't really the message, we'll get to the verse here, but I jotted real quickly Five guards against apostasy. You might want to jot this down, but just five ways to guard myself against false teaching and and unscriptural living coming in and derailing me and getting me off track. And 31 years we've been here. I've seen some folks. We haven't had a lot, I I'm praise the Lord But we've had some folks that have gotten on the internet, got reading garbage stuff, and got them off track in one film thinking of particulars out there in some cult. The last I heard, I lost touch with them And so we have it's very real. And we have to be careful. Number one, I put this down: be grounded in Scripture. False prophets thrive on people who do not know their Bible. Now you can be get saved and not be a Bible scholar. How many people knew that? Sure. Maybe all you know is the gospel And that's enough to get you saved. But you ought to go beyond just knowing the gospel, and you ought to get to know what the Bible teaches. And every child of God ought to be a student of the Word of God. Paul told Timothy, study to show thyself approved in God. How many people think the preacher ought to study the Bible? Yeah, amen. I'm first say amen. Boy, I wouldn't give you a nickel for a preacher who don't study the Bible. How many people think Sunday school teachers ought to study the Bible? Yeah, amen. I believe ours do. How many people think deacons, trustees ought to study the Bible Yeah. Amen. Anybody has influence. How many people think the person in the pew that doesn't hold a position ought to study the Bible? Yeah. So, number one, I put this down. Guard be grounded in Scripture. Know what this book says. False prophets, apostates, they thrive on people and don't know what the Bible says. You say, Well, they said something, I'm not sure. Look it up. Call the preacher. I'm always glad folks call me up. Preacher, what uh what about this? I had somebody this morning after service came and say, hey, I read this. Am I right on this Now I'm not saying I'm the final authority, but it's good to get somebody to give you a little insight and just bounce things off of. Number two, I put this down, be ground in Scripture. Number two, focus on the Savior. Brother, if they're not if it's not about Jesus, uh I don't want nothing to do with it. If they're not focused on Jesus and they're trying to tell you and me that Jesus is not the Son of God, if they're trying to tell you and me that Jesus is not God, if they're trying to tell you and me that Jesus is the brother of the devil of all things, I don't have any time for that nonsense. We're focused on Christ. It must be about Jesus and who he is and what he's about. And so be grounded in Scripture. Be focused on the Savior. I put it number three, be aggressive with the gospel. Any teaching that is not about winning souls, I'm not real interested in Our end, our end goal and everything is to reach people with the gospel. That's why Christ left us here. Do you know what, anybody here want to know what Jesus' last command was to his disciples? Anyone know what his very last command was? Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That was it. Just before. I mean minutes. Two minutes at the most. Before he ascended to heaven, he made this statement. But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be what? Witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the other most part. I mean that we're talking literally seconds before he ascended. That's his last statement. So it ought to be aggressive with the gospel, aggressive with the gospel. I'm thankful for any church that preaches the Bible. Amen? I'm thankful for anybody that loves the Lord Jesus, but I tell you, if they're not aggressive with the gospel, they're missing a vital part of the Christian life and Christian ministry. Our church is all about getting the gospel to Oakland, to Kazakhstan, to Japan, to the whole world. Number four, I put this down. Be committed to godliness Be committed to godliness. If that teaching doesn't promote godliness, I don't want nothing to do with it. If it distorts what grace is, and if it uh it teaches uh uh uh um uh ungodly living and worldliness if it allows for that. I don't want I don't want nothing to do with it. I want a church that preaches against sin I want a church that preaches righteousness. And uh man, if the if uh I think that's one of the big problems with our country is we churches quit preaching against sin And so must be committed to godliness. And then number five, I put this down, be gracious in your demeanor. We ought to be kind and compassionate, amen? We ought to be marked by humility. I think, and I think we are, hopefully. uh we are this, but I I'd like to think that we're uh our church is a bit humble, has a h humility to it. I'm very proud of our humility. And um But we it's something we always have to work at, right? But what I'm trying to say is this, you can be right on your doctrine, you can be aggressive with the gospel and be so arrogant and proud and self-centered and ruin all of it. But we need to be humble. And I notice false teachers, a lot of times, they are not marked by humility. Generally, they're very proud, sometimes they're very arrogant. And by the way, we can be confident in our ministry But confidence is not the same thing as arrogance. Sometimes people think, oh, I'm being arrogant, oh, I'm just confident. No, there's a world of difference. And so some safeguards. I think those five things would help us as individuals and help us as a church to guard against false teachers. So verse 12 Peter's continuing his verbal assault on these apostates. And I mean he's taking it to them. And notice he says there, I highlighted this, but these Natural brute beasts. Number one, I put this down. They are uncontrolled in their living. They are uncontrolled in their living. Now I broke these three words down The word natural has this idea to be instinctive, to simply do what comes naturally. A natural brute beast is a beast that has not had any training. Is a beast that uh is not is a a person that's just natural, is a person that has no training. They have n they've not been refined. They've never been disciplined. They're not civilized. They just do what comes naturally. I've had somebody, I heard this over the years, had somebody say to me one time, Well, I'm just naturally this way. Well, that's what the blood of Jesus is all about. To change us so we don't do what comes natural. How many people know what a feral cat is? Anybody know? A feral cat is target practice. A feral cat. Feral. What's a feral cat? I just Mark's mad at me now. A wild one. A feral cat is a cat is just wild. It's raised in the wild It's a natural. It just it has no I I've never really known a cat that's been disciplined, but um But it's just wild. You know what I'm talking about? These these these false teachers, um, uh uh do you ever hear about the boy raised by wolves? I don't know if there's any truth to that, but you hear the story about a boy, and he's never been taught any any uh um any civil civil interaction. It's just self It's just whatever comes natural, whatever natural desires, whatever natural thinking, it's walking by sight, my own understanding, my own what I want, the way I want it A pharaoh cat. These here are pharaoh humans. They just do whatever. Proverbs 29, 15 says, a child left to himself. A natural child. He's not given any training, no discipline, just whatever he wants, when he wants it, just whatever. Runs wild. He's a natural. Child left to himself bringeth his mother to what? James. Listen, every parent ought to discipline their children. And I mean by discipline, I mean train them, teach them how to behave, what to do, what not to do, how to how you interact, how you don't interact, how to speak to people. And he says these false prophets, these false teachers, these apostates are uncontrolled. They're just natural. It's just whatever comes natural. Then he says they're natural brute beasts. The word birth there means to be without reasoning or irrational. In other words, they don't have any common sense. They're just whatever. By the way, would you agree there's an element of our there's a growing element of our society that is natural Uncontrolled, right? We see it on the news all the time, these riots. We see some of the stuff that goes on in nightclubs and different things that is absolutely animalistic. Humans. And he says they're brute, they're without reasoning, they're irrational, they don't have any common sense, they're unable to see beyond their own desires. Their whole world revolves around what they want, their natural desires. That's what governs them They don't have any they they don't even see the consequences of their actions. They're unable to see beyond the moment and see how where do these actions lead me to? What is this behavior? Where does it lead me to? What are the consequences Of acting like this and living like this, what does it lead me to? And are unable to see that. They're unable to look beyond the moment And they're basically, Proverbs would tell us, they're basically foolish. Wisdom is to be able to Wisdom is the ability To be able to see the consequences of my action before I experience them. In other words, if I'm wise, I'm able to discern that if I do this, then this is going to happen. And then makes decisions based not on what I want at the moment, but make decisions based on what the consequences are going to be. You follow what I'm saying? And these guys don't have that ability It's uh it's uh it's uh it's if it feels good do it. You only get one life, uh go for all the gusto. That was an old commercial Well how foolish, how foolish. We look all around us and we see, I tell you, and Pastor Matt will tell you, I've seen youth pastor, we see it. And I'm not picking on the young people. Old people are guilty of this too. But you see young you see some young people sometimes make decisions and you think, I know exactly where that's leading. I know where that's going. Breaks your heart. That's why young people ought to listen to their godly elders. And godly elders are going to be able to tell you, hey, listen, young man, listen, young lady If you go down that road, let me tell you from experience, let me tell you, I've been around 64 years. Let me tell you, this is where it's going to lead Is this what you want? Is this what you want to be? Is this what you want to deal with? You make that decision. That's where you're going to end up But these guys, I don't care. It's just what I want right now. Just what I want to do right now. So they're natural, they're just whatever, no training, just whatever comes naturally. They're brute, ignorant, without reasoning, irrational, no common sense. Then he says they're beasts. I'm telling you, Peter is being brutal here. They're beasts. The word beast means what you think it is, a wild animal. They're just like wild animals. As far as morality and spiritual understanding is, they're no different than wild animals. They have no more understanding of God And spiritual realities and morality, they have no more understanding about God than a raccoon does. They don't have any more understanding of God than a wild dog or some coyote running around out there. He says they live, they think, and they act like animals. Pretty pretty ugly picture, huh? No different than a wild animal. And so they're uncontrolled in their living. I reject out of hand, flat out, without hesitation, absolutely, confidently, I reject evolution. I do not buy that for one minute. Ronnie and I were talking. He was talking about dead bodies and stuff. And um And how he said he he he was looking at a thing they went where was it at? A museum or somewhere? Yeah, the nervous system. They were at a museum and it had the nervous the human nervous system laid out And how complicated that is. And uh technology, I mean we don't have the technology to be able to do what the human nervous system does. I don't believe for one minute that just happened. That's ridiculous. To suggest that just somehow came about. I don't believe in evolution, but I'll tell you what I do believe in the evolution You know what de-evolution is? Not evolving up. Let's turn around what? Evolving down. We're not coming, we're not animals becoming like humans. I tell you, look at society. We're humans becoming like animals We live and act and talk and behave like animals. In fact, my daddy used to say the barnyard dog don't even do that kind of stuff. So he says they are uncontrolled in their living, these false teachers. Anytime someone tries to influence you, or anytime somebody comes to the church, they may put on a good show, they may put up a facade But I'm telling you, if it has anything to do with ungodliness and self and just the natural desires, I'm telling you stay away from that. Stay away from that. Number two, he says that they are uncivilized in their speech. These as natural brute beasts are made to be taken and destroyed. And by the way, he says made to be taken and destroyed. He said it's it's like It's like some wild, I saw a picture today on the computer, somebody took a picture of a mange fox. It had mange. And probably was rabid. And uh what's the best thing to do with a mangy rabid fox? Shoot it If the condition it's in, it needs to be eliminated. Now he's not saying these false prophets should be eliminated, but he says they behave like animals that should be eliminated. Morally, spiritually. I mean, he's making a strong statement. He is not suggesting that we take him out and destroy him, but he said that type of behavior His behavior, if it was in an animal, we would eliminate that animal. Then he says they speak evil of the things they understand not. Uncivilized in their speech. That to me, speaking evil of things they understand not, that sounds like social media to me. These guys are experts in something they have no clue what they're talking about. It's interesting being a pastor. Sometimes you travel, you get somebody beside them in the plane and you know you got a four hours later whatever and you get talking. Well what do you do? I said, well I'm a Baptist preacher. And uh they say, oh, you know, and uh let me tell you what I think about God. And every time they say that, it's like, oh brother, here we go. And men are experts. And I get it all the time. And several years ago we went through an issue and I was getting all these calls and emails, and everybody was telling me what the Bible says, and you could tell in the first five days words, they had no clue what the Bible says. Experts in things they don't even know what they're talking about. Speak evil of things they understand not. Fools posing themselves as experts. They'll blaspheme holy, sacred things that they know nothing about. And they're fearlessly will say awful things. about things the Bible teaches and um and uh and things about God. They don't they don't have any clue, but boy, they're not afraid to say evil things. Looks to me, if you're going to make a judgment on something, if you're going to make have an opinion about something, you ought to know a little something about it first. I had a boy years ago, uh I did a funeral for his mom, uh just somebody in the community here and during the viewing was kind of fading down and we were down at the the funeral director at the um funeral home and uh about everybody's going or standing there talking. I said, Well let me I gave him a tract. I said, Well I said, Well let me ask you about uh your relationship with the Lord. Do you know the Lord He goes, nah, he says, I don't believe the Bible. I don't believe any of that. That's just man. I said, really? I said, how did you come to that conclusion? How'd you come to this conclusion that the Bible is just a book, nothing? He goes, well, I saw a TV show That TV show convinced him that the Bible's not true. I tell you, if the Bible's true, listen, if the Bible's true That's pretty significant, isn't it? If what this book says is true, man alive, we better pay attention. If this isn't true, Then that's pretty significant. Right? If there's no God, if God didn't create us, if we're just natural brute beasts. Then that would affect the way we think, our values, the way we live. So whether this is true or not is pretty significant. Now, I'm convinced it's true. There's no doubt in my mind. But it looks like to me, if you're going to make a decision whether this is true or not, you ought to at least be aware of what it says. Some stupid TV show. So they're uncivilized in their speech. And last of all, I end with this, they're unconcerned about their consequences. Look what he says there. They speak evil of the things they understand not. They just Uncivilized, they'll just say stuff. And shall, look at this, these are strong words, and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. In their own corruption. What he's saying is this: the way they're living and what they believe is leading them to their own corruption, their own ruin. They're doing it to themselves. They're ruining their eternal destiny. Utter, it says, uh utterly perish in their own corruption. Any lifestyle and any doctrine that is focused on self That is saturated with sin and rejects the Savior, it's going to lead to corruption. You cannot reject the Bible and not have dire consequences. You cannot reject the Savior and live a life of sin. And not experience dire consequences. Utterly perish in their own corruption, their own doing. They brought it on themselves. Their own ruin, eternal the word corruption there has the idea of eternal misery. They're sending themselves to hell. I want to remind you, God does not send anybody to hell. God does everything he can So to speak, to keep people out of hell. Good night, he gave his own son to die and suffer hell to keep people out of hell. What more does he have to do? God doesn't send people to hell, people send themselves to hell by rejecting what God has done for them. And that's exactly what Peter's saying these guys are doing. They're going to utterly perish in their own corruption. So they're un They're uncontrolled in their living, uncivilized in their speech, unconcerned about the consequences. I don't know about you, but that sounds like a large portion of our society anymore Spiritual maturity, I'll end with this. Spiritual maturity is the ability to say no to sin and yes to righteousness. These guys can't, they're just natural beauty breeze, they don't care. They don't say no to sin. If they want it, they'll do it Spiritual maturity, get this one, here's a toughie, is the ability to control my speech. Whoa. How many people ever have a little challenge there? Anybody here ever say m ever anybody here ever say this to yourself? Well I wish I hadn't said that. That's about I tell you it's bad as you preach in front of everybody and go home and say, Man, I wish I hadn't said that. The ability to say no to sin and yes to righteousness, spiritual maturity, be able to say no, that's not right. Yeah, but I really want to do you have this conversation going on. Man, I really want to do this. No, what that's that's not right Yeah, but man, it'd be fun. I don't care. It's not right. And whoever wins that conversation tells you whether you're spiritually mature or not. And then the ability to control my speech. Bite your tongue. Mmm. Start to say it. Don't anybody here ever start to say something the Holy Spirit convicts you real quick? And you and you start it and they say, What'd you say? Oh nothing. And then last of all, spiritual maturity, wisdom, prudence is the ability to think ahead. I tell you, if we could just get that one thing down, where does this lead me to? If I make this decision, what what how's it going to affect me tomorrow, next week, five years down the road? If I sign this agreement, how's that going to affect me ten years down the road? And spiritual maturity, spiritual wisdom is to be able to say, all right, if I if I behave this way, if I go to that thing Saturday night, or if if I give in to this pressure, or I I indulge in this activity. How how am I going to feel about that tomorrow morning? How's that going to affect my family, my future? Think ahead, think ahead, think ahead. And that's where we mess up so much financially. And in so many areas. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts here. Peter is sure warning us about these false teachers coming in and introducing this type of living, this type of thinking. I pray you give us wisdom. I pray you give us discipline, self-discipline. Help us, Lord, think things through. Help us to die to self. Help us to watch our tongue and uh Lord just uh just uh direct us and guard us and help us. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart tonight, but I think he does I wonder how many say God spoke to my heart in some area tonight and you say preacher pray with me. I want to be what God wants me to be. Any like that? Any like that? Sure. God bless you. Hands all around. We're gonna have Lord's Supper Maybe before the Lord's Supper you'd like to kneel at an old altar and just have the Lord search your heart and do business with God and come to the Lord's Supper with a clean heart and pure mind. Nothing between us and the Savior. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.