Bibles, Nehemiah chapter number one. Nehemiah chapter number one. I know that for many people when we think of missions, passages, We think of passages like Matthew 28. We think of Mark 16. We think of Acts chapter 1. We think of passages like the Acts 16 and all kinds of different passages. But for me, my favorite missions passage. Is Nehemiah chapter 1. I absolutely enjoy the book of Nehemiah. Now, now if if you're one of those people that tend to, you know, I struggle in my devotions because when I read the Bible, it just seems kind of Kind of dull. It seems kind of boring. We got to be reading a different book because every time I go to the Bible, it's exciting. I get to go to the book with a different mindset. I get to come to the book of Nehemiah and say I want to learn how to be a biblical leader. I want to learn how to do that and I get to study the life of Nehemiah where I go through that. I want to understand how to go through a building project or something like that as a As a leader, as a minister, and uh and I go through here and I can learn the principles. And as I continue studying the Word of God, I see some wonderful things. And today, what I want to do is actually see missions. In the book of Nehemiah. Okay, so I'm going to read just a couple verses here. Nehemiah chapter 1, starting in verse 1. It says the words of Nehemiah, the son of Hechaliah. And it came to pass in the month Chislu in the twentieth year as I was in Shushan the palace. That Hanani, one of my brethren, came he and certain men of Judah, and asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction. And reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Now, before I dive deeper into this text, I want to take a step back and kind of explain How the Jewish people got to way they where they are here inside this passage. And I know that many people may say, Brother James, you're jumping way too far back here, but I believe the further I jump back The greater the picture you'll have in your mind of what is taking place right here inside this passage. And even more when we start diving into what Nehemiah says, the person Nehemiah says here It'll hit home more. So take a step, take a big step back. We're going to talk about David, okay? David was a king in Israel. In fact, God gave David a promise To bless his family line that they would rule on the throne forever. And we know that it that that is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Well, David was blessed. He was a wonderful leader. But after he passed away, and after a skirmish between a couple of his children, Solomon became king. And Solomon is known as the wisest man ever to live, outside of Jesus Christ, of course. And so Solomon being a wonderful king, he actually was able to make uh uh have good relationships with many other countries all around But through that influence, he did make some bad decisions. He may have been the wisest man to have ever lived, but that doesn't mean he was a sinless man. He still made some bad decisions. And so The the the some of the bad decisions that Solomon made was he decided to marry multiple multiple women and some of those marriages were political marriages so that way he can maintain some good relationships with people around Now that brought in some idol worship into the country, and there you can kind of see where it starts to go downhill. Because with with that idol worship and all that taking place after Solomon died. The country split. You had the northern kingdom and you had the southern kingdom. The northern kingdom had ten tribes, and the southern kingdom had uh two tribes. And so with the or ten tribes, you had three tribe or two tribes down there. So anyway, so you see it's split. Okay, so you have the northern kingdom. The northern kingdom did not one time have a good king. Not one time. And that is a huge deal. Why is it a huge deal? Well that they went on for 250 years that they had that they did not have a single king. What is America celebrating next year? Two hundred and fifty years. Can you imagine never having a single good president for two hundred for the entire length of America American history? That was the northern kingdom. But then you had the southern kingdom. The southern kingdom did have some good kings. They had a lot of good kings, but they did have their bad kings as well. And whenever Babylon made their way to the northern kingdom They conquered the Northern Kingdom. However, at that time they did not conquer the Southern Kingdom. And so Babylon comes down, conquers the northern kingdom. The southern kingdom at that time had a good king, a good leader at that point, and was able to keep them away. However, after that next king, they had a bad king. Babylon came back and conquered the southern kingdom. Took them as slaves. And took them right back to Babylon. Now, they didn't take all of the Jewish people. They didn't take all of them. They left some of them back there. And those that they left back there began to meet the people that were coming in to resettle the land. And as they met those people, they ended up marrying into those people. And whenever the Jewish people were able to come back into the land, they met them, saw what they had done, did not like what they had done, and they gave them a new name. Do you know what their new name was? The Samaritans. That ties it into some New Testament stories. The woman at the well. Well, anyways, those people have been taken over into Babylon as slaves. And then you have stories like uh Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and the fourth men in the fire, and then you have Daniel in the lion's den, and and Daniel simply because he prayed, was cut cast into the lion's den, but the Lord blessed and protected him there. You have stories like that. Now the Babylonian captivity took 70 years. 70 years. And after 70 years, Persia came in and conquered Babylon. And then you have some history that takes place right after Persia comes in and conquers Babylon. And you actually can read about what takes place during that time because you can read the book of Esther and find out how one Jewish lady, one Hebrew lady Became queen in Persia. Wonderful story. About what God can do, even through a wicked nation. It's absolutely wonderful. And that's what gets us to our current story here in Nehemiah. See, right before Nehemiah takes place, the Jewish people are able to make their way back to Israel. And rebuild the temple and reestablish worship. And that's under Ezra. You can read about that, as well as Zerubbabel. They make their way back over there. They rebuild the temple, re-establish worship. And great things are happening Exciting things are happening. Could you imagine being a Hebrew person at that point in time and hearing that after many years the temple had been rebuilt? You can imagine the excitement for all Hebrew people at that point in time. They were excited. And however, not every Hebrew person or Jewish person made their way back to the promised land. Some of them stayed back, and one of those people that stayed back was Nehemiah. And through Nehemiah, who we know as a godly, godly man, there is a crucial, crucial missions point That we can see just right here in the first few verses of Nehemiah chapter 1. So let's go and dive into verse 1 real quick. It says the words of Nehemiah, the son of Hechaliah, and it came to pass in the month of Chislu. Now to me That right there is my favorite part of the entire chapter. Is in that first few lines. The month Chislu Now, I'll explain why here just in just a few minutes, but the words of Nehemiah, the son of Hecali, and it came to pass in the month Shislu in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan, also known as Susa. Shushan, the palace. Now this was the palace that the king would refer to more, well in a sense, we would look at it as our winter vacation home. How many of you go on a winter vacation home over in Japan? Just right in the middle of that snow. You can probably just dig it out in the snow. But that was his winter home. He would go there during the winter months. And Nehemiah served inside of that palace. Now you learn later on in the book of Nehemiah that his job was the cupbearer. Honestly, think about being a cupbearer. Does that sound like the most labor-intensive job that you can have? No, as long as nobody's trying to poison the king, you got your your life is pretty good You're eating some of the best food in the country. You're drinking some of the best stuff. You're living in one of the most comfortable places you could live. You're living in the king's vacation home is where he's at. He's in a place of absolute comfort and ease of life. No, we live in the most wonderful place in the world, in America. And I've been to places all across this world. I can say we are a blessed people here in America. That some of the poorest people here in America are still richer than the vast majority of people here in the world. We we we had the I have the freedom to be standing right here doing what I'm doing. And in many places around the world, they do not have the freedom to be doing that. I would be muzzled. For just passing out a gospel tract, I couldn't do that in many places around this world. We are blessed here. And it's easy for us to get comfortable. And to get used to the In a sense of luxury that we experience here inside the States. I'm not saying that some of us don't go through hard times and I'm not saying that sometimes we don't have financial needs, but we have a good here in America And Nehemiah had a good in the palace. But although he was a man of comfort, he was also a man of compassion. See, look here in verse 2. It says, Then Hanani, one of my brethren, that's his you learn later on, that's his actual brethren. That Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he and certain men of Judah, and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped. Which were led to the captivity and concerning Jerusalem. And so although he's living in the palace and he's he's got that comfortable life, he still was concerned about what was going on over there in that country that he had never been to. You see where I'm where I'm going with this? So he goes to his brethren and says, Hey, what's going on over there there in Jerusalem? I I I heard uh that things were looking great, the temple's rebuilt, and I heard y'all are worshiping there at the temple again. That's so wonderful. I heard that when you got back over there, there were some uh the the people that were left. Uh y'all are calling them something different and that there was an issue. What is that about? Can you tell me what it's like over there What is Nehemiah asking about? And if you want to see where you can see missions inside of this passage. Nehemiah is asking for a presentation about the country that's way over there that he's never been to before. Can you give me can you can you give me a presentation? Tell me what's going on over there He's asking for that in a modern-day sense, a missionary presentation. And it's in this chapter. Where we get to actually observe how a godly person like Nehemiah reacts to The presentation. And we get to learn how does God want us to react to a presentation? About another country. It's a wonderful truth. So look here in verse 3. Okay. In verse 3. In verse 2, we get him asking for the presentation. Verse 3, you get the presentation It says, and they said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction. They're having some hard times. These are not great. Affliction, which means that the people that were there beforehand, people that have come in, try to resettle land, they're not treating them very well. This is in great reproach. Things that they're saying, the things that they're doing to them. It's hard. And if you ever study the book of Nehemiah, you find that even when he goes over there to go rebuild the walls, he experienced some of that on multiple times where they did not like the idea of rebuilding this wall and re-establishing this city and re and growing this place back to what it used to be. They didn't like that and they were already treating the people that way. The people were not doing very good. I shared during you know earlier that when I went to that shrine, I got to read some of their prayers You know, when you when you go online and you study about Japan, they'll tell you that Japan's the clean one of the cleanest places in the world. And if you've ever been to Japan, Japan's very clean It's a very clean place. They don't they don't just they just don't necessarily litter the same way we do in the state. When I don't you're driving down the street in Texas, you got garbage in your truck for a lot of guys, it's just Out the window. That's that's pretty much all it is. We shouldn't do that. We shouldn't do that, but that's in America that's often what we would consider the a a littering style. But in Japan Uh there's a building two feet that way. You can't really throw it out the window there. But they could be walking down the sidewalk and there could be a bush And they're done with their McDonald's drink and they don't want him more, so they'll just stick it in the bush of the straw sticking up out of it. And if you're walking down and you see these straws sticking up out of the bush, it's kind of funny. Things are a bit different. When you read stuff online, it can paint a really good picture. But then when you look at their prayers. It's a different story. Oh yeah, they may they may have a smile. They may look like a happy people. They may look like they're very Look, they are very kind people. They wear a smile. The customer service is absolutely wonderful. But when you go and you hear what they're praying about, they're not very happy They're missing something. They want hope. They want joy. They want peace. They want love. They want the very things that God offers. Things are not great. There's a term in in Japan called hikikomori. Hikikomori. It's a term for people that go and they lock themselves up in their house or in their bedroom. And they don't associate with everybody else. And often in America we're like, oh well, I know some teenagers like that. They'll win their video games in their bedroom. No, it's a bit more serious They don't necessarily have their video games in the room. They just won't come out. They have people bring food to the door. So well how big of a deal is it? There's over there there's over a million people through the entire country that are considered hikikomori They don't leave. Depressed leads to suicide. Japan leads in suicide all across the world. How many of you have ever seen a picture of Mount Fuji? Very famous famous thing for Japan. How many of you notice a forest that's off in the distance? That's suicide forest. Where people have went for many, many years, they'll just walk in there and they don't come out. There's a need. A huge need. For people that are willing to go and share the hope that they're asking for That's the response that he that he got. The people are in great affliction and great reproach. But then not only was it about people, there was another situation that was going on. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. He said the walls that we ha we we have that went around that protected the temple and the people that were inside, it's not there. It's open game. It is a and no no pun intended. It is a gold mine for the people that are around. They could just come right in. The temple has so much gold on it. People just come right in and could take it if they wanted to. So Nehemiah hears his presentation, and now he is about to react This is I all that was the introduction. I apologize, Pastor. I have no idea when you want me to stop, but yeah, if you want me to just throw your shoe at me real quick and I'll I'll I'll I will stop but There's only three quick points I want to give to you, real quick. Three ways that Nehemiah reacted to the missionary presentation here. So look at me in verse 4. It says, and it came to pass when I heard these words, when I heard the presentation. That I sat down and wept. Have you ever gotten any news that kind of just knocked you down in your chair? I mean legitimately just your your needs your your your legs went weak You get a job from your employer you're fired How am I going to provide for my family? What am I going to do? You get a call from the doctor. Cancer. Just what am I gonna do? And it just uh knocks you down That's Nehemiah's response. He goes and he just And he begins to weep. And cry. Now you say, Brother James, well, what is a major pointer? Well, Nehemiah was known as a man who could control his emotions Now I was raised by a dad that you don't cry. You're a man. Men don't cry. You're supposed to be the sturdy one, the stable one. It's not it's not wrong necessarily for a man to have emotions, that's not the point. But in in a in a difficult situation, someone needs to be have that that solid foundation there. When it when your wife is crying, your kids are crying, they need that one that's going to be strong for them My dad taught me that way, so I'm not a man that that tends to cry. Nehemiah wasn't the type of man like that either. Why? Because you learn in chapter two that when he went before the king, you either control your emotions or you die. He was a man that had that in check. He had been doing this for a while, so he knew how to control his emotions. But when he heard about the presentation or from over there in that other land and heard the about the difficult situation, it knocked him down in his chair. It said that he wept, and not only did he weep, it says that he mourned certain things. Days he couldn't get over it. It hit him like a brick wall. It impacted him So uh John, do we have a burden? No, do we when we hear I I'll I'll keep it at home. When we're sitting at the gas pump In Japan, when I go get gas, they don't have that little hook thing that holds the gas thing for you. You gotta sit there and you gotta hold it the whole time. How many think that you would probably your hand wouldn't get stuck that way for Well we got smaller cars in Japan. Some of the trucks that you see around here got the not only the gas tank, the diesel tank inside, but then you got that extra tank that's on the back. Takes about five years to fill that thing up full of gas. I mean it's just I can only imagine. But you actually get to hit the hit you get you get to hit a little latch and let the gas pump itself. And you look over and you see somebody crying. And our first reaction isn't it isn't, let me invite them to church. Why isn't that our first reaction? Do we have a burden? Do we want to see people accept Christ as their Savior? And what I mean by that is, are we willing to go the measure? Are we willing to do what it takes to get them saved? Are we willing to go? And although sometimes it may be embarrassing and sometimes we might stutter over what we're saying, are we willing to take a gospel tract and go and try to give it to them and try to have an impact on them? Do we have a burden? Because when you have a burden like Nehemiah for his home country there, you get news that they're not doing great. It just knocks you down in your chair and you can't get over it. I love presenting the field to Japan. Why? Because it gives me a chance to get up here and scream about the need for Japan. It's desperate. So number one, you see his reaction, there was a emotional reaction. There was an emotional reaction. And the emotional reaction goes even deeper here. If you look, and it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept and mourned certain days, and it says, and fasted. Now, Pastor, I know you probably experienced this just as I have. There's a frustrating thing about sermon preparation. That preachers go through. And I know you probably you've probably experienced just as much as I have. And you go and you you read this passage And you have no idea what it's talking about. Just just no idea what it I mean, you're like, okay, I gotta preach this. I don't get to just choose somewhere else. I have to preach this verse, but I have no idea what it's talking about here. And so what we do as preachers, we go to where the great theologians have given us the answer and we go to commentaries. So then we read one commentary and it tells us one thing. And then you read another commentary and it tells you another thing. And then you read another commentary, and it's the most outlandish thing you've ever read. So you take go to the another commentary, and after ten commentaries, you leave more confused. Then when you got started. And that's the life of a preacher. They're not on their head around. We all experience this. And I wanted to figure out here in this passage why it mentioned fasting At the po at the part that it does. I'm trying to look at the process of how things are going. And as I was starting to look into the word, I found out that there's actually two different interpretations for that word fasted there in that passage. You say, Brother James, which one is it? I'll let you decide. I'll give them both to you and let you decide which one you you take. Okay, the first one is is what we consider the obvious one is that he decided to go without something for a period of time as he prayed for it That's kind of the opposite. But there's another interpretation of it. Is this. Have you ever gotten so emotional that you couldn't eat? I mean something just impacted you so much you couldn't keep food down that every uh you go to the dinner table and you tell people I'm I'm not hungry Now I'm the opposite. I get sad. I'm going through that bucket of ice cream faster than a big kid with Skittles. I mean I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna hit that bucket of ice cream But there's a chance that Nehemiah was the opposite. This impacted him so much He couldn't eat. Similar to 1 Samuel chapter 1 with Hannah, who was so burdened and so much wanted to have a child. That she couldn't eat. Through all the pressure that she had, and through the through the influence that she was having her own family, she wasn't able to eat. It wasn't until God didn't impact her life that she was able to come back home and eat and see. God bless her. But Nehemiah here in this passage, there's a chance that he was so emotional that he could not eat. Have you ever had that reaction after a missionary's presentation? Next three or four days you just can't eat because of what you heard. That was Nehemiah Well, number one, he had an emotional response, but number two, he had a spiritual response. Why? Because right after you read the words fasting there in chapter or in verse 4, it says, and prayed before the God of heaven. Now one of my favorite things to do when I study the Bible is I get to go to I go to books like Psalms. And yeah, you gotta you go to You know, 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, and you get to read through those books, and you get to see the things that David did, and you get to hear every once in a while some of the things that David said. But when you go to the book of Psalms, you get to see what he was thinking. His contemplations, things that he really thought about. And here, right here, you get to see what came across Nehemiah's mind. As he heard that presentation. So let's look in there, verse five. It says, and said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments. He he worships him worships him there. And verse six, let thine ear now be attentive. Lord, Lord, please hear my prayer, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night. Can you imagine praying day and night for missionaries? That'd be a long time of prayer, the sweet 24 hours of prayer there. Night And day for the children of Israel, thy servants, and confess the sins of the children of Israel. Catch this. Which We have sinned against thee, both I and my father's house You know, it's easy. So when we hear about the Great Commission, we hear, go ye and all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, preacher. Now the mindset that it's it's up to the preacher, it's up to the the staff of the church, it's up to the missionaries, it's up to those that are called in the full-time ministry to go and reach uh reach reach this world with the gospel. In reality We have these funny phrases that we use about full-time full-time ministry. You know who's called in a full-time ministry? Anybody that has asked Jesus to save them. Are called into full-time ministry. God says, now that you're saved, I have given you this amazing gift. Now take this gift And share it with somebody else. And that is one of the key reasons why how the Lord led me into ministry. I was a bus kid. My family did not go to church. I did not have any hope. Until somebody came by my door and knocked on my door and said, Do y'all want to come to church? And one of my parents said, I don't know if I'm going to come to church. They noticed some little kids in the back and said, Well, do you mind if your kids come? We have a bus that comes by. Here's a flyer that shows you everything in the bus. It presented the ministry. Let it show them how it was safe and it was nice. Showed who the leaders were and everything. And showed them and gave my parents confidence saying, hey, if you let them come Uh they can come church and great things. Uh we'll they'll have a lot of fun. And I came. And you know the reason why I stayed? It loved me I know a lot of kids stay because of the candy. My kids are loving America right now. Over there all they get is rice cakes at church. Okay, over here they're getting buckets of of double bubble. I think that's what it is, or whatever that bubble gum is I didn't go back for that. There are people that came over and sat by me. Over with the bus kids. Would sit by them. Would sit by me and just ask me about my day. Ask me about my week. Ask me when I'm gonna get a haircut. You know, it's all the fun questions I loved it. I didn't stop coming. Because of that. They came to me. They came to me at my house. They did not stop coming to me. How dare I hold that gift in my pocket? And not share that with somebody that's weeping on the side of a road one. How dare I not take that gift and go share it with people over in the country who are begging for someone to share that with them? How could I not? They're willfully walking right over into hell. How dare I not, as it's as an old preacher once said, jump down and hold them out their ankles. And beg them not to go in. If we truly believe hell exists, how do we not do that? If we don't tell them, that's where they're going. And for the rest of their life, they're going to go through this life alone. And we didn't, from the moment you were saved, you are never going to be alone again. That's our wonderful God. Let's share that with them. I'm jumping ahead of my message here. I'm just I can't I can't help but do it. Nehemiah understood that this was not their fault He said, it's our fault. I have messed up God and please forgive me. Now due to time I can't go through the rest of the prayer But if you read through the rest of that, you hear him start to almost beg God to send him. Make a way. Work on my master's heart. And that was his prayer. So he had an emotional response. He had a spiritual response. But then lastly, he had a physical response. A physical response. Look here in chapter 2. We'll read just a couple verses, not going to keep you very much longer. And it came to pass in the month Nisan. Okay, let's go back to verse 1 in chapter 1 where I said the month Chislu. Why is that my favorite part of that chapter? Because the month Chislu is around November, December time Okay, remember this is it's his winter home. Shushan the palace is his winter home. So November-December time. Nisan is around March-April time. Ironically, that's Christmas to Easter. It's really interesting to me. It's about four to five months. Four to five months have passed, okay? And it came to pass in the month of Nisan in the twentieth year of Art Exercises the king that wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been before time sat in his presence. That goes back to that emotional response that he had. He doesn't get emotional in front of him. Verse 2 Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart Then I was sore afraid. He's saying, after four months of seeing the presentation, he still was not able to control his emotions at work Can you imagine four months from right now you're at work and your boss is like, what is going on with you? Why can't you do your job? Why are you so sad all the all the time now? And listen to Nehemiah's boldness as he answers the king here in verse Verse 3. And it came to pass, or I'm sorry, verse 3, and said unto the king, let the king live forever. Why should not my countenance be sad? When the city, the place of my father's sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire, he says, how could I not? When the state of my country is being destroyed, can we not say that about America today? How could I not be sad right now When I see what's going on all over America, when I see the tragedies that are taking place, when I see what some are doing to our country, how could I not be sad? How could I not be sad when I hear about a country where 99% of the population that when the rapture takes place, they have no idea that it happened? And then countries like India, where there's over 3 billion people, and China, over 3 billion people, where there's very few people that have ever heard the gospel before, how could I not be sad? What's Nehemiah's response? And then God begins to work. Amen. Verse 4. Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I pray to the God of heaven. That's a good if you feel like God may be leading you to go to go into missions or go to ministry, pray about it. That's consistent for me. Everybody, and any any anybody that's gone into ministry has prayed about it That's what's what we need. We need to pray and ask God what his guidance are. Then the king said unto me, For what uh what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven. Verse 5, and I said unto the king, if it please the king, And if thy servant have found favor in thy sight that thou wouldst send me unto Judah, unto the city of my father's sepulchres, that I may build it. If if it's o if look, if it's okay with you, I'll go I'm not asking about somebody else needs to go. I'm not looking across out a tour and saying, maybe that person should go or that they're younger than I am, that they should go. No, no. No. If there's a need, I'll go do it I'll do it. If there's somebody at the hospital that's on their deathbed, and they need somebody to share the gospel with them or someone to pray with them, I'll go. Pastor, if you need somebody to do hospital visits, I'll do it. You need somebody to pass out a Thanksgiving meal around Thanksgiving time to try to be a witness to them. I'll do it. That's the attitude Nehemiah had. There's a job that needs to be done. I'll see the need and I'll take the lead. That was Nehemiah. And God blessed, didn't he not? This cup bearer. Oh, we had no idea how to build a wall. Didn't matter. And well your skill set does not matter with God. God's not looking to see what your what your capabilities are, he's just looking for your availability. Are you willing? He'll do the rest. I'm a redneck from Texas. He'll do the rest, okay? I'm in Japan Okay, have you ever heard Japanese spoken with a southern draw? Okay, God will do the rest. Okay? He'll bless. That's the reaction that God wants us to have to a missionary presentation. I don't come here saying that that y'all don't do it. Y'all support me. I know you do But I hope that there was a challenge maybe to not necessarily have an emotional response, but to catch a burden. Spend more time in prayer. Tell you what, if you if you if you want to fast over a missionary, there's a there's a prayer card back there. You go ahead and pick that up. There's an ugly guy in the front of it. If you cut that out, it's a good one for your fridge, okay? But maybe God might be hearting on your heart about going. And if you're a young person here, I'm gonna give you a challenge s specifically to you guys. Oftentimes we make a decision to determine what we're going to do the rest of our lives before we consult God on it. And we determine we're going to be an engineer, pilot, whatever it might be. But we haven't prayed about it. The Bible says, seek ye first the kingdom of God. So the best thing for you to do is before you make that decision Spend some number and say, God, I'm thinking about going this route, but before I do, here's my life. If you want it, it's yours. Why? Because the story of Jonah, if there's anything that story has ever taught us, safe this place is in the middle of God's will. That's you. I hope you make a decision today. Let's go on and pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for this day. Thank you for your love and your grace. I'm thankful for your word. I'm thankful for how it impacts. I'm thankful for how you are always willing to hear our prayers, no matter where we are, no matter what time of day, no matter what it's about, no matter whether or not we are the most You know, amazing sounding prayer, prayer warrior, or we're just someone that's just stumbling through it. You're always willing to listen to our prayers. I'm thankful for that, Lord. Would you please bless this service If you're working in someone's heart about whatever you might be working on about, I pray you to give us the courage, the faith, and make that decision. We thank you for it. We ask this Jesus going to pray. Amen, Pastor.