I would like for us to notice. And verse number five and six is my text for this morning. It says, Let your conversation be without covetousness And be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man shall do unto me I want us to notice that last statement in verse number five. He says, I will never leave thee. And never and uh nor forsake thee. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I've entitled the message Never Alone. never forsaken. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you in this Monday Mother's Day morning that we can come to you with open Bibles. And Lord, we can be confident that we hold your word in our hands. And I ask now, as I try to preach this message, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And yet, Lord, I yield my will to you, and I pray you'd take your word and speak your word through my lips to our hearts and minds. And I pray you do what needs to be done in each one of our hearts. Lord, some of us need encouragement. Lord, some of us need to be challenged in our faith. Lord, some of us need to be confronted in some areas in our life. And so, Lord, you know, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Maybe some need to be converted. Maybe some need to come and trust Christ as Savior. So, Father, I'm asking again Fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me to every heart. Meet needs, and help us to trust you and follow your leadership. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Really don't have a Mother's Day message this morning. It is a Bible message, but I believe one of the great attributes of a good and godly mother, as we saw portrayed in the video a little bit Is love and loyalty to God, their family, and uh particularly her church. A loyalty of a mother To her God. As I mentioned before, I thank God for that. I have a Christian mother. We were texting each other this morning. We talked on the phone the day before yesterday. I'm glad I have a mother that knows Jesus Christ as her personal Savior. And that love of a mother for God, a love of a mother for her family, a love and a loyalty of a mother to her children. As wonderful as that love and loyalty is, that love and loyalty is not perfect. As human beings, we come up short. Am I right or wrong How many mothers and fathers look back and say, you know, there's some things I wish I could have done a little bit better. There's some ways I wish I could have been maybe a little more patient, a little more firm, maybe a little more this. We come up short. Um several years ago, two or three years ago, I I enjoy fishing. I was fishing down at the Savage River and uh early in the spring and I was traveling across I had a canoe with a little trolling motor, electric motor. I was going across there. I heard the sound. Something crawl crying out. And I went over and here there was some big big part of a tree, big branches floating down out in the middle of the reservoir And hanging on to one of those branches was a little baby bear cub. I mean just tiny as can be. And his he was underwater, his mouth and his eyes, his nose and his paws were there, and he was just So I've cruised over there and I grabbed that thing by the scruff of the neck. Some of y'all say, I don't believe this story. He's making it up. I've got pictures, the show I I grabbed that little baby cub by the scruff of the neck, went over to the bank and uh looked around, made sure mama wasn't gonna jump on me. And um tried to put that thing up on the bank, and that thing was so exhausted and so waterlogged it couldn't even walk, just rolled back down in the water So I got it again, put it in the boat. I went down to where I'd get some reception. I called the DNR. We talked a little bit. Said so we'll be down. We'll come down and get it. And lo and behold, they came down and I got pictures of all this And they got that thing. I called him boo-boo bear. That little thing, I'm telling you, wasn't any bigger than that, holding it by the scruff of the neck. Just a wild Indian. I'm telling you, that thing was trying to kill me Claws and everything. And I and the DNR fellow came and took it. And I said all that to say this. I said, what happened? Where's mother at? He says, we found another one just a few days ago, just down the river a little bit. Same thing. He goes, sometimes you'll have a bad mother. It'll be their first time having cubs, and they don't know what to do. And they abandon their children. They abandon the cubs. And they said, We believe There's a bad mother and she's abandoned these little cubs. So they took it off. I said, what are you going to do? They said, well, we'll see if maybe we can find a mama. We got radar on on mother bears and we'll see if we can find a mama that um would take this thing in and maybe adopt it. Sometimes they do, sometimes they don't. We'll see what happens That was in the spring. I never heard anymore what happened to that little boo-boo bear. And um I dreamed about him at night. Ron Coddington had a picnic on Memorial Day that year. We're there and a lot of I was there and a lot of people I didn't know were introducing. One of the fellows uh was there, he says uh he works with DNR in Allegheny County, DNR uh ranger or whatever. And I said, I got a story for you. And I told him what happened. He says, I know that bear. He said, we found a mama for it that took it in, and the little bear's doing just fine. Isn't that a heart-touching Mother's Day story? So out there somewhere is Boo Boo Bear. Unless Mark Heinball shot it. And um Point I'm trying to make is this. Sometimes as human beings, mothers, fathers, as humans, we come up short. Sometimes we come up short, but I'm here to tell you this morning, our God's love and our God's loyalty never comes up short. Our God is a loving God. Our God is a loyal God. And I thank God for this passage here. This verse, this little phrase at the end of verse number five has meant so much to me. From early on in my Christian life. For he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. This message of God's loyalty, God's love for us is all through Scripture. Back in Deuteronomy, let me find it here real quick, Deuteronomy chapter 31. And in verse number 6, let me read this for you here real quick. Deuteronomy 31, verse 6, God said this. He says, be strong and of a good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them. For the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee, he will not fail thee nor forsake thee. God's promise to the nation of Israel as they're beginning their journeys, as they're stepping out, about to enter into the promised land. God says, I'll never fail you, I'll never forsake you. Down in verse number 8, he goes on. He says, And the Lord, he it is that doth go before thee, he will be with thee. Now listen, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee. Fear not, neither be dismayed. In Joshua chapter 1 and verse number 5 is there's a transition from Moses' leadership of Israel. Moses passes off the scene Joshua has now stepped up. He's the leader of Israel. He has the overwhelming responsibility of taking this nation of a million plus people that have been in the wilderness for 40 years and lead them into the promised land and conquer these nations and conquer these cities and possess this land that God has promised. You imagine that'd be a fearful task, the overwhelming. But God says in Joshua chapter 1, he says to uh uh Moses uh uh to Joshua In verse number five, he says, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. Listen to this I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Be strong and of good courage. Then he comes down in verse number seven. He says, Only be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do according to All the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. This book of the law shall not depart out of their mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written in. And listen to this, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have I not commanded thee, be strong and have a good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. Here it is, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. I will not leave thee. I will not forsake thee. In uh 1 Chronicles chapter number 28, uh he gives this promise to To Solomon as he's taken the uh as he's taken the leadership of Israel, he says, David said to Solomon, his son, be strong and of good courage, do it. Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord thy God, even my God, he shall be with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. I'm glad God promises over and over and over He will not fail us, He will not forsake us, He will not leave us alone Psalm 94, verse 14 says, The Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. Hebrews chapter 13 verse 5. What a precious promise. This verse has meant so much to me. I read it some time ago, and I thought, I'm going to preach on that again. Never alone, never forsaken. Hebrews has been a one of my favorite books. I don't know why. Shortly after I got saved, I started reading Hebrews. It's a little A little technical gets back into Leviticus and some of the Old Testament ceremonies. But for whatever reasons, Hebrews has always appealed to me. I always enjoyed reading through Hebrews We do not know who the penman is of the book of Hebrews. There's no name given if we go to chapter 1. There's no name like the other books of the Bible say Paul or Peter, whoever Hebrews, we're not given who the penman is. I have a sneaking suspicion it was the Apostle Paul. One of the first questions I get to heaven, I'm going to find Paul and I'm going to ask him, did you write Hebrews or not? Uh, I don't think it's going to play out exactly that way. We don't know who the penman is. We do know this, we know who the author is. God is the author of Hebrews. And the book of Hebrews, right from its initial when it was penned, whoever penned it, it was received by the church for what it is, the inspired, inerrant book of God. It's part of the Word of God that has never been questioned, the book of Hebrews. Book of Hebrews exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. As a fulfillment of all the Old Testament types, all those ceremonies that uh the Jewish priests went through at the temple, and all the sacrifices and all the rituals God had given. Jesus Christ was a fulfillment of all of that, those sacrifices for sins. Jesus Christ is the high priest that the Old Testament high priest represented. He is the true high priest that stands before God on our behalf and pleading for God as our advocate, pleading before God. Hebrews makes it clear, Jesus Christ is to be preeminent in our lives. Jesus Christ is to be the most important relationship that you and I have, whether mothers or fathers, whatever our role may be The most important relationship in life is our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I view it kind of like a bicycle uh wheel. I view that tire around there on the rim. And then you have all these spokes that come in from the rim, all these spokes that come in, and in the center of that rim of that tire, there's what we call a hub. And that hub to me is the Lord Jesus Christ in life. And all those spokes that go out around the rim. The rim is our life. And all the spokes are the different aspects of our life, our family life, our church life, our work life, our personal life, our our our pleasures, all of that All of that revolves around and is governed by that hub right in the middle, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. That is how Hebrews presents the Lord Jesus. He is the focal point. He is the governor. He is the preeminent one in our life, the Lord Jesus Christ. Our text here, if you would notice it, it says verse number five It begins off with some instructions. He says, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as you have. That's instruction by God for you and I. We're not to be covetous, always wanting more, always wanting something else, never satisfied with what we have, but we're to be content. The word content means to be satisfied, to have sufficient I have what I need. I have what is necessary for me to be satisfied. Somebody asked a very wealthy millionaire, multimillionaire of years gone by. They asked him late in his life. They said, you have millions and millions of dollars. They said, how much is enough? He says, just a little bit more. Never content. Just a little bit more. A little nicer car, a little bigger house. Little fancier clothes. A little nicer this. A little bit more of that. When is enough? Is it possible? For a person, is it possible for a Christian to be content in life? To be content with what we have. Somebody said there's one of two ways to get enough. One is to find ways to accumulate more. If I don't have enough, alright, well I've got to find a way to accumulate more. That's one way to get enough. Another way to get enough is just to be satisfied with what you have. Just to be satisfied. A rich person is a person that has everything they want. I want to suggest to you, a rich person is somebody that simply wants what they have. Once what they have. So he begins with this instruction to be content. Paul said that he learned in whatsoever state he is, state I am, therewith to be content. Paul said, I had to learn to be content. I had to grow in my faith and my walk with God to get my perspective right where I can be satisfied if I have a lot or if I have a little, I'm content with what God allows in my life. I tell you, it would do our country a heap of good to learn to be content again. I'm concerned for young people coming up in a debt-infested society And I saw an advertisement here just recently, and I've hardly ever watched television, a little show, and they had an advertisement on there, how you can get a credit card for little five, six, seven-year-old kids And have them learn how to do credit. I'm here to tell you what would do them a whole lot better is learn how to just be content with what they have. Our young people are coming up into adulthood and they're already so far in debt they can't hardly breathe. And Paul says, Paul's a penman here, God says, He says, be content. Just learn to be content with what you have, what you have. Now, how is that possible? I think the last part of the verse he's telling us how it's possible. Be content with such things as ye have. Notice it says, for, because this is how you're content He has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I have three thoughts I want to give to you. I know I see our time, but I want to give you three thoughts real quickly. Number one, I want us to notice the promise of God here. The promise of God. Look at that last statement. It says, For he hath said, I will never. That's a very dogmatic statement. He hath said. Now, we're in an election year. Anybody notice that? We're in election year. In election year, we hear lots of promises, right or wrong. Man, we're getting stu anybody getting stuff in the mail, promises, election, yeah. Uh anybody getting emails coming in promises. I'm getting texts on my phone now. Say, how in the world did you get my phone number? Promising this, promising that. I want to tell you some of these promises from our politicians, let me just put it this way, are flat out lies. They know they can't do what they're promising, they know they can't produce it, but they promise it anyway, and they'll go to one group and they'll make a promise to that group, then they'll go to another group. and make an exact opposite promise to that group. They're lying and they know it. That's some of them. I think some promises by politicians, they mean well. They intend to fulfill that promise. They intend to do what they are saying they'll do. But circumstances are such that there's no way in the world they'd ever be able to do that. It's out of their control. They're making promises for things as sincere as they may be, but they're unable to meet those promises. I'm here to tell you, God never lies when it comes to his promises. If God makes a promise to you and I, you mark it down, it is a true promise. He's not lying. He doesn't promise one person one thing and another person another thing. God is true. Promises are true. And God never makes a promise that he is unable to fulfill. As impossible as it may seem, as unrealistic as it may seem, as outlandish as it may seem, when God makes a promise, you mark it down, He can fulfill that promise. He has said, I will never And when God says he's never going to do something, you mark it down, he ain't never going to do it. God's promises are true. God's promises are certain. He has said what God says is so. I believe that with all my heart. This church was founded in 1962 on the fact that what God says is so That that book there is true. He has said, he has said. And this is very emphatic. I got studying as I always do the words here, did word studies on every word there. He has said. In the words used here, it's a very emphatic statement. He hath said Any of you mothers ever say to your kids, I said it one time, I ain't saying it again. How about it, mothers? You're very emphatic. You want the kids to know, hey, I mean what I'm saying. That's exactly what God is saying here. Being very emphatic. He hath said What God asks from us is to have faith in what He says He's very emphatic. He has said, alright, take God at his word. Believe what he says. Simply trust him. Take him at his word. Come over, if you would, to chapter 6 of Hebrews. You got your Bibles there? Come over to chapter 6. Look with me, Wood, at verse number 18. I have this passage underscored in my Bible. I highly recommend it. Hebrews 6, look at verse 18. That by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie We might have a strong consolation through a fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us. Look at this. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul Both sure and steadfast, which entereth into that within the veil. What is he saying? God cannot lie. We can be confident in his promises. If you would, look over in chapter ten and verse number twenty-three. Hebrews ten, verse twenty-three Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. Look at this. For he is what? Faithful, that promise. He is faithful, that promise. I'm here to tell you this morning, God's promises are sure. We can rest on them. May 7, 1979, this past Monday night uh Tuesday night, this past Tuesday night, 45 years ago, the attic bedroom where I was living with my daddy. My daddy was out on the road. I knelt beside my bed up in that attic and I called on Jesus Christ to be my Savior. There's a promise of God that says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And all these many years I have absolute confidence that when I die my sins are forgiven and I'm going to go to heaven to be with the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no doubt in my mind, not because I'm sinless, not because I'm a preacher Not because I'm better than anybody, because I ain't better than nobody. My confidence is in the promise of God that whoever calls from the Lord, God will forgive their sin and save their soul and give them eternal life. The promise of God is sure. He hath said. Mark it down. You open your Bible anywhere, you find what God says, and you can plant your anchor down shore on that promise. He has promised. Notice what he says. Come back to our text. For he has said, I will never. Now, whatever he's never going to do, we're going to look at that. But he says, I'm never, there's a couple things I'm never going to do. That word never there is the strongest. Now I'm I'm I don't know Greek. I take it back. I know a little Greek. He lived up in Philadelphia, outside Philadelphia, out of deli down the road from our house And uh had great subs. He was just tremendous. That's about the only Greek I know. But as I understand this, as I study this, that word never is the strongest negative term in the Greek language. That's where we get our English word from. It is, Coronando, what I understand, it is a five, uh let me let me put it, it is a Five negative statements. Now in English, two negatives cancel out. If you say I ain't never going to do something, it means you're going to do it. Right? I'm not never means I will forever. Is anybody totally confused yet? I lost myself here of these things. But in uh In the Greek where this comes from, when you repeat a negative, it doesn't cancel itself out. It reinforces the negative. You follow what I'm saying? And what I'm told by reliable sources, this is a five-negative statement. In other words, he has said, I will never, never, never, never, never. Going to leave you nor forsake me. Under I liked another another definition I found for it. It went this way. Never, under no circumstances at all, for any reason uh um uh uh let me let me read it um uh uh not at any time in any way under any stance uh any circumstances in any degree Am I going to leave you nor forsake you? God cannot express it in a stronger language than what he has promised he's going to do. He's gonna do. Never, never, never, never, never. You mark it down. When God says he's never gonna do something, you mark it down, it ain't never gonna happen It's never going to happen. So we have a promise of God here. He has said, I will never, never, never, never, never Now, what is it he's promised? Number two, the presence of God, his presence. Look what he says. I will never leave thee. He's talking to his people. He's talking to God's people. That word leave means to let go of, to give up on, send away. This is God's promise to every child. He will never leave you. He will never give up on you. He will never let go of you. He will never send you away. Never, never, never, never, never. Well, he give up when you say, Preacher, you don't know how bad I've failed. Listen, I'm here to tell you there's not a failure man can come up with that the blood of Jesus cannot cleanse and forgive. There's not a failure in the world that God says, Oh no, I'm going to send you away for that. He says, I'll never leave you. I'm never going to let go of you. I'm never going to send you away. This is God's promise to every child of God. We can be confident when we struggle with our faith that God will not give up on us. Say, preacher, I just sometimes have a hard time my faith and I struggle. I'm here to tell you God's not going to give up on his child that may struggle with their faith. 1981, I packed what few belongings I had. I'd been saved about a year and a half. And I headed down, uh packed up my belongs, threw in the back of my daddy's uh Bronco, and we headed down to Chattanooga, Tennessee, and enrolled in Tennessee Temple University down there. I didn't know anybody, that's the farthest I'd ever been away from home. And by myself, I didn't know one single person in the state of Tennessee, let alone on the campus of that university. Got a dorm room. It was an old apartment that the the school was just overflowing. They bought some apartments and I was in this apartment. It was a one-bedroom apartment, had eight fellow students in a one-bedroom apartment Four in the living room and four in the bedroom. Daddy dropped me off, loaded up his bronco, headed back home, and there I was, twenty-one-year-old boy, just been saved a year and a half. in Bible College. That next week I got a letter from my daddy in the mail. This was before email. This is before texting and all that. And by the way, even after texting, I never got texting from my dad I got letters. That next week I went down to my little mailbox, opened it up, and didn't have cell phones. There was a phone there in the hallway for 24 students. He had one phone Gotta have a quarter. I looked in my mailbox, there was a little letter from dad said dad He said, Oh, I hope things are going. And at the bottom of that letter, he signed, love you, son, dad, and he put Philippians 1, 6. I ran back to my room, got my Bible out, looked it up. It says, being confident, this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. That next week, I got another letter. Told me what was going on back home. I love you, son. Dad, Philippians 1, 6. I went and looked it up again, and it said the same thing it did the week before. Being confident, this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform until the day of Jesus Christ. Next week got another letter. Same thing. I looked it up. Still said the same thing. I'm telling you, I got a letter every single week of the year until my daddy moved down here in December of 2018. Every week of the year for over 30 years, he sent me a letter, and every letter had Philippians 1. 6, and I looked it up, and every single time it said the same thing. Being confident, this very thing, that he which hath begun a work in you, good work in you, will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I'm glad God has promised He will never give up on us. Well, he starts, he finishes, he carries through. We struggle with our faith, with God, we can be confident that the Lord will never leave us. When we stumble and fall, We can be confident that God will not give up on us. Psalms 37, 23, and 24. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall He shall not be utterly cast down. Listen to this, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand God says, I'm not going to let go, I'm not going to leave you. You say, I stumbled, great chair, I stumbled. I'm here to tell you, come running back to the Lord. He's not going to let go of you. He's not going to leave you The Lord will chasten if we if we live in sin, we do wrong. God will chasten us. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son. I mean he'll take us to the woodshed. But he will never abandon us. He will never give up on us. Anybody here ever been to the woodshed? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't think these kids nowadays know what the woodshed is. Uh see me afterward. Well uh no I'm kidding. Oh God takes us to the woodshed, but he never gives up on us. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand Anybody ever been anybody been there where you stumbled and fell and God helped lift you up, get you back on your feet? Sure. What a wonderful thing. He has promised the presence of God. I'll never give up on you. I'll not leave you. I'll not send you away. We can be confident when we struggle with our faith, we stumble and fall. When it seems we have a hopeless future. God says, I'll not give up on you. We got a couple minutes. Would you come back to the book of Acts with me? Now keep your place here. I have one final thought I want to give here in a moment. But look with me in Acts chapter 27. Paul has been arrested for preaching the gospel. He's been falsely accused of causing insurrection. And he has appealed to Caesar, and they're shipping Paul as a prisoner. Up to Rome, where he's going to stand before the Supreme Court, so to speak. En route, the ship runs into a storm, a horrific storm. And Acts chapter 27, notice with me verse number 20. Paul is in the midst of this storm. And he says in verse 20, and when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, Look at this next statement. All hope that we should be saved was then taken away. Have you ever been in that situation? Where it just seems like there's no hope. This is a hopeless. Paul said all hope that we were going to survive this thing was taken away. Verse 21, but after long abstinence, Paul stood forth in the midst of them and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me and not loose from Crete and have gained this harm and this loss. Paul's typical preacher, he said, You should have listened to me. And then he goes on and he makes this statement. And now I exhort you to be what? Of good cheer. For there shall be no loss of any man's life among you but of the s of the ship. For there stood by me this night and the angel of God of whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul. Thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer. Look at this, for I believe God that it shall be even as it was told me. Paul said, God told me we're going to make it through. God told me we're going to be okay. And I believe God And when God says to you and I, I'm not going to leave you, I am not going to let go of you, I'm not going to abandon you, I'm not going to walk away from you, believe God And trust that he'll stay right there. The promise of God, the presence of God, let me end with this The perseverance of our God. Come back to Hebrews 13 there with me. And notice his last statement. I will never leave thee. And then he adds this on: nor forsake thee. The word forsake is similar to the word leave, but it has the idea of abandon you. I am never going to abandon you. I'm never going to walk away from you. I'm never going to desert you One of the definitions I found as I studied this word was, I will never divorce you. God says, I'm never, ever going to break my covenant with you. My promise of my presence, my promise of eternal life, my promise of salvation, my promise of security, I will never, never, ever break that promise. God perseveres. Some doctrines emphasize the perseverance of the saints. And we gotta hang in there and hold on and stick it out. I'm telling you, our security is not based upon our perseverance. Our security is based upon the perseverance of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He's true to his word. His promise is sure. Psalm 37, 28, for the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. They are preserved forever. Psalm 94, 14, the Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. I don't know about you, but that promise brings contentment. Say, preacher, I lost. I lost my job. Lost my income. I'm struggling. I tell you what, I can be content in every situation when I know the Lord will never leave me. He'll never forsake me It'll stay true. It brings contentment, and then we don't have time to look at verse number six, but it brings courage. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man shall do unto me I tell you, life can be fearful. I thought when I was a kid, you ever see those stickers on the back of the pickup trucks? Ain't scared. Anybody ever see anybody ever no nobody ever saw that? Uh what's the other one? Uh no fear. Anyone ever see does anybody have any idea what I'm talking about up here? Ain't afraid of nothing. When we're young, I ain't afraid of nothing. I found out there's a heap of things in life can be awfully scary There's a heap of things in life. Well, I know the Lord's never going to leave me, the Lord's never going to forsake me. I can have courage. I don't have to be afraid. God will take care of me. God will see me through. God will protect me This past week we were I was downtown doing some things and I saw a fellow. I knew I knew him from somewhere. I couldn't put a name I couldn't how I knew him, but he came over past the leatherman And um we got talked a little bit, and uh then I figured out who he was and where I knew him from, and he made this statement. He said, Pastor Letterman, I've been listening on Sunday mornings of 10 o'clock on 88. 7 to your preaching on the Blessed Assurance broadcast. And every Sunday morning while we're in here, we have a radio program at Blessed Assurance, 10 o'clock goes out all around the world, really. He said, I've been listening to you for the last several years. He said, I go to a different church, he told me. He said, but I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior listening to your preaching. Now listen what he said. He says, my life. has literally and physically been changed when I trusted Christ as Savior. He said the drinking is gone He said the language is changed. He said the things he said the things on TV I can't hardly watch. It's just so nasty. He gave a list of things that God changed in his life. He said, when God saved me, when Christ came in my life, he changed my life. And he said, I'm so grateful. And then he said this. He said, Now I understand that Christ is in me, and he will never, ever leave me. Isn't that something? I was almost in tears. I said, I'm so glad you told me this. I said, I had no idea. I said, I'm going to pray for you. I'm glad what Christ has done. He said, I listen every Sunday morning. He said, I don't know what I'd do if you didn't have that program on there. I'm here to tell you, God's word is sure. And what Jesus promises us he will do, he will do. And we take it by faith. We take it by faith. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I urge you. You come by faith and trust Christ what he did for you on the cross, suffered hell, was buried, rose again for our sins. You call on him, trust him, he'll come in your life, he'll forgive your sin and save you. You're going through struggles, you're having difficulties. I'm here to tell you, you come and you get God's promises. You follow what God instructs us. You do what that book says You claim what that book promises, and I'm telling you, God will bless you, and He'll see you through the darkest storms. Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. I know I'm right. So let's trust God. Let's take him at his word. Let's do what he says. Father, bless our invitation now this morning. Help us to have faith in you, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.