John chapter number 10. And if you would, I'd like for us to read together verse uh I get my mic on here. Uh verse number 27 and 28. We're going to read together. Listen, John chapter 10, and um uh give everybody a chance there if you would uh follow, read along with me, ready? Beginning in verse 27. Here we go, all together. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Verse 28. When does Jesus say that those he gives eternal life to, when are they going to perish? According to verse 28. Never. Never. Never. I underscored that word in my Bible. Never perish. Now here's a question to get us started. I may ask this a few more times in the message. When is never? Somebody talk to me and tell me. When is never? You can't use the same word to define the word. Never. When is it going to happen? It's not gonna happen. Never perish. The people that God gives eternal life to, when are they gonna perish? Never. Never. That's what I want to talk about. Never Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Lord's Day. We begin off begin this new week in your house, and we praise you for that. We rejoice in your goodness. Lord, you blessed us with beautiful weather, a couple days here, and uh we just um are very, very grateful for all the things you've given us. And now, as we look at this very key verse here on this matter of salvation I pray, Lord, that you would, your Holy Spirit would teach us and help us to grasp and understand exactly what you're saying here. And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit again this hour. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that you'd fill me and you speak through me and teach us Lord, some of us maybe need to be reminded. Maybe this is a new concept for some. But whatever the case, help us to understand clearly what you're saying here. I ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we'd all agree everybody needs to have a uh uh to have a sense of security We have a basic need for a sense of security. We need to know that we are safe. We feel safe. Everybody with me? We need to have that. It causes problems if the sense of security. Several years ago, and I guess it's probably going to be an ongoing thing, but several years ago there uh these church shootings uh started happening. People walk into a church with a gun and just start mowing people down, down in Texas and South Carolina, I think. And several other places around. And so uh people were naturally a little anxious. You always say it would never happen to us, but every place it happened, they said it would never happen to us And so we want people, our church, have a sense of security, feel safe, and so we ha ask the Sheriff's Department come in and uh help us do some training, that Alice training they have and went through that. How many people remember us doing that? Now what was the purpose of that? We want to feel secure. We want to feel safe. We had a family just uh several months ago visit us back before everything fell apart. um a family visit us and one of the questions they had was does your church have a security plan in place or something and he made this statement he says I want my family to be safe in church Now, why would he say that? We say that because we have instilled in us a basic need to have a sense of security, a sense of safety. We lock our doors at night. Now, Garrett County don't so much. When we lived in Indianapolis, definitely when we lived in Philly, we had several locks on the doors. And we want to be able to lay down at night, we want to lay in our beds at night, put our head in the pillow, and feel reasonably safe that somebody's not going to come in my house and rob me and harm me. We have that need for that on the workplace. They have safety things in place. Now sometimes they go a little overboard, I think, with that. But people will work better will be more productive, more efficient in their work if there's a sense of security, sense of safety. I was reading this week about the Golden Gate Bridge out in California. They began building that thing in 1933 And when they first began, the first several months, maybe the first six months, maybe up to a year, I don't remember the exact time frame But they were having a lot of they were way behind schedule. They could not stay on schedule. There was 23 fellas had fallen from the bridge, down into the water, lost their lives And so finally the engineers and those in charge got together and said, we need to do something. We are so far behind schedule. These fellows are falling. They discussed different air uh ideas and they came up with the idea of spreading a huge net Underneath the Golden Gate Bridge, while they're building it, this massive net cost millions of dollars, way, put them way over budget, but they decided they needed to do that. So they did. You know what they found out? Less people fell. When that net was there than when the net wasn't there. Isn't that interesting? And they found that they got back on schedule, the men worked much more efficiently when they had a sense of security Now, I don't know, this is my thinking, if there's a net underneath and you know I'm not going to be hurt if I do fall, maybe you would take more risks, maybe you would be a little more uh uh careless in your thing because you know I'm gonna get be caught in the net. But the exact opposite took place. They could focus on what they were doing, they could be more effective in their work, and they could be more efficient And the fear of falling actually caused them to fall. And what's true physically for us physically is sense of security, I believe is true for us spiritually. A Christian needs to have a sense of security, a sense of assurance. And God does. God provides that for us. uh provides assures his children, saved people, that they are loved and accepted by him. I need to know Spiritually, I need to know that God loves me and God accepts me. How many people agree with me? That's a great assurance to think that God loves me and God accepts me. Not because of some performance I do not because of what I'm doing for him. Well if I if I do enough of this and I do enough of that, then God will accept me. No, God doesn't accept us because of anything we do or anything we are in and of ourselves. God accepts us in Christ. When I trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, then I am completely acceptable to God because of what Christ has done for me, because I'm in Christ. And so we have this assurance. I don't have to live my life in fear and worry and anxiety Does God accept me? Does God accept me? God does accept me as a believer because of Christ. So God gives us that assurance that we are loved by Him, we are accepted by Him because of our standing in Christ. And then we need to have this assurance of our salvation. I don't believe a Christian can grow and develop unless we have that assurance that my sins are forgiven. And that I actually do have eternal life. There's two very important Bible doctrines concerning this matter of salvation. Two very there's a lot a lot involved with salvation, but there's two that stand out, particularly our subject here today, and one is this, is that the Bible tells us we can have a no-so salvation In other words, we can have assurance of our salvation. I can be assured, I can know that my sins are forgiven Uh I'm saved from hell. I have eternal life. I have a home in heaven. Uh we don't have to hope so for that. We don't have to Wonder. We have a no-so salvation. Now keep your place here in John. And if you would, go to the book of 1 John. Back towards the end of your New Testament there. The book of 1 John And I want you to notice with me a few verses. 1 John chapter 5. And I want to begin reading in verse 11. Bible says God assures us that we can have a no-so salvation. We can know we're saved. Not a hope-so, not a think-so, not a maybe-so. When I'm out visiting and knocking on doors, I talk to people in various settings. And probably the number one answer I get when I ask someone, do you know for sure? You have assurance. Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell? The number one answer I get to that question. Anyone want to take a guess? What do you think? I hope so Well, God says we don't have a hope-so salvation, we have a no-so salvation. Look at verse 11, 1 John chapter 5. And this is the record. Alright, he's going on record here. This is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in our baptism Right? No. This life is in my church membership. Nope. This life is in my lifestyle. Nope. This life is in my good deeds. Nope. This life is in what? His son. Look at what he says next verse. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Now look at verse 12, verse 13. Important verse. These things have I written unto you, the Bible, the book of 1 John particularly, but the Bible in general, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, so there is a condition to this assurance. Believe on the name of the Son of God. Now look at this next statement. That ye may what? Say it again. Ye may know that ye what? Have. Present tense. Eternal life, and that you may believe in the name of the Son of God. God assures us that we can know that our sins are given on our way to heaven. There's a second. doctrine or that is associated with salvation, salvation type doctrine that is very, very important. One is having assurance, knowing that my sins are forgiven. I've trusted Christ I have eternal life in Christ, and I have the Son, and I know that I have eternal life. Assurance. And there's another one, and that is this, security. The security of my salvation, we we refer to it this way, the eternal security of the believer And by that we simply mean this. A person has trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, a person who has Jesus Christ, they put their faith and trust in Christ, they've been born again into the family of God. That person is absolutely secure in their salvation. Now, the word secure, security, secure, has this idea to be kept safe, to be kept from danger. And God says our salvation is secure. It is kept safe. It's kept from danger. If you would turn with me, you're not far away, to 1 Peter. Just back a couple of books previous to 1 John. 1 Peter. And chapter 1, I want us to notice verse 3, 4, and 5. Now we preached on this. We're in Sunday nights. We're preaching through Peter. So a few uh weeks ago, a few months or two ago, might have been a year ago, I'm not sure at this point But uh a little while ago, we preached on this. I want you to look again. 1 Peter chapter 1. Look with me if you would at verse 3 1 Peter 1 and verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again. Born again. We have begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Do you notice all these references? Assurance Security are all revolve around Jesus Christ. Do you notice that? Not about us. Not around us. It's all about Christ. Verse 4. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away. I like this next phrase. Reserved in heaven for you. I wrote in the Mars of my Bible, reserved seats in heaven. Do you ever reserve seats in a ballgame? You get there's somebody else sitting in it Now I I just start riots when they do that. You know what? We have reserved seats in heaven, reserved for us. I'm telling you, when God reserves something, mark it down, it's reserved. Now read on. Reserved in heaven for you, now I like this next verse, who are what? Kept by the power of our good works. No, by the power of our faith. No, by the power of what? God. Kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last days. So, assurance. I know that my sins are forgiven. I'm all my way to heaven. I know I trust in Christ. I know I have eternal life. Security, that salvation is secure. It's kept by the power of God That place in heaven, that acceptance in heaven is secure. I can't lose that. It can't be taken away. It is possible, and I hope you follow my train of thinking here It is possible for a person to be genuinely saved, trust in Christ born again. It is possible for a person to be genuinely saved, but not have assurance of their salvation. It's possible to be saved. And boy have that I did for about a month after I got saved. I never really thought about it. I wasn't taught much at that point. And uh, you know, it's kinda like I got saved, no doubt about it. But for a brief period of time there it was kinda like, well, I hope so, you know, I think, yeah. Uh, and that, and God help me, assurance of salvation has to do with my understanding of God's promises A person can be saved, but not really understand clearly the no-so part of that, the assurance of that So it's possible for a person to be saved, genuinely born again, genuinely saved, have eternal life, but not really have assurance about that. I'll tell you, that's an exciting thing outsole when knocking on doors you come across someone And they say, Do you know for sure you died now, you go to heaven? They say, I hope so. So well the Bible says we can know so. Can I show you? Sure. And you go through, well, I know I'm a sinner, yeah. I believe Jesus died for my sins, rose again. I know that And uh uh call well I did call on him back at uh your church in a revival meeting I visited and I called on the Lord and I trust him and say Well, you said you don't know. Well, I don't know. And I'll tell you, one exciting thing souling with people is helping them get assurance of their salvation. That's an exciting thing, and say, wow, I can know. I can know So it's possible for a person to be genuinely saved, genuinely born again, but not of assurance of their salvation. Now I think it hinders their growth. I think the struggle growing, that's hard to serve the Lord. We had a fellow years ago who was helping us on internship. That guy never could get assurance of salvation He was always doubting it. And you know what I found out? He struggled in the ministry also. He just had a hard time. Nicest guy in the world, but really struggled with that. So it's possible, genuinely saved, but not of assurance of salvation, and uh and that's possible. But it is not possible, it is not possible for a person to be saved and not have security of their salvation. Follow what I'm saying? Now, whether I understand it or not, the security of my salvation, the eternal security of my salvation, is not based on my understanding of God's promises, it's based on the power of God's promises. Because God is the one securing my salvation. God is the one that is sealing me with the Spirit unto the day of redemption. God is the one that is keeping me By his power. You follow what I'm saying? So if a person's saved, they have eternal security. If they're genuinely saved They have eternal security. But persons generally say they might not necessarily have assurance. They need to get that. That's part of the churches, our ministry is help people get assurance But it's possible that. And so these two very, very important, uh very important uh doctrines concerning salvation. Now, I said all that, if you would come back to John chapter number 10. How many people are happy this morning? Say amen If you're not happy this morning, say nothing. Don't say anything. All right. I mean people are glad the sun's out. I'm trying to wake y'all up. This is the early session. Normally y'all in bed still at this time. So amen. I'm glad you're here. Isn't it good to be in church? Wow. In spite of everything, it's good. Look uh look at John chapter 10, verse 28. I call this A gold medal salvation verse. They were giving out gold medals. This verse would get gold medal. Look at what it says. Jesus speaking, I give unto them Eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand What a verse. What a statement by our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, my first point is this. I want us to notice who is being addressed here. Who is he saying? Who is he giving this promise That they'll never perish and they cannot be plucked out of his hand. Who is he saying that to? Well, you've got to go back to verse 27 See who this uh them is them is. Verse 20, I give unto them. Alright, who's the them? Go back to verse 27, my what? Sheep, my sheep, who in the world are Jesus' sheep? Well, uh, without uh with very few exceptions, whenever Jesus refers to people as sheep, With almost without exceptions, on very, very rare cases, it's referring to his people. In the Old Testament, he often referred to the children of Israel as of his sheep In um Psalm 23, David said, Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. And he refers to himself as the sheep there, and the Lord's the shepherd. In the New Testament, the believers, particularly the Lord Jesus Christ, refers to believers as sheep. Peter wrote, and he said, feed the what? Flock of God. He's talking to pastors. And so almost without exception in the Bible, when Jesus refers to my sheep, he's talking to his people, people are his people, people who have been saved. He had been saved. Look at verse 27. Two characteristics of Jesus' sheep. He says, My sheep, two things he says, they what? They hear my voice. I got looking up that word here, and it means this, to uh give attention to. Or to have an understanding of, to give attention to, or have an understanding of. He says one unique characteristic of my sheep, those who are genuinely saved Those who have been born again into the family of God, those are my people. One unique characteristic of them is they hear, they give attention to my voice. They understand what I'm saying Uh, did you ever hear somebody say, somebody says, oh, I'm getting tired of these mess and everything, and somebody says, I heard that. Anybody? What are they saying? Saying, I understand, boy, I'm with you. I know what you're talking about there. You know what Jesus sheep say when Jesus says something? I heard that. I understand what the God's saying to give understanding, to hear with attention, to give understanding to. A general, unique characteristic of God's sheep is they hear his voice You know what I found out before I got saved? That book didn't make much sense to me. But after I got saved, become one of God's sheep, suddenly I heard what the Lord saith. You follow what I'm saying? How many people remember Bushrod Hardesty? I tell you, what a testimony of God's grace. That old boy got turned around. And um doing a funeral for his brother Gary. Everybody remember Gary? Gary got saved. Man alive. God changed his life And uh I was we were doing the funeral and after we were having a dinner and uh got talking about Bushrod used to work with Ron Coddington. Ron loves when I point him out in sermons and stuff. And uh we were sitting around talking and uh we got talking about Gary's salvation and then Bushrod's salvation and uh Bush Rai made this interesting statement to me. He says years ago in the mines, worked with Ron. Ron would witness to me and talk to me And um he said, uh uh Bush Rod told me, he says, I told Ron back then, he's reading Bible verses to me and all this, he said, I told him that I can't make head nor tails out of that book you're reading from. He was unsaved It doesn't make a lick of sense to me. None of that. And then Bushrod said this. He says, but when I got saved, all of a sudden that book made a heap of sense to me My sheep hear my voice. You understand? And uh I tell you, old Bushrod held to that Bible. When he was in the hospital, that Bible was right by his bed. He'd be open it, reading it. I'd give them verses to look up Boy, he'd look it up. They'd come, him and uh Mary would come, they'd sit right down here. We didn't so back in the days when we didn't social distance, they all sat right down here, and uh they'd get the bulletin And they'd look up the verses I was preaching, they'd go in the index to try and find it. He was just learning the Bible. And he wanted to find where it was so that it didn't take time when I started the sermon. You know what that? That sh my sheep hear my voice Hear my voice. I tell you, one one good sign when somebody uh professes faith in Christ, one good sign is when that Bible becomes very, very important to them They start getting in that book and eating up the preaching. So one characteristic of God's sheep, uh unique characteristic of the Lord's sheep is that they hear his voice. And then the other one is what? They follow me. I got looking at that word follow. It means to accompany. I like this definition. To get in behind to submissively get in behind. If I'm following somebody, I'm letting them choose the direction of my path, right? If I'm following them, if I'm following uh like a good husband, I'm following my wife, and um she goes down this aisle at the store and I go this way, am I following her? No, what if I want to go this way and she goes that way? Doesn't matter what I want, if I'm going to follow her, I'm going to go where she says, right And like a good husband, I do. And uh but uh that's what he's talking about for the believer. When a person gets saved, or they're one of God's uh children, one of his sheep, one of the characteristics is they follow the Lord. Now, do we ever do this perfectly? No, uh-uh. We don't always hear the Lord. We don't always Uh follow where he leads. And uh anybody here since you've been saved? Ever do something contrary to the word, will of God? Anybody All right, raise your hand if you did. See, some of you just right now did the contrary. And um, but uh uh we follow the Lord And so, two general characteristics of the Lord's sheep is they hear his voice and they follow him. They lead him. And so, who is being addressed here? Who is he giving this promise to? His sheep. People that have been genuinely born again, people who are saved, people are part of the family of God. Here's what I'm trying to get at: Jesus never gives a promise of assurance of salvation to an unsaved person. Jesus never says to an unsaved person, Jesus never says to a person that has not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you'll never perish. Nobody can pluck you from my hand. He never promises that. That promise is only to believers. You say, well, preacher, that's pretty obvious. Yes, it is pretty obvious. But I would never, ever, ever want an unsaved person to claim a promise that does not apply to them. I would never want an unsaved person to think, oh, I'm fine, everything's fine, I'm going to heaven. If you're not saved, you've not trusted Christ, everything is not fine. You don't have assurance of salvation. You don't have the security only in Christ, only by coming to Christ. Does that make sense? Everybody follow what I'm trying to get at here? So the people being addressed here are believers. Regardless of how religious a person may be, if they don't have Jesus Christ as Savior, they do not have eternal life, and they will perish if they die in that condition. So we must be very, very careful before I claim the promise of verse 28. I need to make sure I'm one of the sheep of verse 27. I need to make sure of that. The tragedy, here's a tragic thing, as I was studying this, I thought, man alive. What about people that have an opportunity to be saved? And they reject it. I'm convinced they have no comprehension of what they are rejecting. When they say no to Christ. Rejecting the assurance of a home in heaven, escaping hell. Rejecting the security, God taking over my eternal destiny, and God keeping me. God securing me and to say no to all of that. What a tragedy. Years ago I wasn't here very long, maybe a few years And uh one of the fellows, some of you all remember, Marvin Thomas, was here. And he would visit Thursday nights with us. Him and Dale made a lot of visits together. And one week he says, Preacher, I'd like uh I got somebody need to visit us, they need to be saved He said, Would you come with me go visit him? I said, sure, I'd be glad to. So we went Thursday night, and uh the fellow was home, and uh his wife, and there was another couple there with him, and they invited us in, and we got talked a little bit, and uh finally I said, um I said the fellow's name and uh I said uh Marvin here asked us to come by and I said we we really have an important question to ask you I said, okay. I mean they were very open, very friendly. And um I said, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? Well we don't know oh kind of hope so da da da I said can I show you can I show you how to how to know that have that settled? They said sure So I still I remember now I was sitting in a chair, Marvin was over here sitting in a chair, there was a sofa there, one couple was there, sofa over there, and then the couple we were visiting, the one in particular, was sitting there That's why I got my Bible out and I went through the plan of salvation. Clearly, they all understood. They were right on board. And I'm telling you, it was one of those times when you could sense the presence the convicting presence of the Holy Spirit in an unusual way. There was no doubt in my mind these these four folks were under intense conviction. And so I went through and it came time to be saved. And I said, well tell you what, let's just bow our heads right here and now You've acknowledged you're a sinner, you're willing to turn to Christ, trust him, you believe that he died for you, buried, rose again, and now it's time to make that decision, to put your faith and trust in him. I said, let me help you pray and call on the Lord to be saved. And they said, no, no, no. I thought they misunderstood what I was saying. I mean the presence and conviction. There was no doubt. I knew they understood. But I said, well, let's go over this again. I went back over that whole thing again. I said, let's all right now's the time. Let's make this decision. Let's bow our heads. And I bow my head to oh and nothing. Nope. Preacher, no, not now. Not now. Not now. And I'll tell you, I pressed that and pressed that and pressed that, and I could not get them to call on the Lord and trust the Lord as Savior. We walked out of there broken hearted. Marvin said to me, he says, I've never sensed the presence of God in my life like we did this last hour sitting there in their living room. I said, I know, it's the same way with me. I said, I just can't believe they didn't get saved. Weeks went by, I thought, I'm going to run by there, try again. I went by there, I couldn't get past the front door Nope. Nope. They didn't want to talk about it. They didn't want to see me. Then they moved away, and I never had another opportunity. I don't know whatever became of them. I don't know whatever became of them. But what a tragedy what they turned down that night. And know for sure to have assurance that my sins are forgiven. I have eternal life. God would secure me. And keep me and said no to all of that. Look with me at verse 31. Look what happened when Jesus gave these promises to these Pharisees, and look how they responded. Look at verse 31 with me. Then the Jews took up what? Stones again to stone him. They rejected it. They rejected it. So who's being addressed here? Believers. Only believers. Only someone that's trusted Christ. Only someone that's genuinely been saved. Can have assurance of salvation, can say, I'll never perish, and I'll never be plucked out of cr God's Christ's hand Only those who are saved. That's who's being addressed. Number two, I'd like for us to notice how eternal life is obtained. Look at verse 28. Come back there with me Look at the first part of verse 28. And I, what's the third word? Give unto them eternal life. Give! I got looking up that word give. It has this idea. This is one of the definitions. To bestow a gift to someone. I give, I bestow upon them as a gift eternal life. A gift. Salvation from sin, a life of sin, and salvation from eternity in hell, the judgment of sin, salvation from all of that is a gift. That God bestows on those who will receive it. A gift. Over and over and over, particularly in the book of Romans, salvation, eternal life, is referred to as a gift, a gift, a gift, a gift The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. For by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Being saved is a gift that God gives to us. In fact, in Romans chapter five, he says repeatedly freely given, a free gift of salvation, a free gift of salvation. By the way, if it ain't free, it ain't a gift. Amen or not? I saw an advertisement said, we'll give you this free. Just send us ten dollars. Wow, what a deal. I got a free car. All I had to do was give them $20,000. I got a free car. Listen, if it ain't free, it ain't a gift. If I gotta pay for it, it's a what? It's a purchase. I'm buying something. I ain't giving me you know, I went up bought the car last year and uh you know write a check, whatever, and uh here you go. Um uh I don't know remember what it was to it's none of your business how much I paid for my car. And uh here you go, alright, here's this gift of a car. I'd say, philly on you, that ain't no gift. I could pay give you half my life savings for that car. Um and uh if it ain't free it ain't a gift. If you pay for it, it's a purchase. If you have to work for it, it's a what? It's a payment. It's something you earn. It's a payment. You go in the you go into the office at work on Friday to get your check and they say, all right, I'm ready for my check. All right, here we're going to give you a gift This is our gift. Gift, nothing. I work my tail off all week for that day. That ain't no gift. That's what you owe me. Right? Hey, I can't work for salvation. I can't work for a good night. How much work would you have to do to earn heaven? It's not something we earn. How much would you pay How much would you have to pay to have your sins forgiven on your way down? You can't buy it, you can't earn it. It's a gift that God offers us. I give unto them eternal life. Now, there's one of two things you can do with a gift. One of two things. I can either accept it and take it to be mine, or I can refuse it. No, thank you. Nope So he says, here I want to give you a gift. Oh, let me do something for that. No, no, no. It's a gift. I want you to have it. Well, how much do I owe you for it? No, no, no. It's a gift. Here, you take it And you receive it and take it to be yours, or you reject it? And Jesus says, I give unto them eternal life. Say, preacher, how do I get to be one of them, their sheep? Well, it's a gift. You come, acknowledge yourself as a sinner, recognize, turn to Christ, believe that he died for your sins, rose again And by and as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, call on him, and God forgives us and saves us. It's a gift that he offers to us. Now, we talked about the characteristics. Hear his voice and follow him. Those are characteristics of those who have been saved. They are not conditions for salvation. They are the consequences. That's what produced. Hey, if somebody gives you the gift of eternal life, how many people would say your sense of obligation to listen to what they say? Right? God's done that for me. Good heavens, died and suffered hell for me. The least I can do is listen to him and follow him and let him lead me. That's the result of salvation. That's the product of salvation Ephesians 2. 10 says that we are saved unto good works. It produces that a sense of gratitude, a sense of love, a sense of appreciation, a sense of debt to my Savior for what He's done for me. I want to listen to him and follow him and live for him, but it's not a condition for salvation. Salvation is a gift. I simply receive it by faith. Uh only one of two things you can do with a gift, receive it or reject it. Can't earn it, can't buy it. By the way, if I um uh let's see, I was I'll use Pastor Matt. He's about the youngest guy in here besides. Well, let me go over here to Austin. Nah, Austin's loaded. He's got all kinds of money. Um If I go, Pastor Matt, you laughed at my joke. You're so great. Man, I just appreciate you. And uh tell you what, I want to give you this dollar. Oh, he received it. Whose is it now? It's his, not mine anymore. Lay it right there. Just lay it right, just for sake of illustration. And um later on I go down to Devlar's. I'm gonna get some ice cream. Oh man, I gave that dollar to Pastor Matt. I forgot I don't have enough money to buy my ice cream. Hey Pastor Matt. Good night. Look over there And I take it back. What did I just do? I stole it. I gave it to him. It's his. I take it back, I'm stealing. I'm telling you, God gives to us eternal life as a gift. It's ours. I'm saved. Salvation is mine. What's our verse say? The God of my salvation. If God would take that back, what'd He'd be doing? He'd be stealing it. He says, I give it to you. Here, it's yours. I offer you salvation. You take it, you receive it. If God would take it back again, that would be stealing. Does that make sense? That might not be the greatest illustration in the world But I'm telling you, God, I've said this years ago, this, I might get in trouble for this. I don't know. No matter what you say now, you get in trouble. But uh God's not an Indian giver. Remember when you were kids You say, Oh, there's an Indian giver. In other words, you give it to him, then you take it back. And God's not an Indian giver And uh God gives us eternal life. So how do I get it? Uh one, uh I give it to them. It's a gift. We receive it by faith. And then last of all, quickly, look with me if you would. Notice the security that is promised. That's a whole everything I said I was trying to build up to this. And I give unto them eternal life And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. There's several great statements here. Number one, he says, I give unto them what kind of life? Come on now, talk to me. What kind of life? Eternal life. If something's eternal, how long does it last? Forever. In fact, I got looking that up. One of the definitions for eternal was never ceasing God gives to us, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, the gift of God is eternal life, never-ceasing life, unending life. D. Al Moody said, when you hear D. Al Moody has died and you see his body in the casket, don't you believe it for one minute he's alive just as much now as he's ever been? Why? Because he has eternal life, unending life. Body dies, but you and I live on forever. Eternal life. Eternal life. Unending. Never uh it doesn't say I give unto them temporary life Temporary life lasts a little while, something happens, it's gone. Right? He doesn't say I give unto them probationary life. What is probation? Some of you all know what that is. Probation life. Ah, you got busted in the slammer, the big house, and you do your time, they let you out, and you're on probation. What does that mean? It means if you don't keep your nose clean, you're heading back to the slammer, right? Anybody get them catch my lingo? Yeah, you're heading back. And uh I'm telling you, God doesn't say I give unto them probation. You better live it or you're gonna lose it. That's probationary life You better keep your nose clean or you're heading back to hell. You don't find that in the Bible anywhere. Now, does God chasten us if we don't keep our nose clean? Yeah, God will clean our nose pretty good. He'll clean our clock, pretty good. God chastens and He does what needs to be done to straighten things out. He doesn't tolerate sin. He doesn't excuse or overlook sin. He chastens sin in the life of the believer. But he doesn't revoke eternal life because it would not be eternal. So, one of the great assurances of our salvation, the security of salvation, is in the very nature of the life that God gives us. It's eternal. And then he says they'll never perish. I got looking up the word never. And we already dealt with this. When's never? It's never. In fact, the Strong's Dictionary, or one of the dictionaries I was looking up, Greek dictionaries, It said this is one of the strongest negative words in the Greek language. I think Jesus used it deliberately. Never And here's the idea behind it. It is a very strong word. It means this: at no time, in any way, for any reason, at all, without exception. In other words, under no circumstances whatsoever is one of Jesus' sheep going to perish. Not at all ever. Turn with me, we've got a couple minutes yet. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly, to the book of Luke. And we could actually go to Matthew 5. 18 or Mark 13. 31, but we're going to look at Luke chapter 21, if you would. Luke chapter 21, and when you get there, find verse 33. Again, this is Jesus speaking. And notice the statement here, Luke 21, verse 33. Are you there? Look what it says: Heaven and earth shall pass away. They are what? They're temporary. Heaven and earth are going to pass away. But my words shall what? Not pass away. That word not is the exact same word as never in Luke 10, 28. Let me ask you a question. Is God's word ever going to pass away? Is there any circumstance whatsoever where the word of God will cease to be? Under any conditions, no, under no circumstances whatsoever, as secure as the Word of God is, Jesus said, your salvation and my salvation is. I don't have the reference. I wish I should have uh I just thought of it now. But in the book of Psalms, uh uh I I'm gonna say chapter twelve, I'm not sure, but he says that he preserves his saints. Exact same word where he uses in uh uh uh in uh another text where he says he preserves his word. In other words, when Jesus talks about the preservation of saints, the security of saints the eternal security of a saved believer. He always uses the exact same word that he uses in identifying the preservation, the eternal security of his word. And I take away from that, my salvation is as sure, as secure, as unending as the Word of God is. Man, how many people agree then? That's pretty secure. That's pretty secure. As long as that book is, my salvation is. Never perish, never perish, under no circumstances. If one of God's sheep perished, If one of God's sheep would die and go to hell, then Jesus lied. Right or wrong? If one believer, genuinely saved person, perished, then Jesus lied. I'm telling you right now, Jesus never lies. He cannot lie. And then he goes on with on time. He says, Neither can any man pluck them out of my hand. What a beautiful picture. Well, you better hold on. No, it's not me holding on to him, it's him holding on to me. I don't know about you, but if it was up to me holding on, I'd have lost it years ago. I'd have lost it in the first day I was saved. It's not me holding on to him, it's him holding on to me. When I get saved, when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, my eternal destiny is sealed. It's in the hands of God. And the devil himself cannot get me out of the hand of Jesus Christ. And then he goes on and says, My Father is great and all, neither can any man pluck them out of my father's hand. And the Holy Spirit seals me until the great Trinity is protecting me and sealing me. How many people would feel very, very safe in church here. If if we knew Jesus was out there and God was out there and the Holy Spirit was surrounding this place, nobody could get in. How many people would feel pretty safe? Yeah That's what our salvation is. I was reading back uh this past week I went out, saw my boys, had a blast. Thank you for praying. We had a wonderful time And uh we crossed the Mississippi River Monday afternoon, sometime, uh cross the mighty Mississippi. I was reading about the Mississippi this week and years ago, this is backport cars and everything Uh on the northern end of the Mississippi, they had an usually cold winter, bitter cold, and the Mississippi froze over. And apparently very unusual. And this fella had to get to the other side. Of course the fairies weren't gone. It was all froze up. And um He was very, very leery about walking across this big river, you know how thin the ice was. But he had to get on the other side. He had to. And so he went out there and very, very carefully Went on that thing. And the farther out he went, the deeper it got, and he was worried that ice would get thinner. Finally got out of ways and he got so fearful, he got down on his hands and knees. And he was just kind of inching his way, trembling, scared to death. Any moment it's going to break through, he's going to drown. And uh he goes and he's all sprawled out. And uh he finally gets over on the other side, crawls up on the bank. Made it. About that time, a big old horse pulling a sleigh came down the edge of the bank, loaded sleighs loaded with goods. And the guy driving the thing, just right down without hesitation, right down on the ice, crossed the ice, up the other side, went on. Guy's looking. He got talked around. Here, that ice was about 12, 16 inches deep. That ice was more than strong enough to hold his weight easily. He didn't have to sweat and worry and be afraid. He could have walked across there confidently, secure, he was fine. You know, I think sometimes we got Christians that way. Oh, I'm gonna lose it. How better I be careful? Oh no. And they get to heaven. Oh I get to heaven, find out I was in the hand of Christ the whole time It's never going to perish. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Shakure. And I found best soul winners are those that have assurance of their salvation. And secure, understand security. I found Christians grow the best are those that are secure. Just like those bridge workers. Much more efficient, much more confident, happier, serving, better workers When that net is under, they know they're safe. I found those that are always afraid of losing their salvation, always worried I'm going to lose it. I found sometimes they're not as effective. Sometimes even more vulnerable to sin than those that have assurance. So let's praise the Lord for it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Number one, make sure and know we're safe, not presume on this great, great truth here, but meet the conditions and that of trusting Christ, being one of your sheep. And Lord, I pray that you would help all of us here to have assurance of that salvation, know that we've got it settled, we did it to buy a way, and then rest in the security of that, and live for you and serve you, live godly, holy, pure lives. Because of that. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and I wonder if how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but sometimes I worry. Sometimes I get fearful and anxious, careful about things And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll just rest in God's promises. I'll just rest in that. Any like that up at home, preacher, I need to learn to just rest and trust God. Not just for salvation, but in all areas, especially in days like this. Just rest and trust in the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. Is there some here say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved? I'm burdened for them. I want them to be saved. And you say, preacher, pray with me, then I'll be a good witness and see them come to Christ. Anybody like that? I know someone, sure, my hands raised Is there someone here this morning, maybe? Say, preacher, I just got some doubts about this. I I can't say I know for sure that I've been born again and saved, have eternal life. Say I don't want to go to hell You'd say, Preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled in my heart and soul. And I can have that assurance that Jesus is talking about here. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I'm concerned about my soul's salvation I want to get that settled. Any at all? Now, Father, you you know our hearts. I saw hands. You know our hearts. Help us be a good witness. Help us to be confident in this old conf confusing world, but to walk in the confidence of your promises in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.