I told Brother Mark I should sing a lot of songs. Because I know y'all think you're gonna get out here early. And you might. I am thankful for everybody that came out. Um, I don't know about you all. Today just seems like an odd day with things that transpired the last few days around. And with that, I want to say that all of you guys in here Wait a minute, I'm looking through the crowd. Most of you guys in here are very uh mean a lot to Diane and I. Very much. Actually all of you do. You guys know I'm teasing Um we appreciate you. You know, we're transplants here. Dying's from accident, but really we're transplants. We're not from I'm not from here for sure. We moved here eight years ago And you guys have all taken us in family. You know, some of you guys seem like my fathers, some of you guys seem like my mothers. Some of and I love that, you know what I mean? I love that. I'm not saying that disrespectful. Uh you guys mean a lot to us. And in times that we're going through right now, we need that. Keep us in your prayers. Keep the ministry of the church in your prayers. Pastor is uh he's very uh He misses being here right now. Um I I'm trying to find, sorry to fumble through this. Um I know some of you have Facebook and some of you don't, but I just find it only appropriate to He he posted yesterday, uh 10 o'clock I think hour time. He said very much miss uh mixed emotions down here at Sydney Airport. Heavy, heavy hearts, hearts for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church family, especially Johnny Jones, and family, but also praying for an anticipation of God's blessing and power on the meeting here in Australia and then in New Zealand. Claiming Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 on this trip, trusting God for his direction, for his decisions, and the needs that need to be made. So please keep you and keep him in your prayers. Again, you know, he misses here. This is part of all the lives that everybody has to go through and go and does go through. Um I'm not used to being up here on Wednesday nights, I'm used to being downstairs I am probably as happy I'm up here because down there some of them say I'm a little bit of a trouble with the kids. They call me crazy Mr. James, so But I'm not like some of you guys who sleep through service. Don't think we don't notice it. Okay. But uh my father used to, because he was a construction worker. When he would come to church on Sunday mornings, because he was out in the sun in Indiana a lot, he would fall asleep sometimes because it's hot and he goes into an air-conditioned place. We had a preacher person when she would come and I say she because the way I was raised there was a lady preacher once in a while. She filled in. Um she would pound the pulpit when she would see and she'd say, Ain't that right, Jerry? So she'd wake him up, you know. So Just remember you know how to do that, okay? Ed's promising to stay awake. But Ed's probably learned from He worked Ed you worked at GMC? General Motors, yeah. I think they mostly slept there anyway. So he's used to doing that Alright, so my message tonight, Ophel, let's pray first, okay? Lord, we love you. Father, we thank you for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church We thank you for each and every one of the people that's here, members of the congregation, those that visit, those that come. Lord, most of all your saints that are serving here. We thank you so much for them. God, we need your help. We need you through these days. Father, we also need you in this new year to give us the guidance and direction to keep serving you, Lord, and the importance of serving you. I pray you'll be with me tonight as I bring your message. In your name I pray. Amen. Alright. My message is the new year. Old, uh new year old you. How many of you are still old from last year? Most everybody. There might have been one or two slid through that turned another new year older Okay, so last year we encountered satisfaction. We had bills, we probably had appliances breakdown, some probably had hip replacements. Some probably had dissatisfac anybody not have a dis dissatisfaction last year? The whole year went through with nothing but praises Raise your hand. I didn't think there was going to be by raise their hands. We had ups and downs. We had gains and losses, whether it be financially or wait. It happens. Because why? That's life's issues, right? But through it all we had who and what with us. Who was with us last year? The Lord was. And the Holy Spirit was with us. So the Holy Spirit knew what was going on. Um it's ironic sometimes we think of how does this happen or why does this happen. Do we know the answers? We just know it's God's timing. And that's what we have to realize and what we have to reflect on. As we celebrate, we celebrated Christmas 42 days ago. I don't know about you all, but it it 42 days have already passed. It kind of seems like we just started back to work, which one of us just started back to work two days ago this year. So but you know the birth of Jesus 42 or we celebrated it 42 days ago, but now we're already into this time of year. But God brought us through of all last year. Forty-two days ago was the birth, we celebrate the birth of Jesus. The one that chose you and me over himself. Do we realize that when we see him? I'm going to do this habit of taking my glasses on and off. Normally Diane's here doing this to help remind me not to do that, sorry. And also the tie doesn't match the shirt. You guys all know when you go home. You know men are good about picking out things. We are. See, Ed says it looks good. I looked at my club, I'm like, I don't have a weather shirt to work today, and I had like ten minutes between work and getting here And I'm like, I don't have a tie. I said, so they can just stare at this and think, man, that tie. All you guys that are old enough that remember the old Batman and Robin shows on TV and how they did that spiral in between the chase scenes and all. So just look at this and think of that spiral and then wake back up, okay? But anyway, so when Christ went to the cross, and when I read through that passage again and again, he was thinking of us. Completely when he went there. That's amazing because I know myself I'm not deserving of him doing that for me A lot of us are not. And when we turn on the news and we see things that go on, we know for sure there's a lot of people that are not deserving of another man dying on the cross for us. But he did that for us Um if you read in Matthew twenty-six, and I'm going to briefly skim through this because this is not where we're going to park at, but Matthew 26 We start over in verse 47. This is when Judas came with a great multitude, and the chief priests and the elders, and when they brought swords to get Jesus. Then in verse 50, Jesus called Judas friend. But they laid hands on him and they took him. They weren't his friends, but he still called them friends. Verse 51, Peter was courageous. He drew a sword and smote the ear off of the high priest. Some of us kind of like that. Jesus didn't like it, but he was trying to protect the Lord. Verse 52, Jesus told him to put it away. Put away the sword. When I read that and kept reading reading that, how often do we sometimes when we're angry and mad, do we pull out our daggers and jab people? We do that sometimes. Lord told Peter not to do that, not to cause harm to somebody else. And I'm not talking physically, I'm talking mentally and abusively, but we do that Jesus was talking, was thinking and talking about all of us when he went to that cross. Verse 53, thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels. Christ could have said one word and got out of the situation that he was in. But again, he was thinking about all of us He was thinking about those people that were there with him. He was thinking about them. Verse forty fifty-four. If he would have done that, then he wouldn't have. Verse 54 says, But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled? He had you and me in mind. He had those that were with him in mind. He was thinking of them. He wasn't thinking of himself. I want to back up and say this. If we're Christ-like and we want to be Christ-like, is that one thing we should do is think of others instead of ourselves? We should do that, right? How easy is that to do? It's not easy. We have to die daily to ourselves. Christ could have stayed longer on earth. He could have delayed his time. He could have been here longer than 32 years, 33 years He could have done that, but he he in his timing chose when he had given enough and that God was calling him home. Again, he had, I can't reiterate, he had my salvation and your salvation On his mind, and he knew he needed to go to the cross for us. To me, that was a great uh event for us and for him. Now Now we're fast forward and we're in January. Now we're in February. So we're now in a new year. Are you guys glad we're in 2020? Some people say, oh I'd rather be back in nineteen, whatever. But we can't live in the past, and live in the past won't get us anywhere, and living the past won't get us to fulfilling what we currently are in. In First Corinthians 10 31 tells us, whether therefore ye eat or drink or who whatso excuse me, whatsoever you do, do all the glory for God. So as we become in this new year, what are we supposed to do? By that simple verse. All the glory to God. Now I kept reading that, and we've been beat that, we've been beat that, we've been beat that. Glory to God. All the glory to God. Now This is not my message, but I want to reread the words right before that. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all of that for the glory to God. So what's included in that verse right there? Whether you do what? Eat and drink. I'm the sweetest guy you all know. Reason that is, is because the doctor tells me that with my A1C, my sugar. Right? Is high diabetes high uh sugar rate a good sugar rate? It's not. What can it do to you? Cause my life to be shortened, correct? So let me ask this, and I'm casting stones at myself here. Am I doing all the glory to the Lord by eating candies and eating sweets and not maintaining my sugar? Right, I'm not doing what's right. So think of that. Really, really think of that. Lord laid this on my heart. As you all know, I had a hip replacement and all of that. It really caused me a lot of issues, and it caused me to re-evaluate what I am eating is affecting my service for the Lord because it's causing me to have health issues. There are times when we can't help it. We purposely I'm saying purposely, I didn't worry about it when I eat those Snickers. You know everybody loves paydays. And I ain't talking about the financial ones. I'm talking about them candy bars with the peanuts in them. Those are my favorite. You have to stay away from that. So when I read w so I read this verse quite often and remind myself that by my eating habits I am not bringing glory to the Lord. So I have to be mindful of that. Um Not only does the Lord tell us to do it, but now that we have these physicians and stuff always telling us to do it, and you got the insurance companies telling you to do it because they tell you they ain't gonna pay if you don't. So Just caveating that as a separate thing. Like I said, that's not my message, but it really just touched my heart about that. Okay. So we're now in the new year. All the stuff that we talked about earlier that came in the past year, if we leave that behind, it will help us. If we don't leave some of that mess, if you will, behind us, what takes place? We have issues with our family. If we have issues with coworkers, if we have issues in general, what changes our what happens each day when we have that? Our health's horrible. We all have a real brilliant and and um great attitude from it, right? We don't. That hampers our thinking. Um, you're diving down the road and some nut cuts you off I shouldn't say nut, an incorrect driver. Cuts you off. It makes you mad. Then later on when you see one of them same sports cars coming by, what do you think about I wonder if that's that guy that's going to do this again. What's the best thing to do? Now worry about it. Stay in your lane. It's not easy to do that Not only are we in the new year, but guess what we're in also? What's 2020 starting for us? A new what? Starts with a D. New decade. I look around in here. There's some decades sitting around here One thing I w I I tried to research is each decade back to the 1900s how religion uh was effective each decade. You know the differences in it. And actually it's interesting you don't find anything highlighted about it. There was things, but you don't find anything that stands out and highlighted until twenty ten when we started in the homosexual stuff, uh the gender stuff and that kind of thing. So it it's now becoming where they're kind of gauging and watching it, if you will, and putting a category to it. Interesting to me, because we all know from 1900 forward there's been some great preachers. There's been great movements. There's been great revivals. There's been a lot of great things happen. So we that are saved, we're saved and we're saved. So when we're saved, we should serve, serve, serve. When we do that, does America need us to stand out like the crazy people? Meaning, who has the loudest voice nowadays? In everything, who has the loudest voice? It's the crazy people. If you a uh tell me another word and I'll change it to another word. But I mean seriously, everything that goes on nowadays, we we were talking You know, even when you describe people nowadays, you're afraid to use certain words that we were all raised with that are not harmful words, but because of how things are changed now, we don't use those words that little people You know, we use the word little people now. We don't use the other word that we all that starts with the M that we don't do anymore It's because everybody's got so sensitive. So if they're so sensitive, why is it we don't have the respect that God gave us and instilled in us? For his word, for what we put in front of us, the w the words that we say, why isn't that out there anymore? America has the amount of Christians that it says it has, but do we hear When something's going on in the news, do we hear that basically Christianity trumps whatever that is? Does that make sense? You know what I mean? Whatever they're complaining about Religion, do they bring up a religion and how it's more important and how it says not to do that? It doesn't. Why are we not getting our voices anymore? Why are we not being heard I think it's because we've got to step up and we, in a sense, you know, we say make America great again and we do. We want to do that. What's one way, one of the best ways we can make America great again? Not counting a president. What's one of the ways? Is bring God back. Period. Everywhere we're at. So We have a new beginning. One thing we have is we have hurting people in our own home church. And we need them to know that they are loved by us. So we need them to know that the church is a place of sanctuary, the place of love, the place of laughter, the place of comfort, the place of smiles, the place of hugs. They need to know that's the place I can go and just set and feel the Spirit of the Lord, feel the Spirit of the people, and enjoy what I'm being taught from God's Word. So also in this next decade and this year, we need to concentrate more on others and less of ourselves. How many agree that that America is is people are so concerned more of themselves than anything else? They are. I'll say this, how many people know their neighbors? Three blocks, three doors down nowadays. In some of you's younger days, you knew all the neighbors, you played with all the neighbor kids, all of that. That doesn't happen anymore. It's not there anymore. But can it happen? Can we know our neighbors Hop in once in a while, let our neighbors know who you are, just thinking about you. Once you know I live down the road, if you need anything, here's my name, here's my number. You know, oh, by the way, if you don't go to a good church, here's a church. Oh, but if you do go to a good church and you ever need a prayer request, let me know. I'm available. We'll have our church pray for you. Just simple things to open the doors up. And that helps. When we when I was in in the hospital, there was a did you guys know I was the youngest one up there on that ward? I had it going on. I could chase every one of them and they couldn't run from me. One lady that was there though, she lived right up up the road from us, not on my main road but up. And of course I didn't know her nut at all. Her husband had passed and she was all by herself. So we made sure she had our phone number and stuff if she needed anybody. She didn't need us. Here's why she didn't need us. Yes, because she goes to a church that they constantly take care of her. We do too, and I'm not saying that, but what a blessing it was. In the room when I was talking to people there, she's the only lady that could brag about that and tell that You know what I mean? The others didn't have that ability. So keep that in mind. If we want to bring America back to God, if we want to be the Christians that we're supposed to be simple things that we can do. If you'll turn in your Bibles to Psalm sixteen As a Christian, we know that the Word of God is powerful and it can change lives. We also know that we, if we let God direct our path by filling our mind with the Word daily, that our lives will change. You know the simple thing of reading Proverbs every day. I don't know about you guys, but I absolutely And thrilled with reading Proverbs every day. There's just so much in there that you see every time that you read it that's different from the last month that you read it. This Psalm 16 is a beautiful passage And it teaches us so much that you just get filled with it. All right, I'm going to read in Psalm 16, all of it, eleven verses. Preserve me, O God. In thee do I put my trust. O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord, my goodness endureth not to thee. But to the saints that are on the earth and in the excellent and is the excellent in whom in all my delight Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another God. Their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names unto my lips. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and mu of my cup. Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a godly heritage I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel. My reins also instruct me in the night seasons. I have set the Lord always before me, because He is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoice. My flesh also shall rest in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life. in the presence in his fullness of joy at the right hand there are pleasures forevermore. When we read that If we can develop a graceful mind this coming year, if we can concentrate on our service, we're in a new decade, we're a new year. We need to be out there serving the Lord every aspect of our life. Y'all gonna think I'm nuts, and I am nuts. When a telemarker calls you and wants to offer you these things, you know what? There's no they're blabbing away There's nothing wrong with talking to them about Christ or trying to. What are they going to do? Typically what are they going to do? Hang up. So, what'd you want them to do? Hang up. But there might be a few that won't hang up. There might be a few that that will listen to you. Also, you can always tell them, you know, God loves you. Very s little things. You don't even have to leave your ho leave your house. You can say to them. Instead of sometimes what you really want to say to them Don't ever call me again. There's just small things. So, Psalm 61 or 161. Grace filled means to be fully aware of the overwhelming preference presence Of the unmerited favor of God. So if we develop a habit where we're filled by God's grace continuously, if our thoughts Um, do our thoughts determine our emotions and do our thoughts determine our actions? They do. Our thoughts determine everything, don't they? So if we change our thoughts that, hey, we want to develop more relationship with the Lord, we want to use his grace in our lives. Is that going to help others if we do that? It will. If we give people the benefit of the doubt, how often do we want to give people the benefit of the doubt? We don't. Right? It's human nature. Why? Because it's a sinful nature. But if we stop and think, all right, I'm going to listen to this, I'm going to listen to what you say. I'm not going to be trying to think of what I'm going to say while you're blabbing. I'm going to listen to what you say. Let the Holy Spirit, which indwells in us, direct our conversation. So often I know I'm guilty of when people are talking, you're ready to respond Well, sometimes if we just listen, I I have a gentleman that I know, he said he was younger, his parents got to the stage where they were older in life, and they just argued and griped and yelled at each other all the time He said, one day I'm sitting at the table eating dinner. Mom comes down and she's over there doing something. Dad comes down and hollers. Well, when he hollers, she screams something back at him. And when she did, then he hollered back to her. He said, wait a minute, what do you think Dad said? Dad, what do you think mom said? They both said it and nothing was said with what they thought. They immediately heard the voice. They were used to the bickering or whatever the grouchiness if you will And that's immediately what they took off with. It was nothing with what was going on. So they started their day out with not even listening to each other and then causing an argument. Whereas if they would have listened Does the Holy Spirit kick us in gear to do that kind of stuff, to not listen and to respond? It'll be and that kind of stuff? No. It doesn't. So this year, if we develop a strategy in our own lives where we listen We kind of guide our mouth, guard our mouth, let the Holy Spirit direct our conversation, and we keep our eyes focused on the Lord. We're going to have the ability to make it better. I find it so how many of y'all go to a store, Walmart or whatever? So you can always find somebody that's crazy dressed. You can always find somebody that's crazy parked. You can always find somebody, typically that's yelling or bickering at the other. You can always find somebody that's parked sideways, their carts parked sideways blocking the lane up Or you can always find six or eight people in a group hollering or screaming in the whole store trying to talk to each other and can't because they're all yelling, right? We have all of that. What if we're one of those people? We don't want to be one of those people. We want to be the kind people. We want to be the people that when the cart's that way you just move it lower, excuse me, and go be polite. You know what I mean? Have a great day. Nice coat. Love your hair. Something. That tie looks nasty. I don't know. Say something to them. Say something kind to them. It will change their mind. It will change their aspect Um it will show it will give them something when they leave they might actually think that, hey, that guy was nice. When's the last time? How many of y'all say hi to people and they don't say hi back? A lot. So what do we think about that? We can get bitter and say, oh, it will say hi no more. Don't do me no good. No. We got the joy of the Lord in us. We have the Holy Spirit in us. How many times does the Holy Spirit speak to us? Especially not at moments that it really should be speaking to us. It should be leaving us alone, but it doesn't because it doesn't want to, right? So take that opportunity. You have to kind of train yourself to do that because again, we're not ladies, how many times do men open the doors for you anymore? Not often. And I'm old fashioned, but I'm sorry, ladies that still have the door open for them. And when you do that, most ladies will respond to you thankfully for that. Right? Simple things you can do. It might be old heritage, whatever you want to call it. It's being a gentleman. It's showing it it's really showing that you have concern for somebody else. And it helps. If we have encouraging other people, uh verse three there says, but to the saints that are in the earth, we have the examples in the Bible. all over of various saints and various people to act. So what does the Americans and the world have today are of examples of Christians? And of, as we say, priests in the Bible. Where's the examples today? Right here. Where are the examples? Now let me say this. How many knows Christians, or they say they're Christians, and a word said that they shouldn't say? And immediately what does people think? They think they ain't a Christian. Christians don't act like that, right? Come on, y'all. Y'all can y'all know this is true. In that note. Or you'll see someone hear somebody say God. And they're not meaning it in a reference. It's just a habit that they have. What do people think? And you come up and try to enter um talk to them about church. That one word throws them off. That they've heard you you might have dropped something somewhere in an in in Walmart in another lane So they listen to you and they pay attention to you. So we Christians, because there's supposed to be that many, there there's hundreds of thousands of us In the world, if we do what we're supposed to do, what we proclaim, we will be again the light of the world. We will make the world better. We will make the world the way God created it. Because we're doing what it has us to do. If we spread the gospel and we smile everywhere we go, how many people love to see grumpy people? We don't. I'm a nut. I know I'm a nut. God made me a nut. I just don't know what kind of nut. But I'd rather be a nut than a grouchy person. Don't ask Diane whether I'm grouchy or not. You have to be positive. It doesn't hurt to smile. It really doesn't. Yes, I got one smiling up here. I think she had a facelift, but anyway, no, it's just Steason. If we smile everywhere we go, so what about teaching scriptures? I know a pastor that every time you talk to him, and he was a very senior gentleman, every time you talk to him, no matter what you talked about, he would put a verse in You talk to him about fishing, make yourself fishers of men. Anything, he would put a scripture verse into the conversation. How hard is that to do? It's not hard if you can remember the scriptures. That's the key. So, what do we do? We stay in the Word of God, but we use it to encourage others everywhere we go. So, verse 5 talks about the Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. So, we have the Holy Spirit in us. So, do we have the characteristics of Christ through the Holy Spirit in us? Christ was very much compassionate, wasn't he? He loved people, he cared for people, he showed gratitude. He understood people. He listened to people. You can go on and on and on with Christ's characteristics. All of those are in his word that we read. All of those are in the Holy Spirit that indwells in us. And we use it. We can. I'm saying this year, this decade, let's use the traits, the skills that he gave us. I think sometimes, and I'm guilty of this, we get in our own rut. We get in our rut of life and we just Just tread on, but we can change people's minds and make difference for people. What about attitudes? How much does an attitude in today's society affect how we live our lives? What's attitude that we normally see when we go out places? Good or bad? A lot of bad. We're Christians. Do we have to show in a bad attitude? No. Um, verse 8 says, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand and I shall be moved. So, how does my attitude affect my my spouse, my children, my supervisor, my co-workers? When I was a little kid and I dropped on that bus and I uh was bawling or crying because I had to eat something I didn't want to eat Or either I had to do something I didn't want to do. What immediately did that bus driver probably think? Did he think, oh, there's a loving child I want to hug him? Yes, he wanted to smack me. That's the same way when we go to work and go everywhere. I was at the motor vehicle place the other day They didn't want to take some of the stuff that I had for this new driver's license. And I knew I had an email that said, dude, all you need to bring in is your government ID Retirement cards you have, we already have everything else, and I'm trying to tell that lady, no, you gotta have this, this, this, and this, this They can. And you know, I showed her my little picture of my feet from when I was born. They were so cute and everything. It has a seal at the bottom. Sorry, sir, that's for wall hanging. That's not a certified document Well, what about this other one has a nice picture of the hospital on it and got that pretty seal? No, sir, that's of the hospital. That's not the one you need. Like, lady I've gotten military IDs, I've got federal ID, I got everything you could think of with these things. I don't know what else you need. You need a certified certificate. I kept going through my junk. Finally I found one. Oh my attitude changed. Now I wasn't real mean to her, but I wasn't all jolly either. So I got my little ticket, went line. And when I got up to the DMV lady who was so joyous with me, because you know all she had to do was scan my one card and she didn't need any of that other junk that took me an hour to find that I thought I didn't even have. So she took my card, scanned it in. I said, ma'am, why do you all all get a bad rap? Because she was smiling, very nice and very kind She said, I don't know, but everywhere we go. She said, I even went to my niece's black belt where they do the grading of them. She said, and the dude pointed out that I was a DMV employee. So I just started getting it from that point on. And I like I use I think, well you know what? If I'm a Christian and I go places, do people look at me as a I hate to disrespect the DMV employees If you're listening, I know you're wonderful people. But seriously, you know, why do we get treated like that? Because there's been a lot of us, if you will, that have acted that way. So be mindful that we are always, always watched. And our attitude. So We want to be the people that people want to come and see. We want to be the people that people love. Like you guys, I love when I come to church. Church is one of the best places in the world to be. Why? Because we love each other, we care for each other. We learn from each other. So we are part of that. We need to be people that people want to talk to. We need to be people that people want to come and see and and need help from. They want to be comfortable with us because we're Christians. We want to um Be joyful around them. I can't stress that enough. Being joyful changes everything. Ladies, if your husband's joyful, how does it make your day? Better. Sandy says, I don't know, he's never joyful. It makes it joyful. And guys, we all know our wives are always, always joyful. They're not. Most generally they're not why? Because us guys. I know. I know the routine. But if we're joyful everywhere we go, again, we have that Holy Spirit down in us I try to remind myself constantly when I'm in conversations, whatever I'm doing, the Holy Spirit indwells in me. So I need to do what I'm supposed to do, act the way I'm supposed to. So if I'm also dedicated, verse 9 says, Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth, my flesh also shall rest in hope. If I'm dedicated to the mission, and what is our mission as Christians? Spread the gospel, right? Make people See what we have and want what we have. So if we do that, um if we soul win and we spread what we have, Why are people attract why why are people attracted to things that are sinful? Because they've got a sinful nature, first of all. But a lot of times what is it? It's because of how it looks and how it acts, right? So if we act like a loving person And that God loves and God does love us, but God dwells in us and we know it and we live like He did on earth, like He did, our lives will change and those around us will change We as Christians, we all have eternity. We all face eternity. And when we face eternity, Verse 11 says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, in the presence is fullness of joy, and the right hand there are pleasures for everyone. Lasting pleasures, pleasures for us when we get to heaven. The presence of God guided the Israelites through the wilderness. The presence of God won battles for them. The presence of God gives joy. And when there's joy, there's no sorrow, there's no worry, there's no doubt, and there's no fear. Where there's joy, there's only peace and freedom and love when we have Christ's joy. When we have the joy that He He was not thrilled with what He went through, I'm sure. He wasn't. But again, he had you and me. We want to serve the Lord as his saints did in the Bible They spread joy. Some of them were cantankerous. Some of them did things wrong. But they still also had light, if you will, in the Bible, where they taught us how to do right and how to love Christ. That is what we need to do. This decade, and a lot of us in here, all of us in here, because there ain't none of you in here over a hundred that can't live through this next decade. None of us. So make this next year, this next next decade count for Christ. Count for yourself Dedicate this year to serve the Lord. What does 1 Peter 5, 7 tell us? All you guys that went to Sunday school? What's that? That's the other uh um first Peter five seven. Casting all your There we go. We already have the what to do? Cast all of our cares upon him, for he careth for you. So if he cares for me, And I cast my troubles to him. Does he already know your troubles? He does. So he's just waiting on you to respond to him. He already knows it So when we, us parents, knew kids did things wrong and we didn't immediately respond to it, what did we typically do? wait for. Like you knew when before they went to school they did something they weren't supposed to. What'd you do? You thought about it all day long, waiting on them to get home off that bus and tell you about it or hoping they tell you about it, right? We did that. And then when they didn't say nothing to you, what'd you do? You brought it up. God's going to bring it up through his word. He's waiting on us to tell him about it. He's waiting on us to ask him about it. It's all laid out for us in his word. We cast our care upon him. He will take care of us. So we see all of this rhetoric and all of this stuff about making America great, and we want to do that. That's what we want to do that. But we as Christians can make America great by being different. We can be Christians for the Lord, what the Bible tells us to do. One of the statistics: by the mid-2020s, the world's population is projected to surpass 8 billion people. By the end of the decade, the estimated to be 8. 6 billion people. That's a lot of people. That's also a lot of opportunities for us to spread the joy and spread the gospel, not only Christ's joy, but just natural joy to people. to teach them to love God, to love each other. We are the examples for that. So this next seven days, I encourage you guys to read Psalms chapter 16 again. It's only eleven verses. Just keep reading it and see what God speaks to you about. Um The Lord's word will open your eyes if we if we will listen and if we'll pay attention to it. God loves us. He gave us life for a reason. What's the reason again that God gave us life? Serve Him, to glorify Him. That is our responsibility. All right. That's what I have for you. Little cards like in the back. There's a basket of these cards that the uh These that um smile, God loves you. You guys all see these back. These are simple things you have in your wallet everywhere you go. Or whatever. If you're talking to someone, hand them one. Miss Saney, did you have anything to do with this smiley face? Did you have anything to do with this smiley face? Not that. Not that one. Was it this one? Okay. This one I will ask for because I wanted to make sure I was right. This one I have here is a small one. I'm most certain that Fray Paul had a hand in doing these. I got a quite a few of them a long time ago, Miss Betty gave me. Ray's been gone for quite a few years now, but you know what? His legacy is still there. He gave them about to everybody on the buses because he used to be a Garrett Transit bus driver. Something he did simple, here you go. We can do the same thing with these. Simple things we can do to spread the gospel that doesn't take a lot of conversation, anything, just handing this, telling somebody that God loves them. Please think about that. Please purpose in our minds this year to change. Be loving, be kind, reflect the Holy Spirit that lives in us, that indwells in us. Live by the Holy Spirit and do what God has desired us to do. All right. All right, we'll stand please. We're going to open the offering or the excuse me the altar for invitations if anybody wants to just come and pray for your neighbors, come for your people, pray where you're at, pray for people, pray that God will help you every day. guide and direct you so you can dedicate every day to him, spread joy every day to him, have compassion for people. Let people know that you are a Christian and that your actions, all of our actions reflect being a Christian, and that you love the Lord, and that you avail yourself to them.