Let's get to preaching, amen. I uh I sure appreciate uh the testimony tonight and I appreciate very much the uh slide I say slide that shows you how old I am there haven't been slides for about fifty years but I still call them slide presentations but that was a great presentation of Bolivia 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 14, 15, and 16 for our message tonight. There, let's notice what it says. Paul's speaking, for we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure. As though we reached not unto you, for we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ. Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labors, but having hope when your faith is increased That we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly, to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you. And not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand, but he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to be together tonight. Thank you for these faithful people that have gathered to hear these testimonies and see this presentation and hear this preaching. Lord, I know they're here because they love you and because they want to please you in their lives. So Lord, I pray that now the preaching of your word would contribute to that. We're needy people. We don't know it all. And we sure aren't where we need to be. We've not apprehended. So teach us much tonight, Holy Spirit. Convict us, instruct us, and encourage us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Pardon me. The world is immense, isn't it? I uh I always am amazed when I see, pardon me, even presentations like we saw tonight. Sometimes I think the world is just the world right around me. And I hear of distant places and people who have a whole different culture than I have and who live very different lives than I live. And I'm just amazed at the number of languages there are and and the number of cultures, the sheer number of people in our world, nearly seven and a half billion people. Our world is so diverse. I mean uh so many uh colors and so many nations and so many creeds. And and when I think of how immense it is, I am reminded of this that regardless of where the people are or what their culture is, and no matter how vastly different their culture is than the culture I live in, and even if they don't look like me and don't act like me, God loves them. We need to remind ourselves of that tonight. That God does not just love us. God loves this entire world. As different as it is than us, God loves this world. To be honest with you, my life is so much smaller. I don't mean just in the sense of the immensity of the earth. I mean that I don't have the capacity to love like God loves. And yet, if I'm going to reach the world in the way that God wants me to reach the world, I need to learn to live beyond my world. And by the way, that's the title of our message tonight. beyond my world. Sometimes my world shrinks to where I only care about what impacts me I care about the traffic jam I'm in. I care about the problem that I have. I care about the house that I live in. the wife that is mine, the kids that are mine, the grandkids that are my grandkids. You say, preacher, it's not wrong to care about that. I know. But there's something so much larger than all of that. And somehow we need to learn, like the Apostle Paul, to live beyond our world. We have become the selfie world. We take selfies and we share it with the world because we think the world cares about where we are. I want to tell you, we have become so self-important and so self-interested that if we're not careful and purposeful, it doesn't even enter our hearts that God cares about an immense world. And we've got to purposely say to ourselves, God, expand me. God help me to see beyond myself and my problems and my needs. As I read this passage tonight, I see that Paul was a man who lived beyond his measure. I see that Paul was a man who lived beyond his border. And I see third, he's a man that learned to live beyond his means. Now all three of those things need explanation, and that's what I hope to do tonight, but in trying to explain why Paul lived beyond his measure and why Paul lived beyond his borders and why Paul lived beyond his means. My purpose and in doing all of that is to challenge each and every one of us that our world's got to get bigger And we've got to see beyond ourselves, and we've got to see what God sees and respond to what God sees, like the Apostle Paul did. Notice with me, first of all He was a man who lived beyond his measure. Go back to verse 14. For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure as though we reached not unto you. It's an interesting word. It means extended inordinately. I mean Paul was beyond his measure inordinately. The Corinthians were always criticizing the Apostle Paul. And they criticized the Apostle Paul of being a dreamer. Here's what they had been saying to him. Paul You're talking about reaching a whole world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. You're a dreamer, Paul. You just don't understand, Paul. Have you learned that us preachers never understand anything? We just don't understand. You just don't know my problem. You just don't know my situation. Paul, you just don't understand. You talk about reaching a world. You talk about reaching a nation. You just don't understand, Paul. It can't be done. And I love Paul's answer to him. In essence, he says back to him, we reached you. You think about what's behind that statement. We reached you. Hey, there were people who did not believe that the gospel could leave Jerusalem and go to Samaria. You can't see Samaritans saved, but Samaritans got saved. There were people who believed that the gospel could not go from Jerusalem to Antioch. Couldn't go to Asia Minor. Those were Gentiles. At least the Samaritans were half Jews. You can't take the gospel to Antioch. You can't take the gospel to Gentile cities in Asia Minor. But they did. There were those who said, you can't take the gospel to Europe. It can't jump an ocean. But it did. And by the way, more recently there were those who said, you can't sail across an Atlantic Ocean. You'll fall off the edge of the earth. It's flat. By the way, it's amazing to me we've got people returning to that belief, flat earthers. But you know what? We're sitting in Oakland, Maryland today. And we're at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You know why? Because the gospel could jump the ocean, and the gospel could come to a new world, and people could be saved. In this new world. You know what we need to do? We need to stop telling God what he can and cannot do Everything in reaching the world is impossible if you view it from my own perspective or my own measure. I'm not big enough to take the gospel to Mexico, and neither is Brother Wheeler. And I got news for you. The McKinseys are not big enough to win Bolivia if you just take a look at them. And the Gilberts are not strong enough, not glib enough, not powerful enough to win Greenland to Christ if it's just about them. But you pour the Holy Spirit in the Wheelers and the Gilberts and the McKinny's and get out of the way because the Holy Spirit working through them describes a whole different measure. Job number one of our conference this week is to pray that God will help us to stop limiting Him. And stop thinking that we can't give in a way that He can use, that we can't pray in a way that He can bring down obstacles. that that we can't do the work of a missions conference or the work of God because we're not big enough. We're not strong enough. Hey We serve a supernatural God. God was not made by nature. God made nature. And if God wants to suspend natural law to work a miracle, he can do it by simply speaking it. Last night I heard the testimony of how God almost miraculously in a short time changed the conditions on the ground in Greenland. That's not coincidence, that's not happenstance, that is a providential sovereign God who can use men and put them in a place where they can do great things because of him. That's why Paul reminds us, he that gloryeth, let him glory in the Lord. It isn't to the glory of Brother Shaw, and it won't be to the glory of Brother Wheeler, Heritage Baptist Church, and Mountain Lake are not to the glory of the pastors or the people. They're to the glory of God. And we need to stop thinking little. Well, we can't have a successful missions conference. We can't give anymore. We can't send anybody out of our. Stop it! The Apostle Paul could have said, Well, I'm just a single Jew. I'm just a little fellow. I can't go anywhere. I can't do anything. Instead, he said, I serve a big God and I can shake a city. And by the way, if they want to take me outside the city and stone me and leave me for dead, I can get back up again. We serve a great God. And this church can be a sending church. This faith church is a powerhouse church and can do more. Let's stop poor mouthing God. And Paul was a man who got it. Paul was a man who said, I'm not going to be embarrassed to ask that church over at Philippi to support me. I'm not going to be embarrassed to ask them to sacrifice. Oh, Paul, you don't understand. They're already in a trial of affliction. They can't give anymore. Paul said, watch this. I'll teach you something. Hey, Church of Philippi, I need your help, and my God is able to supply all your need according to his riches. Christ Jesus. And you know what they did? Out of a great tile of affliction, they gave, and they gave themselves, and they gave what they had, and God was glorified because we serve a big God. Don't measure by us. Measure by him. And the apostle Paul said, I can live beyond my measure. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. Don't turn there. But it says, now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all, we ask or think according to the power that worketh in us. Did you know that God is able? Would you say that with me? God is able. Alright? I'm not able to give anymore. Oh, God is able. Our church isn't able to do anything. God is able. We can't go to that country. God is able. God is able. To do exceeding abundantly above what we ask or think We serve a great God. And we need to learn to live beyond our measure. Stop putting God in your box. And start letting God be God. Here's number two. He lived beyond his borders. Look at verse 16. To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you. Where do you want to go, Paul? Well, further than that one. Where do you want to go after that? Further than that, one of the great political questions in our nation today is how to deal with those that are coming into our country both illegally and legally. And though that is something that requires thought and attention, the focus of believers ought to be how do we get Christians to go out of our country? You know how I describe the missions conference? The one meeting we have each year where we try to get rid of our best people. Yeah. Because we want to see this world one to the Lord Jesus. Paul was saved around 42 A. D. He spent some silent years in the desert being taught of the Lord and taught of others. Around 46 A. D. , he began traveling the world preaching the gospel. For the next 15 years of his life, he traveled by foot and by ship. He was supported by others, but also when he needed to, he worked as a tent maker. He preached in cities, he preached in villages He preached in season, out of season. He preached in Jerusalem, North Africa, Asia Minor, Greece, the islands of the Mediterranean, Italy, and even in the capital of the Roman Empire, Rome itself. I am absolutely convinced that if he would have had modern means of transportation or modern means of communication He literally would have reached the entire world because he was that driven. He was not going to be a man who was so timid he could not step out of that which he was familiar with. He was a man that was willing to be made uncomfortable, to go to uncomfortable places, to have uncomfortable situations Because he was willing to go beyond the border of his nation, go beyond the border of his comfort zone, go beyond the border of what he thought was his ability, because he served a great God C. T. Studd, great missionary himself, said this some want to live within the sound of a church or chapel bell. I want to run a rescue shop within a yard of hell. Now, that might be hyperbole, but I like that spirit, don't you? He also said this. If Jesus Christ is God and died for me, then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make for Him. That was the Apostle Paul's thinking. I'll go beyond what I'm comfortable. I'll go beyond my home. I'll go beyond this national border. I'll go across that ocean. I will go. Because God can use me in that place. What what makes a man have that kind of passion? I think this. I think the Apostle Paul had the ability to see the world like God sees the world And I think that one of the things you and I ought to pray for is a new or an increased vision to see the incredible need that the world has. And I don't just mean economic need or political need. I mean the need of men's souls. Men are dying and going to hell. And by the way, the clocks are ticking I don't know how much longer we have to work, but we need to be occupying. We need to be working while we have the time. I think we've turned our vision in on ourselves instead of having a vision For the souls of men. Let me sing a song to you. Let me see this world, dear Lord As though I were looking through your eyes A world of men who don't want you Lord. But a world for weight Let me kneel with you in the garden Blur my eyes with tears of agony, for if once I could see. This world the way see. I just know I'd serve you more faithfully. You know what our churches have become? Churches of dry eyes and empty altars and wondering when our need is going to be met And wonder what program is for me. And what are you going to do for me? And we need to get back to the place where we kneel with Jesus in the garden. And can I remind you, he came to a place and died for us when he was one who had never sinned? They could not convince him of sin. They couldn't find sin because he hadn't committed any. He didn't come and die on that cross for himself. He suffered and died for you and I. His eyes were blurred with tears. Not because of his own regret and his own sin, but because of ours. That's what Margaret Clarkson understood. She said, God, you brought me to this place. And I'm understanding that you want me to live at Calvary. And sometimes serving you requires me to be at Calvary and requires me to weep not for myself. But for blind eyes and hard hearts and souls that are bound, that you can set free if we will pay a price. Then he lived beyond his means. Look at verse 15. Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labors, but having hope when your faith is increased. That we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly. Now you will probably never hear me say this in any other context again. But it's okay to live beyond your means. Now, I am very conservative financially. I am tight. I spend nothing I don't have to spend, and I hate it when I even have to spend it. I squeeze everything. But I want to tell you, when it comes to serving the Lord And giving for men to be saved? God says, live beyond your means. What's that mean? It means that we can trust God to provide what we need. It means that we can trust Him and give sacrificially. Faith promise is not some voodoo formula. Do you know the kind of loving that God loves the best? I'm sorry, the kind of giving that God loves the best. He loves sacrificial giving. That's a word our world doesn't want to hear anything about anymore. Sacrifice? I thought God's job was just to be good to me and to provide me any and everything I ever wanted. No Our job is to glorify God. And the kind of love that God showed, and the kind of giving that is so appreciated by our Lord is sacrificial giving. I believe that this faith promise conference ought to challenge us To give sacrificially. You know, there was that day when Jesus went down to the treasury. This is a scary passage. They said he went down to the treasury to observe what people gave. How'd you like him to come in and sit during the offering? Just wanted to observe that. What can I see your envelope? Yes, Jesus. And it says as he was watching, there were those who came and gave great gifts. Now you've got to understand, literally, what I'm saying is literal. That many of the Pharisees and many of the wealthy people of Jerusalem would have trumpeters that would blow trumpets before they got to the treasury so that a crowd would gather. Oh, or somebody's going to give a big amount. Let's go watch. And they would literally bring coins Because they would drop the coins down the brass-fluted offering boxes. And they would drop it and people would go, oh, huh, ah, ooh, did you hear how much he gave? And he would walk off And Jesus wasn't impressed. After the trumpeters and after the rich men left, he noticed a certain widow He knew her name. And she came, and oh, there were no trumpets and no fanfare and nobody watched, but she dropped two mites. Into that fluted box. And here was Jesus' observation. She hath given more than it. Because she gave all she had, and they gave out of their abundance. God's standard is not the size of the gift. God's standard is the size of the heart of sacrifice. I'm just saying to you that faith promise challenges us not to give what is easy, but to give sacrificially. even as our Lord gave himself for us. I'll preach more on that tomorrow night. Well, preacher, I can't give commissions. I stood in a Starbucks the other day. I admit it, I confess to you, I love Starbucks coffee. I love strong, bitter, nasty coffee. I go in and I buy a pike place, it's a buck ninety, and that's too much. But the lady in front of me bought one of those fufu coffees, salted caramel lakhtimacchiata. I don't know what it was. And it was six dollars and twenty-five cents. I I almost asked her, can I just taste that? I want to see what that's 625. If you did that two or three or four or five times a week or a month, and then that same person might say, I can't give demissions. I used to preach at my church, and man, I know it aggravated some people, and I don't want to aggravate anybody here, but I'm preaching, so I might as well try They would say I can't give to missions and they'd have a $235 cable bill. And at what point is the soul of a little boy in the dark jungles of the Amazon worth more than HGTV? God help us. I'm not saying don't watch HGTV. I'm just saying, where is the spirit of sacrifice? Where we just say, God, help me see it. Help me get it. Help me understand it. And God, I'll live beyond my means. I'll sacrifice. I will give so that others can hear. I'll give so that others can go. I'll give. I will. I'll live beyond my means in that way. I will sacrifice. Sacrifice. The Apostle Paul was a man who got it. Here's what I believe, and I'm finished. If the Apostle Paul walked in this room tonight, none of us would be impressed with him. My vision of the Apostle Paul is that he was a small, unimposing man who was filled with the Spirit of God. And he said, I may not be much. And I certainly was not a man of great strength. But he traveled the world by foot and donkey and boat. He was in a shipwreck. He was in storm after storm. My goodness, he suffered snake bite He was stoned and left for dead, and the little guy just kept going. He's the original Energizer Bunny Because it wasn't about him, it was about the God who was in him Tonight, let's purpose in our hearts we're not going to limit God because we don't think we can. How about let's say, but God in me can And he lived beyond his borders. He was never concerned about whether it was too cold or too hot or too far or too expensive. He said there's souls there. And if I've got to get to Spain, I gotta get to Spain. If I gotta go over here, I'll go there. If I gotta cross an ocean, I'll cross an ocean. If my comfort or the border of my country, I'm going. We need some people that'll say, I'll go beyond what I'm comfortable with. And he lived beyond his means. He said, Hey, I am willing to abound. God, you want to give me what I need and you want to provide a little more? I'm willing to abound. But God, I am just as willing to be abased. I am willing to do without. Because there is something bigger than me being full today. Or me treating myself today. There's a little boy in Bolivia I don't know what all you saw, but the one that captured my heart was the little guy, shining shoes, hoping to make a coin. He's not going to go buy candy with it. He's going to take it home to his mom so that they can buy just a little bit more food, so that it can exist for one more day. So that he can go shine shoes tomorrow, so that he can exist for one more day. And I'm just saying I can sacrifice so that kid can hear Jesus loves him. I don't want him to live his whole life shining shoes for a meal and die. Go to hell so I can have a foo-foo coffee or 150 channels on cable See what I'm saying tonight? I'm not condemning any of that. Don't hear me saying that. I'm not scolding us. I'm saying, for goodness sake, let's get our eyes up. And let's look and let's see beyond, beyond, beyond. Would you pray with me? Father, help us to see tonight Help us to trust you in a great way. To live beyond what is comfortable. God, to just believe that you can use us, you can empower us To believe and see, oh God, this world through your eyes and see how your heart must break, how it must break for the souls who have never heard. You love them. They don't look like us, they don't think like us. But you love them. God, I'm not preaching tonight that we have to impoverish ourselves and give anything and everything we have away, but I am saying, can we not live beyond our comfort? Can we not find something more to give? Can we not go? Can we not live beyond ourselves? Lord, I pray you'd help people to see it tonight. Convict them, but encourage them. And for this preacher, God, help me never to be satisfied with where I am, but always striving to do and trust you more. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Would you quietly stand to your feet? Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed. I'm just going to ask the pianist to play. Maybe you need to take a trip to the altar tonight and say, Lord, I need help to live beyond. I've become satisfied and I've become Unwilling to cross the border of my comfort or unwilling to challenge myself to do more, give more, be more God, I'm just offering myself tonight. Will you help me go beyond where I am? Would you come? Others are coming. We don't have to be in a hurry. Lord, help me to see what the Apostle Paul saw. Help me to see through your eyes. Come just spend some time at this altar. Maybe you need to pray about what God would have you to give on Sunday. Make it a matter of prayer. Others are coming, you come on, would you? So it was very small and we don't we want to follow us. Now, Father in heaven, we thank you for challenging us and stretching us and help us, Lord, to see beyond. And live beyond our own self-focus. Thank you for this message. I pray you'd help us in Jesus' name. Amen.