Verse number twenty-three of First Peter chapter one, and then I'd like for us to read together in unison verse two of chapter two. So if you would follow along with me in verse 23 of chapter 1, then be prepared, and we'll all read together verse 2 of chapter 2 The Bible says this in verse 23: being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever Now, verse 2 of chapter 2. Would you read it together with me? All together. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that ye may grow thereby. I'll speak this morning on newborn babes. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our message from His Word. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would speak to our hearts. I thank you for these babies. And Lord, what a joy they bring to the church. Tremendous responsibility, part of raising these souls that will exist forever somewhere. And so I pray you'd give wisdom, direction, as we prayed earlier, to the parents to raise these children, help us as a church to be the support. that uh we need to be to Christian parents uh raising Christian children. Now as we look at your word I ask Lord that you would fill me with your spirit I ask that your Holy Spirit would speak through me, that our hearts and minds would be open to the Word of God, and that we could grow as instructed in our text here this morning. I pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of 1 Peter, the author of the book of 1 Peter. Anybody want to guess who is the author of the book of 1 Peter? God. God is the author of all scripture. Amen? All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It is breathed out. It's given to us by God. When we hold the Bible in our hand, we are literally holding the Word of God, perfect in all its forms, preserved for all eternity, given to us. by the Holy Spirit of God. So it's a little trick there. Some of y'all knew what I was up to. But the author of the book of 1 Peter is God himself. The penman. The man that God used to record for us, to phone the book for us, is of course who Peter. Peter. Now, if you're familiar at all with the New Testament, if you've read any of the New Testament at all, I'm confident that you're familiar with Peter The great apostle Peter. What a unique man he was. I look forward to someday meeting Peter up in heaven And uh so we read of Peter through the Gospels, we pick up a few things about his personality. We pick up a few things about um uh the a little bit the way he thought and how he responded to things. One of the things we notice about Peter, particularly in the Gospels, he was incredibly outspoken. How many people ever notice that about Peter? Brother, you have Jesus ask his disciples a question. You don't wonder who's going to be the first one to speak up. Peter's the first one right there. Oh Lord, and uh something's going on. Peter's right there ready to speak up. Peter was outspoken. Anybody here know anybody that's a little bit outspoken No matter what the situation is, they've got, they're right there in the middle of it. That's Peter. Another thing we notice about Peter as we read through the gospel is he was impulsive. He would often, I think, my impression at least is he would act before he thought And one of the results of being outspoken and being impulsive is you end up with a very tragic disease. It's called foot-in-mouth disease. And more than a occasion, people uh Peter would end up putting his quote unquote foot in his mouth, so to speak And he'd have to retract his statements or he'd find out that he wasn't quite all that he thought he was and all that he uh claimed himself to be. Peter was very outspoken. He was very impulsive. Anybody here know anybody that's impulsive? Anybody come across an impulsive shopper? It don't look at anybody around you And so we just do something without thinking, then afterward it's like, oh, what was I doing? What was I thinking? Can I get a witness? Anybody know? That's Peter. Another thing we know about Peter, we read the Gospels particularly, and this is tragic, he failed miserably. He failed miserably. The Lord said, you're all going to deny me. When he was going to deny me, you're all going to fit. And Peter says, not me, Lord. I'll never deny. I'll die before I deny you. And what'd Jesus say? Before the cock crows three times, you're going to what? Deny me. Not once, not twice, you're going to deny me three times, Peter. And Peter in his mind, I'm convinced, was sure, I will not. That is not true. What the Lord is saying about me is not true I'm stronger than that. I'm better than that. I'm more committed than that. It wasn't but a few hours. That old cock. Peter realized I've denied the Lord three times and begins to weep and weep and weep. Peter, his love for the Lord is without question. His commitment to the Lord was without question. He loved the Lord. He was committed to the Lord. He had forsaken his life business to follow the Lord Jesus But even the strongest Christian, even the most committed Christians, if we're not careful, if we get self-confident, We can fail also. Right or wrong. Right or wrong. Paul put it this way. You who think you standeth Take heed lest you what? Fall. Fall. Even the best of God's servants, even the most committed of the Christians. Even those most in love with the Lord have uh come up short and sometimes failed terribly as Peter did. Now, if the story ended there, if that was it, psh, all right, Peter's done. You deny the Lord publicly three times. Come on, God can't use that kind of person. Nobody that's failed to that extent Could possibly be of any value to our Lord. He denied him for peace's sake. But our God is a very, very gracious God And our God is an incredibly merciful God. In fact, the Bible says repeatedly, his mercies are new. What? Every morning. Every morning. And God, in his grace and mercy, and to Peter's credit, by his humble response, God was able to reclaim Peter. And Lord, in John chapter 21, you find the Lord Jesus lovingly drawing Peter back into fellowship with his Lord. And the guilt and the shame and the overwhelming sense of failure on Peter's part was overcome. By the grace and love and mercy of God. Listen, I don't know where you're at today in your life. I don't know where you're at. If you're a Christian, I don't know where you're at in your walk with the Lord. Maybe I'm talking to somebody and you say, you know, I've failed the Lord Maybe I'm talking to somebody preacher, you know, sin has just gotten such a grip, and I'm so far, I don't think I could ever be what God wants me to be. I don't think I could ever be of value to the Lord. I'm here to tell you that kind of thinking is of the devil God can reclaim anybody who will humble ourselves and come and say, yes, Lord, you're right. I'll come back. I'm here to tell you this this morning: God loves you. And God has not given up on not one of us. And God's grace and power and wisdom and love is so powerful that He can draw anyone back. And be what God intends for us to be. And so that's the man that God used to record the book of 1 Peter You read in the book of Acts, and Peter is standing up in chapter 2, and he's preaching the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit. 3,000 people Turn to Christ in faith, are saved. Their lives are transformed. They follow the Lord in baptism. And all through the book of Acts, you see Peter being used of God in mighty ways, in spite of the fact. of how he had failed. And not only that, God uses him to pen one of the books of the Bible, a w writing that will last for all eternity. As long as God exists, this book will be available. will exist. And God used Peter. Man, what a what an amazing fellow. And so we look at the book of 1 Peter and we just re- uh consider the penman behind this. And uh we're uh we're challenged by it. Uh if you would come back to verse number one of chapter one. We'll get to our text here in a moment. We'll get to our text here in a few hours. And um But notice in the beginning, who are the recipients of this? Who are the immediate recipients? Who is this addressed to as it was initially recorded? Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the what? Strangers scattered throughout, and he lists these areas here in that part of Asia Minor. And he uh Pontius and Galatia and Cappadocia and Asia and Bithynia And who are these strangers scattered around? Well, the word stranger there means sojourners, foreigners, people who are just passing through. And so basically, just for sake of time, rather than elaborate on that, he is addressing saved Jews Who have been driven from their homeland. They're out in these Gentile areas Now they've trusted Christ, they're born again, but they're out in these areas and they're strangers, they're foreigners, they're just passing through. Can I suggest to you, every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior We are strangers in this world. We are sojourners. We're just passing through. What's the old song? This world is not my home. I'm Just the passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. And so he's addressing these believers And they've been driven from their homes. They're driven into these foreign lands, lands they did not grow up in, lands that they had no heritage in. And they're out there trying to live for God, out there trying to serve God. So he writes to them. Now, this is interesting. So that's about 65 years after the Lord was born, 30 some years, 40 years maybe after the Lord was crucified and ascended. And the situation that was taking place with these sojourners, these strangers that he's addressing Was that the persecution of Christians was reaching a boiling point? As we read in the book of Acts, we notice right from the get-go The Pharisees had serious, in fact, before the in the Gospels, before Jesus even crucified, the Pharisees had an issue with the Lord Jesus Christ. And then when he ascends and the power of the Holy Spirit is now upon the church, and the apostles are preaching the word of God, and the church folk are out, boy, they get really stirred up, and then the political authorities get in on it And they are coming down on those New Testament Christians with violence. And the persecution for simply being a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, for simply living for the Lord and trying to be a witness in that old world back then, they suffered intense persecution. From the religious authorities, from the political authorities. They're being thrown in prison. They're being murdered. They're being executed. Men, women, even children. Are under intense persecution. They are paying a heavy price for their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I studied these early Christians, and then even throughout church history About some of the believers in the Lord Jesus Christ and the price they paid for their faith. And I think we've got it pretty good. We've got it pretty good. I wonder how many of us our lives were threatened by government authorities for coming and assembling in church here today. None of us. We have total freedom. God has been good to us. God has been merciful to us. And I'll tell you this. We need to be grateful For the freedoms and the grace God has shown us. Amen or not. Amen or not. I thought Friday night we had the um uh teacher worker banquet I mentioned a moment ago. And again, Mark and Jackie did a phenomenal job on that. It was it was outstanding. And uh but we you know there's not a lot of uh nice restaurants that go around in in our area here. There's some. We got McDonald's, you know, and Taco Bell. But they kind of get old after a while, so we're trying to get somewhere different. And so Mark found an old barn. Literally is an old barn. How many folks were there Friday night? Is a barn. I mean barn. And slats, holes in the slats, and um the cows weren't in there, they were out, praise the Lord. And uh we were sitting there as the program was going on and uh my mind got wandering. It and uh as it often does. And um there was no voices, but it was wandering And I thought, wow, I wonder what it was like for Christians in Russia and China in some of these lands where they're under intense persecution and they have to sneak into old barns and they have to sing real quiet. And they keep the lights down. That's a small taste of what these people that Peter is writing to What they faced, the intensity of the persecution was, like I said, at a boiling point. And uh they were suffering, uh they were suffering terribly. For no other reason. They weren't criminals. They weren't thieves. They weren't murderers. They were believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. No different than you and I. Yet they suffered for their faith. And so Peter, under the inspiration of God, is writing this book. And if you study the book of 1 Peter and 2 Peter, it's one of the most tender, one of the most encouraging books in all the New Testament. If you're not familiar with the book of 1 Peter, I want to challenge you to take some time and read the book of 1 Peter. Uh this afternoon, a Sunday afternoon, you're relaxing around the house, maybe just get your Bible out. And maybe sit at the table or um in the li in the living room, your recliner or sit out back uh on the deck or out in the yard. Well, it might be raining, so maybe stay inside. But I would challenge you to read through the book of 1 Peter. You can do it in just a few moments, sit there, just read it through It is a tremendously encouraging book. And it's written to folks who are suffering for their faith, who are going through a difficult time. If you're going through a trial of your faith, if you've got some trials going on, I want to challenge you, read the book of 1 Peter God will use it to encourage you and help you and strengthen you in your faith Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And when we're going through a trial, maybe we're having a tough time, maybe somebody's giving us a hard time, I tell you, God can use 1 Peter to strengthen your faith and help you In that trial. It's a tremendous book and very, very important. Now let's come to our text here. First Peter and chapter number 1, I read for you verse number 23, and verse 23 ties into verse 24, 25, and actually verse 1 and 2 of chapter 2 are one continuous thought Now we've been pointing this out in our Sunday school class, the adult Sunday school class, we're studying 1 Corinthians, and there's uh at least one place in the book of 1 Corinthians where the subject that's being discussed crosses over from one chapter to another. And we pointed out that the chapter divisions in your Bible are not inspired by God. They are man-made. How many people knew that? The verse numbers there, that's something man came up with, that's not how God gave it to us. And there's nothing wrong with it, it's very, very helpful I think it was like the twelve hundred AD when they divided the Bible up like that. And some places, like here, I believe The chapter divisions miss the subject. They divide uh a thought, a continuous thought. And so you have from verse 23 over to chapter Chapter two and verse number three, you have this one continuous thought. Look at verse one of chapter two. Wherefore? Laying aside all mouse, that word wherefore means consequently Because of what has been stated just previously, these following things should be true. Now, in verse number two, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may what? Grow thereby. How many people are with me here this morning? How many folks are with me? How many folks are glad you're alive? Amen. How many folks are glad you're not in Siberia? Antarctica. And there's a lot of places we could be that would be a lot worse than here. Amen. And so uh how many folks are got a good night's rest last night? Amen. How many if you didn't, you can catch up here. But I want us to notice here, just trying to get everybody's attention here, I want you to notice here a key word, I believe, in verse number two for this whole whole passage, a key word is the word grow. That ye may grow thereby. Wherefore, because of what was stated, this should be true, this should be true, so that ye may grow as a newborn babe. That ye may grow. Now, what does it mean for someone or something to grow? Talk to me now this morning. What does it mean? That you may grow. What does it mean if something's growing? Alright, it's maturing. Ah, it's getting larger. How many people have their garden out? Anybody get their garden out yet? Uh you need a boat to get to it. I got some tomato plants out, I got a couple um um pepper plants out, and I stuck them in the ground, oh, a couple weeks ago, put them in a pot, and uh I was working on them yesterday, and lo and behold, man, they were that big, now they're that big. They grew. They developed. They expanded. A key part of growing, and I know this is simplistic, but a key part of growing is changing. Right? Growth implies and necessitates change How many people would be a little concerned if next year we had baby day and the babies that came through were exactly the same as they are today? How many people would say that would be something to be concerned about? How many people ever saw somebody had kids? You didn't see them for a long time, and you saw the kids, and you say, good night, how they changed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean in like three years time my son went from an infant to thirty years old. Just in like two, three years is how's that happen? So when he says that ye may grow thereby, he's saying, I don't want you to stay the same as you are. I don't want you to be stagnant. In fact, the word grow means to expand, to increase, but I found an interesting definition, and I don't think this is the primary definition, but it shed a little light in my mind anyway. One of the words that is this word comes from, a branch word of it, means this: to be out of rank. To get out of let me put it in my words, out of the rut If a baby stayed the same year after year after year after year after year, something is very, very wrong. We want that baby to get out of that rank out of that rut of staying the same. And God wants us to grow. And I hope I'm not reading too much into this. I don't think I am. But our God wants us to be out of rank. Now what rank does he want us to be out of? And you military term, you know, we're marching in rank. How many guys here are in the military? Brady's in the military. You know uh what it means to be in rank. And God says, I don't want you to be in rank. I want you to get out of that, grow, and develop, change, transform. Now, what is the rank that God wants us to get out of? Can I suggest to you the rank that this world is marching in? This world is heading one direction. And God says, I don't want you to go that direction. I want you to be this way. I want you to grow. I want you to be transformed from that, changed out of that. And I believe that's the idea here behind this passage. God's desire for each of us is to be continually changing. Growing, being transformed to getting out of rank with the world. I try and picture it here. Here you have the world, the masses of the world, and they're marching along in rank, and the world's priorities and the world's values and the world's pleasures and everything the world is. And they're marching along and God says, I didn't create you to live that way. I didn't create you to to uh To be that way. I want you to transform out of that. I want you to grow out of that. I want you to get out of that rank. Because I got something else for you. I've got something else for you. Take your Bible, if you would, and I want to give some scripture for this. Turn to Matthew chapter 7. Now keep your place here in Peter. And turn to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew 5, 6, and 7. Those three chapters are what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount, greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. I'm convinced if this old world would simply live by the instructions and principles given on the Sermon on the Mount, this would be an incredible place. We wouldn't see rioting in the streets. You wouldn't have people walking into schools and mowing down innocent, defenseless children You would have a world that is amazing. The Sermon on the Mount is a powerful, powerful message with incredibly powerful truths And he makes a statement in chapter 7, the Lord Jesus Christ does, in verse number 13. And I think it ties in with my thought here in Peter. Look what it says. He says, Enter ye in at the straight gate. Now that word straight there has the idea of being very, very narrow, very very tight to get through. Entering in at the straight gate for what's the next word? Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to what? Destruction. And look what he says. Now this is tragic And many there be which go in thereat. Because straight, very narrow, very tight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and what? Few there be that find it. What's he saying? Again, and maybe I'm I hope I'm not stretching this too much, but I think it ties into what Peter is saying. Under the inspiration of God, that you may grow thereby, that you may get out of that, you can develop and mature and be out of rank. And what he's saying is this: this whole world is heading in a direction. This whole world is living by principles. This old world is living by values. This old world is leaning on their own understanding and they're going their way. The ultimate end of that path That road, that broad way, ends in what? Destruction. And by destruction, he's simply saying eternal separation from God. In a very real place that Jesus referred to as hell. And the description of hell in the Bible is overwhelming. And to me, one of the most horrific realities of this place called hell is this: a person that goes there never, ever, for all eternity, gets out. It is hopeless. And God, I think, in Peter is saying, I didn't create you to live that way. I didn't create you to go that direction. This world is getting farther and farther and farther from God. Timothy tells us in the last days, evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. How many of us old folks look back and say, man, this world has gone to pot just in my lifetime? What in the world? Man, men are lovers of their own selves, despisers, blasphemers, murderers, merciless, perverse. Bio! And we watch our society and we say that's true And this whole world is drifting farther and farther from God and on a stampede to eternal destruction. And Peter, under the inspiration of God, says, hey, as a newborn babe, desire pseudomecal the word that you may grow. That you get out of rank with that. I've got something else for you. Listen, what the world is today and what mankind is today is not What God intended for man to be when He created us. What you see in the world is a mutation Of what God has created, of what we are designed to be. God designed us, our very soul, our very makeup, every part about us. It is designed to be something other than what the world has become and what it's doing. Am I making sense? And he says, we need to get out of that. That's why you're so frustrated. That's why you're so empty. That's why you're so insecure. That's why you're so confused. That's why you're like Uh we're studying the book of Ecclesiastes and he says, Vanity of vanity, all is vanity of vexation of spirit. And we look at a world that is living so shallow, empty frustrated lives and they lash out at others and because my heart is empty and because I'm so frustrated and because I'm so insecure I'm going to blame others And the whole problem is we're operating in a way we weren't designed to operate. We're trying to run gasoline in a diesel engine. And it doesn't work. We have problems. And we're trying to live like the world. We weren't created to live the way the world lives. And it's problems and it's frustration and it's breakdown. And God says, I want you out of that. I want you to grow. Be transformed from that. And so, how do we do that? How do I get to a point in my life? How do I get where I'm growing? I'm being transformed, not to be layway the world is. to be what Christ is, to be what I was designed and created to be. How do I do that? Well our text tells us and I got a couple minutes and let's look and see what he says here. Come back to Peter if with me if you would I see three things he gives us here that we can grow, that we can be what God initially created us to be, what we are designed to be, not live in this empty, frustrated, dark. uh fearful, wicked world, but to be what God created us to be. Number one, uh I notice in verse 23 through 25, we must be born again. If I'm going to be transformed, if I'm going to be the person that God created me to be, if I'm going to be the one that God designed me to be, I must be born again. Look at verse 23 again with me. Being born again. Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. And then he references, he explains the Word of God a little bit, tells us about it It says for all flesh is grass and all the glory of man for all flesh is as grass, and for all the all the glory of man is as the flower grass. The grass withereth, the flower f thereof faileth away. But The word of God endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. So if I'm going to grow, if I'm going to be what God created me to be, what my very nature and design, what I'm designed to be by my creator. First thing, I need to be born again. I need to be born again. Jesus stated very, very clearly in John chapter 3. That a person needs to be born again. They need to be born again. He said to Nicodemus, a rich ruler, came to Jesus by night, very religious man, very, very wealthy man A successful man by the world's standards. I mean, he had it all. By all appearances, Nicodemus was the guy. He's what everybody would want to be, a good, moral, wealthy, respected man. But it was a facade. And inside he was dying, and inside he was empty. And inside he says, there has to be more than just having stuff and people liking me. There has to be more than that. And Jesus addressed him and he says, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. That's your problem. That's what you're missing. And Nicodemus, of course, doesn't understand. He says, what? What do you mean born again? And he has uh Silly question, but it just tells us how confused he was. He said, would I go back in my mother's womb and be born the second time? What are you talking about? And Jesus very clearly, and if we had time we'd turn there, but I'll just summarize me, John chapter 3, read it. But Jesus says to him, Nicodemus, you're misunderstanding. I'm putting this in my own words. He says, You're misunderstanding. All you're thinking of is the physical birth. Your whole life has been about the external, about the physical, about the material. Your wealth, your religion, your respect, your popularity, it's all been material. I'm not talking about physical, I'm not talking about material. Nicodemus, you are more than just a physical being. You are more than just a material being. You are a spiritual being. And you must be born, not talking physically, that's already taken place. You must be born spiritually. You're dead spiritually. You're without spiritual life. You need to be born spiritually. That which is flesh is flesh. But that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. And Peter is telling us: listen, if you're gonna be what I've intended and created you to be, what I want you to be, if you're gonna grow, You've got to get spiritual life, first of all. You're spiritually dead. Ephesians chapter 2 tells us. Being dead in our trespasses and sins. Spiritually dead, spiritually dead. He says you must be born again. And then Nicodemus. I mean he's an intelligent man. And he's listening to what the Lord is saying. He's taking it in, he's processing all of this. And first he says, how can I be born again? Then the Lord clarifies that. It's not physical birth. That's already came together. You're already born of the flesh. You need to be born spiritually. Then he says, well, how can that be? How is a person born, how do you get spiritual life? And then Jesus goes into those classic passages. In chapter 14, verse 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 of John chapter 3, he says, as Moses was lifted up in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish. And the Lord uses that statement, believeth, believeth, believeth, believeth. And how is a person born spiritually? It is by me putting my faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, he that believeth not is condemned already You're already lost. You're already on that road with the Broadway with the world. That's the way you're going. But he that believeth is not condemned, but hath everlasting life. So the question is, what does it mean to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, it recognizes I'm lost. I'm in sin. I'm separated from God. I'm under God's judgment. If I die in my sin, if I die in this condition, I'm lost for all eternity. Lord, I'm not what you want me to be. I'm not what you created to be. I'm a sinner. And I'm turning to you and I'm believing in you. I'm trusting, I'm putting my faith and my reliance in you. May 7, 1979, I trusted Christ many years ago, this past May 7th. But leading up to that point where I made the decision to believe on the Lord Jesus, to accept him as my personality, leading up to that, there was a lot of things going on. I don't I haven't said this often. Some of you have heard me say this, but my dad, I was living with my dad, and he would go off to church Sunday mornings, and a lot of times I was just getting in 4. 30, 5. 30 in the morning. Come dragging in And I'd hear dad go off. He'd try and get me to go to church, and I'd, of course, I was no interest. And I'm there in the house on a Sunday morning all by myself, so messed up. I didn't know if I was coming or going. I had this facade that I had my act together and I didn't. And I'd pull the pictures out and I had photo albums in the living room. And I'd pull them out boxes of photos and albums. And I'd find pictures of me as a little child And I'm telling you, I would sob and weep as an 18-year-old messed up kid. I'd sob and weep and I'd say, God, if only I could go back and start over. If I could go back and be a little kid again and start over. And I read my Bible and I found out I could. I could be born again. God could give me a new life. I didn't have to be what I was. I didn't have to go the direction I was going. I didn't have to End up in that inevitable destruction. I could be what God created me to be. I could be the person He intended and designed me to be through faith in Jesus Christ. I struggled with it. Oh, I don't know what all that. You ever look back and you struggle with something, then finally you go ahead and do it and you think, man, what an idiot I was. I look back now and say, why was that such a hard decision to me? Why is it the decision to do wrong is so easy and the decision to do right is so hard? Because we live in a wicked world. God says, I want you to grow, I want you to get out of that. And so if I'm going to be, if I'm going to have that fulfillment and that purpose and meaning in life, and I'm going to fulfill what I'm designed to be First thing I need to be born again. Are you born again? You know for sure you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior. He's come into your life. And be born again. Be born again. It's vitally important. So he says, you must be born again. You must be born again. Hey, being saved, being born again, is not just a free ticket to heaven, it's a whole new life. Now it is a ticket to heaven when you accept Christ as Savior. We're saved, secure heaven. We have reserved seats in heaven, Peter tells us. But it's a whole lot more than that. It is a transformed life. It is a deliverance from sin. It is a life of purpose and meaning. That I found to be true after I got saved that I never dreamed would be true in my life. In fact, there was After I got saved the first months and even to this day, sometimes I think, is this even is it am I dreaming? You must be born again. You must be born again. By the way, getting baptized doesn't save you. Joining a church doesn't save you, doing good things. It's putting my faith and trust, accepting Jesus Christ personally as my personal Savior. Lord, I'm trusting him. Thursday night I was out visiting, out on Fingerboard Road. I just go on locking on doors. Fellow came to the door, young man. Way back in the sticks. Everybody that lives on Fingerboard Road is back in the sticks. No, not really. He came to the door and I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman, Mount Lake Baptist Church, just busy, inviting folks out, want to invite you to church. Oh, thanks. Wife goes to church somewhere. No, I don't. My grandpa was a preacher. So really It was your grandpa. He told me. I said, I know your grandpa. He's with the Lord now many years. And uh I said, he used to come to our church Sunday nights. And he'd sit in the services back in the early days, and then he'd preach a little chapel here, and he'd go preach the next Sunday morning. I think he was preaching my sermons he heard Sunday night next Sunday in his church. I think he was. I said, I know your daddy, your grandpa. We got talking a little bit. I said, let me ask you a question, JJ. You know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? I hope so. Grandpa was a preacher. So I appreciate Grandpa. I believe he was a saved man. I liked him. I respected him. I said, what about you? I hope so. I said, everybody hopes so. Nobody in a right mind wants to die and go to hell. He says, Yeah, that's true. I said, JJ, let me take a couple minutes to show you from the Bible how you can know. Because I'd like that. I'd be interested So I was able to, there on his doorstep, just took my Bible and went through the old Romans road. So, JJ, you will you see your sinner? You see that's bad? Yeah, that's bad. Would it turn to Christ and trust Christ as Savior? Yes, I would. He bowed his head with me and he called on the Lord to come in his life, forgive him and save him. Born again, born again. Now, did he mean business? That's between him and God. As far as I could tell, he was. But I know this, if he was sincere and he meant business, he now has a new life. And God wants him to grow. Not be what he was, to be a new creature. Old things pass away. And be a new creature. Grow! And it begins with being born again. If you notice verse 1 of chapter 2, then he says there are some sins that need to be put aside. So first I need to be born again. I need to trust Christ as Savior if I'm going to be what God created me to be. But then he says, verse 1, he says, a very specific list of sins. That I need to get out of my life in order that I can grow and be that person God created me to be. Now look at these lists. Again, he's very, very specific on this list. He says, look at verse 1. Wherefore, laying aside, that word laying aside, and I've got to wind down here, but that word laying aside is a fascinating word. It means to cast off. It's kind of this idea where you have a jacket and uh you just cast it off But it some of y'all never saw me like this before, didn't you? But it it's it's more than just taking a jacket off. As I studied that word and how it's used, that phrase, laying aside, laying aside, it has an idea of earnestness to it, of completely off, not hanging on me a little bit, not like this But completely off, but it has this an urgency to it. I mean getting that thing off. And the way I pictured in my mind as I was studying this was this. Suppose a lady has a nice little uh jacket or something on or what would you call it a overcoat would it be or just a light jacket or sweater. Guys are no help at all whatsoever And a spider gets down inside. Right? And you went that thing off as fast as you can be. Anybody, can you picture that in my mind? And that is the idea behind that phrase laying aside. He's not saying, oh, just casually put these things off. Just if you get a chance, kind of put these things. He said, no, get them out and get them out now. Get him out completely. And he gives the list here. First of all, notice what he says. He says, laying aside all malice. Malice is this: desire for another person to be hurt. A desire for someone else to suffer harm or have a setback or be in pain. Malice. So if you're going to grow, You're not going to be like the world. If you're going to be what I intended you to be, created you to be, then you've got to cast off malice. You say, oh, I don't want to hurt anybody. Can I challenge us to listen to our words we say to others when we're angry? Words that we say sometimes are designed for no other purpose than to hurt somebody. You hate me. Why would somebody say that? Because they want that person to be hurt. They want that person to feel bad And God says, if you're going to be, you're going to have any kind of fulfillment in your life, you're going to be anything that I've intended and created you to be, if you want to not be dysfunctional, if you want to be a functional human being as I designed you You've got to stop doing that. Stop hurting people. Stop hurting people. Don't even have the desire, that malice. It is the exact opposite of love. You say, yeah, but they did that. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Bless them that purse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Pray for them. See, we're not operating by the world's principles. We're not operating by the world's standard. The world says, You give me my way, or you'll pay. I'm going to hurt you. He goes, no no no, you're you're it you're pff You need to grow out of that. Get out of that rank Need to be born again. That's where it starts. Get spiritual life. Then you put these things away. Malice. And he goes down, guile. That means to deceive and lie and be dishonest. Hypocrisy. That's putting on a show. Oh, I'm one thing, in reality, I'm something else. Outwardly clean, inwardly corrupt. Envies. That's being greed at another's blessing. Boy, they're doing so well. Uh just great. It gets under my skin. They live in a house like that. They don't deserve that What's he doing driving that car? Why in the world? I can't, it just screpes me he has a gun like that Right? Envies. Evil speaking, that's backbiting, defaming others. I believe one of the great sins that's crippling our churches is gossiping and backbiting. It's killing us. We're no different than the world. You say, oh, we don't have rock music, but if we're gossiping, we're no different than the world Oh, we don't have contemporary and immodesty. We've got standards. We've got convictions. Oh yeah? But if there's malice in our heart, we're no different than the world. God says, you get out of that. You put that, you get it off, and you get it off fast. You get it off fast. Tolerating sin in our hearts and lives, sins that we justify and are excusable And then I gotta quit. The last one is desiring the Word of God, verse 2, as newborn babes. He's not criticizing them or condemning them. He's not saying you're just babies. He does that in Corinthians. He's correcting me. He says, I got you're like babe, you're immature and you're and you're divisive and you're selfish That's not what he's saying. He's saying, I'm comparing you, just like these little babies are so hungered, the word of God, you decide, I want the word of God in my life. When a baby has that sincere milk, when the baby has that milk, that milk bottle or whatever, they don't just analyze it and look at it and memorize, let's see, its white, its temperature is whatever degrees. No, what's the baby do with milk? It ingests it. It becomes part of them. It's a necessary part of their development and their growth. And that's what the Word of God is to you and I. We don't just read it and memorize it. Oh, it's amazing. No, we ingest it. We bring it. It becomes part of us. It's how we live our lives by the Word of God. And then we grow. we grow. Isaac Newton. Recognize the name? Amazing Grace. Tremendous man, amazing man. What? John Newton. Isaac Newton invented Isaac Newton invented electricity. John Newton. Thank you, Bri Brian sits there to help me. Amazing, amazing man. You ought to read his story, read his life. Phenomenal. In his elder years, he made this statement. He's getting up there. And I'm going to try and quote as accurate as I can off the top of my head. He says, Isaac Newton, I am not what I ought to be. I'm not even close to what I would hope to be. And he says, I'm certainly not what I'm going to be someday He said, but I praise God, I'm not what I used to be. You know, he was saying, I'm growing. Isaac Newton was born again. He put off these sins. He fed and desired on the Word of God, ingested it, lived it. And he said, I'm growing. I'm growing. I'm growing. Let me ask you a question. Are you growing? Are you just like this world and marching in step with this world? Or have you been born again and given a new life? And putting these sins off and ingesting the Word of God and not like the world and becoming more like Christ. And the joy and the fulfillment that Christ lives, I'm seeing and experiencing in my life. And that's what God wants. Father, bless us and help us, I pray, to grow. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know him say, There's no doubt about it. I've been born again Through the Word of God, by the bu what the Bible says, not in my own way or religion, but Bible. I've been born again, but I know there's some things in my heart that are keeping me from growing. Now we've given a very specific list. There's many, many others mentioned in the Bible. You'd say there's some sin. My heart, I gotta be honest, there's sin in my heart. Bitterness, unforgiveness, pride, self, lust. And it's keeping me from growing. And I and I'm not e I'm not e I'm not what God designed me to be. I know it because though I'm saved, I've allowed that in my heart. So anything like that, say, preacher, I need you to pray. God will help me. Lay these off. Is there any like that? Come on, be honest. We're not gonna have revival. We're not gonna be what we are until we're honest with God. God bless you, hands around. That's where it begins. Honesty. Now it's between you and God. It's none of my business to be honest with you honest with you. How about the Word of God feeding, ingesting it in my life and living it? How many people would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. But I'm not living the Word of God like I should. I'm not getting it in. I'm not ingesting it like I should. And I need to commit myself to that. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I need that word of God in my heart and life and mind our home. God bless you. That's so important. We emphasize that. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I'm not trusting Christ as Savior. I've not been born again. I feel like I'm a decent person as far as the world's concern, but I need to know that God has forgiven me and saved me and given me eternal life. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. And I need that settled in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. I know I went a little long, Lord. I pray you'd help. But Lord, in our invitation, help us to find a place, old altar, and humbly do business with you. That your will be done in our lives. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation song.