And uh bring about results I didn't expect. And Jonah shows up here. Now he implies later on that he expected this uh type of response, but uh this is pretty incredible He gets here to the city. He says, he simply tells them what God tells him to. His heart's not in it. He certainly doesn't have a burden for the people. That's obvious. And so he just says, yet forty days and then it will be destroyed. And man alive. The whole city responds in an amazing way uh to humble themselves before God and just thoroughly repent from their sin and turn to cr uh to God and uh just cast themselves on his mercy. And uh amazing thing. Look at verse number five. I'll begin reading here. We're continuing on what we started a week or so ago. So the people in Nineveh believed God So they took this message from God, not just from Jonah. They took it as it was from God. They believed God and proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them, even to the least of them. For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he rose from uh his throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth and sat in ashes. And he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, so they're all on board with them, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed nor drink water, but let man and beast be converted uh be covered with sackcloth, and cry mightily unto God. Yea, let them turn everyone from his evil way, and from the violence that is in their hands Who can tell if God will turn and repent and turn away from his fierce anger that we perish not So I've called this just Nineveh's classic response. We looked at the first half, uh first two parts, I think. I want to care uh go on from where we ended last time. So let's pray. Father I pray you'd speak to our hearts now and bless our study in your word. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I present my body anew, and I pray that you would just speak through me. Help us, Lord, to learn from Nineveh on our daily basis. and um and uh incorporate their response into our lives that frame of mind and so please help us I pray in Jesus' name amen we pointed out as I just said Jonah shows up and um He he delivers the message. And as we said before, God had been working in Nineveh. He had been shaking their confidence. He had been unsettling them and their their whole situation, their minds are prepared for the Word of God coming to them. And so they respond in a tremendous way. If you remember last week we pointed out that the very first thing they did in verse number five is they believed God They believed God. I'll just go down through my little outline. I think we pointed this out two weeks ago actually. It was a simple thing. They just heard the message. They believed it. They didn't need signs. They didn't need wonders to go along with it It was God's word. That was all it took. God had communicated to them. Number two, I pointed out and they believed God, how swift they were to believe. I mean it was just instant. They didn't have to Go and and debate this among themselves. They just uh God said it, that was settled it, there's nothing to discuss. Um, we said the substance of their belief is they believed God Uh they had taken God at his word and then the saturation of their beliefs. So the first thing they did was is they believed God. I think I'm a little strong here still, Dave. I just feel like I'm afraid to raise my voice Alright, then the second thing they did, the first thing they did was they believed God. Then the second thing they did was they humbled themselves. And I get that in verses, the second part of verse 5 down through verse number 7 And this is where last week I pointed out where humbling ourselves before God is so important. The Bible says God resisteth the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. If Nineveh is going to be spared God's judgment, there's one thing they've got to do, is they've got to humble themselves before God. If they stiffen their neck, if they get proud They try and excuse themselves or justify their condition, they're not finding mercy. They're under the judgment of God. There is only one thing they can do. Once they believe that that message from God, that judgment is coming, once they believe that It's only one response, and that is to humble themselves before God. The worst thing we can do, as I said last week, the worst thing we can do As the people of God is to allow pride to creep into our hearts. We have got to fight that tooth and nail. We must not allow ourselves to become brown We must not allow ourselves to become self-righteous. We will lose God's blessing. We will lose God's grace as quick as can be. God resisteth the proud. It's an old truth, but pride sends more people to hell than any other sin. And pride keeps God's blessings off of God's people, I believe, more than any other sin. So they express their humility in two ways, and this is what I want to get to this evening. They expressed their humility in two ways. First of all, was with fasting. Look at verse number five again. They believed God and proclaimed a fast. A fast. What does it mean in the Bible when somebody, the king, proclaims a fast or somebody is going to fast? What is it talking about? Yeah, they're not going to eat in this case, not eat or drink. It's talking about refraining from eating food. A fast is really there's a lot of misunderstanding what a fast is. Several years ago, I was driving somewhere, I preached somewhere, I was driving back, it was late at night I had the radio on and it was out of the area and um I was listening to some preacher or something on the radio, some religious thing. I was just trying to keep my mind occupied And it was a gal, they were, oh I know, it was uh some women's program, and they were interviewing this gal, and she said she had fasted for over a year. And the whole thing went on, I thought, wow, that's amazing to go a year without eating. And she just went on about this fast and all this fast she did, and she fasted for this year. And uh I'm listening, I thought that is i absolutely incredible. I've never heard of I've heard of forty days, I've heard of that uh fasting, but a year and s however And finally it gets all the way to the end of this 15-minute program or whatever, and here it comes out, she wasn't fasting from food, she was fasting from television for a year But she didn't tell you that the whole time. It sounded like, and I think it deliberately made it sound like she was fasting from food And uh and the whole thing she was fasting from television. Now I'm I'm all for not watching television for a year. That would do us bl most of us a heap of good But that's not really what biblical fasting is, is refraining from something that we probably shouldn't be doing in the first place. It's uh fasting. I put this down. Here is Dennis Leatherman's definition of fasting. This is fantastic. You will really like this. But I think it's pretty good. To fast, get this, means to put my relationship with the Lord on a higher priority than even the most basic needs of my flesh. Let me say it again. To put my relationship with the Lord on a higher priority than even the most basic needs of my flesh. Now, we need to eat, right? We don't want to eat, we'll shrivel up and die. So eating is a basic need of our flesh. Our flesh needs sustenance. But there's times when my relationship with the Lord becomes more important than my need for food. And that's where Nineveh was. Nineveh, if God doesn't show mercy, in forty days they're dead If God doesn't show mercy in forty days, they're judged by God. They're in hell for all eternity. If God doesn't show mercy, suddenly those banana splits and those twinkie cakes aren't quite as important as they were before. Right? Suddenly that snack at night isn't quite as important. In fact, it's at the point where breakfast, lunch, and supper is not nearly as important as trying to get some mercy from God. Their standing, their relationship with God suddenly leaped to the top of the priority list, even above eating food. So when we talk about, when the Bible talks about fasting, it is more than just going on a hunger strike to get something from God. Do you see that with the airplane? Some of the families are going on a hundred hunger strike because they're not getting the information. And my heart goes out to them. But that's not biblical fasting. Biblical fasting is not coming to God and saying, all right God, I'm not going to eat until you give me what I want. And I think that's the way a lot of Christians view fasting. You know, boy, I really want this new house, and I'm going to fast and I'm not going to eat until God gives me that new house, or whatever it is. That is not biblical fasting. And Isaiah, I think it's chapter 55 in there somewhere, he spends a whole chapter discussing what fasting is, and he goes into great detail. And it is basically this, saying, all right, me and my desires and my needs are secondary To God's will being done in my life. Fasting has more to do with God's will than it has to do with my will And it's humbling myself before God. Take your Bible, and I reference this verse fairly often, but we always turn to it. Turn with me to the book of Job, if you would. Now keep your place here in Jonah. We're coming back But the book of Job and chapter 23. Job makes, you know, Job is a, man, he's going through it. And as he's going back and forth with his quote-unquote buddies who are just piling on him and throwing all these accusations at him, Job makes some tremendous statements through the book. I mean, just classic And uh he makes this one in Job chapter 23 and down to verse number 12. And this has always, this verse just sticks out in my mind. And I think of it often. Job twenty-three twelve. Notice what he says. He says, Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips So he's arguing his case with his buddies that, hey, I'm this isn't coming on me because I've sinned. I'm not living in sin. That's not why I'm going through all this. And he's kind of defending himself a little bit, then he makes this statement. This is profound. He says, I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. The word esteemed I have in the margin of my Bible to highly value, to highly treasure. He is saying God's word is more important, a higher priority is valued higher And then he doesn't say higher than just my food. He says, more than my what? Necessary food. In other words, the amount of food I need to keep me alive. And I know I reference this verse a lot, but this is incredible. And I believe this is where the Ninevites are. God's word says 40 days you're going to be destroyed. God's judgment is coming. You're going to be destroyed. You're going to end up in hell. 40 days. And suddenly that word, that message, they're esteeming that, they're valuing that message more than their food. Say, listen, uh, we need to get right with God. We're not going to eat, we're not going to do anything until we get thoroughly right with God. And so they're humbling themselves. The aspect of them humbling themselves is putting the desires of my flesh secondary Putting the needs of my body secondary to God being pleased and God being glorified and God having mercy on me. As I said, it is not a spiritual hunger strike. It is putting God above everything else. Fasting is never done. We never fast to impress God with our commitment. That is not the purpose of our fast. Boy, look how committed I am to you, Lord. I'm not going to eat for so many days. It's not the purpose of our fast to impress God. with our commitment or press God with how spiritual we are. Fasting is always putting God as a higher priority. It's not, give me what I want or I won't eat, as I said. Now here's the thing. We live in a world today, and Kathy and I were talking about this before the service tonight. We live in a world today where society and even a lot of elements of Christianity put the flesh And the desires of the flesh above our relationship with God. And we'll make sure we get what we want, we'll make sure we'll get what we need, and then we'll try and fit God in. And I, you know, I have this, I have this, and I'd like to do this, I'd like to see this, and this is my schedule, and I've got this all laid out, and I'll try and fit God into that And that is the exact opposite of humbling ourselves before the Lord. Humbling ourselves before the Lord says, Lord, you are most important. Everything else falls in line behind that. Go with me if you would. We're going to go to several verses here. Come back to the New Testament to 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'll give you a little exercise tonight Second Timothy and Chapter three Notice what he says in verse number uh 2 Timothy, verse 4. Well, he says this is a true saying. Oh, I'm in 1 Timothy. Hold on a second. 2 Timothy chapter 3 verse 4. Verse 1 he says, this though also in the last days perilous times shall come. So he's given the characteristics of the last days Men should be lovers of their own selves, covetous boasters, blessers, da da da. Come down to verse 4. Traitors, heady, high-minded. Now look at this last phrase Lovers of what? Pleasure more than what? Lovers of God. This is the exact opposite. Of Nineveh trying to get right with God, trying to find God's mercy. They're putting the pleasure and the uh the uh actually the dependence upon eating That is secondary. Suddenly God becomes first. And we live in a society today. Would you agree with me? We live in a society today where God is secondary, pleasure is first. America worships pleasure. And God has to, you know, God is so far removed from our thinking as an American society that it's tragic. And that's the way Nineveh was But God had been shaking things up. God had been shaking their self-confidence and their self-reliance and their great pride through the various events. Jonah shows up, 40 days, you're going to be destroyed. Judgment is coming. And suddenly there's a Yikes. You know, there's something more important than me having a good time. There's something more important than me enjoying a steak and and uh uh um lobster tail. And they begin this fast and they humble themselves. We live in a society exactly opposite of what Nineveh was doing. Nineveh is doing it right. They needed God's mercy. And that suddenly became a priority over everything else. We live in a society where it's the exact opposite. Last thing our world's thinking of is God's mercy. What we want to know is where's the next good time? When's the next party? You know, when's the next pleasure? Can you imagine, I heard a preacher say this some time ago, and boy, it's stuck in my mind. Can you imagine a society where the Ten Commandments are reversed? What would that society be like if you took the Ten Commandments and reversed them? Well, let's look and see what the Ten Commandments are. Now we've got to go to Exodus. Some of you haven't memorized, but let's go back to Exodus chapter 20. If you're reading through the Bible, you've probably read through this recently or about to, depending on which schedule you're using. Exodus 20. Now let's look at this. And I want you to think. I want your input now on this part of the message. What would a society be like? What would it be characterized by? If the Ten Commandments were reversed. Well, let's look at the first commandments. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. So if you had a society where that was reversed, what would that society be like? What's that? Yeah, I would be the uh before God, I would be more important than God. What else? What would that society how would it function? What would it be like? Yeah, there'd be all kinds of gods. People would be putting anything before God. Thou shalt not have no gods before me. Mankind would be putting lots of things before God. I mean you can just list start listing things off that man would put before God. What's the second commandment? If we're going to reverse these, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image What would you find in a society if that was reversed? You'd yeah, you'd find man bowing down to all kinds of stuff, either physically or uh uh uh in his mind, in his heart, his emotions. You'd find him bowing down before all kinds of stuff. Look at the third command, verse 7. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. If we reverse that, what would you have? You'd have people taking God's name vain all the time. I mean, they would deliberately be using God's name in uh in blasphemous, perverse ways if you reverse the Ten Commandments. Look at verse, look at the fifth command, or the fourth command. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Of course, we're in the New Testament. The Lord's day is Sunday. So if you reverse that, what would you have? The Lord's day would just be a day like any others. It wouldn't be holy, it wouldn't be set apart, it wouldn't be sacred in any way. It's just another day. Come on down through here. Verse uh twelve is the fifth command. Honor thy father and mother. What would a society be like that didn't honor that reverse that? Man, kids would be telling mom and dad what to do. Kids would be uh uh mouth and off and dishonoring and disrespecting their parents. Are you getting a picture? Verse 13, what would a society be like that was reversed, thou shalt not kill? There'd be murder on every hand. And you know what I think it would be? It would be the most defenseless ones would be the first ones that would be murdered. The ones that have no defense whatsoever would be the first to go after and murder them. And of course, how more defenseless can you get than being in your mother's womb? You have absolutely no defense. So there would be incredible violence. There would be murder on every hand, especially of the defenseless. Verse 14, thou shalt not commit adultery. If you reverse that, thou shalt commit adultery. You would have adultery everywhere. It would saturate society. If you reverse thou shalt not steal. If you lived in a society where thou shalt not steal was reversed, do you agree with me? You would have to lock up everything you have. You'd have to lock your house, you'd have to lock your cars, you couldn't leave stuff out in your front yard. Huh. You see where I'm going with this? Verse 16 is the ninth command. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. If you reverse that, you'd have a society just lying, lying, lying, lying. From the leadership all the way down to the guy that owns the corner restaurant or whatever. Everybody would lie. Christians would lie. The unsaved would lie. Everybody would lie. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his maidservant, his manservant. Man, everybody would be wanting everything that everyone else had What does that sound like? Sounds like the United States of America. Now when the guy, the preacher I heard say that, I don't think He was gone with it. He just made that statement. And I got taken. And I looked at the Ten Commandments and I started thinking through, what if you would reverse all of those? What kind of society would it be? And it sounded like the news. It sounded like Garry County and any other place I've lived. So Nineveh was living their lives completely, could care less about God, could care less about his morality, what was right and wrong. They were doing their thing. And they and their society started falling apart. And Jonah shows up, says, 40 days you're going to be destroyed. Brother, suddenly their priorities changed. And suddenly my relationship with God became a whole lot more important than what I'm going to eat my next meal. In fact, we're going to go without food. We're going to seek God. And that is how they humbled themselves. That was one aspect of them humbling themselves. So they humble themselves, first of all, by fasting Putting God on a higher priority, they're standing and finding God's mercy, a higher priority than fulfilling the pleasures and desires of the flesh. And then number two, they put on sackcloth. Look what it says there. Come back To Jonah. And uh verse number five, he uh they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them. even to the least of them. Now what is sackcloth? I did a little research and we have it pictured in our mind, no doubt. But sackcloth uh was uh we're told A plain, usually a dark type of clothing, very coarse, made from goat's hair. It was very uncomfortable. Anybody remember that old wool clothing you used to wear? It just scratched and itched? Along those lines, probably worse. It was very loose-fitting. It was anything but attractive. Nobody looked at somebody walking down a road in sackcloth and thought, wow, they look sharp. Nobody ever said that. Nobody ever said, boy, you know, I really feel good wearing this sackcloth. Nobody ever did that. Sackcloth was a means. Of expressing the fact that I am grieving, that I am horrified over something. It was an expression of mourning and great sorrow One of the commentaries I was reading about sackcloth, I want to see what they said about what sackcloth was. And they said it was usually clothing associated with great shame When people were humble themselves, they were ashamed of their sin, they were ashamed of their conduct, they were ashamed of how they lived and how they had behaved. They were ashamed of the things they said and the places they had gone And they wanted to express that sorrow over their sin, and they would lend their clothes and they would put sackcloth on. And the interesting thing is if you read down through here, you have all of society of Nineveh is doing this from the king. Now I could see some poor beggar, a guy on the street, has doesn't have two nickels to rub together. And you know his clothing isn't that sharp, it's pretty rugged, it's pretty nasty. But think about the king Putting off his royal clothing, putting off his wife, his whole council as nobles, putting off all their royal garb and publicly putting on, saying, what they're saying here is we've sinned against God. We're in bad shape. We're ashamed of how we've conducted ourselves. I'm telling you, that takes humility. That takes tr tremendous humility, especially on the part of the king all the way on down. Humility, I put this down, true humility takes sin very seriously. When we just blow off our sin, when we just blow off our disobedience to God, when we just brush it aside, that is not characteristic of a humble person. A humble person says, God, this what I've done is wrong. And it seems like you even get to the point where the things that seem little to other people in my heart and mine are very big And they require me to uh take drastic measures to make this right with God. And so there's tremendous humility on their part. Humility takes sin very seriously It grieves over its sin. It's ashamed of its sin. It's interesting here as you look at this. I mean, this is an amazing response by this ungodly society. Jonah shows up forty days, then it would be destroyed. Whoom, a conviction of God falls on him. And they're We're not eating, we're not drinking, we're gonna get right with God, we're gonna beg God to have mercy. They rip their fancy clothes off, they put their their uh sackcloth on And they're walking in the streets and they're falling before God. Have mercy on us. Man, what a response. And here's the thing, as you read down through here It was so deep in their hearts, their conviction, they even had their cattle doing this. And I thought, what in the world? What if the cattle have anything to do? And uh you know they're putting sackcloth on their cattle. They're not letting their cattle eat or drink, nothing. Now I think the Bible doesn't tell us why they did that. I think one of the aspects may be is they were very dependent on their cattle That was a symbol of their strength, you know. That's where they got their harvests and crops and, you know, they uh as a means of transportation And I think they're saying, God, you're more important. Us getting right with you is more important than anything we have. We're not depending on our cattle. We're not depending on our resources. We're not depending on nothing. We're falling before you in total mercy. In other words, they took their sin very seriously. And more than anything else in life, they wanted to be right with God. And that's a powerful, powerful thing. They wanted to repent from their sin. So this whole thing, this whole verses here, 5 through 9, is really a picture of repentance And I'm going to try and take another week and look at some more of these verses with this. But total, thorough repentance. And the interesting thing is, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but look Verse number nine. Now they're repenting. They're turning from their sin. But look what they're saying. Who can tell if God will turn and what? Repent. They're repenting so that in the hopes that God will repent. God's initial intention is to destroy them. And I thought, if we repent from our sin, then maybe God will repent from his intention. Of course, God being very merciful, of course, does I thought as I was studying this, I thought when I got when I got saved, it's such a mess, and I'll tell you that all the time. And I've mentioned, I've referenced this a couple times over the years, but um I had an amazing stereo system for back in the day. You know, it was something back then the bigger the stereo was, the cooler it was. Now it's smaller it is, you know, but Man, we just had to stay something. I had bought it off a friend of mine. I knew how he got it. He had broken into a place and stole it. They had robbed this place And he stole the stereo system out of there. And um I bought it off him for almost nothing. And I got saved. And I wanted to be right with God. I really did. Just I didn't know anything. All I knew was there was more to life than I thought. And God was real. And heaven and hell was real and and Jesus had died for me. And man, I had a whole new life. And I wanted everything to be right. And I would come in, and this was in the weeks after I got saved, it wasn't long, I would come in and that stereo system would be glaring. I saw a thing and it would eat at me and eat at me and eat at me. That is not right for me to have that thing. I'm telling the Holy Spirit of God convicted me so badly About having that was not mine, that was someone else's. That had paid good money for it. Finally, I packed the whole thing up. The guy's name was Joey McGowie, was the guy's name And I went over to Joey's house and um he came out and I hadn't seen him for a couple weeks. I'd changed my direction I was going. I said, Joey says, hey leatherman, what's up I said, man, I got to give you something. He goes, yeah, what is it? What's going on? I said, I got the stereo system. He goes, what are you talking about? I can still see myself out front and I and I I have these boxes and I said here take this and I'm going in the car and uh I'm hauling this stuff this veg I had this Vega Chevy Vega and I'm hauling this stuff out of the back of the hatch hatchback hauling it up there to me. He says, what are you doing? What are you doing? I said, I don't want it. I said, it's not right. It's not mine. He goes, you bought it. I said, yeah, but it's not right He says, what do you want me to do with it? I said, I think you ought to give it back to the person you stole it from. I said, but I don't want it. He said, I ain't paying you m- I ain't giving your money back. I said, I don't want my money back. I just don't want nothing to do with this And that, I believe, is what Nineveh's frame of mind was. We want to get thoroughly right with God. We don't want we're not going to eat We're not going to drink, we're not going to dress up, we're going to not make ourselves look good. Being right with God is more important than anything else in our life. And I'm telling you, when we get to that point as Christians, I think then we'll start seeing God doing some amazing things. And I'll be honest with you, I think until our nation, our society as a country gets that point where we humble ourselves before God, we're still facing God's judgment. It's still out there. I don't know that it's 40 days. But I know God says that, you know, righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. And so it has to begin with us. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be very sensitive to your Holy Spirit. Help us to be very sensitive to what is right and wrong. That you would help me and all of us to be humble before you, to humble ourselves before you. And Lord, help us to take Our relationship with you and your love for us and your plan for us and your will for our lives, help us to make that a high priority. And God, that we can see your blessings and your mercy on us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, you know, there's some areas in my life that you know I can just see they they tend to take a priority higher than the Lord May not necessarily be bad things, but they're I I'm allowing them to become more important than my walk with the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that every area of my life would be yielded to Christ and he would be priority in every area. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. That's our desire. But we have to work at that. We have to make that decision that Christ is priority. Father, bless us and help us, Lord, as we go in invitation. Lord, help us. Like the Ninevites, just to humble ourselves before you and seek your face and uh realign our priorities where they need to be. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bound, eyes are closed, Catholics, let's go and play a few verse of imitation And uh maybe tonight the altar would be a good place, just to meal and say, Lord, I want you to be number one, I want you to be top priority in every area of my life. I don't want anything, even my necessary food, to be