Try and get turned on here. O in on the Jonah chapter 3 and uh going through here a little more serious note um I just got I just read this just before we came over to church. I was going through and uh checking my email and different things. And the headline caught my attention, and this is something. Now think about this and put ourselves in their shoes. North Korea, Kim Jong-un. is um has uh declared there are 33 Christians that they're going to execute over in North Korea. And the reason they're executing them is there's a Baptist missionary from South Korea had gone into North Korea, had gone over to China somehow and came in and was distributing Bibles and was working to establish underground churches and um they found thirty-three people that were Christians, apparently saved people, that had made contact with him and were cooperating with them, working with them to get Bibles and get them distributed through the country. And um He he's out of country but they got these thirty-three and they're fixing to execute them. Doesn't give a time frame, but apparently pretty pretty soon and the head guy. Isn't that something? Can you imagine if we were in a society, just put yourselves in their shoes, that if all you did was make contact with somebody that was trying to get the word of God to your people And so we've got to pray for these Christians and we gotta really appreciate what we have in the freedoms we have. And um and the other thing I thought about, can you imagine The faith and the burden that would be on the heart of a man to risk himself, you know, to leave a free country and go in knowing that you know what the consequences are probably going to be and that you're putting other believers' d lives in danger simply by trying to obey the Great Commission. And Yeah, a lot of times we're leaning that direction. And um so just amazing. I thought of the apost The one person came to my mind was the Apostle Paul. I believe Apostle Paul had that faith and that burden that, you know, he said he was willing to lose his own salvation if it meant bringing others to Christ And here you got this Korean fellow that is such a burden to get the gospel up there. And um just amazing things. So that stirred my heart and that challenged me You know, how often do we have a hard time just giving a gospel track out or taking an an hour or two of an evening or a Saturday to go out and talk to people about Jesus? And here you've got these folks They're being executed for it. And so maybe the Lord can stir our hearts a little bit. Jonah chapter 3. I want to read verses 5 through 9. We're not going to look at all these tonight, but I want to get the context of what's going on. In verse number five, it begins this way: So the people of Nineveh believed God and proclaimed the fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them even to the least of them. For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste anything. Let them not feed nor drink water, but let man and beasts be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God Yea, let them turn every one from his way evil way and from the violence that is in their hands. Who can tell if God will turn and repent And turn away from his fierce anger anger that we perish not. Wow. What a response, the word of God. I called it Nineveh's classic response. a pattern that they set here for us to how to respond to God's word. Let's pray. Father, please fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight. I pray that you would help me to be faithful to your word. I pray it would be you speaking through me. I present my body anew and ask God that you would just touch our hearts and stir us to have faith in you. and to humble ourselves before you in faith and obedience. In Jesus' name, amen. Everything we studied in Jonah up to this point The call, the fleeing from God's presence, the storm, the boat, the storm, the sailors, the great fish, the whale. uh being vomited, Jonas humbling himself and praying, being vomited out, traveling minima. All of this has been leading up to this point. Getting this information to the people of Nineveh that they have 40 days before God is going to judge this nation, they're going to be destroyed. Everything has led up to this Getting that simple little message to these people. I thought it was interesting as I was working on this and just kind of get trying to get a the big picture here what's going on. Uh I thought it was interesting it took longer to get Jonah to obey God than it did to get the Nineveh to believe God Now Jonah was a prophet of God. He's one of God's people. To put in New Testament vernacular, he's one of God's children. And to get him to obey his heavenly father, to get him to obey his creator, the God that he know is true, took longer and more effort And endangered more people than it did for these hardened, perverse, wicked, pagan Ninevites. They heard it and they believed. Amazing thing. Why is that that way? It's been you look at you look at how God worked with the nation of Israel, his own people, so many times he would just have to chasten them and send prophet after prophet after prophet. To just to try and get them to do the most basic things he asked of. And they were obstinate, and they were stiff-necked, and they absolutely were rebellious against Their heavenly father. And yet you have these unsaved, these people who don't know God, and many times they would respond in a much uh better fashion than God's people did. I think this is a classic example, verses 5 through 9. Classic example of how we should respond to the Word of God. How we should, when God gives us a warning in His Word, how we should respond to that. And classic example here. I just want to look at this first part. There's several stages here that I see through this. The first one, and this is the only one I'm going to look at tonight, was the first stage of their response to God's word. And I find it in the first part of verse number five It says, uh, let me read that again. It says, and the people of Nineveh believed God. Now I took my pen. Initially I had that underscored from reading and studying previously. When I got to that phrase again, that caught my attention. They believed God. I circled those two words in my Bible. That is key. And that's my first point, the first stage is they believed God. That is where the starting point is. They didn't ignore God's word. They didn't rebel against God's word. Uh they didn't uh uh here's an interesting thing I took note. They didn't turn against the messenger of God's word. You tend to see that among uh mankind. If we don't like what the message is, but we can't refute it, then we'll attack who? The messenger. I don't have any argument against the message, so I've got to somehow discredit the messenger. And that's a tactic that Unbelief views, that's a tactic that rebellion against truth and God's word uses, attack the messenger. But you don't see any of that here These Ninevehites, and I tried to paint an accurate picture of what they were like, what their mindset was And the wickedness of these people and the violence and the ungodliness of them. And yet when God's word shows up They respond, they believe it. They believe God's word. And so that is very, very key. They don't ignore it. They don't rebel against it. They don't reject God's word. They don't attack God's messenger. They believed God. Now, my thinking was, what was it about these people that caused them to want to receive this warning from God? This is not a pleasant message Jonah doesn't show up and say, hey, y'all, something good's about to happen to you. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, hey, let's take an up and offering. You put a hundred bucks in that plate, God will give you a thousand You put a thousand in that plate, God will give you ten thousand. None of that stuff. What's he do? He shows up and says, Y'all got 40 days, God's going to destroy this whole place And yet they respond immediately and they believe that is true. Remember what we learned early on in the series? God had been working in the Ninevehites' society. There had been earthquakes, there had been strange phenomena, there was an eclipse that they could not explain, and the history books tell me and convince me That God had been preparing these people and everything that they had confidence in, their false gods, their military might their highly organized uh society, all of that had been cracking and had been falling apart And they then when Jonapho shows up and with authority he declares the word of God, it all makes sense to them. They can see God's hand in what's been happening, and they are convinced immediately that what he says is true. You know, we find that out soul-winning sometimes. Sometimes we'll go and knock on doors and we'll go make visits with people and somebody will say, Will you go visit so-and-so? And we'll visit with people and we'll get the, you know, and be graciously try and share with them the gospel how to be saved. And sometimes folks, it's like water off a duck's back. It's like they don't even hear it, doesn't even register at all. And the proper response to that is, you know, you just kindly leave it with them, go on, thank them for the time and go on. Maybe another time. Then, inevitably, you come across that one. And it's almost like they were sitting there waiting for somebody to come by and tell them how to be saved. And it's interesting as you talk to them and engage them a little bit, ask them some questions, they'll inevitably say something like this. You know, there's just a lot going on in my life right now making me think about this. There's just a lot of stuff happening. And um, you know, that that is God working in the hearts and lives of people to prepare them for the Word of God. And I think that's what took place here with Nineveh. I I'm convinced that um uh for the year or two before Jonah ever showed up God had been working. He had been shaking their confidence in these false gods. He'd been shaking their self-confidence and and they just weren't so sure of themselves and they were a little bit fearful about what the future held Then here comes Jonah, 40 days, and Nineveh will be destroyed. Boy, they believed that right off the bat. Now that word believes is an interesting word. I got looking at that and how it's used. It has the idea Excuse me, it has this idea to be confirmed in a person's mind. Jonah shows up. 40 days then it will be destroyed. In their minds. Click. Yes, that's true. It has the idea of determining that something is legitimate. Determining that something is true. And when they heard Jonah say, 40 days, none of it be destroyed, their mind processes, started process, their mind started processing everything that was going on And they came to the conclusion, you know, that has to be why everything's going the way it is. That has to be what everything has been leading to. That makes sense. What he's saying is legitimate It's correct. That's confirmed in my mind. They became convinced immediately That what God said was going to happen was actually going to happen. And you know, that's where revival begins. That's where salvation begins, is when I get to the point where I am convinced and I come to the conclusion and confirm in my own mind that what God says is so. God says to the unbeliever, You die in your sins, you're lost for all eternity in hell, a lake of fire. And the unbeliever says, You know, I'm guilty. The Bible says, for all sin and comes short of the glory of God. And something in the mind of the unsaved person says, you know, that's true. I've seen, I can see that in my life. What God is saying about me is accurate. It's legitimate. And then we believe that and we respond to it. Christ says, the Bible says, you know, Jesus died on the cross for our sins, was buried, and rose again. And the unbeliever in his mind says, you know, I can see that's true. He loved me enough and died for me to give me a new life. He rose again. And they believe that. It's confirmed in their mind. They recognize it as legitimate God says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And the unbeliever in their mind say, you know, I believe that. That makes sense. The Lord's my only way to be saved. I'm calling him and trust him And uh he'll give me new life, eternal life, and I have my sins forgiven. So that's where salvation begins in believing God And simply saying God's word is legitimate. God's word is correct. It's confirmed in my thinking. Take your Bibles if you would. Now keep your place here. I'm still fighting this voice of mine And Kathy just yells at me all the time and I lose my voice. And not really. Hebrews chapter 3. Come back there with me to Hebrews chapter 3. It's kind of sad when you have to use God's people versus the unsaved And the unsaved respond more positively to the Word of God than God's people do. Isn't that sad that that's the case so often? I don't know why that is. It's a tragedy Israel is an example of this. Look with me, Hebrews chapter 3, and we're going to boil this down a little bit. Verse 12. This whole chapter is really dealing with Israel's unbelief. Verse 12 says, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of what? Unbelief. Of saying, That's not so And goes on and departing from the living God. He's talking about Israel. He's using Israel as an example that they didn't believe God. When he brought them out of Israel and they went through the wilderness. Time and time again, he would give them instructions, he would tell them what they should do, what they shouldn't do, where they sh and they would not believe it. They would not recognize it as a legitimate, the best thing to do. And they would not believe And he's using them an example. And he's saying to these Hebrew believers in the New Testament age, he's saying, listen, be careful that that doesn't happen to you. When God declares something in his word, you have to determine, I am going to believe that. That is legitimate. That is the word of God. I'm going to confirm that in my mind. I'm going to act on it So he gets a powerful warning here. Take heed, brethren, that this doesn't happen to you. Come down to verse number 15. He says, while it is said today, if you will hear his voice, today if you hear his voice, harden not your hearts As in the provocation. For some, speaking of Israel back in coming out of Egypt, for some, when they had heard, did provoke, albeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses Uh what he's saying is apparently there were some folks didn't leave Egypt with the Israelites. And some they didn't believe this was true. They didn't believe this was of God. Now not some not all of them But some did. Look what he says, verse seventeen. But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness? And to whom swear he that they should not enter in his rest? But to them that what? Believe not. Look at verse 19. For we see then that they could not enter into the promised land because of what? Unbelief. They would not take God at His word. Now here's the tragic thing. You've got these heathen Ninevites. They had devastated people. They were violent. They were vile. And yet when they heard the word of God, they believed it. It was legitimate in their mind. They received it. And here you have God's people that won't do that. And he said, listen, don't let that happen to you. And so the word believe back here, as I looked at that, how it's used, and it come over in the Hebrews And it has the idea of simply determining that what is said is true. They believe God's word. I'm convinced that the root of all of our spiritual problems is the fact that we just don't believe God. You say, preacher, when's the night crowd at church? You're telling us we don't believe God? I I say we do with our with our our heads, we do with our mouths a lot of bit, but I think a lot of times We have a hard time believing. I'm including myself in this. We have a hard time really believing God, saying, yeah, that's the best thing. That's what I should do. I think about this Korean fellow How many of us with God would direct in our life and instruct us and lead us that He'd want us to go into that environment, knowing we're probably going to lose our lives probably a bunch of other people are going to lose their lives because we're bringing the Word of God into a d uh a restricted country and people are going to die. How many of us would believe God and say yes That's legit. That's the best thing for me to do. I've got to obey God. Huh? You know, I look at myself. Would I do that? And he says that's that's unbelief. That's unbelief. And so I'm convinced the root of our problems, the reason we struggle in our prayer life. The reason we struggle with soul winning, why it's so difficult to get us to go out soul winning and visit people and share the gospel, a lot of times we're just really not convinced that that's the best thing for me to do, that that's really what I can do. I can work some way out of it. I think the reason we uh sometimes we stick around and hide sin and that stuff type of stuff is because we're not really convinced that God sees everything, that there's going to be negative consequences. Somehow in our mind we got ourselves convinced that we're going to be the exception of the rule. And it comes down to a matter of unbelief. And so these Nineveh, they believed God. That was the first stage of this incredible response and salvation of this entire city. It all began with, they believed God. And so that's interesting. Now let's look at this matter of their unbelief. I put this down. I notice the simplicity of their unbelief. If you remember, we said before, what was it? Eight words in this message. Nothing complicated. Forty days, then it was going to be destroyed. There was no signs, there was no wonders, they didn't have any dreams, there wasn't any angels appearing in the sky, wasn't any of that. It was a simple little statement. By God. And yet they believed that. And uh I think we complicate things sometimes Ma'am, we want all this. Remember when Jesus, when Abraham was in conversation with the rich man in hell And the rich man's pleading with Abraham to send somebody to his family that they can warn them about this place called hell, that they don't end up there. And uh Abraham says uh uh he says, you know, there's a great gulf and they can't they're down there can't go. He says, if you could send someone from the dead They would hear them. What was Abraham's response? Do you remember? What did he say? Yeah. They said, though one rose from the dead. If they will not hear the prophets, they will not believe. And you know, we complicate things and we got all this stuff that, well, I'll believe it, if this, that, and the other, when the earth starts straight. And uh that wasn't it. It was just a simple little statement. 40 days, then it'll be destroyed. They believed that. Now I'm of the opinion, if God tells us something one time clearly in Scripture, that ought to be all that it takes. If God says one thing, it ought to be that. And uh so I see the simplicity of their belief. They just believed what was said. Number two, I put this down. I noticed how swift they were to believe Now I've kind of been pressing this the whole time, but I don't see any time frame between verse 4 and verse 5. I don't see anything I don't see any days going by or any oh we gotta get together and think about this. We need to sit down and we're gonna call a committee meeting with the authorities of the government and we're gonna discuss this and see whether this is legitimate or not No. I see a very swift. They were very swift to believe. They immediately determined that this was true. I found, you know when the I found the best time is to respond to God in faith and obedience is right away. Did you notice there in Hebrews 3 when he's three times he used a simple little word. Now we didn't read all of them, but in chapter 3 if you look at it, it's today. Harden not your hearts. Today Today. In Corinthians, we're told that today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. God expects us God expects mankind that when he says something, when he gives instructions, when he makes a statement, that mankind accepts that and believes it right away. Now I'm all for. I think uh this creation, defending creation and exposing evolution, I'm all for that. You know that. I'm strong for that But you know, there's an element of mankind, if they don't simply believe the word of God, then no matter what arguments you put out, they're not going to believe it if they don't believe the word of God And so they were very swift to accept it. To delay would be disaster. I wonder. I don't know the answer to this question. And uh God knows, and you know, not a lot we can do about it. But I wonder how many people die and go to hell that were one day going to get saved. They knew they needed Christ. They knew they needed to be saved. Someday I'm going to. And someday never comes, and they die and end up in hell. I wonder how many Christians are debating with God and negotiating with God and someday I'm going to do what you've told me to do, Lord. Someday I'm going to make this change. Someday I'm going to step out in faith. Someday I'm going to do this, Lord. Someday We just push that thing off and push that thing off and push that thing off. I think about how many folks that um have trusted the Lord and we show them from the Bible, you know, after a person gets saved, very first thing they ought to do spiritually, they ought to be baptized I see that so clearly in Scripture. And yet so often he'll just put that off, put that off, put that off. And so they were swift to believe, very swift, to delay his disaster all through Scripture You find the record of people getting in trouble because they delayed obeying God. All through Scripture. So number one their simplicity of their belief. Number two, the swiftness of their belief. I put this down. Number three, the substance of their belief. It says there in verse 5, they believed God. They believed God. What God had said. It wasn't blind faith. It was faith that was based on the Word of God. Listen, our faith must be grounded on the Word of God. Now many of you could say this make the same statement I'm about to make. Most of you here could probably maybe all of you here could make the same statement I know for sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Anyone else be able to make that statement? You know what? You say, oh, you just you're presumptuous and you just have this. No, it's not because of any way I'm living my life. It's not because of any feeling I have. It's based on the Word of God. It has some substance behind it There are verses and statements by God that that faith, that what I just said, my faith in that that being true, is based on the Word of God. You follow what I'm saying? So our faith has to have substance. Our salvation needs to be based on the Word of God. The Ninevehites, they all got saved as a result of a very clear statement by God. Now I think it's interesting what it doesn't say here. It does say they believe Jonah. Who's the one talking? It's Jonah. But their faith wasn't in Jonah. Their faith was in what? God. And I think that's important, an important principle there. For me as pastor, standing behind this pulpit or teaching, or really any of our teachers or preachers in the church, we're declaring the Word of God, your faith must not be in the man delivering the message. Your faith must be in the God that gave the message. And we're not careful. Even among our independent Baptists, we get this idea of exalting men and exalting them. Man, what a great preacher. And I'm all for honoring people that honor is due But let's not forget, without the Lord, we're nothing. And it is God's word that does that has the power. So um uh a few little threatening words from God. And that whole city's transformed. The substance of our faith is God's word. It is powerful. And that's where it's at. Then I put number four, last of all, I put the um The saturation of their belief. Look at verse 5 again here real quick. The saturation Verse 5 it says, So the people of Nineveh believed God and proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth. We'll look at that here in a little next week or following week. From the greatest of them to the least of them. Now, as far as I can tell, I looked at this and looked at this, and it appears to me that everyone throughout this whole society of Nineveh Believe the Word of God. That's the impression I get. The word greatest there says from the greatest. The word greatest there has the idea of exalted authority. So who who would be being referred to? If you're talking to the person from the greatest, the exalted authority, who would that be? That'd be the king and no doubt his delegate uh the people he delegates authority to? These are people who have tremendous authority. in society, in this, in this city, uh, and surrounding areas. Uh it has the idea. I thought this was interesting as I was looking up this word and how it's used. The word arrogant or haughty kept coming up through here. The greatest. A people who not maybe not maybe not only held positions of great authority who were really something, but even the people who thought they were really something. You know, they were arrogant. The arrogant people, these self-confident, these haughty people, the word of God pierced them. And they believed God, the greatest. Those with exalted influence is how this word is used. So we have the upper echelons of Ninevehite society. Those the moot the what do you call them shakers and movers? Is that right? The shakers and movers of Ninevehite society, they get this message and their hearts are pierced and they believe it's true. They believe that that's 40 days and God's going to destroy this place. And so, from the highest aspects of society, the arrogant, those with great influence and authority, but then look what it says From the greatest of them, even unto the least of them. I looked up that word least. This is interesting. One of the other ways it's translated through Scripture is little. Insignificant. Young. It's used to refer to children It refers to folks who have little or no authority, little or no influence in society. This is the complete opposite of the spectrum of society. The great movers and shakers, and then the folks that have almost little or no influence in society at all. They are nobody But they hear this message, yet forty days none of it will be destroyed, from God, and they believe it, and they believe it. For the most part From what history tells us and what I can determine from this Ninevehite society, all of these people are extremely wicked From the highest echelons to the lowest folks down in the street, even to the children, they are extremely wicked. They have had no teaching in morality. They have no biblical principles of what's right and wrong whatsoever. It is completely pagan. They were, their great-grandparents were raised that way, their great-grandparents were that. They have generations Of absolute moralist living. And the simple little message from God comes in, and from the highest echelons down to the little kids and people in the streets have no influence. They believe it. They believe it. Listen, that tells me we should never discredit anybody That they cannot be influenced by the Word of God. You say that guy is so arrogant, he is such a big shot, he would never the word of God would never have effect on him. I don't believe that's true for one minute. Here you have people that are absolutely everything you would think that would not believe God, and a simple little statement pierces their heart and they believe and get saved. And then you have those in the streets, and you say that guy is nothing, he'll never, he he'd never mount anything, he would never believe the Bible. Don't say that Here we have the entire society, from the greatest to the least. They all believed God. They all believed what God said. That encourages my heart. I've I've told the story before when we first came, we bought the bus and that preacher told me you'll never you'll never have much of a church running buses and bringing in bus kids And uh he says, you don't you need to go after the the uh higher level people. And my response was and still is to this day, we're not going after poor people, we're not going after rich people, we're going after people Whatever category they fall in, that's not that's not a factor. And anybody can be saved. Next Tuesday, it'll be down in Washington, Brother Grant's going down with me, got an appointment to meet with one of our senators at 1130 Tuesday morning. And we're going to go in there with literature and we're going to try and share the gospel with Senator Carridon. Carden? And we're gonna sit down with him. We've we've already I talked to his scheduler today on the phone. Eleven thirty, we're gonna go down, we're gonna sit with him, we're gonna do our best to try and share the gospel. You say, Oh Somebody liberal like that, they never get saved. Hey, don't limit the power of God's word. They don't know what'll happen. From the greatest of them to the least believe. There's going to be about 450, 500 other independent Baptist preachers down there on the Capitol going in, meeting with these guys. Uh, Saturday, you know what I'm going to be doing Saturday? My plan is I'm gonna go out to Baird, I'm gonna knock on some doors. You know what, there's gonna be some little kids there. Come that, you know, just little Hillbill anybody live in Baird here? Uh little hillbilly kids up there. And uh you know what I want to give them well they'll they're very educated and sophisticated hillbilly kids, Zandy But uh go in there, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna give them the word of God. You know why? Because God's word can affect them just the same way it can the senator of a very liberal state. Amen or not? From the greatest to the least of them. They believed God. They believed God. We must never discredit any person from coming to the Lord or seeing that soul saved. The most arrogant king, the most pitiful street person can be saved. Now, I mentioned this last week and I'll end with it again this week. I see, as I look through this, and we're going to get down into chapter 4 here in a little while, there is no praise for Jonah because of his great results. There's no praise for Jonah because of his great crowds. Now I'll be honest with you, this is probably the greatest evangelistic endeavor in the Bible. Pentecost was a drop in the bucket compared to this salvation experience. 3,000 people at Pentecost, Acts chapter 2. This is, we're talking million plus people here getting saved. Repenting at the Word of God and believing God. And yet there's not one word that says, Boy, what a great guy Jonah was. What a great evangelist. Man, he holds great meetings. It wasn't that at all. And I you know what I thought when I was thinking about that, and I noticed that, there's another fellow that preached what God told him to preach. He did a lot longer than Jonah than Jonah did. It was Noah. And Noah was Joe was Noah. No no. Noah, get this. Noah was more obedient to God than Jonah was. He was more submissive to God, more more no resistance, no fleeing, didn't even make sense what God was asking to do at the time, yet he obeyed God immediately. How did his evangelistic endeavor work out? Not too good. His family, eight people, himself, his wife, his boys, and their wives. And nobody else got saved for a hundred some years. Well, obviously, Jonah was a failure. Noah was a failure, and Jonah was a great success. I look at those two guys. You know who I would rather be? I'd rather be Noah. He had far more character, far more integrity, and yet he didn't have great results. So we've got to watch out In our thinking. And don't misunderstand. I don't you know there's great men and and all that. I'm not saying that. But let's not forget the the measurement of success is not the results The measurement of success is the level of obedience. And I can obey God. And whatever God chooses to do through my obedience, that is up to him. But it's up to me simply to obey him and do what he instructs me to do. And what a great lesson here. But believe, that's where it starts, believing God. So let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to believe you. God, we say we do. We have so much Bible information in our head. But I'm afraid, Lord, when it comes down to actually trusting you and believing what you say and stepping out on that That's where we break down sometimes. I pray you'd help us as a church and as individuals in our country that we would believe your word, that what you say is so, and what's going to happen is going to happen. And uh help us, Lord, to respond in that. Their heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm praying and asking God to help me have stronger faith, to really believe Him. As we see here these Ninevites did. That was my concern as I was studying this passage. God help me to believe you to the point where it affects me and I actually step Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I just want to believe God with all my heart and be willing to obey Him no matter what it is and trust Him and obey Him. Amen. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. Help us to simply believe you. Help us to swiftly believe you. Help us to completely believe you. And let you get all the glory in whatever you choose to do through our lives. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Let's stand up. Let's stand together. Just a few verse of invitation. I always think invitation is important.