Most folks when they think of Jonah, when they study Jonah, they talk about Jonah, it's Jonah and the whale. And of course that's a major portion. The first two chapters of the book deal with the storm, Jonah fleeing from the Lord and all of that. Finally, Jonah gets right with God and uh he submits to the Lord and says, All right, I'll do what you want. Find out later on in the book, chapter four, he wasn't really had the best attitude about it, but uh he did what God told him to do And he shows up at Nineveh. And we started this month or two ago, and we've been away from Jonah for two weeks now. But he shows up at Nineveh and God has given Jonah a very simple message to preach. There's nothing complicated about it. Any backslidden preacher could preach this sermon. Yet 40 days in Nineveh shall be destroyed. He shows up and he starts declaring that through the city. And lo and behold, probably, if not the one of the greatest revivals in all of history breaks out in this huge, wicked, ungodly pagan city. And they turn to God. I want to begin reading, and we've looked at this This repentance, this turning to God on the part of the universe. We've been dissecting this for several weeks now And I want to look at it again tonight one final time because it is just such a classic example, I think Of what God wants from somebody when they make things right with God. The elements that make up the act of getting right with God and seeking the Lord. Look at verse number 5, Jonah chapter 3. Verse 4, Jonah's message, yet 40 days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Look at verse 5. So the people of Nineveh believed God. And proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth from the least from the greatest of them even to the least of them For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne and laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth and sat in ashes And he caused it be proclaimed and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything Let them not feed nor drink water, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God. Yea, let them turn every one from his evil way, and from the violence that is in their hands. Who can tell if God will turn and repent and turn away from his fierce anger that we perish not? A classic example of what it means to repent and make things right with God. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you. uh for this little book here in the Old Testament. And I think a lot of times we miss some real important teaching in here we uh because we stopped there with the whale. So I asked as we look at this one last time this this uh response of Nineveh to the message of God, I pray you would stir our hearts and help us, Lord, to incorporate some of these elements into our walk with you. Fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Dave, I switched over to this mic. It seems a little strong. We're looking at this. As I said, Jonah shows up. He begins preaching this very simple message, and I noticed four responses on the part of the Ninevehites That uh prompted God to show them mercy. The first thing is in verse number five, the first part it says they believed God. They believed God. When Jonah showed up and said, 40 days, and Nineveh will be overthrown There was no doubt in their mind that that was actually going to take place, that what God had said was going to happen was actually going to happen. They believed God. I got thinking about that as I was reviewing again for this evening and probably said this several times. But you know, I think if if people if unsaved people really believed that if they died unsaved that they would go to hell forever and ever and ever. If they really believed that, it would not be very difficult to get unsaved people saved. If people really believe that there is judgment of God, that they are under the wrath of God for their sin against God, if people would simply believe that message from the Bible, it would not be difficult to get saved people saved. I think uh uh unsaved people saved, I should say. I I think if you and I as Christians really believe that we're gonna be held accountable for our actions as Christians and we're gonna stand before the judge of Christ, if that truth, if we really grasped that and really believed it, It wouldn't be hard for us to do what we need to do to make things right with God as Christians. Our struggle is simply not believing what God says. That was Israel's struggle. Read Hebrews They believe not. They believed not. And so Nineveh, to their credit, when Jonah shows up, says, you guys got 40 days. God is going to overthrow you. They didn't fuss with it. They didn't debate it. They didn't negotiate. If God says that's what's going to happen, then that's what's going to happen So the first step in repenting and getting right with God, number one, is believing what God says is so. The second step, if you notice, they humble themselves. And we got this from two actions they took. First of all, they fasted and they put on sackcloth. They fast and they put on sackcloth. And if you remember, we pointed out that fasting in the Word of God Fasting was not for health reasons, and there's nothing wrong with fasting for health reasons. Fasting is not going on a hunger strike against God. Say, God, I'm not going to eat until you give me what I want. It's not what fasting is Fasting, I believe, in studying the scriptures, fasting is simply getting my priorities right. Them getting mercy from God was more important than eating a cheeseburger for lunch Then getting things right with God was more important to them than their necessary food. We are not going to eat until we make sure things are right between us and God. And so uh they humble themselves, putting on sackcloth. There is nothing that's going to attract me. Nobody's going to walk in when I'm in sackcloth and and ashes all over me. Nobody walks in and says, boy, you look sharp today It's not looking at me. I'm humbling myself before God. I don't want any glory brought to me. I don't want any praise or accolades brought to me I want God to get all the attention. I'm humbling myself before the Lord. So number one, they believed God. Number two, they humbled themselves before God. It is impossible to overemphasize how important it is that we be humble before God. God resisteth the prowl. Pride is our number one enemy as far as our walk with God and our relation to God. You've heard this said, and we've touched on it before. More people go to hell because of pride than any other sin. And more Christians are backslidden because of pride than any other sin. Because it's me, it's all about me And when it becomes all about me, then the Lord's left out, and I don't have the blessings of God. So number one, they believed God. Number two, they humbled themselves. Then the last time we looked at this, we noticed that they prayed Notice in uh uh in uh there he says uh they cried mighty he says cry mightily unto the Lord. Uh verse number eight. Let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God. I mean, they were at a point where they are absolutely desperate, crying out to God. They've got 40 days, and they're going to go to hell forever. And their only option is to humble themselves before God and cry out to God for mercy. And I tell you, the best prayers I've ever prayed have been when I was desperate. When it was absolutely God has to do something. I've said this often over the years. I believe it's true. If we don't care, God won't answer. But when we get to the point where we are absolutely desperate for God to do something, then God begins answering prayer. Now we come to the last stage, I want to say, of their repentance, and that is this. They turn from their sin Number one, they believed God. Number two, they humbled themselves. Number three, they prayed. And number four, they turned from their sin. That sounds to me a whole lot like Second Chronicles 714. Doesn't it? If my people, which are called by my name, shall what humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then while I heal from here from heaven, will forgive their sin, will heal their land. And so, although that applies to God's people to Christians, the same principle is taking place here with the heathen, with these pagans getting right with God, getting saved. They turn from their wicked ways. So, if you would notice here, now I didn't catch this at first, and as I came back and started studying this in more depth, I noticed something that I had missed. I use the term repentance, but nowhere in this passage does the Bible say that the Ninevites repented. Doesn't use that terminology. The only person in chapter 3 of Jonah chapter of chapter 3 of Jonah, the only person that's referred to as repenting is God. Notice carefully. It says that Nineveh, look at verse number 8. But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God. Yea, let them turn. Everyone from his evil way. Come down to verse 9. Who can tell if God will turn and repent and turn away from his fear saying, look at verse 10. And God saw their works that they turned from their evil way. What's that? Okay, but it uh here's my point, is it doesn't use the term repentance. Now, when it talks about God, it uses the term repentance. And I thought, I wonder why that is. Why does it say they turned away from his evil way? And to God it says they repented. So I looked up the words And the word returned from their evil way simply means what you think it would mean. It means to reverse direction. In other words, I'm walking this way, and I'm turning from my way, the way I'm walking, and I turn and I go the opposite direction. Alright? And so I thought, okay, that's I can see that. And then I looked up the word repent as it's used here, and it means this. There's a change in the meaning. It means to be grieved over something. It has the idea here of that God was very sorry. He was grieved that he was going to destroy them. And so he changed his behavior. There's a subtle difference here. The word turned means to reverse direction. The word repent here, as it's used here, has the idea to be very grieved over something. To be sorry. In fact, the word sorry is used in the definition, to be sorry over something. So what's taken place here? I thought this through. This is what I think. This is Lethermanism. I think Nineveh's repentance consisted of all four steps. That was what their repentance was. Believing God, humbling themselves before God, praying, and getting the sin out of their life. That was what their repentance was. Um uh sometimes preachers will, and this is probably more among preachers than it is just among normal people, um uh But uh uh sometimes preachers boy they'll fuss about that term repentance. And somebody says you gotta use this and repentance. They don't preach repentance, they preach repentance, well they're preaching works repentance and all that And I think sometimes what they tr what we try to do is we try to we try to micro-define what some of these Bible terms are And when in reality they consist of a whole lot more. I think when when it when Vinevites believed God, humbled themselves before God, prayed, and got the sin out of their life, That whole part made up their repentance. They were changing, they were getting that out, they realized it was wrong, and they needed to do this to do right. And so the interesting thing here I thought was, was the fact that it says in this part of their overall repentance, one ingredient of it, it was a turning away, it was a changing of direction. So I'm going to use the term repentance, uh, but it it's interesting, I think that term applies to their whole process. So for whatever w for whatever it's worth. This is what I put down. Number one, their turning from their sin, their repentance was unusual, we might say. Look at verse number seven, the first part. And he, now look at your Bibles here. I want you to help me study this. Who is the he that's being referred to in verse number seven? The king. You have to come back up to verse 6. For the word came unto the king of Nineveh. And he arose from his throne and laid it and laid his robe, covered, and sat in Ashes. And he, the king, caused it to proclaim. So, this whole idea of turning from their sin, this whole aspect of their repentance, began with the king. Now, initially, I thought that's unusual I often think of revival, and if you read through history in the Christian church, revival often comes from some dear little old widow lady that is begging God to have mercy and God to turn uh the church around and send revival to the church, or some dear mother that's praying, some humble uh unknown mother is praying, oh God, save my boy. God, don't let my son got die and go to hell. Oh God, I need to get a hold and God in response to some humble, unknown, out-of-the-way person. God hears their prayers and God does a great work and saves the Son or sends revival to the church or turns a situation around. But here you don't have some unknown person in a little house humble way. Here's the king initiating this. And initially I thought that's kind of unusual in our thinking. We kind of write off the political leaders. We write off the Those there and say, ah, that's not where revival comes from. Revival's going to come from some young person or some dear person that's out of the way nobody ever heard of. They pray and God's going to answer that. But that's not the case here So I look through here, the king's the one initiating this. The king gets the word and he grasps how dire their situation is, and he breaks a proclamation: hey, we're going to get right with God. Then I got studying my Bible, and you know what I realized? It's not the first time that's happened. In fact, all through Israel's history, many of Israel's turning back to God and getting right with God began with the king. And young Josiah would get in there and he'd take behind the reins and he says, you know what? We're not going to be a heathen nation anymore. We're not going to live like the devil anymore. We're not going to be worldly anymore. We're going to make things right. And he goes in, he cleans out the temple, and he puts the priests back in, and he starts enforcing the laws of God, and he turns that whole thing around And so here's the point I'm trying to make. We may think that God sends revival in in this way, and others may say, no, God sends revival in this way. And somebody else says No, this is how God sends revival. I tell you how God sends revival, he sends revival however he wants to And whether it's through the king or through a teenager or through a mother or some slave somewhere getting a hold of God, that's not the important thing. The important thing is God stirred his heart and sent revival to this place. And so it's unusual. Here's my problem sometimes, I think, and maybe uh uh you know we're a little bad about this, but we want to put God in a box. And we always want to understand how he works, and we always want to figure out what he's going to do. And I found a lot of times, about the time I've got God figured out, he does something outside what I thought he would do And if it was me and saying, all right, how's revival going to come to Nineveh? I would have said the common folk get right with God. I wouldn't have guessed the king. And here the king is the one. God can use anyone, whether they're great or small, to turn a nation back to God. Whether it comes from the person in the White House getting right with God or the person in the poor house getting right with God, God can send revival. And so I put down here, I thought this was an unusual repentance in that it came from the king. I would have not guessed that. But as I went and looked at scripture, I found out that's not so unusual God did that a number of times. Second thing I put down as far as their repentance, not only was it unusual repentance, but it was individual repentance. Notice verse number eight. He says, but let man and beasts be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God. Look at this here. Yea, let them turn every one from his wicked ways. What they're taking place here is saying, listen, every individual person needs to get right with God. We're not just going to have some societal change in society. We need individuals getting on their knees, humbling themselves before God, calling out to God for mercy, and getting the sin out of their life. Too often, and even even we're guilty of this, too often we'll say, well, society is this, and society does that to a person, and boy, society ruined this kid And then what here we'll Christianize that. We'll say, well, the church is so worldly. The church is this, and the church is that. And we understand what we're saying, but I want to remind you: the church is made up of individuals. And the only way the church gets right with God is when individuals get right with God. And the only way a church has the power of God upon it is when you and I as individuals get the power of God upon us. The only way the church has has an effective influence in the world is when you and I as individuals do. And this Nineveh It wasn't just the king getting right with God. He wasn't saying, well, we're changing the laws of society. No. Every individual in that city humbled themselves before God and sought God. Each it was interesting. I looked up the phrase everyone. And I look how it's used throughout scripture. And it has this idea, each and every individual, male, female, young and old. No one's excluded from this. Everybody needed to get right with God. The fact of the matter is, one person who refuses to get right with God can hurt a lot of people. And that's illustrated all through scripture. Can you think of anybody, an individual that would not that did not do right? And other innocent people were hurt that were trying to do right were hurt because that one person would not do right. Can you think of any illustrations? Achan, first one I thought of. He hid that garment and the gold and the silver. And thirty-six men died when Israel's going forward. I mean Israel's they're going forward, they're trusting God, they're acting in faith They're going to battle, just like the Lord said, but one man didn't get right with God. Thirty-six men lost their lives. Thirty-six mothers lost their boys. Slew of families lost their daddies because one man wouldn't get right with God. Can you think of anyone else? There's examples all through scripture. King Saul. Exactly. And Jonathan lost his life. I thought of David and with Bathsheba and and rather than you know what David could have done? I mean, even let he he commits adultery with Bathsheba. You know what he could have done? The right thing to do when he failed? The right thing to do would immediately go to God, go to the priest. I sinned horribly He should have gone to Uriah and saying, Uriah, you will never ever forgive me, but I've got to confess to you, I committed adultery with your wife. And I want you to forgive me if there's any way in your heart and soul. I want to make this right. He could have, and he should have done that. Let me ask you a question. If he would have confessed and forsaken his sin, would God have forgiven him? Bible promises that. But he didn't. And he tried to cover it up, and he tried to excuse it, and he tried to hide it. Uriah dies, other people die, he loses his kids, a baby dies. Because one guy would not make things right with God. And so here you have an entire city, and the king is ve- he grants this. And he wants to make sure every one of you turn away from your evil way. Every one of you put the violence away out of your lives Because I think he, whether he did or not, I want to guess that he understood if maybe one person in that city would not have repented, God might not have shown mercy. They could have all suffered because one man had sin in the camp. And I wonder how often that is. And you know, our place is not to sit in church and wonder who that person is that has that sin in their camp. Our job is to make sure it's not me. Make sure it's not me. And so it was an unusual repentance in that it came from the top. At least in my mind, that seems unusual. I wouldn't have guessed that. It's an individual repentance that every person wants to make sure I can even make sure I'm right with God. Because if I'm not right with God, if I don't get this sin out of my life, if I don't make things right, a whole lot of people could end up in hell. Because I don't I'm not right with God. Number three, I put this down. It's a categorical repentance. It's unusual, it's individual, but it's categorical, and I get that from verse number eight. Look again there with me But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily unto God. Now look at this. Yea, let them turn every one from his, and he gives two categories. Turn from his evil way, number one, and from the violence that is in their hands, number two. The king specifically states two areas, two categories, so to speak, of sin that they must turn away from. First is their evil ways. Now that word evil is used a lot of different ways in the Bible. What he's talking about here is from morally wicked behavior. We have got to stop being so immoral. We have got to get this sin, this deviant lifestyle out. Of our existence. It has, I like this one definition of that phrase, evil way. This is what the the definition they had. Morally malignant lifestyle. Now we like to jump all over the sodomites and all of that and abortion because we're not doing that. But he's talking about the individuals, the sins that are in our lives that are so repulsive to God. That are so morally reprehensible to God, that are wicked before God. We are very good at justifying our own sin. When he's saying here, we need to put that away, put away the evil way, the sin that is in our lives. Then he has the second category, the violence that's in their hands. The word violence there simply means cruelty, injustice, and violence. It's translated most of the time in Scripture, violence. Violent. If you'll remember at the very beginning we did a little historical analysis, I guess you could say of Nineveh. And what they were like as a s as a city, as a people. And one of the chief characteristics the history books tell us about Nineveh was that they were so cruel One of the things they especially relished in, and they would make a big deal about this to their enemies, is that they would love and they were very good at skinning their enemies alive. And absolutely no mercy, and absolutely, absolutely enthralled by violence They loved it. The bloodier it was, the gurier it was, the more painful it was, the more horrific it was, the more they relished it. And the king says, we've got to stop this. This is not right. We've got to put this away. The Bible says in Psalms that the Lord hateth violence. God hates violence. Hollywood loves violence. Am I right or wrong? A lot of your a lot of your music industry relishes violence. Um gains, relish violence. Now listen, I don't I I think men ought to be men, amen. I think in football they ought to tackle and they ought to tackle hard. But when it becomes violent, that crosses the line. God hates that. And it's interesting to notice the more wicked a society becomes The more violent it becomes. Do you ever notice that? The more prevalent sin is in a society, the more violent that society becomes. You have a society that loves God, is humble before the Lord, is living pure life, and you'll find a peaceful, kind, gracious, merciful society. Do you have a society that loves sin and wants to indulge in the basis desires of the flesh? And you'll find a very, very violent society. And so there's this is a category categorical repentance. He says we have got to stop two things. We've got to get this moral wickedness out of our lives, and we've got to get this violence out of our lives. Those two things. As I said, close association between immorality and violence. Purity, humility produces peace in the heart and in society. Immorality and pride produce violence in the life, in heart, and in society Now this is what I thought was interesting. Come back to Jonah's message in verse number four What part of Jonah's message addressed wicked living and violence? Doesn't. He never mentioned these. He didn't mention any sin at all. He just said 40 days, and then it was going to be overthrown. And their very first reaction is, of course, they believe God, they pray, they humble themselves, but their first response is, we've got to get this sin out of our heart and life. You know what that tells me? That's the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. Where God took that simple little message and applied it to themselves individually and said, all right, here's how you do here's how you this is what needs to be dealt with. And I tell you, that that's one of the exciting things about teaching and preaching the word of God, you never know how God is going to work in somebody's life. I can prepare a message and I can do something and I think, boy, this is the message. And God takes that truth and deals with people's hearts in ways I would have never dreamed of. I like telling the story. I've told it many times. Many of you heard a bunch. But I preached one morning, a family had visited our church. They've been coming for a little while. And uh I preached one Sunday morning, uh I don't I don't even know what it was, I had mentioned in the message something about wine coolers, you know, I said this liquor's wrong, and and I mentioned wine coolers I mean just also I didn't even think about it. When I'm going out the back, somebody's uh the couple and I was at the back there and the couples come by, they came by and they leaned up and they said, You saw him, didn't you? I said, so what? The wine cooler's in a refrigerator when you came out Thursday night. I said, I wasn't even in your kitchen. How could I have seen him in your refrigerator? They said, well, we thought you were talking about us. And that wasn't me talking about you. That was God talking about you. And you would be amazed over the years when folks come up and say how God had spoken to their heart about some area of their life from a message that had nothing to do with that specific area And this is the point I'm trying to make. God can take his word and deal with us wherever we are. He can take verses that you would never even think, and yet use that to bring conviction uh uh into our lives. I'll tell you a verse he used when I was unsaved. First Corinthi or 2 Corinthians 4, I think it's 18. For the invisible things of him uh no no no that's Romans. Um for we look not at the things which are seen But the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. Now what in the world is that talking about? For me, when I read that before I was saved, that brought great conviction on me about rock and roll music. I thought, here we are, you know, I've got these CDs and all this stuff and these cool bands and they're just something else. I can see that. And the Lord up in my heart said, you know, there's a whole nother spiritual world that's out there. You need to be more concerned about your spiritual condition than about this stuff you see. How crazy is that? And so here Jonas shows up and he says, 40 days, none of them will be overthrown. And they get convicted about their sin, about their violence. And so it was categorical, the Holy Spirit connection. Let me give you a couple here more observations about the repentance. It was visible repentance. Look at verse 10. Now you're gonna have to think here a little bit, and God saw their what? Works. The word saw means to observe. The works means their deeds and their actions. Now look at verse 10. God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. God saw their works. Question, now this is for you theologians: Was Nineveh saved by their works? God saw there. Works. And he said, I'm not going to do what I said I was going to do. You say, but Lamun, we're not saved by works, we're saved by faith, for by grace you saved through faith, not yourselves, gifts of God, not of works, as any man should boast. Take your Bibles if you would, real quick, in real time to So you gotta turn it really fast. James chapter number two. James chapter two Now, if I was writing Jonah, I would have written. By the way, it's a good thing I didn't write Jonah. It'd be a mess. But I would have written, and God saw their faith. They believed God. Because that fits my theology a whole lot better. But he did. He said God saw their works. Look at James chapter 2. I'm going to start reading verse 14. And I want to highlight some very important words here. If you take notes in your Bible, this is a good section to take note. Verse 14, James 2. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man, what's that next word? Say. That's an important word. A man say he hath faith and hath not works. Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food. Now he's illustrating his point. And one of you say unto them, depart in peace and be warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful of the body, what doth it profit? And the answer is Doesn't profit. I've got it there. He has a need. I have it there. And I say, well, go on. It'll be alright. And I don't give him a I didn't help him at all. I didn't do anything to help him Even so, verse 17, faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. Now look, pay attention. Yea, a man may Say thou hast faith, and I have works. Now here's a second important word. Show me thy faith without thy works And I'll show thee my faith. What's that next word? By my works. Thou believest there's one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. What's he saying here? Is James telling us that our works save us? No. He's telling us that our genuine faith will produce works. That if I really believe what God says, if I'm really trusting that what God says too, trusting Jesus, that faith in God will have a profound impact Upon how I live, upon how I behave. And he's saying, he's not saying here you're saved by your works. He's saying your works show your faith. You can say that you believe in Jesus all day long, but if you're not living according to the teachings of Jesus, that saying it doesn't prove anything Now you may actually believe, you may actually be saved and not be living by the works, but you can't prove it by your life. You have no testimony to that effect. Lot. Was Lot saved or lost? Did he live according to the scripture or not? Me, if I was reading the Bible the first time, I would assume Lot was lost until I got to Peter where it says his righteous soul. Nothing about his behavior indicated that he was a believer in the Lord. So his works didn't profit anybody anything. It didn't verify anything. He was saved, but he couldn't prove it. His works were meaningless because he didn't have any. And so when the Bible says that God saw Nineveh, he saw their works, the works, the result of the fact that they really believed That what God said was so. You follow what I'm saying? The works that God saw, that was the visible manifestation Of the fact that they had faith in God, that they believed in God. Faith is more than just mentally acknowledging something is so. Faith is depending on that truth, relying on that truth. I use the illustration soul winning and I like to use Tom when he's visiting with me, although I've used Mark and others. We're out fishing. And of course I'm the only one that can swim and so I have to be the hero in my illustration And so Mark or Tom or Hook, maybe both of them, and they fall in and they're drowning. Oh, help, Brother Letterman, save me, Pastor, help save me. I'm drowning. If they really believe that I can save them from drowning or dying, when I reach down, they will let me grab a hold of them and pull them up, right? If they don't think I can do that, what are they going to do? They're going to pull me down in. That's one of the lessons when someone's drowning. If you're trusting that person to keep you from drowning, you just go limp and let them do what they need to do. Don't fight them, right? Anybody ever hear that? And so your actions testify whether I believe that that person can save me from drowning or not. And that's what it was here. Their actions testify to the fact that they really believed God. If you go buy a house, a guy's sitting in the living room, the house is on fire, the second story is on fire, whole thing is to collapse in. He's so enthralled in watching something on TV. He's watching so enthralled in Duck Dynasty. He didn't even realize his house is on fire. It's about to collapse on him. You come in and say, Hey mister, your house on fire, it's gonna collapse on you. He says, Oh yeah, I'm sure it is. I believe that. And he stays sitting there watching. Does he really believe that? No. If he really believed what you were saying, he'd start grabbing stuff and getting out of the house. And so that's what works is. Works is a manifestation that what I say, I believe, I really do. And so when Jonah says, when the book of Jonah says that God saw their works, he saw the manifestation of the fact that they believed. They believed God. Verse 5 says they believed God. Verse 5a, the first part of verse 5, they believed God. From the rest of verse 5 down through verse 9, that's what their belief produced. Follow what I'm saying? And let me give you the last one. This is interesting. It was a hopeful repentance. Look at verse 9. Who can tell? If God will turn and repent, and turn away from his fierce anger, that we perish not. Who can tell? You know how you could reword that phrase: who can tell? Who knows? I believe that 40 days we're going to be overthrown. I'm going to humble myself before God. I'm going to beg God for mercy. I'm going to get sin out of my life Who knows? Maybe God will show mercy. They were hopeful. Here's the point I'm trying to make. They had no assurance. That God would forgive them. They had no promise to hold on to. Jonah didn't say yet 40 days and then it would be destroyed. Unless you believe and pray and humble yourself and turn from your wicked ways. Then Jonah didn't tell them that. They were simply hoping. That if we did this, God would be merciful. Now we have a you and I have something different. You and I have assurance from God. And if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. If I'm an unsaved person, suppose I'm here tonight and I'm an unsaved person. And the Bible says if I die in my sins, I go to hell forever and ever and ever. And the only hope I have is if I'll accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I have something to hold on to. I have a promise there from God. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I can say, you know, God has promised me, if I call on him, he'll save me from going to hell and give me eternal life Ninevehites didn't have that. God hadn't promised them that. Now it was there. God's a loving and compassionate God. It was there. But they didn't know that at that time. I'm a Christian, and uh I've failed God horribly. I've sinned against God, and I've failed him as a b as his child I don't have to go and say, boy, who knows? Maybe God will forgive me if I confess and forsake this. No, you and I don't have to say that. We have a promise from God our Father that if we confess our sins, he will forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness Whoso confesseth and forsaketh their sins shall find mercy. Now we've got a promise of God. Now why is it That a city full of pagans was more confident in simply hoping that God would show them mercy than we and I as Christians who have a complete word of God and yet we struggle with that and we worry about that. Why is that? We do. First John one nine. Second Chronicles seven fourteen. I wonder. This is just speculation on my part. But I wonder, had Nineveh observed Israel from a distance? When God was judging Israel and sending enemies in and destroying them, and Israel humbled themselves and forsook their sin, and God would show them mercy. And raise them up again. Had Nineveh observed that from a distance and said, who knows? Maybe what God did for those Israelites, he would do for us. And they hope so. And they hope so. Here's my challenge to us tonight. Whatever sin is in our heart and life. Let's get it out tonight. Okay? It's not worth it. It hurts people, others. It keeps God's blessing None of us said, we need to forsake this. Turn away from it. Make things right. We don't have to hope God will be merciful. We know He will. If you're here tonight and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, it's a promise of God. If you'll turn to him, accept him as your personal Savior, God will forgive all your sin, give you a new life, have a home in heaven. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, you know our hearts. God, you know my own heart. And Lord, we desperately need revival in our land. We see what's happening, we see the direction. God, I believe it behooves us as individuals that we search our hearts and we just come clean and put away from us the evil way and the violence that is in our hands. And God, we just trust and claim your promise of mercy and forgiveness and new life and new hope and blessing. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, say, Pastor, tonight I know there's areas of my life that are not pleasing to the Lord. I know they may seem insignificant to some, but to me they're important. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want my whole heart and life, my heart and soul and mind to be pure and to be pleasing to God. Every air, and you say, preacher, pray for me. There's some areas I really need to address. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. It's part of humbling ourselves before God. Say, God, there's some areas I really, really need. To be addressed, that need to be changed. Does there anyone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven? Trust me, nobody wants to go to hell. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me. I want to know that God has forgiven me and cleansed all my sin. That when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. We're given invitation. Christians, how about using an old-fashioned order and saying, Lord, send revival? How about Christians pray? God save the lost. It's important. Maybe you're not sure your sins are going on your way to heaven. We're going to give an invitation. Folks, come to the altar and pray. And we let the Lord have his way. And we can help you from the Bible. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand