Who most of you guys will know who this was. There was a professor long ago that most of you in here probably enjoyed and loved. His name was Eeyore. And Eeyore says, I must be good for something, but then I could be wrong. I guess all I can do is carry on. And you guys all know how Eeyore always was a doubter. Eeyore had the uh the attitude of, you know, always things wrong with him or he was doing something wrong. But he really wasn't that way. And in our lives, I think most people doubt a lot. Um one thing, if we would think about it, our faith can move mountains. with our faith. But your doubt can create those mountains if you're not careful. So who was the one that the Bible identifies as a doubter in the New Testament? Thomas, yes. So if we'll turn to John chapter 20. Verses 24 through 28. Let me open a prayer, please. Father, we love you and we thank you for this time. Lord, we thank you for the safety and the travels. Lord, and we thank you for this church that we can come to. Lord, it's warm. It's inviting with our people. And we thank you for just blessing us. And we ask you to bless us for So chapter twenty of John and verse twenty-four, but time now remember this was after the resurrection of Christ And the other disciples knew uh and had seen Jesus. But Thomas says, but Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. Verse 25. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord, but he said unto them, Except I see in his hands the prince of the nails, and put my finger in the prince of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus The doors being shut, and stood in the mist, and said, Peace be unto you. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thy and thrust it into my side. And be not faithless, but believe. So Thomas got his point. He was proven here. And Thomas in verse 28. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. All of us are Christians in here, in the house tonight. So Psalms 37, 4 tells us, delight thyself unto the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. With that scripture verse, should we doubt anything? Now do you guys understand when I say doubt what I mean? I'm not talking about doubt and salvation, even though we do. A lot of times Christians forget the verse there where it talks about God will give us anything the desires of our heart. Now, sometimes and there are the feel-good churches that teach, you know, proclaim name it, proclaim it, and you'll get it Remind remember, I believe this is in God's timing and what he thinks we need. Um so a lot of times we doubt um ourselves, we doubt what's going on in life, and then of course we turn our eyes off the Lord. So doubt is the uncertainty of belief or the opinion that often interferes with decision making. How often in our lives do we do doubt? Everybody in here doubts, right? If you're not a doubter, praise the Lord. But most of us, I think, is human nature. Now When we doubt, the action verb of doubt is fearing, or we're we call into questions the truth. Sometimes we can see the things right there in front of us. We know it's there, but we still just don't we just don't get it. We don't think it's right. We think something's wrong or ourselves we have lack of confidence or we have lack of distrust in what we're doing. Or we'll think things just this is unlikely. This is not going to happen. So we face a lot of challenges brought on by ourselves and our life and our doubts in our own life. We do it. So this year as we come into the 2019 Don't doubt. Put doubt behind you. It will help your relationship with the Lord. It will help your relationship in your own life. We believe in stories that we tell, but we don't believe in our others. How many stories out there that we tell that took place that others are either real repeat of a story that someone else has told us And after that story is repeated a few times, sometimes we're like, I don't know if that's true or not. I don't know if that really happened. It's like the big fish story. But It has happened, and again, we know what happens in our own lives, so don't doubt yourselves. In Genesis 2:27, it says, so God created man in his own image In the image of God created he him, male and female. He created him. Psalms 139 14. I will praise thee for I am fearfully and wonderfully made, marvelous are the works and that my soul knoweth right well. So if God created us and we're created in his own image, and we are wonderfully made, why isn't we doubt what God tells us and what God gives us? You know, why do we hesitate about things? Doubt is a disbelief. Um and doubt will harm our thoughts and will harm what we will do. In the Old Testament, uh in Deuteronomy 28, 58, it says, if thou If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of the law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful time names the Lord thy God, then the Lord will make the plagues wonderful and the plagues of the seed even greater plagues and long and continuous and sore sickness and long continuous again. And thy life shall hang in doubt before thee, and thou shalt fear day and night, and thou shalt have none assurance of thy life So in the Old Testament, they had the laws. They had to obey the laws. Again, it says no doubt hanging in no doubt day and night. So they were continuously. Why? Because they were having to work by the laws. Without God in our lives, we're going to have the uncertainty of what we need to do in our lives. So why do we doubt? Why do we doubt? What's the answer? Why do you guys think we doubt? Fear, okay. What else? The devil helps us doubt. The devil gets involved uh with our thoughts. Sin nature of course, sometimes our self-worth. How many people, a lot of times when they look in the mirror or they see things of themselves, do they think, I can't do that because of this I can't, you know, do exercises, I can't do different things because of how I look, because of my weight, because they they start doubting themselves instead of just doing it. peer pressure. We see people that are wealthy, we see people that have nicer things than us and we say, okay, I can't do that or can't go nowhere or can't can't um Maybe even visit those people, soul win with those people because they're out of my league. Because we doubt that. And I'm sure you guys all know people. Okay, back in some of you's days, the banker in towns was a very prestigious person. typically, right? I know when I was growing up that's what it was. The banker was the man. You know, everybody in town. So he had his party of people that he dealt with. There would be other people with it that were poor would think, no, I could never talk with him. I can't Converse with him, I can't deal with him. They would doubt themselves when he was a very common man. He just got the job as the banker of the town. So Um we also have obstacles in life. So we have heartache from our relationships, from our environment, and from our health, and from our family. So sometimes with our families Uh we've raised our kids the way we think they should go. We raised them in church. We raised them to do things, and things don't go that direction. So at some point sometimes I think people doubt that they're ever going to do any better, that they're better, ever going to get out of the situation. They doubt that they're ever going to get away from the addictions if they're ever going to get away from the friends that they're at. They let doubt come into play. So and we also have an unbelief in ourselves. I'm not good as a parent. I'm not good as a spouse. I can't teach that class. And I can't do this task that's been given to me. I don't know how to do that. I can't do it. We don't even attempt to do it. We just start to doubt it. Now, and then we have battles with our self-will and our confidence. We're all born as sinners, so our confidence in ourselves for the most part is lacking. We don't revert back to the scriptures where it says we are wonderfully made. Christ made us. So we are wonderful people. We have to act like that also, by the way. So Sometimes where self-will and confidence and stuff comes about in our jobs and our education, I'm too old to go I'm too old to go to the Bible Institute. I can't learn that anymore. I can't remember those things. That is not true. You're not allowing the Lord to use you and to use what skills he's given you. We also battle with the treatments of others. There are people that we have around that sometimes things just annoy us. We really probably don't even know the person that well, but you've seen something maybe set back and you've seen something happen and you just don't care for that individual And you don't avail yourself to go up and to talk to them. It might have just been that incident where they've said something or that situation that you've watched that you didn't care for them, but they might be the greatest person in the world, but you doubt the situation, so you stand up and don't ever approach them. So, and then we also have trials we endure some for many years. A lot of people doubt their faith A lot of people doubt salvation, and a lot of people doubt their testimony, or their testimony that they have produces doubt to others. You have, if you're saved and you know it, of course the Bible teaches us how to live, and some people's testimonies, if you will, will cause doubt to others. Of course, the Bible tells us not to do that. In the Old Testament, they had to live by the law. In the New Testament, we understand that we have the assurance of life because of Christ. Doubt kills more dreams than failures ever will. So, and we are also uh do you think uh we as humans, as people, um It's easier to be negative or positive. Which is easier to do? Negative, right? Why do we think it's easier to be negative? No answers. We are. We're just negative. I don't know if we could say it's sin nature or what it is. It's just it's just a lot of times quicker to go that direction. than than to um be positive about it. But God was positive so much in his word. In the New Testament for sure, people were doing things. He was still positive about about people and how he he loved them. So What's our source to overcome doubt? What's our main source? The Word of God. God delivered us He came by him dying on the cross. God delivered us. God delivered Job. God delivered Peter. God delivered Abraham. Samson, David. If he delivered all of those guys in all their trials that they went through, and the trials they went through, um from what I know there's no murderers in here Moses did that. God still delivered him. Correct, it was Moses or no, it's Moses. God delivered him throughout his life with various things and helped him through that. There's other issues. If you look at all of the disciples, all of them had issues and God delivered them through every one of them. So if God can deliver those guys, why could he not deliver us? He can. We just have to use the assurance that he can. 1 Peter 5 7, who knows that one? Casting all your cares upon him, for he careth for us. So if God is our deliverer and he gave us his word, if we would go to him and ask him to help us through our situations. He would not have endured the cross and took mine and your sins if he did not care for us. And he did care for us. That's why he gave us his word. So God can deliver us. God orders our path. So the decisions we have to make in our job situations, our home situations, our daily schedules. When we have things break down right now, this is not the time for people's furnaces and stoves and things to break down, but guaranteed, uh, we can probably talk to Andy uh Sunday and he'll tell us because he's in the HVAC world, he'll probably tell us that somebody had an issue. But you know what? That guy can doubt that or he can trust whoever it is can trust in the Lord that the Lord will take care of it I doubt that individual will freeze to death tonight. Something will take place the words taken care of. Our marriages. God directs us. How does God direct us for our marriage? Where we use. What's the tool we use? The Bible. What's the tool we use for everything? The Bible So no matter what situation we're in, our health, how do we you do our health? Does the Bible tell us what to do about our health? We the Bible teaches us that we're a temple, right? Some of us look like mosques, but we're supposed to be temples. So the Bible teaches in all manner, he the God orders our past. All we have to do is trust in him. All we have to do is look to him. Instead of being negative and not doing things, look to him for guidance and direction on it. Proverbs 3. 5 says, trust in the Lord. With all thine heart, and lead not thine own understanding. So if I trust God with my heart and read His Word and forget what I think, how am I going to fare? Probably a lot better, right? Am I going to doubt? Every time I doubt, if I pull scripture and quote scripture, am I going to be better off? I think I would. Proverbs 3. 6 says, In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Lord, how do I need to work this? Lord, I'm having this issue at home. What should I do? Instead of, I can't do that, forget it, let somebody else do it. No, Lord, how do you want me to do it? This has come into my path for a reason. How do you want me to to take care of it? Verse 7, be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. A lot of times when when doubt comes in, so if we doubt about sin, that's not necessarily a bad thing as far as doubting whether we should do it or not. But what it is is whether we doubt and we teeter, where we're on the line, should I do that or not do that when it comes to sin? We shouldn't doubt about that. We should know the Lord's word and what it says to do and go with that direction Unity with fellow Christians, believers and helpers. So if we have doubt in our minds and our relationships um in our lives, can we call on other Christians to help us out? Can we call them and ask them what do they feel and think? We can. The caution in that though is what do we when we call people up, who do we normally call? We call the people that believe most, like we do. How many grandparents in here, when their little kid is grandkid has done something wrong, are they as harsh on the grandkid as they were their own child? They're not anymore, right? So what I'm getting at is when we call on family in that, which we can, but we need to call on family that's going to give us a correct and straight answer. Not one that's going to side with us and say, yeah, that's exactly what I would have done in the doubt mode. We need to make sure that we're seeking godly counsel and that the counsel is there to help us. Now, when Moses and them were were at the Red Sea, with the Israelites could go over, God parted that, right? He parted that Red Sea. Can you imagine standing there and wondering what else am I gonna do? There would have been a lot of doubt in my mind, more than likely. But as much as they had gone through all of those years, they probably have thought, God's gotten me this far, he's going to get me farther. And he did. So if God can part the Red Seas for those guys, he definitely can do anything for us. First Peter 3 8 says, Finally, be ye one mind, having compassion one for another. Lovers, brethren, be pitiful, and be courteous. So passion for one of another is when we have a friend or relative that's in a need and in a doubtful situation, teetering and wondering, what am I supposed to do? How should I answer this? I'm not good at doing this. We need to encourage them. We need to promote them. Especially with children and young adults and young co-workers. Promote them and teach them that know what you the direction you're going or give them a little guidance But let them teach them to be positive about themselves and not be doubtful of what they do. As believers God believes in us. If he didn't, he wouldn't have given his word and he wouldn't have let his son die on the cross. God believes in us. So if he believes in us, as rotten and as horrible as sinners are and as we are, why cannot we believe somewhat in ourselves? If we seek God first before we start doubting him what we're doing, God will direct us and he will teach us from his word what to do. We seek God If we seek God first, when doubt enters our mind, that open opened our scriptures up. How many times have we been told every answer is in the Bible? And that's correct, right? Um even the convoluted questions, the ones that are very hard, there's answers in the Bible form. You just have to open your mind up to them Genesis 17, 1. And when Abram was 90 years old and 9, the Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. If we walk with God and talk with God and read His Word and learn His Word and use His Word, it's going to help our situations. We won't doubt ourselves as so much. It's the matter of being in a habit of doubting yourself. And I don't know if we're necessarily taught that when we're children or when we start teaching ourselves to doubt often. But a lot of people do it, and a lot of people, especially when it comes to salvation, we start doubting salvation and and what we can do for the Lord, then that starts setting us back. And God doesn't want us to do that. When um David charged the pr princes of Israel to help Solomon out in Chronicles, it says um Now set your heart and your soul to seek the Lord your God. Arise therefore and build you the sanctuary of the Lord God to bring the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and the holy vessel of God into the house. That is to be built to the name of the Lord. So back then the Ark of the Covenant of course had the stones and stuff in it, and that was the symbol of Christ was carried in that. So, and it was the sanctuary. We now have God's word and everything. We take it with us everywhere. We don't have to go to somebody else for them to tell us what it is and teach us about it. We have the holy vessel, if you will, God's Word in our laps. We have them to be able to read, go to, and study. If we build ourselves on the name of the Lord, then it will help remove doubt in our lives and in our minds. Training. We have his word in our laps and available to us, and answers are all in there. So back in some of y'all's day, when you wanted to know what was on TV, the first four or five channels, what did you look at? P V guide, that's right. Back in the day, when we wanted to go somewhere, what'd we pull out? Truck drivers, what'd they pull out? The map. Um When we want to know how much is in our accounts, we match it to the checkbook statement, right? So Why is it that when we get in doubt and we concerned and don't know what to do and we can't figure things out that we won't open the word and pray and ask God to show us? when there's so many verses that tell us that God will direct our paths and God loves us and God will take care of us and God will give us the wisdom. Pray for wisdom. So we use these other we utilize these other things, but we won't use God's uh word. Now, I have dealt with Not myself, even though sometimes I think I do. Dementia and Alzheimer's in my family. It runs ra rampant in my family. One of the things that will help Uh d deter dimension Alzheimer's is Alzheimer's is if you uh keep your brain active. A lot of times as people get older, they don't, they're not active, or their activity is the same thing over and over. They do a puzzle book every night, it's the same thing. It's proven that you need to change that. Well, no matter what age you are, memorizing scripture. is one of the best things you can do. And every week it's a different every month it's a different verse. So if we can hide God's word in our heart It will help not only our uh help us to to deal with doubting, but it will also help us keep our brain active. On that note, Proverbs two six is February's verse, for memory verse for the church. So you guys that are in here When you come in Sunday, Pastor Matt says, let's quote the verse. You guys will already be ahead if you start looking at it and studying it. So Proverbs 2. 6 is the next verse. Okay? So just keep that in mind. Keep yourself active. Use God's word. Romans 12, 2. And be not conformed to what? This world, that's right. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. If we seek God in our doubts, Uh not the way you've always done it. So do we do things sometimes over and over for years and years and we realize later on it's not something that works? But we've done it because that's what we've been told and we kind of don't have the thought process to change it. Well that worked, no need to change it up. So there's a doubt in there of I don't need to do anything different. No, sometimes look to see about doing different Chronicles, 1 Chronicles 16, 11. Seek the Lord and His strength. Seek His face continually. If we ask God to give us the strength with doubting ourselves, It will help us to be more positive. It will help us to be more vocal when we're speaking to people, when we're doing soul winning. Soul winning. Now I am one that is Uh I'm not here on Thursday nights. It's one of my goals to be here on Thursday nights for soul winning. There's other things that I do though. It's not that I'm not soul winning. But with that, you know, sometimes all doubt will I, you know, and even as I'm out speaking a lot sometimes to people, so I'm not as I'm not afraid of it, but sometimes I am afraid of it. If that makes sense. So I doubt myself. When God gives us this word and he teaches us how to lead someone to the Lord. So we want to learn God's word and not be doubtful about it. So, as God or in 1 John 1 3, Grace be with you, mercy and peace from God the Father. And from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. So we have God's grace, we have His mercy and His peace. What else would we need in a situation? We have all those three things right there. I think that pretty much covers everything. He will give us the peace if we just turn our doubts over to the Lord, if we try to say, Lord help me not have that habit anymore to initially respond with because my doubt, I don't want to do that, I can't do that, I don't feel I'm responsible enough to do that, whatever the response is. If we can get away from that and think, yes, God designed me, God loves me, God created me, God gave me his word, he gave me the cheat sheet, if you will, of how to do things. And rely on it, then we can be more productive for the Lord. Living a life full of doubt and fear is far more uncomfortable than doing things outside your normal If you don't like the story that you are living, you can change it. If you don't feel like, look, I don't know the word like I should know the word, I'm not a soul winner like I should. We have the opportunity every day we wake up to change that. We can change that formula in our lives. Stop doubting it and start acting on it. Psalms 27:1. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Who shall I fear? The Lord is my strength of my life. Of whom shall I fear? These are strengths. Again, we have so many tools of the Lord to call on, but we doubt it and we don't utilize it, and we should. Psalms 37, 7A says, Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for Him. So we doubt we're going to get this new job. We doubt that God's going to fill our bank account. We doubt that So-and-so is going to be saved. We continue to lift it to the Lord. We continue to pray to the Lord. We continue to ask Him, seek Him, and then we rest in the Lord. And then He will do as He sees fit for what we're doing. Decide with the L uh with the Lord's help things that you're going to work out. Don't let things go away. And don't be doubtful in Your lives. As a Christian, you're making this world a better place. Don't doubt what you're doing and don't stop doing it. Continue to spread the joy of the Lord to all those around you. He is your Savior. We want to display that God is our Savior. When it comes to the end of our life, and before we go What do we want th people to think about us? Do we they want us so we're all right now it's been over two thousand years since this Bible uh w was an existence or or the words, we all, the minute I say who is the doubter, we all say Thomas, right? Because he was known as the doubting. So when we all pass this earth, what do we want people to think about us? We want people to think That they were active, they were involved, they loved the Lord, they served the Lord, they were a soul winner, they knew scripture, all of this, or do we want them to just really not have any idea about us. Yes, being loving in that is is a given. I mean that's nice to know. But I'm saying is these other things we can do. When you start doubting, remember we can have confidence uh even in the things that we could not um We cannot see because God has proven Himself faithful, true, and able to do it. So even though we can't see it, God is there, God knows what we're supposed to do, and He knows what we're capable of doing If we doubt ourselves and don't try it, then can we can we do God's will in that manner? If He knew we had the ability to do it, but we didn't do it. And we shortchanged ourselves. We also shortchanged what God wanted us to do. Psalms 118 24. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Be glad each day that God gave us. Don't go to bed at the end of the night and say, Boy, that day was a waste. That day was a day that I do never want to do over again. Some things happen on our days that are things of out of our control, but I do believe we can still find something in that day to be thankful for, be positive about, and love the Lord for for getting us through it. Don't have be doubtful in this was just a waste. God didn't give us every day that we live to be wasteful. Colossians three twenty-three, and whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not unto men. If we do everything that we're supposed to do and need to do to God, our lives will change. So if we have things that we're going to doubt about, Again, Bible Institute, just as a small example. I can't go to Bible Institute because I can't memorize things, I can't read anymore, I can't write anymore, or I've been out of school for I won't say. No. Many years for for some and for others not so many. If we use that, then We do have the ability because we're all reading God's Word every day. We still have the ability. There's no age limit on education or anything like that, taking care and helping other people. There's no age limit on it But if we don't give ourselves the opportunity and give God the opportunity to work through us, then we'll never know. God says in Proverbs 8:17, I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. God loves us. Proverbs thirty- or thirty verse five. Every word of God is pure He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. If we don't trust in God, if we're doubting the Lord, are we putting our trust in him? If we doubt situations that he's put in our path, are we putting our trust in him? We're not, right? So we're not doing what the Lord's asked us to do. Again, it's a training thing to train ourselves because we're negative and we instantly think doubt sometimes. Somebody will how often do Somebody will say, Hey, can you help me with this? And what's typically the first response in your mind? You don't say it, but the first response in your mind is probably not, yeah. It's like, mm, don't ask me, don't ask me, or mm-hmm and then we start trying to think of ways to get out of it. When if God put something on that person's heart to address to you then for some reason God is thinking that you're able to do that. So I'm asking, don't doubt the Lord, do it. Um I don't think there's anything in especially in in church wise that ever if somebody can't do that somebody can't train you to do because you can. All for the work of the Lord. We have training because we have his Bible. We have teachers, we have pastors We have people that can teach you. Now, same way in jobs and in life. If you're a young lady and just married and you have no eye never seen a checkbook before and stuff, there are people to teach you, right? So there's really nothing in life that can't be taught to you by somebody. So but we instantly doubt, but if we try to not doubt, it isn't better for us and helpful. Life is ten percent uh how you make it, ten percent of how you make it, and it's ninety percent of how you take it. So that n that ten percent that you make You're now having to live 90% of that with dealing with it and doing what how you made things out. Again, if we look to the Lord, trust in the Lord, seek the Lord, And put doubt behind us when Mr. James comes up and says, Hey, can you teach Sunday school class? The answer is yes. No doubt. For those that don't necessarily believe all that, get the message and read, listen to it again. Go through every one of the verses. Uh but seriously, I know myself this year I started out because I have a neg sometimes I can have a negative view on things of of produj how just how to do things and stuff like that and say how's that gonna work? And then I thought this year and if you s read in Psalms Psalms thirty seven in the first few chapters. There is a lot about just living our lives and doubts in there and things like that. Or not the word doubt, but doubt um process of If you just trust in the Lord with it all, he will make a way as the Bible tells us. We give it to the Lord. We are his vessel. Let him utilize us. In our communities, in our work, in our family, everywhere we're at, let God utilize us. Don't raise our hand and say, sorry, Lord, I can't do this. If he brought it to you and he put it in your path, don't you think he knows that you can do it? I strongly believe he does know that you can do it. He's just relying on you to have faith in him and to do it. Does that make sense? So put our put our doubts away, cast them away, and um try to be positive when people want things or when God puts something in your path. If God puts it there, jump on it. He'll give you the training. He'll give you the skills to do it. He'll deliver you. He'll teach you how to do it. Don't hesitate. All right, we'll pray. Father, we thank you. We love you. Lord, we ask, Father, that you will help us to be positive in our lives as Christians. Lord, we'll use your word. Father, your word is a sword in our lives. We can use it, Father, to Just fight these battles that we endure, and we ask God that you'll just guide us each and every day to use your word, learn of your word, Father, and in our testimonies we'll display your word. And Lord, we'll be the Christians that you've ordained us to be, Father. Lord, we love you and we thank you. And we thank you for this service. In your name I pray. Amen.