John chapter fifteen, I'd like for us, if you would, notice verse number thirteen. John chapter fifteen and verse thirteen, I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison, if you would. John fifteen, thirteen. Ready all together? Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. I want to speak this morning on no greater love. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. We come to you on this Sunday morning on a very special weekend in our nation, and God, as American citizens and as Christians We come and we thank you, Father, for the men and women who did lay down their lives for us, for our freedoms, for our safety. And we are grateful for that. And as Austin sang just tremendously a moment ago, Lord, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, who laid down his life for the salvation of our souls. And now as we consider this thought, I ask that your Holy Spirit would speak to each of our hearts. Lord, I yield my will to you. I do not want to impose my thinking on your word this morning. I pray that my thoughts would be, your thoughts would be my thoughts, and put aside my reasoning and you would speak through me. I present my body anew, Lord, at this hour, and I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit And I'd be out of the way, Lord. You could speak through my lips. So bless now we ask, as we consider this passage, in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's not uncommon to hear on Memorial Day weekend you go to different ceremonies and maybe some speeches, no doubt in churches like ours today. Uh you'll hear different statements. Tomorrow I have for the last many, many years, I always on Memorial Day like to go down to uh The Oakland uh cemetery. They have a beautiful service down there every year. I enjoy it so much. At uh I think it's at eleven o'clock, I think, tomorrow morning. I like to go down there. They recognize those that gave their lives. Just a tremendous service. Last year was especially a blessing as they honored our own brother Harry Miller. and in service in World War II with a flag uh with a a flag there, uh a banner. And so uh it's not uncommon at a service like that or some sort of Memorial Day speech to hear somebody make this statement They'll say this, all gave some, but some gave all. And uh today and this weekend our nation pauses to remember and honors to honor those who gave all, who laid down their lives in defense of our country. Our country knows what war is. We were born in a war. There was a revival, actually, you back up a little bit. Our nation was actually born in the revival in New in New England, the Great Awakening under the preaching of George Whitfield and And Jonathan Edwards and the fires of revival down through New England into the mid-Atlantic stirred the hearts of our people, and that produced a stand for what was right And then erupted into the Revolutionary War. Our nation knows what war is. Our nation understands, at least we ought to understand, the cost of freedom I did a little research. I found that in the American Revolution War, our very first war, there was 4,435 men that gave their lives in the defense and the birth of our country. Now that doesn't in our day's numbers, that doesn't sound like a large number, but you need to understand the population was much, much smaller And that was a large percentage of our men that gave their lives for the birth of our country, 4,435. And some of the numbers change. It's hard to get an exact number The War of 1812, which is a significant war in our nation's history, 2,260 Folks gave their lives in the defense of our country. The Mexican War, it jumped to 13,283 And then that awful, awful civil war, six hundred and eighteen thousand Men and many women gave their lives to try and keep our country together, try and keep our country united. Spanish-American War, 2446. World War II, 116,516 men, many women, gave their lives. The war to end all wars was what World War I was called. It didn't end all wars. By the way, there's only one thing going to end all wars. That's the return of Jesus Christ to planet Earth. World War two four hundred and five thousand three hundred ninety nine The Korean War, 36,574 gave their lives. Vietnam, 58,220 men and women gave their lives The Gulf War, 383. By the way, it's a small number, but every one of those was a life of an American that gave to defend our country. Afghan, uh Iraq, Afghanistan war, war against terror, and it's ongoing in various ways. Over 6,773 men and women gave their lives in the country in the defense of our country. That comes to, according to my figure, total 1,264,289 men and women in the defense of our country. We ought to be grateful for the price these folks have paid so you and I can live the lives we're living. That's not a small number. And we're grateful. We're grateful. Charles Province was a military veteran. He was a writer. He wrote a number of biographies of General George Patton, one of my favorite generals, a unique man in many ways. He wrote this, Charles Province wrote this. It is the soldier. Not the minister who has given us freedom of religion. It is the soldier, not the reporter, who has given us freedom of the press. It is the soldier, not the poet, who has given us freedom of speech. It is the soldier, not the campus organizer. Who has given us the freedom to protest? It is the soldier, not the lawyer, who has given us the right to a fair trial. It is the soldier, not the politician, who has given us the right to vote. It is the soldier that salutes the flag Who serves beneath the flag, and whose coffin is draped by the flag, who allows the protester to burn the flag. It is the soldier. Now, as Christians, we understand that behind our freedoms and our rights is the blessings of Almighty God. We understand that our nation is what it is because of who our God is and what He's done for us. But nevertheless, the price that the soldier pays is vital and significant in the freedoms and the rights that we have. And I agree with Charles Province and what he says there. I read years ago off the coast of New England there was a terrible storm raging, and I tell you, up along that main coast, there can be some awful, awful storms. And a ship was r uh got caught in that storm and it wrecked on a along the coast there, and it was in dire situation. And they sent a May Day out, people on the ship sent a May Day out. Help Mayday! Help Mayday. The Coast Guard got the message The crew of that particular ship, Coast Guard ship, was very young. And as they got the message, help, the crew said to the captain, We cannot go out in this storm. We cannot go out in these conditions. They said this. If we go out in these conditions, we will never return. The old seasoned captain of that Coast Guard ship said, we must go out, but we do not have to return. In other words, the call to give their lives for the good of others. John 15, 13 says, greater love hath no man than this. And he lay down his life for his friends. The Gospel of John, which we're in here right now Is one of my favorite books of the Bible. A lot of people you ask them, what's your favorite book? They'll say, oh, the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John is an excellent place, particularly for a new believer, to start reading their Bible. And by the way, when a person gets saved, they ought to start reading their Bible. In fact, even if a person's been saved a long time, they ought to read their Bible. And if you're not in the habit of reading your Bible on a daily basis, let me challenge you to commit yourself to read some scripture every single day, young and old. And if you don't know, you say, where should I start, preacher, the Gospel of John is a good place to start, reading your Bible. Chapters 14 through 17, Jesus is speaking to his disciples. This is after the Lord's Supper, chapters 14, 15, 16, 17. It's after the Lord's Supper. He's introduced to the Lord's Supper in the upper room. He is about to go to Gethsemane. And these four chapters here are that period of time after they leave the upper room, before he gets to Gethsemane, where Judas betrays him, he's speaking to his disciples. It's his final words before his crucifixion. And I'll tell you, chapter 14, 15, 16, 17. If you'll read it very carefully, I believe it's one of the most tender passages in all the Gospels, where Jesus is with his disciples together. And he's telling them of things to come. He's telling them truths that they need to understand because their world is about to be turned upside down. In the next few hours, things are going to change. And their lives will never, ever, ever be the same. Just a tender, tremendous passage. Here in chapter 15, and we don't have time to go through the whole chapter, but the first eight verses, he's talking to his disciples about fruit. He says there, just notice verse number one, he says, I am the true vine, my father is in the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. And he goes down through verse number eight, and he's telling them, he's saying, You be faithful. You abide with the Lord. You stay close to Christ. You stay close to the Lord. And if you'll be faithful and you'll trust him and let him lead you, God will use you to bear fruit. So he's talking about fruit In the first eight verses. In verse 9 through 17, he's talking about love, about God's love for them. He's talking about their love for one another. And I tell you, the older I get in my Christian life, the longer I've been knowing the I know the Lord these forty years now I come to the conclusion that the ability to love the way God loves unconditionally is the highest attainment in the Christian life. If I can love God and love my fellow man the way God loves me, the way God loves my fellow man, I think that's the highest, that's the pinnacle of Christian maturity, Christian life. And so he talks to them of love. And then, verse number 18 through 25, he talks to them of hatred, particularly the world's hatred for Jesus Christ. And he tells them, he says, listen, the world hated me, and the world did hate the Lord Jesus Christ. Somebody said, Oh, if Jesus came back today, if Jesus would come today. They'd treat them differently. I'm telling you, Jesus came today, they'd crucify him just like they did back then. This world doesn't love our Lord. This world doesn't love the Lord Jesus Christ. And he makes a statement that it's important for every Christian to understand. He says, if they hated me They're going to hate you. They're going to hate you. This world is not a friend to God's grace. This world is not a friend to our Lord Jesus Christ. Now we need to love, we need to love the world like God does, but this world's not going to love in return. Oh, you can, a Christian can fall in love with the world, but I'll tell you this, the world will never fall in love with a Christian. It's not going to happen. Not going to happen. So he talks to them in verses 18 through 25 about the world's hatred for him, and in result of that, the world's hatred for his disciples. And then verse 26 and 27 at the end of the chapter, he talks about the comfort, the comfort of the Holy Spirit. Jesus has gone away. He's going to be crucified. He buried three days, he'll rise again, but he's going to ascend to heaven. And he says, I'll not leave you alone. I will give you the Holy Ghost, and he will be with you, and he will be in you, and he will not leave you. By the way, you and I as believers, the moment we trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God Himself indwells our bodies, and we have the presence of God Almighty in the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us, and he will not leave us. And he helps us. And he comforts us. And he encourages us and he strengthens us. And if we let him, he'll fill us. And use us to make a difference in this old world. So, chapter 15, you have these four thoughts emphasized. Fruit of the Christian. The love for God, of God, and for God and for one another, the hatred of the world, and then the comfort of the Holy Spirit. Then we come to verse 13, is what I want us to consider this morning. Jesus is expressing the greatest act of love that is possible. Greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. Number one, I want us to notice quickly the value of this love I encourage you to underscore this whole verse in your Bible. This would be a good verse to highlight in your Bible somehow. But particularly that word greatest, greater, greater love Hath no man than this. That word greater there means to the fullest extent, there is nothing above or beyond this level of love You can love, but there is a point where there's no greater love. There is nothing beyond that. There's nothing past that. There's nothing higher than that. Greater love hath no man than this. I tell you, Jesus is plainly declaring the greatest expression of love is to give my life for the good of another person. The greatest act of love. It's what Austin sang about, the choir sang about when Jesus Christ gave his life. For our well-being, for our salvation. It's a lot of great speeches about love. Tell you, you get a young man and he meets a young lady, I'm telling you, he can pour it on, huh? I mean, he can tell her how much he loves her, and boy, he can just pour it on. A lot of great speeches about love. There's a lot of beautiful songs written about love. It's a lot of heart-stirring poems about love. It's a lot of captivating sermons about love. But I'll tell you this: words can be awfully empty. And you can sing a song and you can give a speech and you can preach a sermon about love and yet know nothing about it. Words can be very, very empty. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees when he told him, He says, You honor me with your lips, but your heart is far from me. Not everything that glitters is gold, and not everything that talks of love is love. Love is more than just words. 1 Corinthians chapter 13 is what I consider the greatest literature on genuine biblical love that has ever been penned. Of course, it's given by the inspiration of God. And if you'll study that chapter very carefully, we don't have time to look at it this morning, but if you study it very, very carefully, you notice that every reference to charity is the term there unconditional love in action. Every one of the words describing it are action words, are behavior, are things that are done. Love is not words, love is action. Love is behavior. Greater love hath no man than this, than he lay down his life for his friends. He's declaring the greatest expression of love is the give of myself to others. The greatest extent of love Is to lay down my life for others. There's nothing beyond that. As I said, there's nothing above that. I found out that the highest point on earth The highest point on earth is 29,035 feet. It is the point, the top point of Mount Everest. That is as high as you can go and still be on planet Earth. It's as high as you can go and still be your feet touching the planet. 29,035 feet. You can't go any higher than that and still be on planet Earth. Jesus is saying the greatest act of love is to lay down your life for another. You can't go any higher than that. You can't go beyond that. The greater love hath no man than this, the man lay down his life for his other. Love can do some great things. But it can't do anything greater than laying down its life for another. A mother's child is sick, has a fever, middle of the night That mother will stay up all night long. If necessary, she would walk miles to a doctor to find help. Why? Because she loves that little child. A father gets up in dreadful hours of the morning, goes and works a long, hard day on a dangerous job. Why? Because he loves his family He wants them to be taken care of. He wants them to their needs to be met. Because he loves them. But I'm telling you, there's no greater love And a man lay down his life for another. Number one, this is a the value of this love. There's no greater love than this Number two, I want us to consider this as a voluntary love. Notice what he says here. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life. That is a deliberate offering up of himself. That's a voluntary action on the part of the one, giving their life for the well-being of another. Up until January seventh, nineteen seventy-three, every young man that turned eighteen Understood that there was a real chance he was going to get a letter in the mail from Uncle Sam telling them that he was being drafted for the military. Some men submitted to it and went and then submitted to their draft. There was a lot of folks That fled from it, ran to Canada, tried to escape the drag. Others just tried to hide themselves somewhere in the hills of Montana Try and avoid the draft. Others would protest and burn their draft cards and rise up and protest against it. And as I said, some submitted to it and gave in to the draft. But There was a few that enlisted to defend their country not because they were drafted. But they voluntarily gave themselves to defend their country. I couldn't help but think of our dear, dear friend Dr. Bill Barens. He's been with the Lord now eight, ten years. Vietnam War was raging. He came out of high school. He loved his country. He wasn't drafted. He says, I want to go and fight for my country. Fight for my country. That's what Jesus is talking about here. Not a forced laying down of my life. Not a not giving an option. But voluntarily laying it down of my own will for the good of others, for the good of others We all heard the stories, men in men in in in combat, and a grenade would come into the foxhole or the trench where he and his fellow soldiers were and one of the men without hesitation, without without without a moment's hesitation, throws himself on that grenade and takes the blast So that his fellow soldiers would be safe. I'm telling you, there's no greater love than that. A person gives their life. They say out west that when those prairie fires would come across the plains out there and just burning up everything in its path They say the old uh pioneers and those prairie farmers, they say that old mother ch mother hen will go and that fire be coming across and there's no escape And that old mother hen would cluck in all her little chicks, and she'd bring them in under her wings, and she would lay her wings and her body over those little chicks, and that fire come across and burn that mother. They take the old dead burnt body of that mother and those little chicks to be alive. I'm telling you, there's no greater love And to voluntarily lay down your life for another. For another. The value of an object is what one is willing to pay to receive it Someone loves me enough that they would pay their life for me to have mine. There's no greater love. It's a voluntary love. Voluntary love. The greatest truth that you and I can ever learn. It's that God loves you. God loves me to the greatest extent that love is possible of expressing. That he would give his life so that Dennis Leatherman could be forgiven, so that you could be forgiven of your sins. And have a home in heaven and not burn in hell, but have everlasting life. What a love. Voluntarily Greater love, there's no greater value than this love Jesus is expressing. Greater love hath no man than this, and a man lay down his life. That's a voluntary love. Last of all, I want us to notice it's a vicarious love. Look what he says: Greater love hath no man than this. Then a man lay down his life. What's those last three words? Would you read it with me? For his friends. That little phrase for his friends means this, on behalf of his friends. Or you could say this, in the place of his friends I use the word vicarious. The word vicarious simply means what this phrase is saying, to take the place of another, to be the substitute for one. In other words, here is one that is about to die. And one loves this person so much that they voluntarily give themselves and die in their place, vicarious for them, on behalf of them, dying for them. I tell ya, greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends I'm here to tell you, Jesus died for you and for me. He died in our place. He hung on that cross. He was being judged for the sins that I committed and you committed. I've often expressed it this way. Jesus came And he says, I'll take responsibility for every sin that Dennis Leatherman has ever committed, every sinful thing his hands have ever done. Every wicked thing his eyes have ever seen, every ungodly words he's ever listened to and songs and e every every wicked thing Jesus came down voluntarily and says, I will take responsibility for his sins and judge me in his place. Telling you there's no greater love than that. Do you ever get to the point, do you ever get to this place in life? Have you ever been in this valley where you just have to ask yourself, is there anybody In the world that loves me. Is there anybody that cares about me? I'm here to tell you when you get to that point, turn your eyes to Jesus. And look on the cross, and there you find a man, the man, the Son of God. That loves you and me with the greatest extent of love that is possible. And gave himself for your sins and my sins Was judged in our place, buried, rose again. And he's alive today. He's at the right hand of God the Father. And he knows everything about you, and he knows everything about me. He knows what we're thinking. He knows what I'm saying right now. He's aware of everything about And if you've never done that, you can turn to Him and call out to Him, trusting Him as your personal Savior. God promises that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We have no right to ever question God's love for us after what He's done for us on that old cross. Greater love hath no man than this. And a man lay down his life for his friends. For I was saved, I was saved at the age of 19, as most of you have my testimony memorized, I'm sure. For I was sayed I was about so I think I just turned 16, somewhere around there A couple of my friends and I going down to South Philly. We lived on the north just outside the city limits north of Philly We went down to the spectrum that was in Philadelphia, the big uh it was uh uh stadium down there. It wasn't really a stadium, it was like a basketball indoor stadium We went down, we go down there to big, ungodly, wicked, wicked, wicked rock concerts. And I'm telling you, I am so ashamed. I can't tell you how ashamed I am. Of the person I was before Christ saved me. We went down to that ungodliness. And the concert went over. It went very, very late. Into the early morning hours of the next day. We came out of there and just a mess. We got to the train station and it was too late. The trains had quit running for the night. They weren't going to run for several hours until early the next morning. We came out. What are we going to do? We're in South Philly. I'm telling you, 1. 30 in the morning on the streets of South Philly is not a good place to be Especially if you're a white guy from the north side of the city. We were scared to death. We were stoned out our heads. What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? Back then they had these things that were pretty convenient. They were called phone booths. He found a phone, put a quarter in or whatever it was, nickel probably. Called my dad. 130 in the morning, weekday, night Phone rings, dad answers the phone. I said, Dad, we're stuck down here in South Philly. We can't get out. You know what Dad said? He said, stay right where you're at. Tell me where you are. You stay right there. Don't you wander off. I'll be down there as quick as I can. Now I've told that before, and I've had people say, your dad should have said you got yourself in that, you get yourself out of it. Maybe he should have, maybe it would have taught us a lesson, I don't know. But I know this Daddy loved his boy. And his boy was in a bad spot. And without hesitation, without argument, Ed said, I'll be right down. Got out of bed, drove an hour and a half down to South Philly, found us. Climbed into the car, he drove us back home. Got us got us home. He put his work clothes on and then went right to work. Lost the night's sleep I tell you, that wasn't the same as laying down your life. He didn't give his life that night for us. I believe he would have. But I tell you what he did do. He expressed his love for a son in a way that I have never, ever forgot. And that had a profound impact on me eventually coming to Christ and trusting as my Savior. I'm here to tell you, God in heaven loves you and me 10,000 times more than the love my daddy expressed that night. This Memorial Day weekend we stopped and we remember the men and women who gave their lives so you and I can come to church and not have to hide and not have uh armed soldiers threatening us. We can come freely, carry our Bibles, sing out loud, without fear. Those men and women love their country enough to give their lives. We can get together tomorrow. Really should be a very sober, somber day. Have picnics and party and laugh and boat and fun Because there's over a million two hundred thousand men and women of their country enough to give their life so we could be free. And you and I can have the assurance and the confidence that when we die, we don't go to hell. But we have a home in heaven because God loved us enough to come and give his life. For you and for me, so that we can go to heaven. If you've never trusted Christ, I hope you're listening. If you've never trusted Christ, I plead with you this morning. You come and trust him. He loves you. He wants to forgive you and save you and give you eternal life. Those of us that know Christ, we ought to be out telling everybody Of the one who gave his life for us. Amen. We ought to live for him. There's something in our lives as believers that's not right. We ought to make it right. Amen. What love. But love. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to, in as much as our human minds are able, help us to Comprehend this love of Christ that passeth all knowledge. I pray that love would stir us to love one another. I pray that love would stir us to love you and serve you. I pray that love would stir us to share this message of this greatest love with others. Lord, if there's someone under the sound of my voice that's never been saved, I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. They come and trust Christ. Lord, if any of your people are out of line with you and of the loud things that creep in their life, I pray this morning we come and make that right and walk in the love of God. Lord, I pray you'd stir us all to be a testimony, be a witness of this love in our community and around the world. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved. But I'm not living for the Lord like I ought to. And there's areas in my life that really, really I need to give attention. Maybe make some realignments in my priorities, my behavior. So anything like that, preacher, pray for me. I know as a Christian there's areas in my life need attention. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, God bless you, hands all around Oh, I tell you, God that loves us so, we ought to be willing to yield our wills to Him and so dedicate our lives to Him. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, I'm thinking of someone right now that's unsafe. We're not trying to be judgmental in any way, but we're concerned for the well-being of others. You say, preacher, pray for me, that I'd be a good witness to them My testimony would be effective in their life and they would come to Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm thinking of someone right now that needs Christ, that needs this love. God bless you, hands all around Let me ask this. Is there someone this morning saying, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved? I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. That someday I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get this settled in my life I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our imitation now, I ask in Jesus' name