Ladies, beautifully done. If you would turn your Bibles back with me, Exodus chapter twenty. Exodus chapter twenty. So this phone call last night we had a nursing home ministry. and um we were driving back uh my phone rang. I have the you call the church when we're not in the office it's it's forwarded to my cell phone so I don't miss calls and uh the phone rang, uh answered it and the fellow told me his name. He said I'm calling from Beijing, China. I said, Okay. And uh he said he's a missionary there, I kind of undercover and they have a number of churches and he said um and uh to make a long conversation brief, uh he says, um, is it are you Pastor Lenin? I said, Yeah, says are you Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I said, that's correct. He said, Did you have folks in Morgantown giving out gospel tracts? I said, Yes. He says, I want to thank you. He said, I just received a phone call from a lady that this fella had won her mother to the Lord, Chinese woman to the Lord, about two or three years ago. Um she had gotten saved and grown, she's involved in the church there, and she became The mother is Getting up in age, she's had several heart surgeries, and she goes, I'm very concerned that my daughter be saved. Her daughter had come to the States, went to Florida, got a degree, and is currently enrolled in WBU with a medical degree, earning some medical degree. And the ministry said this, for the last three weeks We have been emailing, calling, trying to win this daughter to the Lord. He says she is so open right now. He said, I believe God's working in her heart. He said, I got a phone call from her just a little bit ago. She said this. She called over to China to this man and she said, who did you send by my house today? He said, what are you talking about? She goes, you sent somebody by my house today to try and get me saved And he says, no, I didn't. She goes, why? She goes, well, I got this literature. And he said, what did it say? She read it to him. He goes, I don't know who those people are. He goes, I know who came by your house today. God came by your house. And uh she made this statement. She goes, well, I don't know who it was. She said, but I know this. I needed today what that tract set had to say. Now I don't know that she trusted the Lord, but uh isn't that incredible? Beijing, China And so I asked we talked a long time and um I asked him, I said, I would like for you to take some time and write this all out and email it to me. I said, I would like to have an accurate record of what took place here And so he assured me he would do it. And uh just amazing things. So we have no idea where these gospel tracts are going to end up or what in the world is going on in people's lives when we give out the word of God. That stirred my heart. I couldn't hardly sleep last night. Actually I slept very good. I was so tired from yesterday. But uh stirred my heart and uh just excited for what the Lord is doing. Isn't that a blessing? So um I couldn't wait to tell somebody that. Exodus chapter twenty. By the way, what do you say when you have amnesia and deja vu at the same time? This is what you say. I think I remembered that I think I forgot that one time before. I I thought that was pretty good Exodus 20. Notice with me if you would just verse 4, just the first part of verse 4. We're memorizing the Ten Commandments. I'm trying to, one Sunday out of each month, preach a message on that month's commandment. This month is the second commandment, verse 4, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. The message this morning is no graven images. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to assemble together in your house. Lord, I'm grateful for every person and uh made the effort to come to our church today and be a part of this service. Lord, I'm grateful for those that have taken part in the music and the singing and the All of that, Lord, has blessed my heart. The fellowship with your people has been a blessing. And now, Lord, as we look into your word, Lord, we view this as the most important time of the service. As we open our hearts to your word and your will for our lives, I present my body anew this hour, Lord. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. I pray that you would be the preacher and I would just be the conduit, the instrument in your hands to use to build your church and build our faith. Again, have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We're looking at the second of ten commandments that God gave to man. Now we talked about these at length in previous messages. But I think it's interesting that the old-time Jews referred to the commandments in their writings. They would refer to what we call the Ten Commandments. They referred to them as the Ten Words And the idea was that these were the final say on God's demands of man. You've heard people mention the final word. Well, that's what the ten words of God. In the Bible, and Christians generally refer to them just in a generic sense as the wall. Now of course the law in the Bible includes much more than just the Ten Commandments, but when You read in the New Testament and you hear Christians refer to the law, generally they're talking about the Ten Commandments Now it's important to point out, we preached entire messages on this before, but I just feel there's a real need for a caution here. The Ten Commandments, and it needs to be clearly understood, the Ten Commandments were not given by God to man as a means of salvation. God did not give us these commands with the idea that if you keep these ten commands, then you will earn some merit with me. You will gain my favor. You will earn by keeping these commands, you will earn my acceptance of you. Now, mankind, we often, maybe not consciously, but we often uh will Have certain demands of others before we accept them. You follow what I'm saying? They've got to live up to our standard of accept accept acceptability. Well that's not what the commandments were given by God to man for, not so that we have a a way to earn God's acceptance. But rather You say, well, what were they for then? If God didn't give us the Ten Commandments for us to earn his acceptance, then why would he give them? The Ten Commandments are very clearly given. They are an expression of God's holiness. God is holy, therefore, his holiness demands this This behavior that's expressed in the commandments, His holiness demands that behavior as a to be acceptable. You say, now wait a minute. You just said the law was not given to make us acceptable to God. Correct. Galatians is very clear on that. But now you say that the law is. The whole expression of God's holiness, the standard of acceptability for God. Correct. The fact of the matter is The law is the only acceptable standard of behavior that God's holiness demands So, I can't keep the law to be acceptable, but yet the law must be fulfilled for God to accept me. With that being the case, what the law becomes to me, I know this is a little theological, so bear with me. What the law that God has given as an expression of his holiness, these commands that are given here in Exodus 20 and other places. What it becomes to me as a sinful human being, it becomes, Galatians calls it, my schoolmaster. I realize the law is God's expression of His holiness. I come up to that and I can't live up to it. It's impossible. We'll notice this. Therefore, I realize this law is showing me. That if I'm ever going to be accepted by God, if I'm ever going to escape God's wrath for failing to live up to his commands, I'm going to need somebody to do something for me. Follow? The law is teaching me that I need a Savior. It's my schoolmaster bringing me to Christ. It is revealing to me. That I have so fallen short of God's standard, God's holiness expects and demands from mankind. I've fallen so short of that, I need somebody to save me. From his judgment, make me accept the Guru God to do for me what I cannot do for myself The law. It becomes my schoolmaster, showing me of my need of a savior. What does Romans 3. 23 say? For all have Sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now you could word that various ways, could come short of the standard that God has established. The glory of his holiness. We've come short of that. So we must never, and I want to be very emphatic on this, and the Bible is very emphatic, particularly Ephesians, Galatians, and other places, Romans. I want to be very emphatic. When we look at the wall, when we memorize the Ten Commandments, when we study this, it is very important. We do not get it in our eye in uh this idea in our heads that the law is somehow something I have to keep in order for God to accept me in order for God to uh in order for me to be attain salvation. Alright, are you with me? Everybody with me on that? I just need to, I feel very obligated to lay that found ground uh that groundation. Foundation groundwork I had a bad cold all week, so y'all bear with me. I thought about it earlier. I feel bad for the front row down here. There's no telling what's gonna come out. So um Our inability to live up to God's standard. Now, we've already preached on the first commandment. Verse number three: thou shalt have no other gods before me. The first commandment and the second commandment, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, are very closely related. In fact, there's uh one, at least one, maybe two different denominations that would we would differ with very greatly. That actually combine those two and do away, in a sense, with the second commandment, thou shalt uh not make unto thee any graven image. They do away with that. Now I don't believe that's correct. But these two are very, very closely related. Let me explain it this way. The first command, thou shalt have no other guys before me, that is teaching us who we are to worship. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. So that's telling me, that's that's explaining to me. Who my worship is to be directed towards? Not some false God, but the true God, the living God, Jehovah. In fact, he said there in the verse 2: I am the Lord thy God. And so the commandment number one is telling us who we are to worship. Now I want to take a moment and explain what we mean by worship. By worship, we are not referring to a church service. Alright? We've talked about this a number of times before. You say, well, I'm going to church. We're going to go and worship God. Now there's nothing wrong with that. But when the Bible refers to worship, it is not limited to a one-hour service. Alright? It is not referring to some ceremony I go to or some ritual I go through. If you'll study in your Bible, if you'll get you a concordance and look up the term worship and how it's used through the Bible, it involves much, much more than simply what we would call a church service. It involves my entire life. My worship is referring to the submission of my will to God. The word itself means to fall prostrate. But it's not talking about my physical, necessarily, my physical posture before God And it's talking about my mental and spiritual attitude before God. So when we say commandment number one, thou shalt have no other gods before me, it's the it's Instructed me how who to direct my worship to. It's talking about who do I submit myself to? Who do I bow my will to in this world? Not false gods. But I yield and submit my life, not just to an hour service, but my life to the true and living God. That's the first command. Second command. Is teaching us not so much who we direct our worship to, but how we worship Commandment number one, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Alright? I submit my life, the authority of my life, I submit to is God Almighty and Him and Him alone. No other gods. No one else I worship, nothing else I bow I submit my will to. Now, commandment two, uh thou shalt not make it in any grave in the image. That's how I'm supposed to worship. In fact, it's actually probably more correctly, accurately, would say it is how I am not to worship. Commandment number two is putting a restriction On how we worship. Commandment number one, no false gods. Commandment number two, no false worship. Now you with me? Everybody doing alright out there? Alright, good. By the way, just an aside here, there never has been a race, a culture In among mankind that has not worshipped, in some way, shape, or form There's no culture ever found. No you can go in the most deepest jarku jungle darkest jungle. You can go to the most Isolated islands in the South Pacific or wherever you come up with, you can go up to the Arctic Circle and every society, every culture, every race of human beings You will find them worshiping some type of God. They'll find idols You'll find ceremonies, you will find um uh rituals they go through. And the fact of the matter is, if if and some people may choose to dispute this. But I believe if they're very, very honest, it is incredibly obvious to me that mankind has an innate Desire to worship. Let me put it this way: Mankind has an instinctive awareness of God. There is something down inside the heart and soul of man that recognizes At the very minimum recognizes there is something greater than I There is something wiser than I am. There is something more powerful than I am. There is something beyond what I am. Now, societies have different versions of their understanding of that. I think it's interesting. I just read an article this week. This article or news report. I think it was a news report. One of the what's uh declared to be, this man is declared to be one of the smartest men in the world Stephen Hawking. Anybody recognize that name? Stephen Hawking? He's uh physically handicapped, mentally he's uh somewhat of a genius And you gotta highly respect a man just for what he's accomplished. But this past week, now he rejects the concept of God. But this past week, I guess uh Discovery Channel is going to do a thing, and in this thing, he makes this statement Though he rejects the concept of God, he believes very strongly that there are alien life out there. That have created us and did that. Now that's amazing to me that we reject a very clear and sensible, intelligent Conclusion that there is a God. Reject that and then reach out for some far-fetched thing that there's aliens You know what that tells me? That even in the humanist world, down inside the heart of man, there is a recognition of something greater than I. There's something out there beyond what I am. And that is what I would refer to as the innate awareness of God. Now they may not understand and obviously don't Come to the right conclusion about that awareness, but it's there nonetheless. So, never has been a race of people, a culture, civil or uncivilized, that has not worshipped a God of some form. I like uh there's a great preacher he's with the Lord now. I highly respected him. He preached when I was in Bible college a number of times. I got to uh I got to meet him and heard him preach a number of times. His name is Lehman Strauss It's from Pennsylvania. Some of you are familiar with Dr. Lehman Strauss. He made a statement that I thought was interesting. He said this. He said, Man worships almost as instinctively as he breathes I think that's very true. That's what we're we're we're saying here. Now, the problem with many people, I think, especially Americans. It's not that we are. I think the problem with most people is not that they are not aware of God's existence. That's an instinctive awareness that there's something Beyond me. That's not the problem. The problem is, most people are incorrect in their worship of that God. They know there's something. Just aware there's something else. And by the way, even their most hardened atheist, when things are going bad, they'll make a statement like this: oh God. Huh? You ever heard it? Oh, God help me. Now they may not have the significance to that statement as you and I may have when we say it, but there's that Me, that's that that reflex, spiritual reflex, recognizing that there is a God, there's something beyond me. So the problem isn't that getting that. The problem is being able to worship that God in an acceptable way. I've had many people have been in the ministry, 1985. I've had a lot of people over the years make statements. like this or similar to this to me. Preacher, God and I got our own thing going. And I worship God in my own way. Have you ever heard that? God and I had I had a guy not too long ago said, uh he didn't refer to God, he says He went like this. He said, we got our own thing going. We got our agreement. I didn't laugh, but I wanted to. You may think you guys have an agreement Man wants to worship God in his own way. And that's where the problem comes in. Worship, again, worship is not our Sunday services. That's part of it, but it's not limited to that. If you're all right, I'm going to church at 1045, we're going to worship at 12 o'clock, we're done. And uh what are you going to do? Stop worshiping then? You don't find that in the Bible. It's my lifestyle, it's my attitude, my submission of my will to God's will, my life to God's authority. So I want to give you a few thoughts here about this first command, and then we'll shut it down, get out of here. Number one, first thought. You say, Good night. I thought that was the message right there Number one, the second commandment deals with our concept of God. Our concept of God. Now, I said all that in the introduction to say this. It is impossible to correctly worship God until I have a correct concept of God. I cannot live for a God that I haven't. I cannot correctly live for a God that I do not have a correct concept of. If I have a wrong concept of God, then my worship of that God will be incorrect. Are you with me? Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to John chapter 4. Here we have a classic example of a woman who believed in God. That wasn't a problem. But her concept of God was incorrect. Therefore, her worship was incorrect. And the Lord Jesus had to Correct her. Help her understand that. John chapter 4. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 20. John 4 and verse 20. Many of us are familiar with this. This is the story of the woman at the well. Verse 20: this woman is answering the Lord. Our fathers worshiped, that's what we're talking about. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain. And ye say, and when she says ye, she means you Jews, she was a Samaritan, ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. All right, let's just stop there. Her in her mind, worship is something That took place at a s that that was that was done at a certain place. You go over here and worship. Apparently, when you leave there, then you stop worshiping. Right? So there's something askew here. We want to use that word all week. Eskew. Read on. Jesus saith unto her woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father Now I can see her face in my mind. I see her face. She's puzzled. What do you say? And explains. Ye worship, look at this, look what he says to her. Ye worship, ye know not what. Ye know not what We know what we worship for salvation of the Jews. He's saying to her, your concept of God is incorrect. Now God revealed himself to the Jews. They have a correct concept of God. Your concept of God is incorrect. But look when verse 23. But the hour cometh, and now is. Now look. When true worshipers. Now, my question comes to my mind is, why did he qualify that with true worshipers? Why didn't he just say, but the hour cometh and now is when worshipers? The reason he said when true worshipers, he's pointing them out as opposed to what? False worshipers. He's saying, listen, there is a correct way to worship God And there is a incorrect way to worship God. There is a true worship, and there is a false worship. And he's trying to help her understand this. There is a correct way to submit our wills to God, and there is an incorrect way. And read on. The hour cometh now is when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in what? Spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. Now, if the true worshiper worships the Father in spirit How would a false worshiper worship God? As opposed to in the spirit, it would be in the flesh. Or materially. Alright, let's read on. For the Father seeketh. That's what he wants. He doesn't want outward, material things. He's looking for spirit, truth. Verse 24. Now this is a profound statement in the scripture. God is a what? Spirit. Her concept of God was mistaken Therefore, her m her worship was wrong. She viewed God as, to some degree, a material thing. You had to go here, much like a people would have in some societies where they have an idol. You have to go to that idol and worship God in front of that idol. You bow down to that grass or cement or wood or whatever it's made out of, ivory. We were in Mongolia and they had uh different uh uh they had a big uh Buddha there and people come and bow down to it. They pray and they're praying. Uh that's a materialistic concept of God. There's an awareness that there's a God But it's not a correct concept of God, and therefore their worship is wrong. And Jesus is trying to say God is not material. God is not physical. He is a spirit. Now the question always comes up: if God is if God the Spirit He's not material, then why does the Bible make reference to the hand of God? The Bible talks about the eyes of the Lord run to and fro. Does that mean that God has literal physical eyeballs? Does it mean that God has a literal physical hand? No. Those are simply Not metaphor. What is it? Yeah, personifications. Uh uh they're attributing to God human characteristics So that humans can understand a little bit what God is like. If God had physical eyeballs, could He see everything everywhere all the time? No. He would be limited to where those eyeballs were pointing. Right? This is very profound, I know. But the fact of the matter is, God is not material, God is not physical, He is spiritual. And God and the Lord is explaining this to this woman. Look at verse 22. You worship you know not what. You've got this idea that worship is involved some physical, material thing, because you don't understand what God is like God is a spirit. He's not contained. He's not limited by a physical body. In fact, the Bible is incredible. It talks about the immensity of our God. The universe I was reading, I think it might have been in the same article, that there are 900 billion known galaxies in our universe. Nine hundred billion known galaxies. I think that's not quite our national debt, but it's close. Um 900 billion galaxies out there, and each galaxy has hundreds of millions of solar systems within that galaxy. Think about that. And the Bible says the heavens of the heavens cannot contain our God. I tell you, we got a very limited concept of who and what God is. Well, the old man upstairs, we got an agreement. I don't know who you're talking about, old man upstairs. The true God is an awesome, immense, unlimited being that you and I cannot fathom What he is and what he's like. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Too many limit God to their finite concept of God. They limit God to what they can see and what they can think of, what they can see, what they can feel. Here you have a social outcast, this woman. She is an immoral woman. By anyone's standards. And yet, God teaches her a very profound truth. Our standard of approach to God is not man-made. It is God's standard. God is spirit. He's the one that determines our approach to Him, our worship of Him. Not what we imagine. Man's approach to God, our approach to God is not mental or physical, but it's spiritual. Verse 23 and 24, we already looked at it. God is a spirit, he's not material. Therefore, he cannot be approached materially. You go in some cathedrals You'll go in some, and they call them houses of worship. And you will find throughout the building, you'll find very ornate drawings, you'll find statutes. And these are all presented as means of worshiping God. But the problem is, you cannot approach God materially. I don't come to God through a statue. I don't approach God through a crucifix. I don't come to God through some material means. God is not material, God is spiritual. I worship Him and approach Him spiritually. Follow what I'm saying? It's not some physical ritual I go through. It is a spiritual connection I have with God. Natural man, uh, God is a spirit, he's not material, he cannot be represented materially. How do you physically represent something that is spirit? How do you put form to something that has no form? How do you represent in a limited image an unlimited God? It cannot be done. God forbids it. Take your Bible if you would, real quickly, and turn to Romans chapter 1. Everybody alright? Alright? Alright. Good. Romans chapter 1, verse 23. God's bringing a strong condemnation on mankind for something they did here. Verse 23. Romans 1. And he says, they changed the glory of the incorruptible God into a what? Image made like unto corruptible man. And the birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. He's saying their concept of God became corrupted. And they limited in their minds who and what God was, and they began to create images of a God that cannot be imagined. They changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. Natural man. Now here's my statement. I hope you all are bearing with me. I know this isn't the most dynamic uh message I've wrote, but it's very important. Natural man cannot connect with a spiritual God If I am going to be able to approach God, if I'm going to, and I like this word connect, if I'm going to connect with God, I cannot do it just naturally. I cannot do it physically. I must do it with my what? My spirit. Right? God is a spirit. May that worship him must worship him in spirit. Now that brings up a huge problem. Turn with me if you would, real quickly, over to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Just a few pages back after Romans. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And notice with me if we will at verse number 14. Now God's a spirit. I took all that to say God's a spirit, he cannot be represented. materially in any way, shape, or form. He's beyond all that. By the way, it's an insult to God to take something physical and visible and say this represents God when he is so far beyond that. So I can't represent him in any way by anything physical, and I cannot connect with him physically. I can only worship, connect with him spiritually. Now here's where the problem is. Look at First Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14. But the natural man, the man that is just physical, Receiveth not the things of what? The Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. Verse 15, but he that is spiritual judgeth all things. Now here's where the problem comes in. Ephesians chapter 2, particularly the first portion of the chapter, tells us that mankind is born spiritually dead. For ye are dead in your trespasses and sins, all alive physically, but there's no spiritual life there. Because we're born with a sinful nature. We can go back to Adam as an Adam, all die uh for for by one man sinner, we're all in death by sin, and sin passed upon all men for their own sins. So we're born spiritually dead. We are not alive spiritually. Are you with me? We're born that way. You can put it this way: we are spiritually stillborn. In a sense. Alright, we're alive physically. Man, I I c I I came out of that womb, I was born, brother, I was alive physically. In fact, I must have said something because the first thing the doctor did was slap me. But um Uh came out very much alive physically, but I wasn't alive spiritually. And because I was not, there was no spiritual life there, I couldn't connect with God. Because God is spirit. And they that worship him, they that submit him, they that connect with him have to do it spiritually. And so a person has to somehow become alive spiritually so that they can worship, know, connect with a spiritual God. You see where I'm going with this? Everybody okay? Alright? Um maybe get a little a get a little caught up on your naps later on this afternoon. But um uh I bec when I'm I need to somehow get spiritualized so I can connect with the spiritual God That's where Jesus told Nicodemus, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus says, what are you talking about? You gotta be born again, Nicodemus born again. What are you talking about? I gotta go back in my mother's womb? Be born all over again? He had a wrong concept of what worshiping God was. He had a wrong concept of what God was. Jesus says, No, that which is born of the flesh is flesh. But that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. You must be born again. Born anew. The Bible term is regenerated. To be made alive spiritually. Now, first commandment deals with our concept of God. God is a spirit He cannot be represented in material means. He cannot make connection with them with simply a physical, I mean spiritual life. To connect with him. I believe down in the heart of man there is a longing for God in all men. And any attempt to connect or approach God any other means than spiritually tells me that person does not understand God. Second statement, and it will wind us down. The second commandment is just that, a clear commandment. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Now the question comes up, what about pictures of deer in a tree in a woods on my wall? It's not making any graven image nor any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above, or that is the earth under the heaven, or the waters under the sea. Does that mean you shouldn't have pictures of scenery you shouldn't have you shouldn't hang your deer head on the wall you shouldn't have photos of grandma and grandpa and Bobby and Susie and Uncle Eggbert and all these guys Is that what it's saying? Is we can't have any images of anything that is in heaven above, is earth beneath uh that is earth beneath, or water under the earth. We can't have any images of anything Well, if that's what it was saying, then God would have broken his own command just about four or five chapters later when he told them to make the Ark of the Covenant and He told them to make a golden image of a cherubim. What? He just said, don't make any image. And he turns around and says, Alright, I want these golden cherubim on the mercy seat. And uh he gave him very explicit directions. He told the priests that they were to make pomegranates. Images of pomegranates on their garb that they would wear in the service of the temple. Later on he told Solomon, when he built the temple, uh to build to engrave on the doors of the temple beautiful palm trees. And the place was exquisite beauty, and all throughout the worship of God and these things that God had given, there were images of things, but the difference was God never had man make a representation of God. There's nothing wrong with having There's nothing wrong with having a little what are those things called? My grandmother collected them. Hummels. Is that what they are? Little hummels. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Somebody raise your hand. Uh little trinkets there. Say, well that's an image of a of a that's an image of a of a um no I'm preaching. Um That's breaking the second command. No, it isn't. The second command is dealing with representations of God. I think God has an eye for beauty. In fact, I'll say God's the first and greatest artist that ever was. So God is not condemning art. What he is condemning and what he's refusing to allow and forbidding is for man to represent God by any natural means. Our God is so much greater and beyond our finite understanding that any representation that you and I could come up with is nothing but blasphemous insult to who and what he is How can I, finite man, come somehow represent a God like this? So the command is exactly that, a command. Now what is, thirdly, what is the commandment's relationship to the Christian? Well, and this is fascinating, you do a whole series on this. Jesus is the only visible representation of God that's ever been on earth. Jesus is the image of the invisible God. Jesus, when he was on earth, was the physical manifestation of God Almighty He said, He that hath seen me has seen the Father. Now he wasn't saying that God the Father looks like me. Because God the Father didn't have a beard, God the Father doesn't have ears, God the Father didn't have nose and eyes and all that. He's a spirit He's saying, I am manifesting to you how God acts, what his words are, what his nature is like. When you see me, you see what God is like. John 14. 9, he told Thomas, He that has seen me has seen the Father. My words, my actions, my nature, it's what gods are. Colossians 1:15, Jesus was made in the image of the invisible God. Hebrews 1. 3, he is the image of God's person. We cannot make a material representation of God. We cannot approach God through material means We approach them spiritually. When we trust Christ, I'm born again spiritually. Holy Spirit moves in my body. I have spiritual life. For me, it was May 7, 1979, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, outside Philly. For you, wherever you trust in Christ. That moment you were born spiritually, and that is your connect to God. Now How is God represented on earth now? The Bible says, Hebrews 8, that when we get saved, God begins working in our lives To conform us to the image of Christ. Huh? Yes We're being changed in the image of Christ. Those of us who know Christ the Savior, God's working in our lives. He's allowing trials, he's allowing difficulties, he's chastening, he's doing this, he's a blessing, he's doing all these things so that I can grow as a Christian, become more like Christ. So I can be a representation of who and what God is. Follow what I'm saying? So you say, well, we need something in church To help us understand, we need a statue, we need some kind of picture of God, we need something over the mantelplace, a picture of Jesus or something, so that people can understand what our God is like. No! What we need are Christians who are living like Jesus. Then people will see what God is like. You follow what I'm saying? We need Christians who are filled with the Spirit, who are saying things the what and the way God intends for us to say and who were think the mind have the mind of Christ, who act like Christ wants us to act, who obey the scriptures with the attitude of the scriptures, so that people see us and they see God in us. Not in a statue. Not in a figurine, not in a crucifix, but in living representations of a holy God. Our church does not need statues in our windows. What our church needs are Christ-like believers in the streets. Amen? Years ago there was a young man in Indian, I believe, the legend goes, grew up in an Indian village, just over some mountains, and everyone said that one rock formation looked like a man's face. And there was a myth, I guess, going around that someday the man that looked like that rock formation would show up and he would bring blessings to the people. As a young boy, he was captivated by that. And every day he'd come out and he'd look at that and he studied that thing and he drew pictures of that rock formation and he studied it and was captivated by it. He'd tell other people the legend. He grew up, had a family, told his kids, studied that, he took expeditions up to it, threw pictures, made replicas. Years went by and the little boy became an old man. Studied that thing his whole life, knew every crack and crevice. One day he was walking down the street and a bunch of little children came. He's here. He's here. The man and the rock face. He's here. And that boy had studied that image so much that he began to take on the appearance of that which he studied. You've heard it said people live together so long they start to look like each other. Well, I feel bad for Sandy. God, I'm blessed. But he had so committed himself to that image it began to come out in him. This is what I'm saying. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, let's commit ourselves to the Word of God. Let's study Jesus. Let's get to know him. Let's understand him. Let's live for him to such a degree that when we get out of here, people say, oh, that's what God is like I can see God in her life. I can see the image of Christ, not physically, but in our actions, our attitudes, our behavior. They see Christ. Thou shalt not make any graven image. That's not what we need. We don't need statues. We need Christians living for God. Father, bless us, Lord, help us. I pray you'd help us be real. Help us to understand you, Lord, who you are and what you're like as best we can. I pray, Father, that those of us that know you as Savior, we would commit ourselves to live for you, study your word. It manifests to this world what a genuine Christian is. Meekness, graciousness of our Lord, kindness, holiness. Lord, we'll give you the glory for what you do. With our heads bow and eyes closed, I wonder how many Christians we