Alright, Acts chapter 4, verse number 12. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison, if you would. Acts chapter 4, verse 12. Let's read it together. Ready? Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. Bible says there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. I'm entitled the message, No Other Name. Father, I ask you to bless now our time and your word. It sure has been a joy for me to be in your house with your people on this Lord's Day. Lord, we've laughed together. We've sung songs. God, my heart's been stirred. It's just a blessing to rub shoulders with your people. And to talk and fellowship together. And now, Lord, we come to time, the preaching time. And I ask, dear Lord, as we have our Bibles open in front of us, that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts I pray it would not just be another Sunday. I pray it would not just be another sermon. I pray that the truth presented would challenge our hearts. And that we would grow in our faith. I pray good decisions would be made concerning our spiritual well-being, concerning our witness in this dark world. And I ask, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit once again. As I always do, I yield my will to you again, Lord, and I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray you would speak through me and teach us, Lord, challenge us, convict us, encourage, direct us. Help us to be wise in our response to the truths of your word. And have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I read years ago, I read uh about a preacher years ago over in London, a very well-known preacher, very influential preacher. was being interviewed by a journalist and they asked him a series of questions and a lot of it had to do with the issues of the day And then the journalist asked the preacher, I think, a significant question. He said, if you were to put into one sentence A message of counsel or advice. You were to put in one sentence a message of counsel for your other preachers, your brother preachers here in England and around the world What would your counsel be? So in other words, if you could give advice, counsel to all your preachers around the world here in London, what would you tell them? Without hesitation, the preacher responded, said this. He said, he said, He says, make plain to the people how they are to be saved. Make plain to the people how they are to be saved. If I had the opportunity for whatever it's worth to give my advice, To other preachers here in Oakland, here in Garrett County and our region, if I had the opportunity to say uh say to them some advice and give them some counsel. My counsel would be, make the gospel very clear and very plain. Preach the gospel. Um, can you imagine? Can you imagine on this Sunday morning, the second Sunday of March, if every pulpit In Garrett County, if every pulpit in the United States of America would preach the gospel of Jesus Christ Plainly and clearly, as it's given to us in Scripture, can you imagine the difference it would make in our country? Paul said, I he Paul said that he is not ashamed of the gospel of Christ For it is the power of God unto salvation. And so the advice to preachers, according to this great preacher of years gone by, is to make plain to the people how they are to be saved. The most important message in the world is the message of salvation. The most needed message in the world is the message of salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the one message our Lord and Savior instructed us as a church, the one message the Lord instructed his people to take into all the world, one simple message, it was the gospel. He said, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. The message of the gospel It's the most important message in the world. It's the most needed message in the world. I'm telling you, the government's not going to preach the gospel As important as it is, how to be saved from sin in hell, how to find eternal life, how to have purpose and meaning in life now, and an eternal life with the Lord forever in heaven. And escaping hell, most important message, the government's not going to say a word about it. You know, if some if some pandemic hits Or there's some adverse weather coming in, the first thing the government will do, you'll get little notices. Anybody get those little notices on your phone? Anybody? Anyone know I'm talking about? We were down in um I think it was Australia or no it was over in New Zealand, up in Auckland, and there was this cyclone. They call them cyclones, they're kind of hurricane. I think they spin the opposite direction, I don't know Um but on on the other side of the world everything's backwards. But um they they had this cyclone coming in. We're there preaching, we're in the service, all of a sudden everybody's phone started going anybody ever see that? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Most irritating thing around everybody's scrambling, trying to turn it off. And uh, you know what? If heaven's real, if hell is real, and Jesus is the only way to escape eternity in hell and have eternal life with the Lord in heaven, every phone ought to be gone off. The government ought to be warning everybody you need to be saved. Now either it's true or it isn't Either heaven is heaven and hell is hell or it isn't. And if it is, and the Bible is very clear that it is And the most important message in the world is how to escape hell, go to heaven. How to have eternal life. Government's not going to proclaim that. Government's not going to announce that. The media They're not going to say a word about heaven and hell, being saved, salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Oh, they'll talk about everything else in the world. I wonder why they think I could care less what some movie star has to think about something going on in the world. Something happens. They ask this movie star, well what do you think? And it's headline news. Who cares what they think? They're acting. Hollywood's not going to say a peep about the gospel of Jesus Christ. Oh, they'll put religious movies out. I tell you what, I don't trust. I'm just telling this is me, alright? I don't trust Hollywood with Bible stuff for one as far as I can throw them. I don't trust them. They'll twist it. They'll change it. I don't trust them at all. If heaven is real and hell is real, looks to me the government doing everything they can get people saved from hell go to heaven Looks like they'd be declaring the gospel. They're not going to do it. Media's not going to do it. Hollywood's certainly not going to do it. Put out movies, all this stuff, as I said. There's one group of people on planet Earth One group of people that have been entrusted that God trusts to take this vital message of how to be saved from hell, have eternal life, it's one group of people. It's the local New Testament church. You and me. If we don't preach the gospel, if we don't get this message out, it's not getting out. It's not getting out. What I'm trying to say is this, the message of salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, is the most important message in the world. It's the most needed message in the world. Now we come to our text here in Acts chapter number 4. The book of Acts is actually an historical account. of the beginning of the New Testament church. It's an inspired historical account. It's a historical book. Somebody says, well, I don't like history. Well then you don't like the Bible. Because a lot of the Bible is history. And the book of Acts is a is a historical account of how the church began, the initial part of the church, initial start of the church. In Acts chapter 1, you have the Lord Jesus Christ giving his final instructions to his disciples, his final instructions to his followers, his believers. And he says to them, ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. His final instructions were, you and I be a witness of the message of Jesus Christ. Share that message. In Acts chapter 2, Spirit of God comes upon that little body of believers. The Holy Spirit fills them. The church is empowered with the presence of the Holy Spirit of God, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit of God. And the very first sermon preached by Peter. 3,000 people are saved, lives changed. From hell to heaven. Going to hell, now they're going to heaven. And God empowered that little body of believers. And from chapter 2 on through the rest of the book of Acts, it is the explosion of the New Testament church as they expand All through that region, preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel. Everywhere they went. It says they were scattered abroad, preaching the gospel. And souls were saved by the tens of thousands, by the hundreds of thousands. Churches established, lives changed. Towns turned upside down. Paul would go into a city and preach, and uh riots would break out. Because of the message of the gospel. What a book the book of Acts is. It's a dynamic account of the New Testament church's empowerment, its birth. and its expansion. Um become the chapter number four, where we're at now, and uh it's not long into the life of the New Testament church, it's not long after the Holy Spirit came upon them. And opposition starts picking up. And it starts getting pretty hot, if you would. Notice in verse number one of chapter 4. It says, and as they spake unto the people, they're preaching the gospel, they're preaching Jesus Tell them folks how to be saved. As they spake unto the people, the priest and captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. The idea behind that was, I mean, they're they're coming down heavy. They come upon them Being grieved, look at this, being grieved that they taught to people and preached through Jesus the resurrection of the dead And they laid hands on them and put them in a hold in prison in a hold until the next day, for it is now eventime. You know what this is? This is they are attempting to restrict their freedom of speech. They don't want them to preach this message. They don't want them to share this truth. It's an attempt to restrict their freedom of speech. It is an attempt And by the way, anytime you find someone or a group or an organization or a government trying to restrict freedom of speech, what they are trying to do is restrict freedom of thought. They don't want us to think a certain way. They don't want us to understand something. The Sadducees and these scribes and these religious lawyers They did not want these people sharing the truth. And opposition came in, and I'm telling you, it got hot And it wasn't long until disciples are being martyred. It wasn't long till disciples are being beaten and being executed for no other reason. No other reason And they were disciples of Jesus Christ. I want to say this. I've said it before. I want to repeat it now. You and I, in the United States of America, for the last number of years, have an experience an unusual period of time. We have for the most part avoid uh been free of persecution For the most part, in the life of our country, we have been free from being imprisoned or beaten or killed because of our faith. That is an aborition. That is not normal in the history of the church. That is an unusual, exceptional period of time. You study the history of the church, and it has been a history of persecution, of opposition, of martyrdom, all through the history of the church. And that the church was born in opposition. The per church was born in persecution. The church was born in martyrdom. And so opposition is intensifying. And Peter is responding, verse number 8: Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel. We this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man. They had healed a fellow just before this. He says, be it known unto you all, look at this, verse 10 And to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. And then he leads up to verse 12. And I'm telling you, verse 12 is one of the great salvation statements in all of Scripture. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. No other name No other name by which we must be saved. I'd like for us this morning, number one, consider the significance of the name of Jesus Christ. The significance of Jesus' name. I want to suggest to you the name of Jesus Christ, the most significant name in all of history. The name of Jesus Christ is the most widely recognized name in all of history. And the name Jesus Christ, his name is significant because of who and what it represents. Jesus Christ. It's significant. Jesus' name is significant because it's a divinely given name. God is the one that gave Jesus Christ the name Jesus. You would take your Bibles, now keep your place here, but turn with me, if you would, back to the Gospel of Matthew, first gospel in the New Testament. Matthew chapter number one. Everybody doing all right? Amen. I hope so. Matthew chapter number one. Of course, here Mary gets word that she's going to give birth, this virgin, this young girl, virgin girl, she's uh gonna be with child. She's what in the world? How can this be? And uh given some instruction there, and then uh Joseph finds out about it and he's worked up. Look there in uh verse number 18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise when his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. It was a virgin conception. And when Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privilege. Put yourself in Joseph's shoes, this poor guy, he's going to be married, loves Mary so much Oh, she's so beautiful. She loves God. She's a godly woman. He's engaged to her and he's so excited. Then he finds out Mary's having a baby. What? How can this be And he's a just man, he's a good guy. He doesn't want to make her look bad. He wasn't want to shame her. He doesn't get out there on social media. Oh yeah, guess what I found out about my He didn't do any of that. He loves her. He cares about her. And so he's he says, Listen, I can't do this. I can't go through with this. She's been unfaithful. Before we even married, she's unfaithful I'm going to put her just put her away. We're just going to break this thing up quietly, privately. And uh great integrity. Look at verse 20. But while we thought on these things, by the way, this is in my message But I I have great respect for Joseph. He didn't react right away. He stopped and thought it through a little bit. How many tim how anybody here ever react to something? And boy, you wish you'd have thought it through a little bit for you. Anybody Joseph did. He stopped and said, I need to think about this a little bit. While he thought on these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared unto him. In a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, look at this, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Wow! Now look what the angel says. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name what? Jesus. Jesus, what a name. It's a divinely given name, for he shall save his people from their sins. This is God's name for Jesus Christ. That name, Jesus, declares his deity. Just the name itself, Jesus, tells us That this man named Jesus, this little baby that Joseph is instructed to give it the name Jesus, that name tells us that that little baby is God. The name itself tells us that. Did you know that the name Jesus in the New Testament is the New Testament form of the Old Testament name Joshua? Exact same name. One is Old Testament, Hebrew, Jesus, New Testament, Greek, Hebrew, Jesus, Jesus, Joshua. Did you know that the name Joshua means this? Jehovah is salvation. Jehovah, the true and living God, is salvation. Other variations of that definition are this. I like this one. Jehovah, the Savior. Jehovah the Savior. Notice it doesn't mean Jehovah a Savior. Jehovah, the Savior. And when that angel told Joseph, you name this little baby Jesus, Joshua, Jehovah, the Savior. Now, a lot of people had given their children the name Jesus. That's wonderful. But when God says his name is Jesus, that becomes significant. Amen or not And God said, this little baby, this man, as it grows up, this man Jesus, name him Jesus because Jehovah. The Savior. You know what God is saying? This is Jehovah. This is God, the Savior of mankind. It's significant. In fact, if you would notice, come down, Lunus verse 23. The angel's talking to Joseph, he says, behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Why, which being interpreted is, what does it say? God with us. I'm telling you That man named Jesus by God Himself, God Almighty the Father, named God the Son, named him Jesus Christ, that is significant because that man is God in the flesh. We sang of Jesus this morning. You know what we were singing about? We were singing about the God, we were singing about the Son of God. Jesus Christ. What a significant name. That name, Jesus. Jehovah the Savior. Jehovah is salvation. His name is significant because it's a divinely given name. It declares his deity. That name proclaims his purpose. Again, look at verse 21. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why should we call him Jesus? For he shall save his people from their sins. Jesus came down for you and I to find forgiveness of sins. You and I can be saved from the wrath and judgment of God on our sins. Listen, being forgiven for sins might not mean much to you You say, oh, big deal, forgiveness, sin, what's the big deal? I tell you what the big deal is, you get under conviction of the Holy Spirit for a while about your sins. And then you find that God, through faith in Christ, forgives your sins, all of a sudden forgiveness becomes a big deal. Tell you I got up off my knees that Monday night, back in 1979, that next day I got up forgiven Forgive him. All the times I bless him, that holy name of God with my lips. I just used his name in such filthy ways. And God forgave me. The things I had done with my hands. God forgave me. The thoughts that have gone through my mind, ungodly, wicked thoughts. God forgave me. Forgiven. I'm telling you that name Jesus is significant. It declares his purpose in coming so that we can be forgiven, forgiven, forgiven for our sins against the Holy God. What a name. What a name like no other. That name is significant because it's a divinely given name. I put this down. That name is significant because it's a divisive name. Come back with me, if you would, to Acts chapter number four. Peter and the disciples are preaching the name of Jesus. There's no other salvation other than through Jesus Christ, the name of Jesus Christ. The religious leaders get worked up, the authorities get worked up, and they begin reacting to Peter and their preaching. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. Of Acts chapter 4. And they called them, this is the leadership, is calling in Peter and the disciples. They called them and commanded them not to speak at all or teach in the what? Name of Jesus Christ. The name of Jesus Christ. Don't you guys, no more preaching in the name of Jesus. And they didn't ask them They didn't suggest they stop preaching in the name of Jesus. They didn't ask them to stop preaching in the name of Jesus. They didn't request that they stop preaching in the name of Jesus They commanded them, no more You're not preaching in this name anymore. I love the way the disciples responded. But Peter and John verse 19 answered and said unto them, Thank God for these men. Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, you judge ye. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. You know what they're saying? They're saying we're going to obey God, not you. You can command us all you want. You can try and shut us down all you want. We have a name to declare, and that name is the name of Jesus, and it's the only way that people will be saved, and we ain't shutting up. Man, I love it. Hey, we could use a little bit of that in this day and age. Amen. Little people say, no, we're doing what God says. We're not listening. If the government instructs us to do something contrary to what God instructs us to do, we're doing what God says. That name Jesus is a divisive name. I put in the margin of my Bible there beside verse 18, Satan's Great Commission. You know what the Lord's great commission is? Go into all the world, preach the gospel, preach the name of Jesus. Satan's great commission is, don't you preach that name. And uh a divisive name. Satan hates the name of Jesus. We set up a booth out at the County fair we've done for many years now, and uh we have different little things we put up there to kind of catch attention, engage people with the gospel. And we have a banner up. I don't know if any of you ever seen it, but we put this banner up, and it's the name of Jesus, but it's reversed. Anybody ever see that? Anybody know what I mean? It's reverse. And if you just look at it, it just looks like uh uh just looks like a garbled garbled blocks and stuff But the letters are white and the background is red. And so you have to kind of look at it a little bit. Then once you see it, then you see the name Jesus. Somebody tell me you know what I'm talking about, please help me. Humor me, alright Even if you don't know what I'm talking about, raise your hand and say, you know what? There we go. I feel a little better. And people come by and look at that thing. And I mess with them. I say, all right, you gotta cross your eyes a little bit and turn your head sideways and hang your tongue out, uh and people say, Oh they're trying to see that name And then I give him this clue. I say, what you're looking at there, it's a name that Satan hates. It's a name that Satan hates. You know, when I give that clue, just about everybody right away says, Jesus. The name Jesus. Satan hates the name of Jesus Christ. He instructed the New Testament church early on. Don't you preach in that name. No more declaring that name. No more saying that name. It's a divisive name. The world's uncomfortable with the name of Jesus. Did you ever notice that? You can talk to people. I get out and talk to people all the time. And uh try to share the gospel, engage knocking on doors or whatever. And you know it's funny, people will talk about church, they'll talk about religion They'll talk about the preacher, but you start talking about Jesus, brother, they start squirming. Huh? World's uncomfortable with that name. Oh, you start talking about Jesus in a in a respectful, honorable way, and uh they're not com they're not comfortable. The old flesh is uneasy with the name of Jesus Oh, you can use Jesus' name as a cuss word. The world's fine with that. Oh, you can get up and blaspheme the name of Jesus. You can use the name of Jesus to call damnation down on people. But brother, you speak about Jesus in an honorable, loving, respectful way, and this whole world starts squirming You can use Jesus as a cuss word. You can use the name of Jesus, but to blaspheme, no problem with that. World's fine with that. You talk about the name of Jesus, the only Savior of the world, the Son of God in an honorable, respectful, loving way, and brother, people are uncomfortable. For a while there, and and you know I uh I'm grateful for a government and different uh state governments and whatnot. Often they will open a session in prayer and they'll invite a Local preacher or somebody, religious person, come in and pray. And for what it's worth, I'm grateful for that. As far as it goes, I'm grateful for that. But if you'll remember, there a number of years ago there was a big hubbub, and they were trying to tell people, listen, you can pray, but don't you mention the name Jesus in your prayer. Anybody remember that going through the news And there was preachers come in there and they say, don't not in the name. You can't say in Jesus' name. That's offensive. That's exclusionary. You're excluding Pete other religions and you can't pray in the name of Jesus, and boy, what a hubbub You could mention Muhammad, you can mention all these others, but don't you mention names? I'm glad there was a few preachers got up and prayed in Jesus' name. You know what, those same governments, those same leaders, those same representatives or whatever they were, they'd get up and they'd use Jesus' name in a blasphemous way and not think two things about it You could get up, stand there, and use Jesus' name as a cuss word, and nobody would say a peep. But you pray in Jesus' name, and suddenly this world's opposed to it. I'm here to tell you the name Jesus is a divisive name. Did you know in our public schools you can go in and use Jesus' name as a cuss word, but you teacher can't stand up and talk about Jesus as the Son of God? How about that? You know why? Because Jesus is a divisive name. It's a divisive name. Look over at chapter 5 in Acts with me, if you would. And uh look go all the way to the end of verse number 41. Just a chapter over, the church is being persecuted intensely, it is kicking in, and it's getting hot. And in verse 40 it says, And to them they agreed, and when they had called the apostles and beaten them, look at this. They commanded them they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let him go. Now look how the disciples, look how the look how the uh uh uh the apostles responded to that And they departed from the presence of the council. Now they're all beat up, bloody. I mean, they beat them. Scarred up, blood-stained clothes. And they departed from the presence of the council. Look at this, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. On the one side, that name is hated. The devil hates that name. The world hates that name. You preach in that name anymore, we're going to beat you, we'll kill you. Disciples walk out of there all bloodied and beaten, black and blue, swollen. They walk out of there and they say Praise God for the we rejoice in the fact that we're counted worthy to suffer name, suffer shame for that name of Jesus Christ. One side he's hated, the other side he's loved. One side he's blasphemed, the other side he's worshiped and adored. One side they'll kill you if you preach in that name. The other side, go ahead and kill us. We're going to preach that name Divisive name of Jesus. There's no middle ground with Jesus Christ. There's no riding the fence with Jesus Christ. He's hated or he's loved. He's honored and worshipped or he's blasphemed. The divisive name of Jesus. It's a significant name, the name of Jesus significant, because it's a divinely given name. God gave that name to him It's a divisive name. People have died by the hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, for that name. Because of the hatred of the devil in the world for Jesus Christ. And the love and the worship and the honor on the part of God's people for that name. It's a collision. It's a significant name because it's a dynamic name. Divinely given, God gave the name, it's divisive, the world fights over it. But it's a dynamic name. Jesus' name that charms our fears, that bids our sorrow cease Tis music to the sinner's ears, tis life and health and peace. What a name. The name of Jesus. For two thousand years, the name of Jesus Christ has transformed lives. For 2,000 years, homes that were broken and bitter and hate-filled have been transformed. into a loving, godly, Holy Ghost anointed dwelling because of the name of Jesus 2,000 years, lives have been changed. For 2,000 years, homes have been transformed. For 2,000 years, nations have been affected by that name of Jesus Christ. What a dynamic name. Some of the most some of the most beautiful hymns that we sing, some of the most sacred Most beautiful God honoring hymns in our hymn book are all sung for the name of Jesus Christ Some of the greatest charity causes in the world, medical and help uh charities in the world, have been done in the name of Jesus Christ. There's no other name That has impacted this world as the name of Jesus Christ. It is a dynamic name. Harlots made holy. In the name of Jesus Christ. Drunkards become sober because of the name of Jesus Christ. Prostitutes become pure. Because of the name of Jesus Christ. Hate-filled, bitter hearts are transformed into happy, holy hearts because of the name of Jesus Christ. What a dynamic name! The power in the name of Jesus Christ. Foul mouth, filthy mouth. Have become gracious and clean and pure because of the name of Jesus Christ. Violent wife beaters, violent fighters and strikers, murderers. have been transformed the gracious, kind, sweet people in the name of Jesus Christ. There's no other name like it. Never has been, never will be. The dynamic of Jesus' name, adulterers, to become faithful. Dirty minds have been made clean because of the name of Jesus Christ. Filthy old wicked sinners have become saints. In the eyes of God, because of the name of Jesus Christ. What a name. The significance of Jesus' name. It's significant because God gave him that name It's significant because it's divisive. This whole world hates it. What's fighting and fussing over the name of Jesus? How many lives have been transformed by the name of Jesus Christ? Would you keep your place here in Acts? But would you come with me to Philippians chapter number two? Philippians chapter number two. And I want to begin reading in verse number five. What a great passage this is. The significance of the name of Jesus. No other name like it. God, divinely given name, divisive Dynamic. Look at Philippians chapter 2. If you're there, look down at verse number 5 with me if you would. Paul is writing to this church in Philippi that God had used him to establish. He says in verse 5, he says, Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Who, being in the form of a God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. By the way, you can't rob something that's yours. He is God. He claimed to be God. He wasn't robbing a title. It's his. But made himself, verse 7, of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Thank God Jesus died on that cross for our sins. And God he humbled himself, was obedient to God. Look at verse 9. Look at this. Wherefore God hath highly exalted him, look at this, and given him a what? Name which is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. I'm telling you, there's a day coming when the old devil himself is going to bow before Jesus Almighty and acknowledge that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God. The devil himself There's coming a day in this whole world, every lost man, woman, and child that hated that name, that despised that name, that blaspheme that name, they're going to bow the knee before Jesus Christ, and they're going to confess. Jesus is Lord to glory of God the Father. What a name! The significance of the name of Jesus Christ is divinely given. God gave him that name. It's divisive. Man, the world hates it. The devil hates it. And it's dynamic. It changes lives. It changes lives. My second thought is this. Number two, I want us to consider the singularity. Of the name of Jesus Christ. See, what do you mean by that? What I mean by that is this: there's no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's only one name that salvation is found in. That's Jesus Christ. Not in my parents' name. Say, well, my uh well I'm a leatherman, you know, my dad was a godly Christian, highly respected man of integrity. Uh uh I'm I I'm gonna be saved, God will accept me based on my name. God will never accept you based on your name. Your name's not good enough. My name's not good enough. It's not your parents' name that's going to make you acceptable to God. You can be born in the greatest Christian family that ever lived You still need Jesus to save you. It's not in your parents' name. Hey, it's not in your church's name. You know for sure, if you die now, you go to heaven. Oh yeah, I'm a Baptist. Listen, being a Baptist never saved anybody. There's a saying, and I understand what they're saying, to say, I'm born uh I was born a Baptist, I'm baptized- No, it goes like this. I was Baptist born and Baptist bred, and when I die, I'll be Baptist dead Now I'm a Baptist by conviction, but I tell you what, nobody's ever born a Baptist. The only thing you're ever born is a sinner. And the Baptist Church never saved a sinner. And the Baptist Church never changed the nature of a person. Only the name of Jesus Christ can save a man or woman from sin in hell. Only Jesus Christ can change the nature of an old wicked sinner. Not a church can't do that, your parents can't do that, your church can't do that, your preacher can't do that. Somebody said, they said, preacher, I want you to come visit some of my friends and save them the way you saved me. I punched them in the nose. No, I didn't I said, you know better than that. I didn't save you, and I can't save them. Jesus saved you. Yeah, I know, I know what I that's what I meant. And I know what he meant. He just mixed his words up The fact of the matter is, there's not a preacher in the world who can save your soul or anybody. Can't even save their own soul. Only Jesus. The singularity of that name, only the name of Jesus. As the authority and power to forgive sins and save a soul. By the way, I just need to say this. Pope can't forgive your sins either. And Papa down the uh the the priest downtown can't save your sins. And can't forgive your sins Listen to me. You don't need to go to some man, confess your sins. You can go directly to God through the name of Jesus Christ. And find forgiveness of sins. The singularity of that name. Not your parents' name, not your preacher's name, not your church's name. Hey, not your nation's name. I had a lady back in Philly, uh, when I was living back there before I went off to college. I was out visiting on Thursday night, knocking on the doors, the lady came. I asked her and I didn't know, I was just a new Christian, I didn't know how to say it or approach it, I just wanted to be a witness and so I knocked on the door. And um I was by myself, knocked on the door, she came, I said, gave her an invitation to the church. I said, Are you a Christian? And she said, Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. I said, Wonderful. I said, when did you become a Christian? And she took offense. She says, I was born in America. Of course I'm a Christian. Listen to me, you can be born in America and die and go to hell. Being born in a nation, a certain country, having a certain nationality, that isn't what forgives sin and saves sin. It's the name of Jesus Christ and Jesus only. Say, well, I had this experience. I saw this vision. Nobody ever gets saved seeing a vision or having experience I had a lady down in Tennessee. We asked her one time, Randy Miller and I were knocking on doors talking about it. I asked her, do you know for sure if you died now you'd go to heaven? She goes, Oh yeah, I know I'd go to heaven We say, well, how do you know? What gives you that assurance? And I'm not trying to make fun. I'm just telling you what she said. She says it started right here. We step back What started there? She goes, it started right here. And the spirit began to move and it went down my neck and down my back and I got it. We said, What'd you get? I got it. I got it And uh I don't know what she got. And um I'm telling you, salvation is not some feeling going down your spine. Salvation is in the person of Jesus Christ. No other name, under heaven, given among men, whereby we once be saved. Jesus Christ. Singular. You must, that's uh uh there's no other name under heaven. The world boasts about its tolerance of all religions. You ever see a little bumper sticker coexist? As all the religions, listen, I'm all for coexisting. You know, I don't want somebody, I don't want some other religion killing me We're not out to kill people. We ought to uh common sense tells me we ought to coexist, right? We can get along. I don't have to hate somebody because they believe wrong They're duped in a false religion. I don't hate them. I don't want to kill them. We can coexist. By the way, we ought to be nice to people who don't know the truth. Are you with me? Say, well, these Jehovah's Witnesses come by. Listen, I wouldn't invite them in the house and you decide how much you want to engage them, but do not be unkind to them. So we ought to be nice and get along. The world talks about tolerance, freedom of religion. Hey, I'm all for freedom of religion, right? We had an issue with the schools here 20 years ago. Some of the kids were giving out gospel tracts. And uh the teachers were collecting them up, say you can't give out gospel tracts. I mean they were doing it recess, lunchtime They weren't interrupting class, they were just sharing them with their friends. And the teachers collected them up, said that's illegal, separation of church and state. And the parents called me and told me what happened. I called the principal. I said, That's not right And uh I came in and sat down with her. I said, uh, uh, you know, I said, uh, these kids aren't up in class. They have freedom, they can share their faith. And I ended up sitting down with the school superintendent. I called CLA, Christian Law Association. I got all the laws and everything, and I had all the documentation I sat down with the superintendent and uh we talked a little bit and I showed him what the law is. Hey kids don't check your faith out at the school door Exercise your faith. And so finally he agreed that they were wrong, legally they were wrong, that the kids can share their faith in school. But then he made this statement to me. He says, if we let you, Baptists, give out your literature. Then we have to let the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Mormons give out their literature also. I said, welcome to America. It's called freedom of religion. Freedom of religion. And I thank God for freedom of religion. And I think we ought to coexist. But when it comes to salvation, there is only one way to be saved, and that is through the name of Jesus Christ. When it comes to salvation, God is exclusive. When it comes to salvation from sin in hell, there is one way and one way only. And that is through the name of Jesus Christ. Now we ought to be kind, we ought to be tolerant, we ought to be confident enough to engage false religion. But we do not, we do not allow for any other way to be saved than through the Lord Jesus Christ. The singularity of that name. The singularity of that name. God says it's no other way but his way. No other salvation but the salvation in Jesus Christ. Exodus chapter 20, verse 3. Thou shalt have no other gods before me, one God. Isaiah chapter 43 verse 11. I am the Lord. Beside me there is no Savior. Isaiah 44, 6, beside me there is no God. Isaiah 44, 8. Is there a God beside me? Yea, there is no God. besides me. Isaiah forty-five, five, I am the Lord. There is none else. There is no God beside me. Isaiah 45, 6, I am the Lord. There is none else Isaiah 45, 21, there is no God beside me, a just and a Savior. There is none beside me. Isaiah 13 verse 4, or Hosea chapter 13, verse 4. There is no Savior beside me. John chapter 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Acts 4, verse 12, there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's all kinds of religions out there, and we ought to be kind and respectful. We ought to be decent. But I'm telling you, there's only one way to be saved, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. And God have mercy on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. If we ever start preaching any other way of salvation than salvation through Jesus Christ and Him alone. The singularity of that name, the significance of that name. God is intolerant when it comes to salvation only through the name and person of Jesus Christ. Nowhere in the Bible does it say that Jesus is one way to God. The Bible emphatically declares Jesus is the only way to God. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. We must be clear on that, and we must be unmoving on that truth right there. The singularity of the name of Jesus, the significance, and I'll end with this and I'll let you go, the success of Jesus' name. The success of Jesus' name. If you're looking for eternal life, there's no other place to find it than in Jesus Christ. If you're looking for salvation from sin, you're not going to find it anywhere else but in the name of Jesus Christ. If you're looking for assurance of your salvation, an assurance that God has forgiven you, you don't look any farther. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Say, preacher, you know for sure if you die now, you go to heaven. I am absolutely confident That God forbid if I'd walk across this road here, some Mac truck hits me, kills me, I am absolutely confident that moment my heart stopped beating, that moment my soul left my body, I would be in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, well, you think you're something. Well, you really think you're a pretty holy righteous guy, don't you? No, I know me better than you do. I'm a sorry, wretched sinner. I don't go to heaven because I'm righteous in myself. I go to heaven because of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Way back yonder, I knelt and I trusted him, accepted him, my Savior, Jesus Christ, and he forgave me and he saved me and he keeps me saved. My salvation is in Jesus and Jesus alone. And when Jesus says when Jesus says a person is saved He doesn't fail. Jesus never fails. I tell folks when I'm witnessing to them, I invite them to go through the plan of salvation center. Jesus died, judgment, Jesus paid it for us, rose again. I'll say something to the effect that uh, you know, are you willing to call on the Lord now, trust him and him alone, forgive you and save you from your sin? And I'll always say this: Jesus is a Savior. And Jesus never fails. And if he's saving me, I can be confident I'm saved. Because he never, ever, ever fails. The success of Jesus' name Listen, you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, salvation of your soul. You can put your mind at ease. Jesus will be successful in saving your soul. He never fails. He never fails. Anyone who comes to God for salvation by simple and sincere faith in Jesus Christ is assured of their salvation. For God so loved the world, and he gave his only begotten son. Listen, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life. That's assurance These things have I written unto you, John says in chapter 5, 1 John, these things have I written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Preacher, how can I know I'm saved? You can know you're saved because Jesus never fails. Put your faith in him, your trust in him, he's your savior, he's the one saving you. You mark it down, you're saved. The success of the name of Jesus Christ. For whosoever, Romans 10:13, shall call upon the name. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, listen, shall be saved. Now don't you come around and call God a liar to me. God says you call on him, and he says you shall be, you call on the name of Jesus Christ. He says you shall be saved. Don't you run around calling God a liar. God saves, God saves. The success of the name of Jesus Christ. I was Went my first year down to Tennessee Temple down Chattanooga back in 1981. I went down. 82 was the spring semester. I came home the summer of 82. My dad had a uh half a house there in the town Telford, Pennsylvania. And I stayed with him that summer, came back and worked a couple jobs, did some painting and different things One sunny, one sunny day, I guess it was probably a Saturday, I'd I had uh my car out back and I was washing the car. It's just it was just a little alleyway there behind the house. And I was just out there washing the car, and this fella is walking up the alleyway, an older fella, and he got up to where I was unwashing. I saw him, I said, hey So I reached in the car, I got a little gospel track. I said, Can I leave a gospel track with you? It tells you how you can know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. And the guy was very kind, very respectful. He said thank you. We got talking a little bit. I asked him if he was went to church anywhere or anything. He was a Jewish fellow. He goes to the synagogue. There, I think it was down in Landsdale. And he said, Oh, I go every Sabbath. And uh talk these things. I said, Well, I said, can I show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven? He said, This no, it's not, you don't need to do that. He goes, this is he says, this let me tell you, young man, how it is. He says going to heaven is kind of like going to Philadelphia. I thought, yuck He said you can go to Philadelphia any number of roads you can go down. He named a bunch of roads. You can go down 309, the Schoolfield Expressway, you can go down And he named all these different highways going down into Philadelphia. And he says there's a lot of different ways you can get to heaven. You can go the Jewish way, you can go the Baptist road. Catholic and he named all these different things. You can go the Muslim road and uh all these different ways. And he was telling me there's a lot of different ways you can get to heaven. I was sitting there, I listened to him, I said, well, I said, that sounds good. I said, the problem is heaven isn't in Philly There's only one road to heaven. A lot of roads to Philly, sure, no doubt about it. But thank God, Philly ain't heaven. It's more like another place. But uh I'm telling you, there ain't a lot of different roads to heaven. It's one way to heaven. That's through the name of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And if you're here and you're listening to me or you're here this morning and you don't have that matter settled, trusting Jesus and Jesus alone as your Savior, personal Savior, you need to get that settled. Don't play with that. Don't play with that. And those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, and you understand what I've been preaching about the last few minutes. And let's take that name into all the world. Let's preach, let's go everywhere, preaching and teaching in the name of Jesus Christ. That's our heritage as a Baptist church, preaching the gospel. And let's continue that. Amen? If you're here this morning, you're not right with God, I'd say get right with God today. Don't horse around, get right with God. You're here, you've saved, you've not been baptized. Why don't you get baptized? Get that settled. It's important. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Help us, Lord, to honor that name with our lives. Help us to proclaim that name with our lips. And Lord, use us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.