Chapter 2. Two apples were hanging up in a tree and they were looking down on mankind. And uh they got talking to each other. And uh the one apple said to the s other apple, he said, Look at all those people, they're fighting, robbing, rioting, stabbing, killing, shooting each other. No one gets along with his fellow man. Uh the the white folk hate the black folk. The black folk hate the white folk. The Chinese people don't like the the uh the Other people and everybody's riding and going on. And he says, one of these days the apples are the only going to be the only ones left and we will rule the world The other apple said, which apples? The app the green ones or the red ones? And I said that for a reason because we're in James here now and he's talking about Partiality, one people over others, and um this subject here. And so look with me if you would at James chapter two. I'm sorry, James chapter two, I'm gonna begin I'm going to read down through verse 9. This is one big segment. We're not obviously not going to look at all these verses, but I do want to read it together because this is one subject together here, a theme through these verses. Notice what it says in verse number one The Bible says, My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment. And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and saith to him, Sit thou here in a good place. And say to the poor, stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool. Are ye not then partial in yourselves? And are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren. Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which ye are called? If ye fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well. But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin. And are convinced of the law as transgressors. I've just entitled the message tonight. It's really introductory to this passage here is No Respect. And I get that from verse number one, where he says, Have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ with respect of persons. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak our hearts And help us in this matter. Father, we bow before you tonight. Lord, my heart is full. It's been a busy day. It's been a great day. You've blessed us, Lord, wonderfully, and we rejoice in that And we ask, Lord, that you would help us to grow. Help us to grow in our maturity, our understanding, our spiritual growth, Lord. Help us to develop, that we be more like Christ, that as a church We would be a Christ-like church. And I pray as individuals, we would be Christ-like Christians. And so please fill me with your Spirit. I yield myself anew, present my body anew. And ask with all my heart that you would speak to my heart and through me to all of our hearts. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Growing in the Christian life. Now I hope I think most of us no doubt understand this. But growing in the Christian life and developing into a mature spiritual Christian is not really very easy. It uh it calls for time. Nobody becomes an instantly uh mature Christian just like that There's no shortcuts in Christian growth. There's no magic pills or pixie dust you throw over someone and suddenly they're a strong, mature Christian. It takes time. Usually Christian development requires testing. I have to be tested. That's what James chapter 1 was about Where he says, uh count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, mature, grown, a grown-up Christian. And so he says trials and difficulties are often necessary to develop us and we grow in our faith and become strong and mature. But now we're at a point in the book, and actually the whole book of James points this out that to grow as a Christian, to mature as a Christian, not only takes time, not only takes testing But I have to practice the truth of Scripture. I cannot grow by just knowing things. I have to do things. Hebrews talks about exercising yourselves unto godliness In other words, there's a danger in thinking that because I know the Bible, therefore I must be a mature Christian. I know all these verses, I know these doctrines, I have all these facts in my head I must be a mature strong Christian. That's not necessarily the case. I will not be a mature strong Christian until I start doing what the Bible says. And James, the book of James addresses The doing of Christianity as opposed to just the doctrine of Christianity. And we pointed out this before. I like the book of James because he's practical I put it this way. James presents the spiritual nitty-gritty of Christianity. What do we mean by nitty-gritty? You know what I'm talking about? The nitty-gritty is the what? How would you define that? Just day by day to day type of Christianity. Uh you ever hear this phrase? Where the rubber hits the road Right? I mean it's just getting your hands down in it, and I'm a it's hands-on Christianity. It's getting down there where the living the day-by-day Christian life exercising my faith in God on the job in the home when things are when the sun's shining, when the sun's not shining, when bills are paid, when the bills are not paid, when things are going good, when I feel good, when I feel bad. It's just nitty gritty Christianity. Now we're looking at James. I like that about James. Now we're at chapter 2 and we're in a bit of a transition here And James, I believe, under the inspiration of God, is transitioning to a focus on our interaction with other people. You're going to notice that. Now he touched on a little bit in chapter one, but you're going to notice in this chapter and the in the following chapters, he's addressing how Christians interact with other Christians. Are you listening? How Christians interact with other Christians, how we respond when we're treated certain ways, and how we treat people Warren Wearsby made this statement. I like this statement. He said, the way I behave towards people indicates what I really believe about God. That's a good statement. Let me say it again. The way I behave towards people is an indicator as to what I believe about God. And we see that brought out through various passages of scripture. In fact, if you would take your Bible, turn with me to 1 John. Go towards the back of your Bible a little ways. 1 John. In fact, just a couple pages. And I want you to notice with me chapter 4. And verse number twenty. Did you ever hear anybody say this? Uh we come back, we just got back from the conference on uh w Christian workers and that type of thing. Do you ever hear this statement? And I've referenced it before, but you ever hear this? I love the ministry, it's people I can't stand. You hear people say that? Can I tell you something? And I'm sure I said that jokingly in the past, but I tell you that since I've been in the Ministry of Exterior Pension, I've gotten to the point I don't like that statement I don't like that at all. Because the ministry is people. If I don't love people, then I don't love the ministry, because you can't have ministry without people. That's what the ministry is. And my attitude towards people and my interaction and my behavior with others is a key indicator as to my relationship with God. Now let me give you some scripture to support that. And I think the book of James is going to bring this out. But look with me if we would at 1 James chapter 4. And I want to begin reading. Verse 19 gets us started. Look at verse 19. We love him, why? Because he first loved us. Now look at this. If a man say, boy, that's going to come out in the book of James, people saying stuff That isn't isn't living. They're talking, but they ain't walking. If a man say, I love God And hateth his brother, he's what? A liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, How can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment we have for him: that he who loveth God love his brother also. I don't know how you can say I love the ministry but I don't love people. That's what uh this verse is saying. You can't say I love the ministry, I love God, and not love people. So James is focusing now, if we come back to James, he's focusing now on our interaction with others. He says if you're going to be a practical Christian, if you're going to be Christian not just in your head, but in your life. Your interaction with other people is going to be affected with us. In fact, he's beginning here, and he does throughout scripture, he's teaching us how to treat people. How to treat other people. Now I've got three thoughts from verse number one. I want to give them to you as quickly as I can. Number one, I want to notice the crowd that's addressed in this passage. The crowd that's addressed. Look at verse number one of chapter two. He says, My brethren. Now we've brought this out four times already. This is, I should say, this is the fourth time he uses that term, my brethren. And as we pointed out before, this is addressing Christians, saved people. He's not talking to the lost He's reminding these Jewish believers who, verse 1 of chapter 1, we're told are scattered throughout Judea. He's reminding these Jewish believers who have been severely persecuted That they are Christians. I think he's in an indirect way reminding them: my brethren, we're children of God, we're Christians. And it's important, what's important for them, it's important for you and I to understand that Christians live by different values than the world does. And when it comes to interacting with people, you and I, as a child of God, we treat people differently than the world treats people. He's saying, my brethren, we're Christians. We live by different values. We have different principles we live by. No, here, I thought this is interesting I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God commands the lost to treat Christians a certain way. I don't find that anywhere. In fact, I don't find anywhere where I'm commanded to be treated a certain way. None of the focus in scripture on interpersonal uh uh um interaction is focused on how I'm treated. It is always on how I treat and how I interact with others. Christians are given clear commands, clear instructions. On what our actions to other people are supposed to be. How many people here, you say, you know it? Say amen. How many folks say you're saved? You are really, really glad God saved you. Amen? I am Uh, how many folks here, you're so thankful that you're saved that you want to live your life in such a way that God is pleased with your life. Amen. Amen. I do. I fall short of it, of course, we do, but I want to And if I want to please God with my life, then I'm going to pay attention to what God instructs me to do. God says, this is what I want to do. This is my instructions. And he gives us instructions all through Scripture on how I, as a child of God, am to treat and interact others. Let's look at just a few. If you would turn with me to Matthew chapter number five. This is part of the Sermon on the Mount. We're studying the Beatitudes on Wednesday nights, and um uh this is uh the greatest sermon ever preached, without a doubt And in verse number 43 of Matthew chapter 5, the early part of this sermon is three chapters long. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 43, Jesus makes this statement to his disciples. A huge crowd of disciples around him. He makes this statement. Ye have heard that it hath been said, look at this, thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. Now, what does he mean by enemy here? I got curious. I thought, I wonder what he means by enemy. I know what an enemy is, so I looked it up. And it has this idea: one who is hostile toward you. One who is hateful towards you. One who opposes you. He goes, all right, you've heard it said, love your neighbors. You know, they're getting along, they're nice to you. You know, you love them But if somebody's hostile to you, somebody's hateful to you, somebody opposes you, you hate them Look what he says in the next verse. But I say unto you, you know what he's saying right there? We're living by a different standard. We're living by different values. But I say unto you, look at this. Love your enemies. Love those who are hostile to you. Love those who oppose you. Love those who are hateful to you. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. You know that's called brethren. Same term in James. You may be the children of your father. Y'all are brethren. All y'all are brethren. For your father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to show he maketh his son to shine on the evil and on the good. And sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if ye love them that love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans, the same says the unsaved, do that. But we live by a different standard. And if you salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so. You're no different than the unsaved. We live by we're better than that. We live by higher values than that. But be ye therefore perfect or mature and complete, even as your Father which is in heaven. You know what he's saying here? He's saying, Be like my heavenly Father. Treat people the way God treats people. Turn with me if you would to Ephesians chapter 4. This is a great passage. We teach it to the kids and we forget sometimes this is to us as grown-ups. Ephesians chapter 4, and I want to begin reading in verse 29. Ephesians 4, 29. He's going down through here, kind of a list in here of how Christians behave, some things they do and they don't do. He says, let not him that stole steal no more. And he talks about different things like that. But then he says in verse number 29, Ephesians 4, let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. You know, Christians ought to have pure mouths. Our words should be pure, amen. And I'm not just talking about filthy, nasty cuss words, but I'm talking about words that are just yucky. You know what I'm saying? Just words that aren't sharp. Words that don't aren't befitting a child of God. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good, to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace to the hearers. Let me ask you something. How many folks here ever experience God's grace? Anybody here? You're saved? You have. Let me ask you this question. Has God's grace, how has God's grace in your life helped others around you? Has God's grace in your life ever gotten through and come out of you and affected others around you? That's what he's saying. Ministers grace to the ears. You receive grace And the way you talk and the way you interact and your treatment of others, the grace of God is being ministered to others. And look what he says. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. That implication in my mind is that if I use corrupt communication and don't use that which is good to the use of edifying, and may minister grace ears, I'm grieving the Holy Spirit of God. Whereby you are sealed into your day of redemption. Look at verse 31. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be ye what? Kind one to another. Christians should be nice. Amen You ought to be nice. Be kind one to another. Tender-hearted. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Those kids ought to be kind one to another. Yeah, those parents ought to be kind one to another. Talk to me. And so he's addressing Christians. In this passage. And the subject of the passage in James is our interaction with others. And God is teaching us throughout Scripture and in this passage that Christians Christians don't treat each other the way the world treats each other. Christians don't act to each other the way the world acts one to another. We live by higher standards. We live by purer motives. We live by godlier values than the world. My brethren. My brethren. So first thing I notice, and we come back to James, is the crowd being addressed. He's not talking to the world. He's not saying, hey you all out in the world unsaved, you all need to be nice to each other. You all need to not show partiality to each other. No, no, no, he's talking you and I. He's saying, you guys need to be careful. Number two, the second thought here is the command given. The crowd addressed. The brethren, we've already talked about that. Number two, the command given. Now notice what he says here. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. Let me just for sake of the point here, take out the middle section that's um uh defining what he says here. Have not the faith of our Lord Jesus with respect of persons. That is a command. He's not making a suggestion. He is commanding us He is instructing us. Have not the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ with respect to persons. Notice what the basis of this command is. And I hope I can communicate this the way I understand it. He says, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons I think what he's saying here, the basis of this command, of my treatment of others, is my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who's the Lord of glory. By the way, that little phrase Lord of glory is a reference to Jesus' deity. It's not really the subject of the passage, but he injects it here. The Lord of glory, he's God. But notice the basis. Our behavior as Christians is based upon our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Why do we run buses? Why do we run sunny school buses and spend a lot of money trying to keep those buses running? And work hard and beg and and uh hobble around and do everything we can try and get these kids on the bus. You know why? Because of our faith in the Lord Jesus. Why do we go out soul winning? Why do we push so hard? When Thursday, Wednesday, Sunday nights, five o'clock. We got people, I'm excited, we've got people now just going out on their own throughout the week winning souls. That stirs my heart. Why do we do that? Because of our faith in the Lord Jesus. Why do we give the missions? Why do we give thousands, thousands? Why are we always pounding? You know, trust God, trust God, ask God what to give. And you trust God, you give what He tells you to do Why do we do that? Because of our faith in Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. Why are we faithful to church? Why do I get up here and preach and Sunday school teachers and others teach? You don't need to be faithful to church. You need to be faithful to church. Why do we say that? Because of our faith in Jesus? Why do we give our tithes to the Lord? Why do we give 10% of our income? Many give more than that. Why do we do that? Because of our faith in Jesus. I believe I want to say it was Hudson Taylor, and I couldn't document this, but I want to say it's Hudson Taylor made this statement. Somebody said something to the effect that you are going to China because you love the Chinese people so much. And he said, no, I'm not going to China because I love Chinese people. He said, I'm going to China because I love the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe what Jesus Christ said about Chinese people. I believe what Jesus Christ said about the Great Commission. I believe that's true, and it's my love and faith in Jesus Christ that stirs me to go. Now once he got there he fell in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. Why do we run these buses? Oh, because we love those little bus kids so much. Can I be honest with you? There's some of 'em I have a hard time loving. You know why we do that? Because we love the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the basis of how you know how many folks ever found this to be true? There are some people that are not nice. Anybody ever find? Don't look at your spouse right now. There's some people that are just difficult to love. But you know what? We ought to love them and treat them properly, not because they're lovable or because we even Because they deserve it or anything, we ought to treat them properly because our faith in Jesus Christ. Follow what I'm saying? Because I love the Lord Paul said in Galatians 2. 20, and I find myself coming back to this verse more and more all the time. For I am crucified, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the Faith of the Son of God. He says, You know why I'm living the way I'm living? You know why I'm being stoned, left for dead? You know why I'm being beaten and thrown in jail and cussed out and treated the way I preached. You know why I'm going and going? Not because I'm something great or these people are something great. I'm doing it. Because of the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ. My faith is in him, and this is his will. And that's why I'm doing it. I believe Jesus is a classic example for my treatment of others. And I was really tempted here just to do a study through the Gospels. And look how Jesus treated people that the crowd, the world hated. I thought about the woman at the well. I thought about these poor people, beggars and blind, and who were ejected by society and hated. And yet Jesus treated them with such respect, and he treated them without partiality. And the basis for my treatment of others is to be my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Why are you being kind to that person? They're so hateful. Because of Jesus. He was kind to me. He was patient with me. He was forgiving to me. And I don't want to be show respect of persons because of my faith in Jesus Christ. And so, number one, the crowd addresses the believers. We live by a different standard than the world does. We live by higher values than the world does. Not that we're better than them, but God holds us to a higher standard than He does the world. Number two, the command is given to not treat others with respect of persons because of our faith in Christ. And the last of all, real quickly, our consideration for others My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. Now he is not saying here we're not to we're he's not telling us to be disrespectful to people. You understand that. That's not what he's saying. Don't have respect to person, don't show respect to people. No, no, no, that's not what he's saying In fact, he's saying the exact opposite of that. He's saying, be respectful to everybody. Everybody. Um treat every person with respect, regardless Of what they look like, what their standing is, or even how they treated you. Do not have respect of persons. That phrase respect of persons means literally partiality. In fact, if you come down to uh uh verse number, uh he uses that term. Where is it at? Look down there. My brethren, have not the richness um he uses the word. Oh, verse 4. Are ye not then partial in your judgments? Now what does he mean by that? The word partiality in this phrase respect of persons means this. It has the idea of being prejudice. We hear that word a lot. How many people ever heard the word prejudice? Good heavens. We hear it, I think it's misapplied a lot of times. But the word prejudice itself simply means this, to pre-judge someone To come to a conclusion about that person before I know anything about him. And that's having respect of person. He says somebody walks in your church And you look at them and they're not in fancy clothes, and they're very obviously very poor, and they're not well taken care of, and you prejudge them You make a decision on how they are going to be treated before I even know anything about it. Respect of persons. It has the idea of showing favoritism. Of prejudging someone. Now, there's various ways that we show respect. We have respect of a person. We prejudge somebody. Sometimes maybe it's because of their social standing. Oh, this guy is and I'm just you throwing this after this guy is a lawyer Boy, he's well known in the community. Everybody thinks some boy this guy's really someone tell you what make sure that guy gets the best seat in church. And then some bus kid parent comes in. And their bodies all tattooed up and earrings and everything else. And their clothes are not what you would you and I would wear to church. And we say, you know, keep them away from that lawyer. Let's stick them off from the side somewhere. Let's put them back here. We don't even know anything about them. That guy in the suit that's big well known may be just as corrupt as the guy coming in with the stuff on In fact, the guy coming in, let me just throw this out. The guy coming in with all the world stuff, he may have just gotten saved the night before and coming in with a hungry heart to know God. And we make a pre-judgment before we know anything about them. And we classify them in our minds. It means to pre-judge someone based on their social standing. It means to prejudge someone based on their skin color. Now this is a hot button item. And I'm telling you, this takes place on both sides. The fact of the matter is, Jesus Christ died for mankind. He did not shed his blood for the black man, he did not shed his blood for the Oriental man, he did not shed his blood for the white man, he did not shed his blood for any particular race. He Died for mankind And I balk at this idea of having a church and saying, oh, this is a certain type of church. And I understand sometimes we focus and reach cultural groups within our country, you know, and there's Korean church and there's, you know, black church, and there's this church, and uh I understand that to some degree, but listen, as far as God's concerned, there are no colors to church. And he says, don't have respect of persons. Uh based on their social standing or their skin color or their financial standing or their nationality or anything else going down through there. He said, don't treat people that way. Faith in Jesus Christ and prejudice towards others is incompatible. That does not fit. When I first got saved, I got saved on a Monday night. Did I ever tell you about that? Sometime I'll have to tell you about that. It was 10 30 at night. You know how I know it was 10 30? I'll tell you some other time. We don't have time. That next Sunday I wish I could somehow transport the Denny that got saved then and transport him here and you could see him. That would be embarrassing Next Sunday I got saved Monday night. Nobody told me, nobody's twisting. Dad was out in the road all week and I wanted to go to church. You know what's funny? Sometimes people get saved, they want to go to church I want to go to church. Nobody twists my arm. Nobody, I just wanted to go to church. So I had a Bible. I figured I'd go to church. I was green as he can be. Church down the road I went to, walking in, nobody had Bibles. Had a Sunday school class. I sit there. I still remember sitting there in these little plastic chairs. And I was the only one with the Bible. In fact, we had the whole Sunday school lesson. We never opened the Bible. It was never referenced. But in the church service, the preacher didn't have a Bible. Nobody had a Bible. I didn't know much, but I knew that one right. So the next week I went to a good independent Baptist church there. And when I walked in that door, I did not look like an independent, fundamental, right-wing, uh King James Bible, devil-hating, premillennial r Baptist. You know what I look like? I look like a dope head. Because that's what I was just a few days before. And I won't go into all the details, bell bottoms and all that. Hey, let me say this. Can I can I just share something with you? Sometimes somebody comes through that door back there, and they're dressed really weird, and their hair is all different colors. And they think that they're really sharp and they're dressing up to come to church. We have one of the kids comes here, you've seen him around here, and his kid he has a red is he here tonight? He's got a red mohawk down there. Anybody happen to see that? I love that boy. First time he came, first time he came, you know what he told his folks I gotta get this right. I'm going to church. This has to be freshly died. And he wanted to be his best. And in his mind, that was being his best I forget why I was telling that story, but um I I was wearing my I had my bell bell bell bottoms, I had my black silk shirt on, I opened the buttons down to here, I had a I'm telling you the truth. I had a gold necklace. I'm telling you the truth, I had my platform black platforms on. I mean they were up there And you know why I wore all that? Because I wanted to be a punk. I wanted to be cult. No, you know why I wore that? Because I thought I should be my best to go to church. And in my mind, that was dressing up. Now I was wrong And I walked in that church looking like a fool. You know what those people did to me? They treated me exactly like they treated everyone else. They didn't single me out. The people, there's two guys, came over and sat beside me, introduced themselves. And I thought, man, I'm looking good. They like me. And I do not believe for one minute I would be in the ministry today if that church did not accept me For who and what I was. They had no idea what God had done in my heart just days before. They had no idea. And they took me in and they discipled me and they loved me and they taught me what the Bible says. And it wasn't long till in my heart I wanted to go off to Bible college. I wanted to serve God. And that's what he's telling us here. We live by a different standard. We live by different values. We don't prejudge. That doesn't mean to say that, oh yeah, I'm fine with that, but it does mean this. That person, that heart and soul down inside there, God loves them very, very much. And I need to love them also. I'm not going to treat people differently. We're going to treat everybody like sinners saved by grace. Amen? And if they're not saved by grace, then we're going to do everything we can to get them to that point. So let's just determine tonight, as individuals and as a church, let's just decide. I'm going to live by God's standards. I'm going to be gracious. I want the whole You say, I can't, I want to. I try so hard. I can't. I'm just hateful by me. Naturally hateful. I can relate to that. I one guy I told my wife, she got mad at me, she'll be mad at me for saying this. But there a a preacher said um he and his wife were talking. And she goes, Let's try something different. And sh he said, Okay. She says, How about you be grouchy at church and nice at home for a change And the preacher that was telling that story said, That doesn't work for me. I'm grouchy everywhere. But let's not be that way, amen. Let's just say I'm gonna be nice, I'm gonna be Christian. I'm going to treat everybody the way God does. I'm going to love people the way God loves them. It's not compromise. It's not accepting sin. It's not excusing sin. It's just being Christian. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, there's people at work that are rough to get along with. Lord, there's people in the neighborhood that we really don't like. God, we see people and we naturally repel re repulsed by me with the way they're dressed or how they act or the way they talk. But I pray you'd help us to be spiritually mature, not compromise our own convictions, not sin against you, but simply be gracious and not show respect, not show partiality, not prejudge. But point people to Christ and let your grace flow through us to them in the home, at the workplace, and in church. Help us. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many?