Alright, 2 Samuel chapter 24. I want to read verse 24 and 25, the last two verses of the chapter. And um The life of David, we're really winding down. We're at the end, coming up to the end of his life. As we said last time we looked at this, he's probably in his mid-60s, his age at this point He's been king of Israel coming up on 40 years, a long time. He's seen a lot of things. He's seen God do amazing things. He's had some ups and he's had some downs and he is in a down time right now Verse 24 says of chapter 24, it says, And the king said unto Aranah, Nay, but I will surely buy it of thee at a price. Now look at this statement. I underline this statement in my Bible. Neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the Lord my God, look at this, of that which doth cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver, and David built there an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the Lord was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel. I've entitled the message. I'll give it a little different title than what I had in the bulletin, but I've entitled this: No Second Hand Sacrifices. No secondhand sacrifices. Let's pray and see if the Lord will speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, it come to you and thank you for the life of David. What an amazing, amazing man And what I've learned is I've studied his life in somewhat detail. Lord, as we wind down our study here, we probably have a few more messages. Pray that we can learn from this. Lord, if you could help us avoid some of the mistakes David made. Lord, if you could help us to put in place the faith and the The sincerity, the passion that He had, put that in our hearts and lives. And that we could be maybe more effective witnesses and stronger in our walk with you. And so I'm just asking you to teach us, each of us individually, however you know we need it. Teach us from the life of David. And it's a matter of sacrifice. Help us tonight. I pray that you would speak through me. Holy Spirit, I yield my will and my body. Pray you'd fill me and be the preacher and teacher tonight And apply to our hearts, Lord, as you know we need it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now, just to review, it's been a couple weeks. Just to review, if you remember, David, for whatever reason Decided he's going to take a census. He's going to number the people of Israel. There was no military purpose. There was no strategic purpose There was really no reason as far as benefiting the nation whatsoever. But yet he did, and it made God very angry. We notice that in verse number one of chapter 24. God was very angry with David for numbering the people. Now, of course, God being having perfect knowledge, he knew what David's motives were. He knew what was behind him uh his numbering these people and whatever it was, as I said, upset God very much. Uh would you agree with me? When God's upset, we got a problem. And David has a problem on his hands. He has upset God very much. His military men are frustrated with him. They don't see any reason for this. In fact, Joab protests with the idea that, David, this is foolish. This isn't going to turn out good. And so they're frustrated with them. And then when it's all said and done, David is absolutely devastated with what he's done And we'll look at that here again in a little bit. So this whole thing, at the end of David's life, as he's winding down, he makes this super foolish decision. And the consequences are devastating. God gives them three options, as we talked about that. He decided to put it in God's hands. None of the options were good. And 70,000 people. Now think about that. 70,000 people die because David acts foolishly. Now, knowing what we know about David, we know that weighed heavily on his heart. I don't know if my actions would take the life of one person that would bother me. A lot. Seventy thousand people. because of the foolishness of David's action. Garrett County has what's our what's our population? Thirty thousand, something like that, twenty nine, thirty, I think is the last I saw. So we're talking over twice the population of Garrett County, everybody gone. And so the consequences were devastating. God, David confesses his sin intensely and earnestly and sincerely, and we looked at that in depth, his confession in there in verse 10, and then over again in verse 17. And God halts the plague. 70,000 people are dead, but God stops it. And the angel that is Administering this judgment stops at this fella Arana. That's his name, Arana. And he has, he's got a pr apparently it looks to me like he's got a pretty good size operation going. It's a farmer of sorts and has crops. And he has this threshing floor, which my impression is reading this, pretty good-sized threshing floor. So, um, and so this angel stops at this threshing floor, is where God told him to stop. God instructs David to build an altar there and offer up a sacrifice to God because of his sin. And so God instructs him on this threshing floor to build an altar and offer a sacrifice to God because of David's sin, because of what he's done and the consequences. Arana, David goes and explains to Arana what God has instructed him to do on his property, on his threshing floor And the Bible says that Arana, as a king, just like a king would do, he offers that entire threshing floor, which is good size, probably size of this auditorium, maybe, maybe bigger, I don't know. He offers that entire threshing floor to David. He offers him his oxen that are used to thresh the wheat. He offers these oxen for the sacrifice, to be sacrificed, and then he offers them all the yokes and the wood and the the wagons and whatever wooden instruments are used to thresh the wheat. He offers all of that for the fire to burn. And he offers it to David. Here, you take it, free of charge And that's where we pick up here. David explains this situation. Look in verse 21. He explains to Iran of the situation. Verse 21, Aurana said, Wherefore is my Lord the king come to his servant. What are you doing here? Why'd you show up? David says, to buy the threshing floor of thee, to build an altar unto the Lord, that the plague may be stayed from the people. And so he says, I need to buy this here. God's instructed me. Arana, as I said, offers him the threshing floor, the oxen and the wood, free of charge. Look at verse 22. And we looked at this before, but just review here a moment. And Aurana said unto David, Let my Lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him. Behold, here be oxen for burnt sacrifice Threshing instruments and other instruments of the oxen for wood. All these things did Arana as a king give unto the king. And Arana said unto the king, The Lord thy God accept thee. So Arana offers him up the threshing floor, the oxen, and the wood. Would you agree with me? That's quite a sacrifice on Arana's part. I mean, he's giving up the primary part of his livelihood. A farmer in those days without a threshing floor is in a pickle. He's got no oxen, he's got no instruments to work his farm, work his crops. Aurana is making a tremendous sacrifice In offering this to David free of charge. And here's where my message is. David says, no. No, I won't accept your gift. Had David, here's my thinking. I want to try and get you thinking the way I'm thinking. Had David accepted this offer If he'd have said, oh wow, thanks, and he'd accepted that threshing floor free of charge, cost him nothing. If he'd accepted the oxen to be slaughtered and sacrificed up, free of charge cost him nothing. If he'd accepted the wood and the instruments and the equipment to be burned, if he'd accepted that Cost him nothing, who would have been making the sacrifice for God? It would have been Arana And David offering this sacrifice up. Now here's what I'm getting at. David offering the sacrifice up would not have been his sacrifice It would have been a second-hand sacrifice. Aranah made the sacrifice, and David would simply have been taking the sacrifice that Aranah made And then bringing and presenting that to God. And David said, I'll not do that. Anybody here know ever hear the term re-gifting presence? Huh? You get a gift and you say, Oh, I'll never use that. And so then you re-wrap it up and you give it to somebody and it really costs you nothing? And David said, I'm not going to, now I don't know if he re-gifted stuff to other people, but he he said this, I'm not going to re-gift something to God. I'm not offering God a second hand sacrifice. A second hand sacrifice is no sacrifice at all. Arana made the sacrifice. And David, if had he accepted it, would have been using Arana's sacrifice For his own benefit before God. And he said, I'll not do that. There is no second-hand sacrifices. There is no secondhand faith. Sometimes people try to have what I'm calling secondhand faith. In other words, they try to ride to heaven on the faith of their parents. You follow what I'm saying? Just because Daddy had faith in God, just because Daddy put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ His sins are forgiven. He's got eternal life. He has a new life. He has a home in heaven. I cannot secondhand the faith of my daddy. I have to bring my own faith to Christ. Follow what I'm saying? There's no s you can't secondhand faith doesn't work. Well, I'll just uh trust my parents' faith to get me through this trial. No, no, no. We all have to learn to exercise our own faith. Not just saving faith, but living the Christian life faith Now we can learn from others and we can look at others and we can emulate someone else's faith, but I cannot use someone else's faith And bring that to God on my behalf. There's no secondhand pain. The Christian life is intensely personal. It's between me and God. It's my decisions before my Creator. So there really is no secondhand faith. I put this down, there's no secondhand obedience. I can't expect blessings from God for someone else's obedience Um, I've got to be obedient myself. Um I am glad that we support missionaries. I thank God. I think we've got good missionaries scattered all around the world. They're out sharing the gospel. They're planning, starting churches, they're discipling believers. They're doing the work of the ministry. And we thank God for it. But wait a minute, just because we send some money to a missionary, that doesn't exempt me from being obedient here and serving the Lord in my own capacity here You follow what I'm saying? It's not second-hand service. Well, I send money to the missionary every week. I don't need to give out tracts. I don't need to witness. They're all supporting them. They're doing it. It don't work that way We can't ride on someone else's obedience. If David had accepted Arana's offer and brought it up, it wouldn't have been no sacrifice at all. He'd been riding, he'd have been using Arana's sacrifice And I can't run on someone else's faith, and I can't run on someone else's obedience. I'm responsible to be obedient to God myself. Faith, obedience, Christian service, dedication At some point as a Christian, I've got to realize that what Christ did for me is a tremendous thing, and I owe him my life. I owe him my all. And that's something I have to do myself. I can't write on my parents' or my spouse's dedication or my uh children's dedication. Well, my kids are really serving God, yeah. But I need to be dedicated, Lord, myself. We can't write. I think we have an active church. I'd like to believe that we as a church, myself included, that we're pretty dedicated to the cause of Christ, the gospel, the word of God. But you know, just because I'm a member of the church, when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, the dedication of the church body I need to be sure that I'm dedicated individually personally when I stand before the Lord. You follow what I'm saying Well, I was part of Mountain Lake, and boy, they were committed to the gospel. Well, fine, but what about you individually? Your dedication to Christ, your commitment to the Lord And so there is no secondhand faith, there's no secondhand obedience, there's no secondhand service or dedication or commitment. David couldn't offer to God the sacrifice of that Aurana made. He had to make his own sacrifice. It had to cost him something I put this down. Genuine Christianity is a costly lifestyle. And anybody that tells you different is lying. Now salvation is free. Amen. Salvation is free. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the Gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Salvation is a free offer from God that we receive by faith. Now, once I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, once I'm born again, once God saves me and forgives me, gives me eternal life, heals my home in heaven, like we sang a little bit ago. Once God does that, now living the Christian life, there's a cost to that. Living the Christian life is not easy. It's a blessing, it's worth it. But, brother, there's a cost to it there. Salvation, as I said, is free. But being a disciple, living for the Lord, is costly. Keep your place here, if you would, and come back to the New Testament Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 9. Over and over again, Jesus told people that believe on me, you have eternal life. He that believeth on me hath life. Verily, verily I say unto you, He that believeth on the Son He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. Believe it, believeth, believeth, believeth. He says it over and over. That's how you get saved. Then people started, a lot of people got saved, and they started following him. He goes, Alright, now if you want to live for me, I've forgiven you, I've saved you, I've given you eternal life, I've taken away God's judgment from you. Now you want to live for me? Now there's a price for that it's going to cost. And he pulled no punches, and he didn't deceive anybody. He didn't lead anybody to the He didn't lead anybody on thinking that being a disciple of Jesus is some luxury ride on a on a cruise ship in the Caribbean. Notice in Luke chapter 9 and notice with me verse number 57. It says, And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Now he's not talking about salvation Salvation is by putting my faith and trust in Christ. This guy, I want to live for you. I want to serve you. I want to be one of your disciples. And Jesus said unto him, Look at this: foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. Now what was he implying when he said that to this guy that says, I want to follow you wherever you go? He's implying what? You might not have a place to stay. You might not have a nest or a hole like the foxes and birds have. I notice this is very different than a lot of your TV preachers. Oh yeah, if you have faith, you do what God says. God wants you to be rich. God wants you to have mansions. Oh God, drive fancy cars, have your own personal airplanes. There's nothing wrong with all that stuff in and of itself. But brother, that's not the way it is in the Christian life necessarily. Um uh I I heard about the one T V preacher, he's preaching on Noah. God told Noah to build this big art and gave him all the dimensions. And somebody said, Well, what does that mean for us? And he says, Well, the meaning is obvious. God wants us all to have a yacht. No, that's not what Jesus is saying here. In fact, read on here. Notice the next fellow comes in verse 59. And he said to another, Follow me! And he said, Lord, suffer me first, interesting words he's using there, me first, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Look what Jesus said. Jesus said unto him, let the dead bury the dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Wow. That'd be tough. Verse 61, and another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me, here's that same little phrase again, me first, let me first go bid them farewell, which are home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Would you agree with me? That's pretty stuff, tough standards there. Now come over to chapter 14 and look what he says. You think that's tough? Chapter 14, look at verse 25. Luke. He says, uh Verse 25, And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto him, I mean his church, quote unquote, is growing. They need a building program. The place is packed out. Multitudes are coming, so to speak. Verse 26: If any man come to me, Look at this. And hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, and his own life also What's that last statement? Cannot be my disciple. He's not talking about salvation. He's talking about being committed to Christ. He said it's going to cost you something When I read that about hating his father, mother, wife, children, brethren, uh I always I often I often think about Abraham. In Genesis 22, remember when God approached Abraham and he said, Take thy son, thine only son, whom thou anybody remember that phrase? Whom thou lovest? Did Abraham love Isaac? Yes, dearly. And he said, take him up to Mount Moriah. I want you to offer him up as a sacrifice. Whoa. I mean he'll agree with me, that's tough. And without hesitant without hesitation, without argument, without negotiation. Abraham gets up the next morning, packs his stuff, takes Isaac up, goes on top of the mount, builds an altar puts him on the altar and raises the knife, is about to plunge it into his son's chest, and God stops and says, all right, oh, oh, oh, oh, lo That's all I needed. There's a ram in the thicket. And I always think of that when I read this requirement, the Lord gives for discipleship. Hate thy son, father. uh child, your wife, your children, and your own life also. Always think of Abraham. Did Abraham love Isaac? Yes, he loved him dearly. But he loved God supremely. And if God said, listen, I need you to do this, then he's going to obey and love God. That's tough. I'm saying to you, living the Christian life, being a disciple of Christ, can be very costly Uh look down there. Let's read on here in uh uh verse twenty-five come down to verse um He says there in verse 27, Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Bear your cross. The cross is an instrument of death. Dying to self. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counts the what? Cause it's going to cost you something if you're going to live for me, if you're going to be a Christian, I intend for you to be David, if you're going to offer the sacrifice that I instructed you to offer, David said, it's going to cost me. I'm not giving it secondhand. Lest happily after he laid the foundation was not able to finish it, and all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build, was not able to finish. Or what king going to make war against another king Sitteth not down first and consulteth whether he be able with 10,000 to meet him that cometh against him with 20,000. He's counting the cost. Can I do this? Or else while the other is a great way off, he send us an embassage and desireth conditions. Verse 33, show likewise Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. I'm saying this. A genuine Christian lifestyle is costly is costly. Commitment has a price. In any situation. If I'm going to make a commitment to something, then there's a price to pay You follow what I'm saying? If I make a commitment to my spouse at my wedding on the on the um uh uh at my wedding vows, I make a commitment to my spouse, then that is going to cost me through my life. Right? All others, it it's it's my spouse and them alone. And that is a commitment, and commitment is costly. Um And in the Jewish faith and in the Islam, people get saved out of that. There is a price to pay And uh so I'm saying that Christian a genuine Christian lifestyle is costly. Obedience has a price. If I'm going to obey God, there's a price to pay. Look at chapter 16 and verse 13 He says, no servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he'll hold the one and despise the other. He cannot serve God and mammon. And so David said, I'm not going to offer a sacrifice to God of that which does not cost me anything. That is not what it's about. I'm not giving a s a secondhand sacrifice A I run a pay for the whole thing, and then I sacrifices. That's not the way it works. Modern Christianity is so shallow because it's so cheap Services anymore in many of your churches are nothing more than a performance on a stage with an audience out there just watching. And in fact, a lot of churches, they turn the lights down Because it's a show. Convenient Christianity is shallow Christianity. Modern Christianity is so shallow because it's so cheap. You can just go. Sit there for a little bit and go home. No involvement. No commitment. In fact, nowadays You can lay in your bed, turn the TV on, and watch the TV, watch church on TV, and never even get out of bed. Honored Christianity is so shallow because it's so cheap. Convenient Christianity produces shallow Christianity. Convenient Christianity produces ungrateful Christianity. Let me ask you a question. If I invest no effort, and if I invest no finances, no resources, no effort No abilities, I invest nothing into something. How much interest do I have in that which I've invested nothing Little or no interest. But brother, you invest something. I have a little couple of little investments I put on. And uh guess what I do about every other day? I get up and I want to see how that investment is doing Dollar General Store. Listen, y'all need to be shopping at Dollar General Store. I put a little investment in there, and I've already increased to negative a bunch of money. But there's a ten there's ten thousand other stocks I never look at them. You know why? Because I didn't put anything into it Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is dear to me, vitally dear to my heart. You know what? I've invested my life here. And many of you have also. You feel the same way. And David said, I'm not going to sacrifice to God, I'm not going to offer up to God something that I have no investment in. And it would be meaningless to me. Convenient Christianity is shallow Christianity. I think the reason so many people get so little out of their faith is because they put so little into it. Little or no time spent with God on a personal basis, little or no effort to learn the Word of God and what God's will is for my life, little or no time spent in communicating with God in prayer. I think a great salvation calls for a great commitment. Our salvation is great. God saved us from hell. He's forgiven our sins. He's given us new lives. He's given us a home in heaven. He's given us purpose and meaning. He provides for us. Brother, that calls for a great gratitude, great commitment. Great salvation calls for great commitment. A great forgiveness calls for great sacrifice. Remember when Jesus said that dear uh that lady he went in with the Pharisee and and um this woman came in, a wicked, sinful woman, lived a very sinful life, she came in. And she wept, watched, washed Jesus' feet with her tears. Remember? And he dried his feet with her with her hair. And she kept kissing his feet And the Pharisee that he's eating with can criticized her and condemned her. He said, Lord, if you knew what kind of woman that was, you wouldn't be letting her do that. And he says, Since I've been in your house, you didn't wash my feet one time, you never gave me a kiss And then he made this tremendous statement. He says, who do you think loves more? Those that are forgiven a bunch or those that are forgiven just a little bit? And he says, Well I guess those who are forgiven bunch. And he says, Here's this woman has been forgiven greatly And she's loved me and invested her tears and washed my feet. Why? Because she understands how forgiven she is, how precious that is. And great forgiveness calls for great commitment, great sacrifice. David understood how merciful God was being to him. David understood how badly he had sinned. And he said, I'm not going to give a secondhand sacrifice to God. I'm giving, I'm investing in this. This is important to me. This is valuable to me. And I'm going to invest that. No second hand sacrifice. David refused to offer a second hand sacrifice first of all. Number one, I put this down because of the caliber of his sin. If you would come back here to our text in 2 Samuel because of the caliber of his sin. By that I mean the seriousness of his sin. Notice again verse number 10. I referenced it right at the beginning. It said, And David's heart smote him after he had numbered the people. And David said unto the unto the Lord, I have sinned what? GREATLY in that I have done. And now I beseech thee, O Lord, take away the iniquity of thy sermon, for I have done very foolishly. Look at verse 17 David spake unto the Lord when he saw the angel that smote the people. He says, Lo, I have sinned. I have done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? Let thine hand, I pray thee, be against me. David understood how serious his sin was. And I'm here to say tonight, sinning against God is extremely serious. To some people, sin is just a joke. To Hollywood, sin is a comedy routine. Stand-up comedians use the most filthy language and joke about the most sinful things. But I'm here to tell you, to God, sin is not a joke. To a holy God. Sin must be taken seriously. God hates sin Psalm 45. 7, David said, God hates wickedness. Exact words God hates wickedness. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 9, quoting Psalm 45, but he rewords it just a little bit. He says, God hates iniquity. The fact that a perfect and perfectly holy God hates sin means I ought to take sin seriously The fact that an all-wise, all-knowing God hates what sin is, I ought to take it seriously. The fact that a God that loves me enough to die for my sin hates the sin that sends me to hell and then his son had to pay for himself if I'm going to be saved. The fact that God hates it, I ought to take it very seriously. And David said, after what I've done, I'm not offering a second-hand sacrifice. I'm paying for this. This uh I'm obligated because of the seriousness of my sin. God hates sin. Sin results in eternal death Romans 6. 23, we all know it. The wages of sin is death. That's eternal spiritual death separated from God all eternity. God hates it. It has it's it results in eternal death. And Jesus died and suffered hell for my sin. If that's the only solution to my sin, is Jesus Christ dying and suffering hell so that I can be forgiven. If that's the only solution, and it is, then I ought to take sin very seriously. And I'm telling you, we live in a day and age where Christianity, for the most part, does not take sin very seriously. We toy with it, we joke around about it, we laugh at it, we play with the edges of it, we flirt with it. But God hates it and it's devastating. And David said, after what I've done, I am not offering a second-hand sacrifice to God. I'm not giving them something that didn't cost me that somebody else pays for it. I'm giving them out of my own heart, my own resources, I'm giving this to God. Number two, he would not offer a secondhand sacrifice because of the caliber of his sin. Number two, he wouldn't offer a secondhand sacrifice because of the consequences of his sin. Again, verse 15, 70,000 people died because of David's foolishness. David said, I've hurt too many people for me just to take something somebody else has paid I'm going to make sure I foot the bill because of what I've done. Consequences are too great. I cannot offer a second-hand sacrifice. And then last of all, David wouldn't offer a secondhand sacrifice because of the character of his heart. David had too much of character to offer a secondhand sacrifice. Brother Holmesher, uh founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time for many years he's with the Lord now. Dave Larry Coontz has it now, but I worked under him for about twenty years maybe. For a long time I worked under Brother Homeshire and worked with him. From 1985 till whenever he passed away, 2003, somewhere around there, whatever it was, 2008. And uh loved him dearly like a father. Loved him dearly. And he used to do a thing. He says everybody uh uh everybody uh doesn't like to give away their own money. Says they don't mind giving away somebody else's money, politicians And he says, they don't mind giving away someone else's money. So he'd have everybody in the congregation, all right, everybody get out a dollar bill or get a bill out of your wallet. I'm not asking you to give it to me, he says I'm not asking you to put in the offering plate, just get it out. So everybody says, oh, okay. And they all get a dollar, five dollar bill, ten dollar bill. He says, all right, now share it with the person next to you, exchange. Now put it in the offering plate. That way you're putting somebody else's money in the offering plate Yeah, very clever, Brother Holmes, sir. David said, I'm not doing that. Not giving a secondhand sacrifice. I'm not doing that. I can't do that. I owe God what's mine. And he would not give a second-hand sacrifice. The generations that have gone before you and me made some tremendous sacrifices, haven't they? You know there's a lot of sacrifices made for you and I to have this old King James Bible. Men died at the stake, putting this thing together. Men died at the sta were burned at the stake and dismembered. Drowned. I mean by the thousands. I've been reading about some of our spiritual forefathers and how they were slaughtered and and beaten and tortured In horrific ways, for no other reason than trying to get everybody a copy of the Bible in their language. I tell you, that was a great sacrifice on their part, right or wrong Now I'm here to say we cannot just offer up their sacrifice. We need to do what we need to do to make sure the coming generations have these same things. You follow what I'm trying to say Would you agree with me? We've got great liberty in our land. People paid a heavy price for our liberty. People gave their lives so that you and I can be free. And have the freedoms we have. I tell you, we better not just go on secondhand sacrifice. We need to be willing to sacrifice ourselves so the next generation has some liberty. Amen? You follow my what I'm saying? No sacrifice. We need to of our own cost. Generations before, I was just when I was working on this, I kept thinking about this building here. And 30, 40, 50 years ago, the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church congregation, the body at this time, sacrificed financially and time and effort and resources so that you and I can have a beautiful building here. And we thank God for that. But we can't just ride on what they did for us on a previous generation. We need to make sure we're investing of ourselves for the coming generation so that 50 years from now, whoever's here has things that we've made available to them. You follow what I'm saying? No secondhand sacrifice, not riding on what someone else paid for Um Elizabeth Elliott, anybody recognize that name? The wife of Jim Elliott, Nate Saint and the other fellas down there, the Alka Indians, how many people know what I'm talking about? That's a long time ago. People don't know of them as much. But she wrote an article on personal sacrifice, and she made this statement. She said, personal sacrifice paves the way for God's miracles. Personal sacrifice, not someone else's, personal sacrifice paves the way for God's miracles. Somebody questioned her and said, How do you know anything about personal sacrifice? Her husband, Jim Elliott, along with four other men, gave their lives trying to reach the Auca tribe of Ecuador in 1956. All five of them murdered By the people they were loving and trying to bring to Christ. All of them were killed by the spears of Alca men who ambushed them. They had no idea. When they landed that plane and those men came out and ambushed them, killed them, left their bodies laying there along the river, stuck the ar the stuck the airplane full of arrows and spears. Those four or five men, when they were landing there, they had no idea that the sacrifice they were about to make was going to open up a missionary movement that hadn't been seen in America for Decades. And young people by the thousands started giving their lives to missions. And they went out around the world, and thousands and hundreds of thousands of people come to Christ. Because these guys said, listen, we're willing to give of ourselves. Not just go by what someone else has done. We're giving ourselves. An old Elizabeth Elliot How she shared that story over and over and over. I think, Brian, you met one of those Alka Indians, didn't you, in Bible college that got saved. And the men that killed them Elizabeth came back with some of the other wives and won them to Christ, killed her husband, she won them to Christ. They grew, started preaching the gospel, some came back to the States and spoke in some of the Christian colleges. Isn't that an amazing thing? I'm glad those five fellows didn't say, no, we're not giving to God something that didn't cost us anything. They said, we're giving to God our lives. What we need in America and what we need in our churches is not second-hand sacrifice, is folks saying, Lord, I love you more than anything and anybody and even more than my own life. And I'm going to obey you in spite of the cost. I tell you, reading what David said there stirred my heart. I will not offer to God that which cost me nothing. This is too big. This is too serious. I want to invest in myself. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight and challenge us. As we come into revival meeting, we don't know how you're going to speak to our hearts and what you're going to direct us to do and changes you're going to stir our heart about making. But I pray you'd help us to get out of this convenient Christianity mode and get out of this comfort Christian mentality. And offer to you that which is not a secondhand sacrifice, that which is of our own heart and lives. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, I wonder if some tonight say, Preacher, you know, I really need to take living for the Lord a little more seriously I really need to stop and think, where am I at spiritually? What is my commitment? Am I just riding on the coattails of others Or am I investing my own self? Is there anything like that, say preacher, I really need to I need to grow in that. God bless you, hands all around And maybe on a Wednesday night before revival meeting, an old altar is a good place, say Lord, here I am, whatever it costs me, whatever you have me to do, I'm not going to give you something cost me anything. And so revival meeting, you teach me, you show me, you speak to me. And I'll trust you. And I'll invest in what you lead me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen