Alright, if you would take your Bibles, turn to Genesis chapter number six. We're looking at the Noah and the Great Flood. And we're just going to look at one verse tonight. I am really tempted to say it won't be long, but every time I say that, it backfires and bites me. So I'm not going to say it, but um uh fascinating verse here. Get everything hooked up here? Two fellas were talking One male said, are you coming over to visit us tomorrow? Do you need directions? And the guy said, No, I'm all set. I've got the address, I've got a GPS, and I've got a GPS override The guy said, what in the world's a GPS override? He said, it's my wife. So how many folks got the joke this morning? How many folks actually got it? About half the crowd. See me afterward, I'll explain it to you. All the blondes, I'll explain it to you afterward. Genesis chapter 6, verse 8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And that's the title of my message. Noah Found Grace in the Eyes of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, bless now our time in your word. Thank you for the um Singing we've had, the testimonies, Lord, the hymn history there. And now bring this thing to a head, Lord, we pray as we get into your word. Lord, I believe you've used all the service up to this point to prepare our hearts for what you want to do. And so we ask that you would plow deep, Lord, in our hearts. Plant the seed of your word in our soul and that it would bear fruit in coming weeks and months and years. I yield myself to you. I present my body and fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Noah and the Great Flood. Fact of the matter is, we're told very little about the man Noah In the next verse 9, we're told a little bit about his character, and we're going to touch on that in a moment and deal with it in a later message. But as far as Noah's appearance, we know nothing about him We don't know if he was tall or short. We don't know if he was skinny or plump Um we don't know if he was uh had a full head of hair, if he was bald. I've kind of got the picture all great men of God were balding. Kind of my take on it. But um uh we don't know if he had red hair, dark hair. We don't know anything about him. We don't know if he was muscular or if he was uh petite. We don't know The Bible doesn't tell us very much about Noah. We're told a little bit of his character. Look at verse 9. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generation, and Noah walked with God. Tell you, that's a tremendous compliment on the character of a person. And we're going to look at that as I said in a later message and how that became true of Noah. But um we don't know about his wealth. We don't know what his standing was in society. Uh was he just a blue-collar type guy? That's kind of the way I see him Um was he uh on the bottom end of the society as far as wealth is concerned? Was he a very wealthy man? We can speculate, we don't know Here's something as I've been studying this and uh uh preparing my preparations for preparing my preparations for the sermons, but um Here's a question that came up, and we're going to deal with it at some point in the series. How did Noah finance the building of the Ark? You ever think of that? A build something of that size, that caliber, that that's not chunk change. Right? That that took a little bit of investment. Where did that come? Was he independently wealthy? Did he financed himself? Did he raise support, quote unquote Some things we'll consider later on, but we're not told a lot of this. But we are told the most important thing that there is about any person. And we are told of Noah's standing with God. Regardless if you're rich or poor, regardless of you or I or big, small, little in between. Whether we're tall, dark, and handsome or short, fat, and ugly, the most important thing about us is our standing with God. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. That tells us the most important thing about a man: that he was right with God He knew the Lord. That's a tremendous verse. I underlined it in my Bible. I came back and re-underlined it with red ink. Then I came back and bracketed it. Then I came back and circled the verse That is a tremendous verse. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Three things I want to pull out of this verse this evening. First of all, I want us to notice the fairness of God. The fairness of God. Now let's back up and we'll begin reading in verse 5. Now we preached on this last week, but I want to tie in verse 8. Look at verse 5. God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was on evil continually. And this is so significant. It repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth and grieved, it grieved him at his heart. Now look what God says I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast and creeping thing and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. As we mentioned last week, it got so bad where God, if I'm understanding what's being said here correctly, God comes to the point where he says, I wish I wouldn't have even made man I repent. It grieves me that I even made a, that he even exists. Then we get to verse 8. And look at the first word of verse 8. What is it? But, boy, that's a great word. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Now think with me, God is absolutely disgusted with all of mankind. He's at a point where he is, he's he's it's almost he's sorry he even made man. But God is fair. And it says that Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And this is my thought. God did not just lump Noah in with everybody. From our perspective, it would have been easy just to say I'm gonna kill 'em all. Philly. I don't even mess with them But that wouldn't have been fair. Because the overwhelming majority of mankind was absolutely abhorrently evil There was one man in a family who wasn't. And God distinguished that. Noah was distinguished in the heart and mind of God from all the rest of the world. God was disgusted with man and I tried to paint that as dark a picture as I could last week because it was dark Nevertheless, God did not just arbitrarily condemn and destroy all of mankind. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Now, this is what that teaches us. God examined each and every individual separately. God deals with us as individuals, the whole world May be an unbelieving, rebellious, vile society. But if there's one person right with God, God sees it. God knows it. God deals with us as individuals. God examines each and every heart. Now listen, when dealing with man, you can fade into the crowd. You can just kind of get in the background. And there's always folks in churches You know, the bigger the church gets, the the easier it is to do. But it seems like there's always folks that just kind of are on the background, just kind of in the shadows But with God, nobody fades into the background. Nobody is just a number in a crowd. God deals with us as individuals. And God knows where every one of us seated here this evening. God knows, and folks listening in on the internet or on recordings later on, God knows where each and every one of us are at individually. God doesn't save thousands of people. God saves individuals by the thousands. Does that make sense? God works with individuals. The fairness of God, Noah, was not just lumped in with everybody else. Even though he and his wife and his boys and their wives were the only ones that uh on all the earth that were found righteous. Nevertheless, God was fair and dealt with them individually. Not one righteous soul will ever be condemned with the unrighteous. Now let me ask you a question. Do you think the spiritual condition of society in Noah's day, do you think that affected Noah in any way? Sure. Do you not agree with me the behavior of others affect us? Right? The spiritual condition of a community affects us. It has consequences, and we feel the effects of that. Proverbs talks about when the righteous bear rule, when the godly bear rule, the righteous rejoice. When the wicked are in authority, the righteous mourn, it affects us. Now, the behavior of ungodly people will affect the godly people But the godly folks, the righteous, will never be condemned with the unrighteous, because God distinguishes them. And as I saw that word, but God repented and made man, but Noah found grace. I found great encouragement from that. That God deals with us as individuals. Not one righteous person died in that flood. Not one. Every individual that was right with God, that had a right standing with God, was spared God's judgment. Now there's only eight of them, but thank God God deals with us as individuals Amen? I got thinking about that. When the rapture takes place, we referenced the rapture this morning. When the rapture takes place, not one saved person is going to be left behind. Isn't that good? God's going to deal every individual. Maybe it's the only city, maybe it's some foreign country, some little island that is ungodly, but somehow somebody on that island came to know Christ. They may be the only saved person in that entire society, but they're not going to be left behind. We were uh the other year we went up to Canada, one of the most amazing mission trips that I've been on Where we saw the movement and presence of God in amazing ways, God's hand, as we went through these little communities on the James Bay, drove for 600 hours to get to one little community. That was exaggerating. Four hours, I think, from where we stayed to that one. And we're there knocking on doors, giving out literature. I mean we're what were we? A thousand miles from here 1400 miles from here. Trove for hours on nothing but tundra. Show up a little village, 600 people. We start knocking on doors I knocked on one door, a lady probably in her mid-30s, comes the door. I said, my name is Dennis Leatherman. We're down from the United States. We're giving out literature. Explains how we can know our sins for given all the way to heaven. They all spoke English. And she took it and she says, Are you Baptist? I said, Uh yes. That was an unusual thing. She asked, Are you Baptist? I said, yes. She says, Would you happen to be independent Baptist? Um matter of fact, yes, we are. I'm saved! I said, really? What do you mean you're saved? I'm saved. How'd you get saved? I trusted Christ as Savior. Her two little boys there, about 10 and 12. They said, we're saved too. I got saved in January 1990, whatever. I said, really? And here they were up in that little village. A family had been down in the lower part of Canada, had come across an American missionary, had led them to the Lord, baptized them, discipled them They moved back home to their village where they grew up at, and as far as we know, they were the only saved people in that whole place. I'm glad when the rapture takes place, that girl and her kids aren't going to be left behind God is fair. God deals with us as individuals. The whole world can be condemned, but if there's one, if the whole world can be ungodly, but if there's one godly, God sees it. And God honors that. Not one person, not one righteous person died in that flood. Not one saved person is going to be left behind at the rapture. Hey, I got thinking about it. The Great White Throne. Did you ever try and imagine in your mind what that's going to be like? At the end of time, as we understand it, all the dead are raised and stand before Almighty God one by one, books are open Whoever's name is not written in the book of life is cast in a lake of fire, I'm glad not one saved person will be in that crowd. God doesn't deal with crowds, God deals with individuals. And God saw Noah. Out of perhaps 1. 5 billion people on the earth, one man, his wife, his three boys, and their wives were righteous, and God took note. I'm glad our God is a fair God. I'm glad our God deals with individuals. The second thing I notice here, I see the fairness of God, but I also in verse 8 I see the favor of God But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. First time the word grace is used in the Bible. This morning we had the first time a song is recorded in the Bible. Tonight we had the first time the word grace is used in the Bible. The word grace, the Theological definition of the word grace very simply is unmerited favor. That's you look it up in a theological dictionary. That's basically the definition you got. I like to simplify it, make a little easier to grasp what it means. Very basically, grace is simply, and we've talked about this, we haven't recently, but we used to a good bit, grace is simply getting something I do not deserve. Say that with me. Getting something I do not deserve. That's what grace is. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord In God's eyes, Noah received something that he didn't deserve. That is the favor of God. God showed grace, getting that which I do not deserve. Let me ask you a question. Was Noah without sin? Was he able to get on that ark and escape the judgment of the flood because he was sinless? The answer is obviously what? No. Noah was a sinner. Now look at verse 9. He says, these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Now, we're going to preach a message on that, and probably next week we're going to deal with that passage. But that is not if we understand the definition of the word grace, what grace is We understand that verse 9 is not why Noah got on the ark. Grace is not something that is earned. Noah escaping the flood was not something he was good enough for or he had earned by his behavior. It was something he received simply by grace. And without preaching next week's message or a future message, verse 9 is not the cause of verse 8, verse 9 is the result of verse 8. Make sense? Because Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, that produced in him A righteous, a walk with God. It produced in him a perfect in his generation, a just man. Don't get the cart before the horse The grace of God produced. And the New Testament talks about that, about the grace of God that leads us to godliness, that teaches us godliness. So we find the favor of God, 1. 5 billion people, God is, they are so wicked that God, the Agape-loving God Says, I'm sick of it. I wish someone even made it. And one man finds favor from God Noah did not deserve to be on that ark any more than anyone else deserved to be on that ark. He was a sinner just like everyone else. It was God's grace that enabled Noah and his wife and kids to be on that ark. He didn't deserve it any more than the people outside drowning with their kids in their arms, a horrific death. He didn't deserve it anymore. He found grace. Let me say this, you and I do not deserve to go to heaven any more than people who are dying and going to hell. Folks that we know and love, that have trusted Christ, that have gone on before us, that are in the presence of God now, do not deserve to be there any more than the folks who have died and gone to hell. It is God's grace that saves a soul from judgment. It was not Noah's righteousness, it was not Noah's walk with God, it was not anything about Noah. That made him, that enabled him to deserve to be on that ark. What does Isaiah 64, 6 tell us? Even our righteousness is as what? Filthy rags. It's the favor of God. You and I here tonight that know Christ as Savior, our sins are forgiven, we have the assurance and confidence and hope of heaven. We don't deserve it any more than the guy that dies and goes to hell. It's the grace of God. No one in heaven deserves to be there more than anyone who died and gone to hell. So we have the favor, we have the uh the fairness of God. In that he recognized Noah and his relationship with the Lord was distinct from others. But we also have the favor of God in God showing him grace. Now the third and last thing I want to look at is the faith of Noah. Why did Noah find grace in the eyes of the Lord? What was it about Noah that prompted God to be gracious to him? As opposed to any other 1. 5 billion people that God did not show grace to. What was it about Noah? Was it verse number 9? Did God show grace to Noah because he was a just man and perfect in his generations and walked with God? I suggest to you, no. God, did God just indiscriminately show grace? Did God just say, uh Noah, I'll show him grace. Now that's ridiculous, right? But can I suggest to you that's basically what Calvinism is? And it's raw in a raw presentation of it. God did not choose Noah and his wife and kids to be saved and choose to condemn the rest. That flies in the face of everything the Bible teaches about a good and fair and just and holy and loving God. Some people teach that God, for whatever reasons known only to him, God selects or elects Certain people to be escape his judgment, and others he has chosen to receive his judgment, and they have no choice in the matter. It's predestined, it's fate, it's they're doomed to that fate regardless. In my mind, that is ungodly and that is unscriptural. So why did Noah find grace in the eyes of the Lord? What was about him? Did Noah play a part in his destiny? Was there anything about Noah that was a factor in God showing grace to Noah? The New Testament answers that question. The New Testament tells us why Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. I want to go to two passages. And we're not going to come back here to Genesis again, so come with me if you would. To Hebrews chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven tells us what it was about Noah That prompted God to show him grace, unmerited favor. God did something for him he did not deserve. Something in Noah prompted that And by the way, that thing in Noah we're going to notice here in a minute could have been in any and all of the other 1. 5 billion Had they so desired. Hebrews chapter 11, look with me at verse number seven. It's given to us in the first two words By what? Faith. Noah being warned of God of things not seen as yet, talking about the rain and the flood. Moved with fear, prepared an art to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of righteousness, of the righteous, which is by what? Faith. Noah exercised faith in God, and that faith prompted God to show grace. What is faith? What does it mean that Noah by faith, can I boil it down very simply? God said something was so, Noah believed it. Noah took God at his word. Noah said, I believe what God said. I'm going to rest in what God said. I'm going to trust in what God said. I'm going to rely in that what God said is so. And when Noah believed God, when Noah had faith in God, God said, I'm going to give him something he doesn't deserve. I'm gonna let him escape the judgment of the world, build an art, and because he had faith in God Now, the Bible tells us, not directly, but it makes pretty clear that the whole time that ark was being built, Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He was calling people to turn to God in faith. And I am absolutely convinced, I think it's pretty clear in Scripture, any one of that 1. 5 billion people on the earth at the time If they would have exercised faith on God, God would have shown them uh faith in God, God would have shown them grace also. And all they would have had to do was walk in that ark, just believing what God said, and entered that door of invitation, and got on that ark, and they would have experienced the grace of God just by exercising faith, trusting and believing God, they could have been saved from that judgment. The faith of Noah. I want to go to one more verse and just reinforce what I'm saying. Come with me, if you would, to the book of Ephesians. Maybe some of you have already, this verse has already come to mind. I hope so. Ephesians chapter 2. Where do you think I'm going? Verse 8 and 9 Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 8 and 9. Did God just arbitrarily say, Alright, I'll think I'll pick. I know, we'll give everybody a number, we'll put it in a big thing, we'll turn it around Pull it out, Noah's number comes up. Alright, Noah, you're the lucky winner. You get to escape the judgment. No. He didn't deserve to be on that ark anyone else any more than anyone else did But Noah believed what God said. Noah trusted God, which prompted God to show him grace. Look at Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. Should be underlined in your Bible, highlighted, whatever. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Let me read it in the context of our message. For by grace Noah was saved through faith. And that not of himself, it was the gift of God, not of his works, lest Noah should boast. Noah could not get up on the deck of that ark and look out at that ungodly world, the world that God was so disgusted with, he wished he never created He could never look out there and say, I'm better than you were. Because he wasn't. He's a sinner. Uh go over to um uh well we won't now, but you can go over to uh uh ek uh ek uh Genesis, I think it's chapter nine. Noah gets off the ark Does a few things, build an altar, does some great stuff. Lo and behold, we find Noah laying in his tent drunk. What in the world? You know what in the world it was? Noah was a sinner, saved by grace, through faith. He believed God Believed what God said, he trusted in what God said, and God, in response to faith, showed him grace. Noah had been taught, and we could go back, and I was tempted to work into the series, go back and look at the lineage of Noah. He had a godly father. Uh I'm going off the top of my head here if I remember correctly, the year the flood came is the year that Noah's father died He had been taught by his daddy that God's a good God. You need to trust him. Or God's a holy God. Noah believed what he was taught And God showed him grace. He trusted in what he knew of God. He relied upon God's word. And God saved him by grace. This morning I suggested we make the year 2011 a year of song singing to God with grace in our hearts. And I like that. But can I suggest tonight, let's make the year of 2011, not just a year of song, but let's make it a year of sharing with others the message of the gospel so they can put their faith in Christ And they can find the grace of God and escape the coming judgment. God's not going to judge the world with water ever again, but he is going to judge the world with fire. He is going to judge individuals. And if we will simply take the information that's been given us in God's Word and been faithfully passed on to us by previous generations, if we'll take that information about Jesus Christ, And him being our quote-unquote ark, our salvation, and we share that information with others And urge them to put their faith in the truth of the gospel, God will show them grace also. And they can escape the coming judgment. I'm convinced that's what Noah did for the hundred and twenty years, whatever it was, building the ark. He was telling folks, listen, God said rain's coming. God's going to kill the whole world. Your only hope is getting on this ark. Come on, man. You've got to believe God. You've got to believe what he says No one believed him other than his wife and his kid. But Noah was faithful. And I want to challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let's keep on going out Saturdays and Thursdays and Sundays. Let's keep on taking gospel tracts and giving it out. If nobody believes what we're saying to 'em, uh we'll just keep right on doing it. But as we found, there are some that will believe. We're not at the point where Noah was yet. Now we're deteriorating to that point, but we're not there yet. And let's be fair Amen. My heart was stirred this afternoon. Tom and I, this girl came, Michelle Tom and I don't have great personalities. At least one of us don't. Tom and I aren't great looking guys, at least one of us isn't. But Michelle was willing to listen to the plan of salvation. Nothing fancy See, nothing spectacular on our part. We just said, hey, here's the truth. This is what God says. She goes, you know, I'll believe that. I'll trust him. I'll put my faith in. I trust she was sincere Anybody can do that. It's the power of God. Just believe it, and God shows grace. Father in heaven, help us to be faithful and share in the gospel this year. It's a whole lot simpler than what we present it. It's a whole lot easier than what we make it. And I pray, Lord, that you would give us a burden. Help us to see the day and age we live in. Help us to see the hour. How late the hour is. Help us to be urgent and diligent and giving out the Word of God and urging people to believe it and be saved. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many people will say, Preacher, you know, this year, as a Christian, I really want to be a witness. I really, really do. This year, I really I want to be able to influence people for Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will fill me with His Spirit, give me wisdom, the courage I need, the burden to share that gospel with others. Brothers, how many are like that by the up put the hand? Certainly that's our desire. Goodness