Hebrews chapter number eleven and verse number six But without faith it is impossible to please Him For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now look at verse 7. By faith, Noah. Being warned of God of things not seen as yet Moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith Today I'd like to talk about Noah's faith. Let's learn something from that today. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of your word that you've given to us. And God, I pray in these next few moments that you will set me aside, that you will speak to your people as only you can. God, I pray that they will get the help that they need. We ask this in the name of Jesus. Amen. Thank you for standing. You can be seated And come back to Genesis chapter number six. Hold your finger in Hebrews 11. We'll be right back there in just a moment. Genesis chapter number six. We talked about Noah this morning already. We talked about how the Ark is a wonderful type in a picture of Jesus Christ. But I'd like to focus for a few moments on a couple of points of Noah's faith. In Hebrews chapter 11, Noah is set forth for us as a man of faith. He is in the chapter what we call the roll call of faith. Now let's give a little bit of context. Genesis chapter 6 and verse number 5. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he made man on the earth, and it grieved him in his heart, and the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth. Both man and beast and creeping thing and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. You say it's never been this bad. I beg to differ. I think it was this bad and even worse before. So the earth right now, listen to what he just said. Every imagination of the thoughts of man's heart was only evil continually That's a lot of wickedness in Noah's day. A lot of wickedness. So the first thing I see about Noah's faith is this. Look at verse number 8. But Noah That is, in contrast to the wickedness of the world, we find a man named Noah who's living right. In contrast to the imaginations of the thoughts of man's heart that is only evil continually, we find a man who doesn't think like the world. We find a man who doesn't side with the world. We find a man who says, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. We're not going to do that just because everybody else is doing it. We're not going to go that way just because everybody else is going that way. There's a God in heaven and we are accountable to Him. And it matters how we live to Him And we want God to be pleased with our life. So, first of all, we see Noah's faith in his position. In the fact that he decided, I don't care what the world is doing, I'm going to live right I don't care if the world is going against God. I don't have to go against God just because they're doing it. Young people, we need some young people that are going to stand for truth and righteousness and say, you know what? I have a lot of friends who aren't living for the Lord, but that doesn't mean I don't have to. I have a lot of friends who are going after the ways of the world, but that doesn't mean I have to. Just because you have a lot of people in your life that are going wrong and wanting you to go that way doesn't mean that you have to go with them, but it takes faith to do that. So we see no His faith and his position. He wasn't going to go along with the way of this world because he cared more about what God thought than what the world thought. Aren't you glad that he did? If he didn't, he wouldn't be here, and neither would you or I. There's some benefits in staying faithful to the Lord. Secondly, I see Noah's faith in his preparation. Noah's faith in his preparation. Let's go back to Hebrews chapter 11 quickly and we'll jump back and forth just a little bit. Hebrews chapter number 11 And verse number seven, by faith, Noah being warned of God of things not seen as yet, it's talking about the rain. Alright, we talked about that a little bit this morning. Moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. By faith, Noah prepared the ark. Now think through this with me. Go back, you can lose Hebrews chapter 11. We won't be back there. Go back to Genesis chapter 6. Put yourself in Noah's shoes. Up until this point, it had never rained before. Up until this point, the Bible says that God caused the mist to come up from the ground and it watered the earth. And God, listen, God said, Noah, I'm going to destroy the earth. Their wickedness has come up before me, and they cannot stand anymore in my presence. I'm done, I'm through, I'm finished, and I'm going to establish my covenant with you. So here's what he said. I want you to build an ark because I'm going to send rain. And Noah said, what's rain? And God said, Well, it's water falling from the sky. And Noah said, Okay. If you say that water is going to fall from the sky, Lord, I believe you. What do you want me to do? You see his fate here? That would be just as if somebody said, hey, it's going to rain Chipotle burritos this afternoon. That's exactly what we're dealing with here. And Noah said, you know what, Lord, if you said it, that settles it. I believe it. And I am going to prepare as though what you said is true, because I believe that it is. So we see Noah's faith in his preparation. He began to prepare this ark. Even though he had listen, we get ourselves into trouble when we put too much confidence in our logic and our intellect. Here's what we do. A lot of times we think Young ladies, let me let me pick on the ladies just for a minute. I won't just pick on you. I can't dress modest out there because they'll make fun of me. There's a lot of pressure. But you have to trust that what God says is better than what the world says. The world says, well, it's not practical. Guys? That's pick on you now. To want to keep your heart right with God And keep your heart and mind pure and set up safeguards in your life so that you can do that, the world's going to think you're crazy. You mean you don't have YouTube on your phone? You're not on TikTok and Instagram? You can't trust your intellect. We're dealing with safe promise. We're dealing with missions. Intellect is going to tell you, you know, I can't afford it. Intellect is going to tell you, you know, I've got all these bills I've got to pay, I've got to pay Disney Plus, and I've got to pay Hulu, and I've got to pay, uh, I I've gotta pay um camel Only some of you laughed. Alright, good. We don't have a lot of smokers in here. I've got all these bills to pay, I can't possibly give, so the gospel can go forth into the world. Is that your intellect and your logic? Or are you going to say, you know what? It matters what I invest into what God said is valuable. Think about this. Look here in the passage. Let's get back in the Bible. Look at verse number 21. Actually, look back at verse number 8. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Verse 13, God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make thee an ark of gopher wood. He had to leave his job, whatever he did for a living, and his sons left their jobs, and they invested literally everything into this ark. Do you see the seriousness of their decision to believe God? Now watch this. Look at verse 21. And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall, what's the next word? Be. That means it's going to continue its existence. Think about this. The only thing left in the entire world Was what Noah and his family invested into that ark. Everything else is going to be destroyed. Doesn't that sound familiar? Doesn't second 2 Peter tell us that this earth is just gonna explode? It's gonna burn up with a fervent heat? Everything this life, yes, we've got to live, we've got to have houses. I don't have to tell you that. But it's all gonna be gone one day. And the only thing, listen, the only thing that you get to take with you into eternity is what you invest into the cause of Jesus Christ. That's the only thing you get to bring with you. And Noah and his family said: we are going to believe what God said, and we are going to invest everything that we can into this ark. We see Noah's faith in his preparation. Now watch this. There's so much I'd love to give you, but I don't want to get sidetracked from what God's laid on my heart this morning. Noah's faith in his position. Noah's faith in his preparation. Noah's faith in his preaching. We find that in 1 Peter chapter 3 and 2 Peter chapter 2. The Bible says, I don't want to turn the passage. Here's what's interesting. The Bible talks about how Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He wasn't just investing into the ark for his own family. That was easy. I want to save myself. I want to save my wife. I want to save my children. So I'm going to build this ark so we have a place. The Bible says that he then turned around and he was concerned about the rest of the world. And he began to preach to them and tell them: hey, judgment is coming. God is angry with our sin and God is through with our sin and there are consequences for sin and God is going to send his judgment. But God is Provided a way of escape. And if you will believe God, and if you will believe that you're guilty, and if you will believe that judgment is coming, and if you will believe that God is going to use this ark to save you, come He's a preacher of righteousness. He's got an urgency in his voice because he's concerned. And in that context, in 2 Peter, this is interesting. The Bible says, Noah, the eighth person. Now, in my mind, I was thinking, okay, I'm going to go back and count the genealogy. Adam, alright, I'm going to count all the genealogy. He's not the eighth person from Adam. Okay, what does this mean? How many people got on that ark? Eight. You know what that means? It means his son got on the ark. That's one. Then his wife got on the ark, that's two. Then his middle child. Stopped doing whatever crazy business he was doing because he was the middle child. And got on the ark. So did his wife. And then his youngest son. Of course he got on the ark. He probably had a special place because he was the youngest. And his wife got on the ark. And then Noah's wife got on the ark and said, Noah! You gotta be right! Usually it's the other way around. Noah, I believe, was the last person on that ark. Why? The Bible says that he wanted those people to come. And he knew once that door shut, it would be too late And he was concerned with all those people that had laughed at him and made fun of him and mocked him and he didn't care. He wanted them to be saved too. He wasn't just concerned about his own family Church, let me tell you this. We fall prey to this. I love church. I love coming here. I love the songs. I love the fellowship. I love having my family in church. But it's not just about this. We cannot forget all those countless millions of people outside these walls who have never yet heard of Jesus Christ and need an opportunity to come. We've got to have an urgency. Here's the last thing. Not only know his faith in his position, not only his faith in his preparation, not only his faith in his preaching. But here's the last thing I want to leave you with. Noah's faith in his patience. Now watch this. Come back to chapter 6, Genesis chapter 6 and verse number 8. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations. And what? What does it say? Noah walked with God. And here's how I used to think this. I used to think people that walk with God were deeply spiritual, and walking with God was like a mystical thing. And it almost was to the point where I couldn't comprehend what it meant to walk with God. And it's this simple. Watch this. Noah walked with God. What does that mean? Verse 13. God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make thee an ark of gopher wood, and he did. And God said of every living thing, bring them into the ark And he did. And God said in verse 21, take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten. Start preparing, start laying up all that food, and get it ready. And so he did. Verse 22, look at it with me. Thus did Noah according to all that God commanded him, so did he. Look at chapter 7 and verse number 5. And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him. That's what it means to walk with God. When God says, here's what I want you to do, you say, okay, Lord. Romans chapter 12 says that God has given every man the measure of faith. That's a gift. Some people take that faith, and because they do not want a God to tell them what to do, they take that faith and they place their faith in atheism. Or they place their faith in their family religion Some people, they hear the gospel and they are convicted in their heart and they know I am a sinner and I am guilty. God, what do you want me to do? Then God gives them the next step. And they take their faith and they place their faith in the revealed truth of the Word of God until eventually God sends them somebody to give them the gospel. And then they take their faith and they place it in the gospel. Romans chapter 1 tells us that that's how we live after we're saved. The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. Like steps. Listen, God has not obligated himself to show us what he wants us to do ten steps down the road. What does God want you to do today And if you just say, Lord, I'll do it. God will give you the next step. And the next step And the next step, listen, people want to jump into their Bible and study eschatology and study the end times and know exactly who Gog and Magog are. And that's fun. There's nothing wrong with that. I would encourage that. But want to skip over what God wants from you today. That's what it means to walk with God. When you get up in the morning, you pray, and you read your Bible, and God speaks to you and says, you know, you have to get a little angry with your wife You need to let the Holy Spirit of God get you under control. Yes, Lord. I'll do it. When we walk by faith, that's what it means to walk with God. When we simply do what he says, and then he can reveal the next step. Now watch this. Look at chapter 7 and verse number 1. Look what he says here. And the Lord said unto Noah, what did he say? Chapter 7, verse number 1, Come thou. Come thou. That is the last command God gave to Noah. Now listen. God gives Noah all these instructions. Do this, and he did it. Do that and he did it. Prepare this and he prepared it. Bring the animals and he brought them. Come and he came. What's God gonna say next? God shut the door. And for the next seven days, nothing happened. For the next seven days, I can imagine all those people were making fun. Oh Noah, what are you doing? Oh Noah, I thought you said God was gonna send rain. Nothing happened. Day number eight. Drit, drit, drit The Bible says the heavens opened. The foundations of the earth were broken. And all those people who didn't get on the ark died. And so now everything they once knew is gone. Their life is totally different. Now they're in a season of silence. They're in a storm. They're isolated. And they're all alone. And listen to this. From Genesis chapter 7, all the way to Genesis chapter 8 and verse number 15, one year and 10 days. God never spoke. Think about that Put yourself in no issues. Lord, where are you? There's no answer. God, you told us to bring food, and I did, but now it's getting low, and there's almost none left. Oh God, where are you? No answer. God hadn't forgotten about Noah. In fact, chapter 8, verse 1 says that God remembered Noah. See that, chapter 8, verse number 1. And God remembered Noah, but God never said anything. God was working. And God was moving in his life. God had not forgotten about Noah. But he never said anything. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever been in a season in your life where you knew I've done everything up until this point that God told me to do. I'm trying to lead my family. I'm trying to live a holy, righteous life. I'm trying to walk with God. And now I'm in a season. Storm, darkness, seems like isolation. This place where I am right now is not sustainable forever. I just haven't heard from God. Have you ever been there? Have you ever read your Bible and thought, you know what, okay, I know what I need to do today. But I just don't feel like God has given me the direction that I need. Just because God hasn't spoken yet doesn't mean God has forgotten you. Listen, when God is ready, when the earth is ready, when you're ready, God will speak again And when he does, it will be so clear. When he does, you will be glad you waited. Listen, we cannot make executive decisions in our lives Just because we haven't heard from God yet. We cannot just do whatever we want to do because we don't know what to do next, and God hasn't given us clear instructions. Listen, didn't God know where Noah was? Doesn't God know where you are? God has brought you this far, and he's not going to leave you alone now. So let us learn by faith to have patience and wait on God until God speaks again. Look at Job. We'll be done. I want to show you one verse. Turn to Job chapter 23. And we'll close with this verse. Job twenty three Verse number eight. See if this sounds familiar. Behold, I go forward. But he is not there. And backward, but I cannot perceive him. On the left hand, where he doth work But I cannot behold him. He hideth himself on the right hand, and I cannot see him. You see that? God is working, but I don't know what he's doing. I don't know what God's up to. I can't stay here forever. God knows. Oh, but look at this, verse 10. But he knoweth. Don't ever forget when you're in that season of isolation, in that season of silence. Don't ever forget that God knows. But He knows the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. When you're in that season of silence, we have got to continue on what God has already said. And one day when God's ready, when you're ready, God will show you the way. Let's not get impatient. I said I was done, and I am. I'm a preacher. I'm allowed to lie. I'm sorry. Listen, listen, Noah, in the story, we know that Noah was getting nervous Because he hadn't heard anything from God. He's responsible to take care of not only his family, but all the animals on the ark. And I can imagine after a year and a half, no matter how much food he brought, it's probably almost gone And we know that he's getting a little nervous and worried because he starts sending out a raven, and then he sends out that dove. That raven didn't come back, it found some dead corpse somewhere to stand on and live on. It's an unclean, filthy bird, but that dove it's a clean, pure bird. He sends it away. Go give me an answer Gets a little impatient. You know what's interesting? God told Noah to bring how many animals on the ark? Two of each kind, except for the clean animals, it was to bring seven. Now wait a minute. He said so they can reproduce and then when God was ready to let them eat animals, they would have clean animals to eat. But you count them, the male and his female, okay, two, four, six, there's three pairs, one extra. Doesn't God know that a pair is two? What's that extra for? God never commanded Noah to give an offering. But God gave him extra, I think, just to see what was in his heart. Because when Noah got off that ark and when God finally spoke again and Noah was so thankful to God, he said, What can I give? I've got extra animals that God told me to bring that are clean, and I can give that as an offering. And that's what he did, except now he no longer has a dove. You ever think about that? That dove never came back after that third time. It was gone forever. Because he got impatient, because he got ahead of God. Now he gave away something that he'll never have back to be able to give to God. I wonder if listen, hasn't God given us so much? Listen, we if you'll stand on the deck of that little Amerindian church building And look at the squalor of the life that those people live. You'll just look up to heaven and thank God for what He's given you. I wonder if God didn't give all of this bounty to us for us. I wonder if God doesn't just give us a little extra to see if we'll take it and give it back to Him. Let's not get impatient and give away the blessings of God to this world because we're trying to do our own thing. Let's wait on God and let Him give us an answer. Let's pray. Father. Thank you for your word. Oh God, thank you for how you've helped my heart through this passage of Scripture. Lord, I pray that you will minister to the hearts of your people. Lord, help us to have faith to stand against this wicked world in the day we're living in. Lord, help us to prepare and to live our lives as if eternity matters. Help us to invest our lives into the cause of eternity. Lord, help us to be faithful in our preaching. Help us, God, to be concerned with the world around us that needs Jesus. Father, I pray that you will help us not to grow impatient just because we haven't heard from you in a while. Lord, please help us to stay faithful and to continue on the words you've already given us. God help us to trust you for the direction when you're ready. God, thank you for this time we could spend together this morning. I pray that you'll bless the invitation in Jesus' name.