Amen. What a good song on uh faith, having faith in God. Very good, ladies. Appreciate that. Genesis chapter six. We're just going to look at verse number twenty-two this evening. I just want to I want to quickly give you uh the thought in this verse that I see and um uh try and give you a little something to chew on, something to challenge us this evening as we look at Noah's great testimony Genesis chapter 2 and uh I'm sorry, Genesis chapter 6 and verse 22. Um does it does it seem a little bit strong? I'm a little afraid to raise my voice. Does it sound okay? How many people say it sounds okay, raise your hand? How many people say it don't sound okay, raise his hand. All right. Majority's got it. Dave, you're the winner. And uh Very good. Genesis 6. 22. Look at this statement here. Look at this verse here. It says, Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he Wow, what a testimony. Um I I I just called it Noah's Great Testimony. Let's pray. And and I I guess I just want to give you a few things to chew on tonight. Father, challenge us now from this statement here that you've preserved for us about Noah. And I pray that you would uh use his testimony to challenge us, Lord. in this matter of obeying you. Fill me with your Spirit, God, and speak through me, I pray. Lord, I just present all to you again this evening. In Jesus' name Name. Amen. Wouldn't this be a great verse to memorize? Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he. What a great verse to teach our children. That whatever God commands us, we need to do. Just doing what God says, following his leadership, and obeying his commands. I would love to have said at my funeral something to this effect. Thus did Pastor Leatherman, according to all that God commanded him, so did he Wouldn't you have that love to have that said about you at your funeral? Wouldn't that be a great thing to put on a tombstone? Thus did so-and-so, according to all that God commanded him, so did he I want to suggest to you that every aspect of victorious Christian living involves faith and obedience. Every aspect of victorious Christian living. I cannot be a victorious Christian if I do not trust God and obey Him. Faith and obedience. I got thinking and just I want to throw this challenge out to you a little bit to think it through and maybe do a little studying on, but uh I see as a major aspect of the judgment seat of Christ. And by the way, I believe every one of us as Christians need to keep in the forefronts of our minds the fact that someday we will stand before Jesus Christ, the judgment seat of Christ. We can't get away from that. We can't forget that. And one of the major aspects of that judgment will be our obedience as Christians. Now, Corinthians makes clear the motives behind those obedience are key factors, but nevertheless Yet we're going to be judged for our obedience as a Christian, not whether we enter heaven or not, but as far as our rewards are concerned, our obedience to God I got thinking. And here's a little question. I don't know that I'm uh I'm going to imply what I think the answer is, but just something that uh you can mull over a little bit and uh challenge yourself with And it's this question, uh is it impossible, is it impossible to disobey God with right motives? To disobey God with right motives, is that even possible? To do wrong with the right motive I don't know. Here's the other side of the question. Is it possible to obey God with wrong motives? The answer to that one to me is much clearer. I think the Pharisees, they did a lot of things that God said, but their motives were wrong. It was to justify themselves. Remember the two men went up to the temple to pray? One was a publican, one was a Pharisee, and the Pharisee said, I don't do this and I don't do that. Oh, he was obeying God. But brother, his motives were wrong The other Pharisees, Jesus said, you tithe of this, that, and the other, and you do this, you don't do that, but you neglect mercy and judgment. He says you ought to do the first things but not leave the second undone. So I think it's possible to obey God with a wrong motive, but I wonder if it's possible to disobey God with right motives. Nevertheless, the Bible says that Noah obeyed God. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him. So did he. Number one, I noticed the tenacity, I put it this way, the tenacity of Noah's obedience. Look at uh here we are. I'm gonna read it again. Maybe we'll have this verse memorized by the end of the message. Um Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he. I drew a line from verse 22 and connected verse 5 of chapter 7. And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him. I noted that verse and I drew a line down to the last part of verse 9. As God had commanded Noah. Then I drew a line over to verse 16, the middle part of the verse. As God had commanded him God says over and over and over and over that Noah did exactly what God commanded him to do. He just kept doing what God said he should do. Just kept at it. Tenacity. Will not quit. God does not ask Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be the biggest church in Garrett County or anywhere else. It's not what he asks us to do. He doesn't ask us to be the best at anything. He doesn't ask us to be the most popular, but God does expect us to obey him. God's not asking you to be the best Sunday school teacher. He's not asking you to be the best busworker. He's not asking you to be the best choir member. Now I think it's good to set a goal to try and be that. But you know what he does expect from us? He expects us to do what he tells us to do. He expects us to obey him and just keep on obeying him. As I study through Scripture, I find that God's highest praise is to those who obey him. God's highest praise is to those who trust him and do what he says. And God's highest praise is to those who just keep right on obeying God. Now here's the challenge. We can start out good. We get saved. We're excited. Everything's new. God's forgiveness. We have this new life. We talked about it this morning. I'm a new creature. Things are different than they've ever been before. I've never been this is I've never been what I am now before. And boy, I want to do everything that God tells me to do. You know where the challenge is to keep that up year after year after year after year after year. To maintain a level of obedience. By all indications, Noah was at least 100 years, probably 120 years, building the Ark. That is a tenacious obedience. Would you agree with me? He just didn't quit. I venture to say some of us, some of us 75 years into it, would have said, I'm tired of this. And ready to drop. Some of us two years into it would have said phee on this. Some folks 119 years into it. Might have said Philly. But Noah just stayed at it. He did exactly what God said, and he kept on obeying them, kept on obeying them, kept on obeying them, kept on obeying them. So the tenacity, some of the hardest parts of obedience I have found, is being obedient consistently and with longevity. I mean just staying obedient for a long time. I tell you, one of the things that thrills my heart, and I've been thinking of it recently. I mentioned this morning, stirred my heart again as I thought of it, is for 50 years this church has been right on the forefront Trying to do what God says. Have we lived up to it all the time? No, I'm sure we haven't. But nevertheless, 50 years later, still trying to get the gospel into all the world. What a testimony. Thank God for it. Would to God, if the Lord doesn't come back 50 years from now, we're still using the same old book, preaching the same old gospel. Still going after countries with the gospel, going into neighborhoods. So I noticed, first of all, his his obedience was tenacious, the tenacity of his obedience. Second of all, I noticed the thoroughness of his obedience. Look again at verse 22. Thus did Noah according to what? All that the Lord uh that God had commanded him. Verse number um five, chapter seven, and Noah did according to unto all that the Lord had commanded them. Look at verse 9. As God had commanded them. That word as there has the idea in accordance with In relationship to, in other words, everything God told him to do, he obeyed. He obeyed that commandment just as God instructed it to him He didn't leave anything undone. God says he's supposed to do it? Do it. Supposed to be these dimensions? He made them those dimensions. Supposed to be this high? Made it that high. One window, he put one window in. I can hear Mrs. Noah saying, you know, it'd be nice to have another window right over there. Well then God said we're supposed to put just a window in and bless God we're just putting one window in. Okay. Can you see it? Oh the ladies are mad at me. But um No picking and choosing on Noah's part. Well, you know, I know God said they're supposed to use shit'em wood, but good night, we've got all this cedar wood here. I know we're supposed to use pitch, but you know, that spray, that that bedliner spray is pretty good stuff. We can spray that on there. And they come out with this new stuff. You can spray your gutters and they won't leak and get a screen door and it'll float like a boat. Noah says, no, no, no. We're going to do it exactly the way God said. And just as Noah had no option If he was going to obey God, he couldn't alter the instructions. Hey, you and I have no right to alter the message. We have no right adding things to or taking things away. Hey, we have no right mixing the world in with what God has told us to do. Thorough. He was t the tenacity of his obedience, the thoroughness of his obedience. Somebody put it this way, partial obedience equals disobedience. I think some Christians need to quit fooling around with this matter of obedience. And take it serious. I think some of us need to just say, hey, listen, we're going to do it the way God said. None of this picking and choosing anymore. None of this convenience Christian. Well, it'll be a lot easier if we just, wait a minute. Did God tell us to do it or not? And so we just need to thoroughly obey God. Number three, I put this down. Notice the timeliness of his obedience. Again, verse number 22. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him. Now I don't think I'm reading into this at all. Notice that his last three words. So did he. Now I don't believe I'm reading into it by suggesting that that implies that he was very prompt in his obedience. God commanded it, so did he. Very timely. I made a statement a minute ago. I quoted, I don't know who came up with this quote. It's true. Partial obedience is disobedience. Can I throw another one out to you? Delayed obedience is disobedience. It implies here, it suggests to me that Noah did exactly what God said, and he did it right away. He didn't dilly-dally around. He got to it. I like the story of Jonah. How many people enjoy that story? It's tragic, but it's amazing. It's sweet and sour story It really is bittersweet. But one thing, years ago, struck me, and I've mentioned this uh over the years in various messages, but one thing struck me When Jonah got to the city of Nineveh, if I understand scripture correctly, it says, looks to me like the whole city got saved. Anybody ever notice that? Looks like the whole city got saved. Historians suggest to us there could have been upwards to a million people in that city. What a revival, Dr. Williams. Can you imagine that? The whole city of Oakland gets saved. Now I'm not suggesting you're anything like John. I'm just saying that would be exciting thing there. Anyway, uh but here's the thing that struck me When God told Jonah to go to Nineveh, did he go immediately? No. He fled. Now we don't know how much time passed from when God initially told Jonah to go to Nineveh till he eventually got there. We know it was at least three days and three nights. Because he was in the belly of a whale that period of time. So we don't know how much time passed from the time he decided said no to go till he ended up in the belly of the whale. We don't know how much time passed from the time he got out of the belly of the whale. till we actually got to Nineveh, but we know it was at least three days. We can probably safely say it was a minimum of a week. Now a city of a million people How many people do you think died and went out into eternity in one week's time? Several hundred? Several thousand? My point is this, by delaying his obedience, by Jonah delaying his obedience, there's most likely several hundreds, maybe thousands Thousands of people died and went out in eternity unsaved because of his disobedience. Noah had the timeliness of his obedience. He obeyed God immediately. Notice, last of all, number four, the testimony of his obedience 2 Peter 2. 5 tells us that Jonah, I knew I was going to do that, Noah was a preacher of righteousness. This entire time, Noah was preaching the righteousness of God. But not only was he preaching the righteousness of God, he was building an ark. He was obeying God. In other words, his obedience in building the ark was a testimony to the truth of his message. If he's out there on those street corners or in the city halls or wherever he is preaching or folks coming by as he's going about his daily work building this thing. And he's telling them a flood's coming. God's going to judge us. Everybody's going to die. Their only hope is to get on an ark that God's instructed me to build. If he's saying this, and he's not simultaneously building the ark. His words are empty words. It's meaningless. But by him actually there and people going by and seeing This ark being built, very specific directions, and and he's doing this. And they say, why are you doing this? God told me to, because there's a flood coming His obedience gave testimony to the reality of his message. The people of Noah's day had a two-edged message. Two-edged message They had the message from Noah's lips, but they also had the message from Noah's life. Not just what he said, but what he was doing. His words, get this, his words explained his actions, and his actions verified his words. Why do you live your life like that? Why do you go to church Sunday morning and Sunday night? Why do you read your Bible? Why are you why are you not not doing this and why are you doing that? Why why how come you don't cuss and everyone else does I'll tell you why, because Jesus Christ is my Savior. I'm a sinner. These things displease God. Brings his judgment. Jesus died for me. He gave me new life. My actions, my words explain my actions, and my actions verify that what I'm saying is true What if I go out there, I cuss like everyone else and go to all the places I uh go to church, maybe or not, it's just hit and miss and whatever, never read my Bible, never do any of that Then I tell folks, you know, Jesus is the Savior of the world. He wants to save you and give you a new life, a wonderful life. And folks will say, wow, yours isn't any different than mine I have no actions to verify my message. And so the testimony of his obedience, the fact that he was doing what God told him to do. gave testimony that what he was saying was actually true. I think some of us need to take this matter of obedience very, very seriously I really do. Can I say this? My greatest regrets in life, and I can look back, and maybe perhaps no doubt you can also I can look back and I can see certain points in my Christian life, and my greatest regrets have been the times I disobeyed God. Without a doubt, I wished I'd obeyed God in that situation. I wished I'd obeyed God in this decision. A greater Regrets. I could never build an ark. Are you kidding? I can't even build a chair. Anybody ever see anything I try to put together or do? It's a disaster, Tom. I could never build an ark. But I'll tell you what I can do. I could never build an ark like Noah did. But I'll tell you what I can do. I can obey God. Noah did. God didn't command me to build an ark. But I God has commanded me to be a witness. God has commanded me to share the gospel with every person I uh I I couldn't I couldn't gather figure out a way to gather food together, last a year on a boat and take care of I could never figure that. If it was up to me, those animals would died two weeks into it. They didn't ever I couldn't do that. But I can obey God. I can do what He's told me to do. We can be just as obedient to God as Noah was. We can Do according to all that God has commanded us. We can do that. We can obey Him. What has God commanded us to do? He's commanded us to be faithful, right? He's commanded us to love not the world, neither things that are in the world. He took command us to separate from the world. He's command us to love one another. He's commanded us to take the gospel to every creature. He's commanded us to go into the highways and hedges, tell others about Christ. It's commanded us to do that. Now we either take that seriously and obey them or we disobey them. That's what it comes to down to. And my challenge, and what God's challenged me is let's obey God. Let's obey God. If and and this is me, this is just me throwing this, injecting this in here If our church doesn't do anything else, we have got to take the gospel to the lost people in our community. We're to go into all the world and I say amen. And God's led us to adopt Kazakhstan and thank God for it and what a tremendous challenge that is for us, an act of faith. And I appreciate that's leadership. But wait a minute. We cannot let the ends of the world overshadow our neighborhoods. And if we we've got to get to our neighborhoods, we've got to get out and share the gospel. It cannot just be James and I going out and knocking on doors. It has to be we as a church, we must obey God. So we can't be the biggest, we don't have to be the biggest, we don't have to be the best, we don't have to be the most popular. We don't we can't build an ark, we have to, but we can Obey God. Whatever God's told us to do, let's take that seriously and do it. Amen. Father in heaven,