Take your Bible, if you will, and turn to Zechariah. Zechariah Chapter 4. Zechariah chapter 4. Yeah, in Old Schofields on page 968, preacher. So that you know which page page on. You don't have a school field now that you have to look it up then. Go to the index. We just have one verse we want to read, and uh you've heard it before. And it's a good one. It's found in verse six, where the Word of God says in Zechariah chapter four and verse six. Then he answered, and he spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord, and is the rebel, saying Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit Saith the Lord of hosts. Heavenly Father. Now as we uh embark upon this uh particular message, We ask you, Lord, if you'd just make your presence known here by the expounding of the Word of God. Or do we We come to the place in our life, Lord, where we we realize that uh all of our wisdom and and all of our own physical powers and abilities that we have. are just not enough to accomplish the things of God. Sometimes it takes us a long time to learn the lesson, but we've finally figured out that it's not by might or by power that we have within ourselves But it's just by your Spirit that you accomplish the purposes that you have for us. So here tonight, Lord, there's folks out here with needs in their life. Some of them are spiritual needs, some physical, some I don't know. Just probably uh as many different people as there are, there's uh individual needs that they have. And uh I pray that you would help them, Lord, to uh realize that uh that if anything's going to be accomplished in their life On their behalf, it's going to be through your spirit. I ask you, Lord, to fill me in tonight with your spirit. You've told us that we need that filling. Be not drunk with wine where it is successful, but be filled with the Spirit of God. And I ask you tonight, or I I humbly, as best I know how, empty myself and ask you to fill me and use me tonight to bring honor to you and your word. And may the Spirit of God just speak to individual hearts, do a work here in a special way tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. We don't I don't think we have any idea Of how important it is for us to recognize the need of the Spirit of God in our life on a daily basis. If you're anything like me, you have a tendency to just get up in the morning and just kind of rush through the day. And many times, and I must confess, many times, I start the day off, and somehow or another I get lost in the things that I have to do. And miss the most important thing that I could do that day. And that is ask God to fill me with the Spirit of God. And to lead me that day. The Bible says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the children of God. If you're a child of God, you ought to have that desire already built in and ready to go every every moment of every day. The tragedy is that because of our because of our chronality, because of our our uh How can I say it? Okay, carnality. That's a good word. It means fleshly minded. In other words, we tend to the things of the flesh or or we yield to the desires of the flesh. So you know the lust of the mu the eyes and And uh yeah and uh and the proud of life and somewhere in there is another one. Say that out loud. Lust of the flesh. Lust of the uh the eyes, lust of the flesh, the pride of life. Uh those things kind of get in the way, don't they? And the next thing you know, why we've we've uh gone through most of the day without the leadership of the Holy Spirit in our life. If there's anything going to be accomplished this week, it's not by power, not by might, nor by power, but it's by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. And I'm going to challenge you tonight to make that a point the rest of this week. Say, Lord, we don't want just another meeting. We want your spirit to lead in this thing. We want your spirit to dominate in this thing. We want your spirit to work in lives. We want to see the changes as a result of the working of the Spirit of God We can rationalize change in our mind. We can come up with our own ideas of what can make things great and what can make things go and what can make things grow. But unless the Spirit of God is in it, you're going to be just like the nation of Israel that one day they was getting ready to fight this big battle against the Philistines, and they said, what we need is to bring the ark. That's supposed to be the presence of God. Let's bring the ark into the middle of the battle and uh and we'll just charge hell and really tear them all to pieces. And that's what they did. They grabbed their ark and wheeled that thing in like it was some magical potion that they could uh dump on the enemy and expected everything to go well and And what took place, do you remember what the story was? The Philistines looked at and they said, Hey, they brought the ark into the midst of their army He said, quit you like men. In other words, don't quit. Fight to the end. Go all out. The Philistines won the battle, took the ark. But see, that's what happens whenever we rely upon our uh the physical things of life, the temporal, when we rely upon our own abilities and our own uh talents to get us through. Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. God wants to listen Throughout the Old Testament, we see pictures of of how uh God wanted things to be We see it in the very first book in the Bible where Adam and Eve, after God had created them, waited patiently every afternoon for God to come by and just say, How are you doing, Adam? And say going, Lord, we're just really enjoying this place, man. Have you got any more like this anywhere? No, this is it. That's what God wants. God wants to have the ability to spend time with you personally and say, hey It's all yours. You have dominion. I've given you dominion through the power of the Holy Spirit, not by my nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. It's God wanting to work through us in a special way. We can see it uh when when the nation of Israel One of the first things they did when they got uh uh uh freed from uh uh from Egypt was that uh they built a tabernacle God gave the direction to Moses, I'm going to give you a pattern of things. It's a pattern of a tabernacle in heaven. And I want you to build according to the pattern. And uh whenever you build according to the pattern, I got a surprise for you And so they got all the materials together and people gave willingly, the Bible says. They put all the materials together and according to the the the pattern Of the one in heaven, they built the Ark of the Covenant. They built the, I'm sorry, the tabernacle that had the Ark of the Covenant in it, which represented the the uh uh presence of God And what was the purpose of it? Well, let's find out. Let's just read about it. It's over in the book of uh, I believe it's in the book of Exodus there. And uh I'm looking at uh uh some of the last verses. In fact, I'm looking at verse 33. They had spent all this time. Everything was put together right. The uh the high priest had been anointed, and everything has been set up, and and now the Bible says in verse 33 of the last chapter of the book of Exodus. That'll be an easy one for you to find, Pastor. And in verse 33, it says this. And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and he set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work. So here is here's the tabernacle. And all the the furniture that's inside of it, the Ark of the Covenant and the Holy of Holies there, and everything is is all set up and Moses finished it. And something wonderful happened. Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation. The glory of the Lord filled the temple or the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud abode there and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Wow. Well, that must have been a sight. That must have been some excitement. But wait a minute. Let's fast forward. Let's go to another place where we hear those same words. It says, Moses finished the work. And I hear from the cross of Calvary, it is finished. And then something marvelous happened. And through the events of the day, all at once there was a resurrection from the dead, as the Lord Jesus rose again for our justification. Presented his blood before the Father in heaven. But then something miraculous happened. A little period of time. All at once the disciples were in a in a in a uh in a Pentecost. And what happened? Flames of fire set up on their head. The Holy Spirit came in a great rushing wind, mighty wind, and filled that place. Do you see the do you see the correlation? What is it that God wants more than anything else? He wants to be with his people. In Israel, he wanted to be with his people. That was what the tabernacle was for. When the New Testament came along, what's the purpose? The purpose is found over in the book of John. Go with me if you will. The book of John. Now I'm looking here and I gotta get a drink of water, my mouth. Mexican food does that to me. Just drives me out. I'm looking in in uh uh John chapter. Let's see, I thought I was in chapter one. I was thinking about chapter one. No, that's that's all right. Okay. Mm-hmm. Just talk to each other till I find it. That's the only thing I know to do, folks. My mind is racing now. When it does that, I trip myself up and I can't remember what I'm what I'm supposed to be looking for. That's silly. Here's what it is. Oh, it was found over. Okay. It's just gotta make its rounds. I don't know why it is, but if it misses the first time through, it has to make a complete circle and then, you know. It's like it's like reboot it rebooting your computer. Yeah. Everything's going around, but it'll get there eventually. What I'm thinking about, I thought sure I had that marked. You don't do this whenever you're whenever you it's your turn, you don't do this kind of stuff. You write it down in your hand there where you can look down there and get a glimpse of it. It's found over in uh in uh chapter 14, verse 20. It says that, and at that day you shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me, and I in you. Now what's he talking about? You recognize the 14th chapter of John, don't you? Where he says, uh, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. Not so I would have told you. And he goes on, he talks about him going away. The disciples' hearts are broken. He says, wait a minute. I want you to understand something. I'm not going to leave you alone. I'm going to send you another comforter. And another comforter is speaking of another one just like him. And he's not going to be with you. He's going to be in you. Wow. That's what God's been wanting to do all along. From the book of Genesis all the way through the Old Testament. That's what he wanted to do. And at Pentecost the Spirit of God came and filled them. Peter gets up and preaches that mighty sermon, and thousands walk the aisle and trust Christ as their Savior. The Spirit of God is not by might nor by power, but it's by my Spirit, saith the Lord And God wants to do that with every one of us. He wants us to just simply yield ourselves and allow him to work through us. What our problem is we're so busy about all the things around about us that it keeps our minds going in the wrong direction We get in our car, the first thing we do is turn on the radio and start the music or start the, you know, the talk show hosts or whatever it is we listen to. And we stop the car and get out and go into the house and we turn on the TV and or the radio and we get things going there. And perhaps you're one of those spiritual ones and you turn on the radio and you listen to uh what is it, eighty seven point nine or 887, I knew it was there somewhere. And and that's good because that's an input of good things, and that's what you want. But I'm just saying what God is after is what he's talked about here in in John chapter 14. He says, I I'll I'll send another comforter And that comforter, if you know Christ is your Savior, is living within. And there's a purpose for him being there. It's not just to make you feel good. It's not to make you raise your hands and speak in some unknown tongue. That's not what he's there for. He's there for a purpose And it's mentioned there in the book of Acts, where it's when the Holy Spirit came upon them, there was a reason for it. So that they would be witnesses. All around in the world and j you know slip my mind again. But you know what I'm talking about. The Spirit of God has worked for us. Number one, he wants us to be saved. And the Spirit of God is working in the lives of people today. To see them get saved. It takes both things, the Holy Spirit and the Word of God, to born an individual into the family of God. It's through the hearing of the word that God uses the Spirit to deal with people's hearts. Salvation is a work of the Spirit of God through the Word of God In the Bible, there's many things that are a type of the Spirit of God. You see it in the Old Testament, the oil The anointing oil, picture of the Spirit of God. There was oil in the in the can at the uh candlesticks and in the in the tabernacle, picture of the Holy Spirit. Wind. When Jesus spoke to Nicodemus. Do you remember what he said? He said, the wind bloweth where it listeth and Thou hearst the sound thereof, but thou canst tell where it cometh or goeth. But And what's that what's that next part? And the verse slipped my mind once again. One thing about when you get older, you can blame it on that. You blame them on on getting on. But it's just uh just I just need to remember it again. He said, The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, and thou canst tell whether whence it cometh or whither it goeth, and so is everyone that is born of the Spirit So the Spirit of God is there working in this matter of salvation. That's the picture, the wind of the Spirit of God. There's another picture back in the first chapter of John. It talks about the dove ascending upon the Lord Jesus. And that's a picture of the Spirit of God. And then there's another one. And it's water. And in chapter 4, John chapter 4 and John chapter 7, it gives the type there. So if you'll just slip over there quickly with me In John chapter four, he says, remember he met the woman at the well? And they're they're talking back and forth and finally uh finally he says uh Jesus answered, and he said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But in verse 14 it says, But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Now, the picture that I have of that well of water springing up into everlasting life It's like an artisan well that's it's just bubbling water out constantly. Just forever. It just keeps bubbling out It's that cool, clear, that comes from the the deepest part of the earth where it's cool down there and that water comes bubbling out and it it's so refreshing. It just it just It not just takes care of that thirst, but it it gives you that an exuberant feeling because it's so fresh and cool. That's the Holy Spirit. Whenever the Spirit of God has full reign in your life, He gives you a comfort and a peace and an excitement about life itself. And there's where many of us, I think, have fallen short. We've not allowed the the Spirit of God to do that And water is also a cleansing cleansing agent. And so it has a way of not only giving you a zest for life, but it also has a a cleansing ministry in your life also. You see, the Spirit of God has so many different things that He uh wants to do in your life He wants to give you an attitude of assurance about the salvation that you have. He wants to give you the promise of security. Where he talks about being sealed till the day of redemption. Be not uh nope, that's the wrong one. But uh the uh The security of the Holy Spirit is that sealing work that He does in your life. Whenever a person trusts Christ as a Savior, uh he seals you to the day of redemption. And that that should be good enough for anybody to know that you can't lose your salvation. It's something that God gives you and that He's the one that has to take it away. You can't lose it And he doesn't take it away. That's because he's promised to keep you. The day of redemption Spirit of God. He uses it in salvation. He uses it to stabilize your life and give you a happiness that he He wants you to have that abundant life. That abundant life includes a happiness and peace that many t many are not not having. We live in a chaotic world. There's no question about that. There's wars and rumors of wars, and there's uh, you know, there's uh one race against another, and there's parties against parties, and And you know, we we live in a in a time when uh the world is just so chaotic. But in the midst of all the chaos, we can have the peace that passes all understanding. And that's due to the Spirit of God. With there's a a bubble of peace that we can step into that cuts the world out and allows us to Not just ignore it and and play like it's not there. That's not it's it's not a uh stick your head in the sand like a like an ostrich. That's not what we're talking about But we're talking about an inner peace that the Spirit of God can give that individual who will just say, you know, I know that you're here for a purpose, and I'm just going to let you work your purpose out of my life. Stability. Salvation, stability, security. By the way, that's found in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 13. Talks about being sealed to the day of redemption. Ephesians 4. 30, being sealed. And then finally, if you want if you want real success, there has to be a yielding. To the Spirit of God, not by might nor by power, but my spirit, saith the Lord. In John chapter 14, we've already talked about some of this. But in verses 16 through 20, it says this. He says, I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter that he may He may abode with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, and neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. And of course, that took place at Pentecost. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me because I live, and ye shall live also. At that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. Wow. That verse, every time I read it, there's just something about it that jumps out. And and speaks to my heart. He that hath my uh commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved by my father, and I'll love him and and will uh manifest myself in him. Judas saith unto him, Not a Scariot Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself to us and not into the world? Jesus answered and he said unto him, If a man love me, he'll keep my words, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him. and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and a word which ye uh hear is not mine, but the Father which sent me These things have I spoken to you, being yet present with you. So here was the promises that he gave. That the Spirit of God would live within the individual. And then over in the book of Ephesians, in chapter 19, chapter 3, verse 19. He was starting to wonder what version I was in doing. Excuse me. It says this And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that Jasper think, according to the power that worketh in us, and to him be glory. in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end, amen. What I wanted was that last phrase in chat in verse 19, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Look over in chapter five and verse eighteen. Verse eighteen it says, and be not drunk with wine, where is excess? But be filled with the Spirit of God. What is the purpose of the filling of the Spirit of God anyway? Well, I know one thing. It's so that you might bear fruit. And in the book of Galatians, it talks about the fruit of the Spirit. And it also talks about The power of witnessing in our life. And that is all dependent upon the Spirit of God working in your life and working in the lives of those to whom you're witnessing to. Holy Spirit. Given it for a purpose. To provide a salvation. To take care of the stability in an unstable world. To give us the security and also to make us successful Christians, that we might bear fruit, so that one day we might get some uh gold and silver and precious stones instead of the wood, hay and stubble that you get when you try to do things By the flesh, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. Heavenly Father Now we go into this time of searching our heart. What is it you want us to do, Lord? Do I need to be down here at the psalter? Do I need the a filling of my have I tried to hide some things under the rug and and uh you've searched them out and Well what do I need to do? God, I pray that uh right now that people will just be uh looking at their self through your eyes. I pray that uh the Spirit of God would have control of this service right now and get honored himself in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. If we can have the lights out, we'll show this chalk drawing. They had an effect. For those who are situated in the back, maybe that would be a little difficult to discern. Is the Lord Jesus with a water pot? He's pouring out the water. The water of the Word? Yeah? But tonight, the running water speaks of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit that wants to bubble up in your life and everlasting life. You're here tonight. Have you trusted Christ as your Savior? Do you know beyond a shadow doubt if you was to die right now? The death angel will knock at your door, and you answer, and he escorts you off into eternity. Is it going to be demons or angels that escort you to your destination? Have you ever thought about that? It's going to be a scary time if you're not saved. I don't have to worry about that, because in 1962 I trusted Christ as my Savior, and the Bible tells me, and I have the promise from the Word of God. That to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. So I know that when I when I die that immediately I'll be with the Lord Jesus. I'll see him face to face. And he'll escort me to that place he's been preparing for 2,000 years. That's amazing, isn't it? It's all because of who lives within that has secured my salvation. I never had to worry about it. The day that I got saved and understood the matter of salvation, that it was something that God gives that you receive, not that you work for. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. Nope, it was something that he just freely offered And I snatched it up. I said, yeah, that's what I need right there. Change my life and you'll change yours. Are you allowing the Spirit of God to work in your life tonight? How about it, Christians? You need to you need to talk to yourself. The Bible says we're not to grieve the Spirit of God. We disobey God. When we disobey known truth, that grieves the Spirit. That tells me something about the Spirit. That is, he's a person. He's not just a force, just not just a thing. Back years ago, I used to go to the magazine rack. And there on the magazine rack when I was a teenager, there was a magazine. It was Marvel. I was thinking it was Marvel Comics, but I don't think that was it. But the guy I was looking for was a kid named Billy Batson. And uh he would say, Shazam. And when he said Shazam, he turned in the Captain Marvel, all the muscles and everything that went with it. Well, that's not that's not the the kind of power that Jesus gives. When you trust him the Savior The Spirit of God, not just a force, but a person, moves into your life, takes up his abode in your life. And there he seals you to the day of redemption and gives you a peace that passes all understanding. If right now you're you're living in a in a an awful place You're worried about this and you're worried about that and you're stressed about this and your job is tearing you up and you're just your kids are getting on your nerves and just uh a thousand or one things are just overwhelming you What you need is the peace of God that passes all understanding, and I can tell you that God has that peace available, and it's through the person. Of the Holy Spirit. It's not by power nor by might, it's by my spirit, saith the Lord. Our Father, now as we go into this invitation, get honored to yourself in Christ's name. Amen and amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed.