Daniel chapter one, Daniel chapter one. I'm gonna switch over to this mic. Um Daniel chapter number one Daniel chapter number one And uh we're going to uh start in uh in verse number one, and uh it says, In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, under Jerusalem, and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God, which he carried into the land of Sinar. to the house of his God. And he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his God. And the king spake um unto Asanaz, the master of the eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and the king's seed, and of the princes. Children whom there is no blemish, but well favoured and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such had the ability in them to stand in the king's palace and whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans. And the Lord appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank, so nourishing them three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Now among these were the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave the names, for he gave unto Daniel the name Beltishar, and unto Hananiah Shadrach And unto Meshel of Meshach, and unto Azariah of Abendigo. And Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested the princely eunuchs that he might himself that he might not defile himself Now God had brought Daniel in favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs, and the Prince of the Eunuch said unto Daniel, I fear my Lord uh the your king, or the king, who hath appointed me your meat and your drink For why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your sort? Then he shall make me in danger my head to the king Then Daniel said unto Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had set over Daniel, Haniah, Mishael, and Azariah, Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days, and let them give us pulse to eat and water to drink. Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, that the countenance of the children that eat of a portion of the king's meat, as thou seest, deal with thy servants. So he consented them in this matter and proved them ten days. And at the end of the ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which should eat the portions of the king's meat. Thus Mozar took away the portion of their meat and the wine that they should drink and gave them pulse. And for these four children God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom And Daniel had understanding in all his visions and dreams. What I want to talk to you about tonight is um is uh kind of a play on this story. A little bit we could go to uh we could go to Um the three Hebrew children at the fiery furnace and find a very similar story. This the uh same characters, except the difference is um they at one point they were said, Hey, you were supposed to eat this meat, and they said no Because it goes against um our God's law. And the other time it says, hey, you need to sit you need to bow down and worship um this uh golden statue when we say you do, and they said, No, because it goes against our God's law And the title of tonight's sermon, I rarely say the title, which always gets me in trouble with these sound people, because they're like, what should I name this? And I'm always like, oh no. I don't know. But uh here's but uh the title of tonight's sermon is You can't sell what isn't yours. You can't sell what isn't yours. Um if we uh go to uh everyone if you could turn to uh first Corinthians chapter number six, I just want to give you a couple verses and uh we'll be quick tonight. I have uh my teenagers in here and uh And they're being good so far, and they're going to continue to be good because they uh they're great kids. Um and uh and that means they'll survive and it's wonderful. But um 1 Corinthians chapter number 6. I'm going to point out two verses here instead of reading through the whole thing. First Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 12 says this. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any Then we're going to go down to verse 20, 1 Corinthians 6, 20, it says this. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. What I want to talk to you about tonight is that you can't sell what isn't yours. Now uh um if you're wondering, um selling something that uh isn't yours is called fraud. Uh and it's illegal. And you shouldn't do it. I um But there are three areas in your life that I really want to uh that I really want to cover. First of all, is the fact that you belong to God. You belong to God. If you're saved, then Christ bought you. If you're saved in Christ's body now now to be fair, Christ play paid the price for everyone, but only certain people Only certain people uh are his because they choose to be his. It's a lot like the uh servant in uh in Exodus 21 and uh verse 2. If you want to turn there, Exodus 21. It's a lot like that, because here's the thing, every he would he paid for everyone. He paid for everyone. But that doesn't make everybody his because he gives us free will. You see, the one the re one of the reasons that I believe that the punishment of hell is so great for unbelievers is because Christ paid for them and they decided not to accept it. And that is a great insult to God. Um I've uh I've been at uh events where someone paid for me to go. And the hardest time ever of not going to something is someone's already paid for you. Isn't it if someone's like they're like hey you should go to this and they're like I don't really want to and they're like but we paid for you and you're like well now I have to You see except Christ knew you needed this Christ knew that he wants to go to hell, so he paid for your life, he paid for your service through his blood for your sins, and wipe that um away if you'll accept it. Now, now that we're um hopefully we're all at ex Exodus twenty-one, it says this. If thou buy an Hebrew servant six years he shall serve, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself. If he were married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gave him a wife, then And she have borne sons or daughters, the wife and children shall be her masters, and he shall go out by himself. If a servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children, I will not go out free. Then his master shall bring unto him the judges, he shall also bring unto him the door, or unto the po sorry, and his master shall bring him unto the judges. He shall also bring him to the door, or the door post, and his master shall bore an ear through with an all, and he shall serve him forever. Let me just explain that if you've never heard that story. When uh slavery was a lot different than we think of it in uh biblical times, a man could sell himself, or often was sold, to pay a debt. And the Bible says at the end of seven years, the man would go free. But if the man had a wife and he had kids and the wife was given to him by the master, then the wife still belonged to the master, and the wife and kids stayed with the master even when the serv uh when the slave went free. But if the man loves his master, and the man loves his wife and kids, he can choose to continue to serve the master forever, and then that was marked by him uh taking his ear and getting uh a hole put through it saying this belongs to this man and he shall serve him forever. This is not an act of cruelty. This is not an act of um of something unwillingness. This is actually a picture of Christ with us. Listen, we sell ourselves. We give up our rights when we become a Christian. It's not something that's preached about very often because we want people to get saved. But when we accept Christ as our Lord and Savior, that means He is our Lord, not just our Savior. And whether we like to admit it or not, you owe yourself to God because He paid for you. Period. So you are not your own. And yet we oftentimes try to sell what isn't ours. And I have three areas where we try to sell ourselves, and uh and uh then we'll be done. Your moral stance is not yours to sell. Your moral stance is not yourself. I'm going to try to be quick tonight, but I think it's very important to point out that um whether we believe in something Or whether we don't believe in something, or whether we say, or whether we agree or disagree with what the Bible says on certain social issues, is not up to us. It is purely up to God. I don't I don't like to preach against um about against hot topics mostly because they uh because a lot of the people I'm preaching to have no problem with it. But here's something that people do have a problem with. In Christianity and everywhere. Um We look at uh it uh homosexuality. And and I would and I would venture to guess that that almost no one here has dealt dealt with that sin. But one sin that I that I guarantee you have dealt with Is whether or not to condone homosexuality. That's a different sin. One is saying Uh one one is a sin that you deal with that you struggle with and the other one is saying, well do I agree with God or don't I agree with God? Do I stand up for God's word or don't I or stand up for God's word? And the problem is, is you might spell your name and say, Well it's not that bad, it's just their choice. Now I am glad to live in a free country. And you know what, in in my personal opinion, whatever someone does in the privacy of their home is there is between them and God. Now I'm not saying God doesn't care because he does. That's why he's in that equation right there But it's not my it's not my I I don't believe in uh in uh and neither does pastor even though uh news articles have said differently, I don't believe in hurting homosexuals because that's not my job. But we need to stand up for God's word. Not with a cruel spirit, but you know what? God's pretty plain about it. Here's just a couple of verses for you. Genesis 2, 23-24, Hebrews 13, 4 through 7, Matthew 19, 4 through 5, Leviticus 18. 22. There's also a passage in Romans where it deals with it. And those were just on marriage and how it's between a man and a woman. Not even uh not even just the act the actual um act of uh of sodomy You see, God is clear. And when we say, well, the Bible isn't clear, we are selling ourselves because we are selling our moral stance. And we're selling out. We're saying, hey, hey, you want my mortal sense? You know what? You can have it. I'll trade you this for that. Political parties do this all the time, by the way. They're like, alright, if I if I make the gays happy, maybe I can get a couple of them to vote for vote for me. It never works, but they but Republicans do it. And so they always sell their moral stance. They always won't say what they actually believe or not actually believe. And Christians are the same way. You know, it's harder to tell someone that homosexuality is wrong who is a homosexual. I've been there. And it's incredibly awkward. And I didn't preach it at her, because there's two ways to deal with this. You can preach at someone. But usually that in that includes you passing judgment on them. You can preach to someone or you can just tell them what the Bible says. Listen, the Bible says homosexuality is wrong. Doesn't gonna hate you. And that's wrong too. That's what it says. Don't get off that topic. Um I was trying to accumulate death threats um on the radio set. But views on fornication. You know We can blame homosexuality for a host of things, but it isn't near as bad as just how um how heterosexual or straight people have let the family fall apart. That's way more destructive to our country. Like a hundred times more destructive to our country. Sure, it's easy to pick on someone because you don't struggle with that sin. But the moment you struggle with the sin, you try to protect it. And sometimes you make an excuse for it. I don't know how many people have made excuses for adultery, but they do it all the time. I don't know how many people make excuses for other types of fornication, but they do it all the time, and the Bible is clear. 1 Corinthians 6. 18, just the middle of where we started, says this: flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. The Bible is clear, but are we? What are we? You find out someone someone isn't I'm going to be uh tactful here, but you find out someone Is is uh is not committing adultery, but committing fornication with uh with their boyfriend or girlfriend. Do you say anything? I'm not saying you should, I'm not saying you shouldn't, but but you condone it. I'm not saying everyone you see that uh you I'm not saying you should ever it again, you should it is not your job to pass judgment on people. That's God's job. But it is your job to tell people what the Bible says. And if someone asks you, it's certainly your job. And I'm talking to myself here too. This is not an easy thing to deal with. None of the things I'm bringing up are easy for me to to take. These moral stances are hard when you're staring someone in the face who's committing it. Listen. I'm gonna talk to them real quick. You guys can listen. I'm gonna talk to them. Boys and girls. And that's all there is. So, boys and girls, listen to me. Do not touch one another. before marriage because the Bible says not to. I know it's a hard thing for you to understand because you're young and because I'm old and I obviously don't understand what it was like for me six years ago. Alright? Obviously I was never a teenager. Crystal, were you a teenager? She was never a teenager. Well I've been I was born old, I was born with a beard. Most people don't know that. But But and a hairy back, which is gross. Um the doctor pulled me out and he was like, ah, what is that? Tiny other werewolf. Anyways, but listen to me. Listen to me real quick Holding hands is cute. I understand. It's like, oh yeah, but I'm in the church man, I'm gonna hold hands. And the pastor can't see me because he can't. Your friends rat on you, by the way, if anything happens. I know this because they've ratted. And then you get talking to, and you know who you are. Um but uh They're like, oh, oh, if I brush up against them a little too hard I'm sorry, adults, I know that you don't deal with this, but if I brush up against them a little too hard, oh You know why God says not to for uh men are not to touch women when they're not married? Because no one's ever committed fornication. Without first doing that. Ever. Listen, y you know what? I understand that you're like, oh it's just a kiss. And by the way, I've smelt teenagers. Why would you ever want to kiss a teenager? Ever. Their breath is awful. But no one's ever committed fornication. No one's ever gotten pregnant outside of marriage without first kissing Sorry guys. It's a fact. And here's the thing. So before I say, and you know it's hard to take a mortal stance to you teenagers about that, because again, I was in your shoes not that long ago Shh. But it I wasn't I was there not that long ago. And it's tough. You know what? Don't do it. The Bible says what is wrong is wrong. Period. You don't belong to you, so you can't sell your body. Whether it be to adultery, homosexuality, or fornication, you don't belong to you. You belong to God, so quit selling things that aren't yours. Now, let's move on. Another uh moral stance that we often take is the Bible. Oh man, it's tough. Sometimes when you're talking with someone who you figure is a little bit more intelligent than you, you change your stance on the Bible. Mm? Has anyone ever done that? Maybe I'm the only one. It's okay if you haven't. I'm glad you haven't. You know you're talking someone, and you're not as hard on the fact on certain facts in the Bible. You're like, well it could mean a number of things when you You know full well what it means. Well you say that because you either want to look intelligent or you don't want to offend someone. The Bible says what it says, and just because you're not retranslating it into the, you know Whatsoever trans new translation something. Just because you're not translating the Bible, if you're taking out of the Bible in your speech, it's kind of the same thing, guys. In fact it is the same thing. When you say, well the Bible says I know it says this, but you're selling something that sure isn't yours, and that's the Bible. But your moral stance is not the only thing we sell, unfortunately. Your actions aren't your to sell. True, your moral stance is where you take a stand, that's not yours itself. But your actions are completely not yours because God says that you're supposed to live as a living sacrifice. Which means, by the way, a living sacrifice Is uh, you know, if I was to sacrifice a goat, never done it, but if I was, um, I don't even own a goat. Um, kinda want one though. Like a little pygmy goat. You guys ever seen those? Little tiny pygmy goats are like this big? I'll just follow me around, I'll call him Bucky. Anyways, but uh if you have a little but you have a goat, I say sacrifice a goat, you know what, after I kill that goat, guess what it and it becomes a sacrifice because I killed it. You know what I can do with that goat? You can eat it Good barbecued, I could eat it. Um we're going very f but you know I was gonna I can move it around. I can do puppet shows with it. Um you wanna know why? Because it's dead. It doesn't care. And when God wants to move us, when God tells us what to do, we should not care how we feel about something. We should care how God feels about something. And I'm going to preach on four different things right here with your actions. You know the first action is love. Go to 1 John chapter 4. 1 John chapter 4. I love this verse. First John chapter four, verses seven and eight. And by the way But we're about to discuss love, and I said your actions aren't yours, and the first thing that I think you're called to do is love. Because God said the first greatest commandment obviously was towards him, but the second greatest commandment was to love your neighbor as yourself and everybody as your neighbor, no matter who they are You see, this is why when I say that I don't that um that uh and and we can get to this in a in a second, I'll just mention it. But the reason that I say that you should not be mean to people because they're struggling with the sin, but you should tell them your stance is because cruelty is not love. Truth, honesty, that is love. But cruelty is never love. You see, it says, um, beloved, let us love one another. For the love of God or for the love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not Know it's not God, for God is love. If you don't love people, if your general attitude is to hate people, is to demean people, is to be cruel to people, is not to help people, you are missing the first basic step after salvation of Christianity which is love people period love people Listen, no if you can help not again like I'm saying hurting people, no matter how it is, is against i and I Hurting people purposefully with just the intent to hurt someone, whether it be gossiping about them, whether it being um insulting them with just the intent to hurt that individual with in absolutely no other reasoning behind it other than just, you know what, I'm mad at them, I'm gonna hurt them. That is the opposite of love. And I will again I'm preaching because I'm also preaching to teenagers. Listen, teenagers do it all the time, but adults do it all the time. Listen, I've gotten caught away where I think I'm funny and I keep insulting someone and I feel bad about it. And hopefully I go and apologize about it. But there is a fine line between doing what needs to be done, saying what needs to be said, and then inserting your own vile, sinful, hateful opinion as well. And remember, and this is the next this is not the next point, but I'll just go here. Judging is dangerous. God says that how you judge people. And how you forgive people is how you will be judged, is how you will be forgiven. Let's be a little careful. Again, I'm saying stand for truth, but be careful judging people because I don't If it's me, I want God to forgive me of my sins as easily as possible. So if someone has wronged you, You go, oh man, I hate that I'm mad at that person. I can't believe they did that. Think about this. If someone has wronged you, and got and you know that God's gonna judge you how you judge the other person, meaning that to the level, to the extent, to the amount of mercy you have God knows. So before you go and just rip into Ethan because he did something stupid, go wait, wait, wait. If I was Ethan and I did this against God, how do I how do I want him to take it? You know, nine times out of ten, and by nine I mean ten times out of ten, you're like, you know, I wish God would be a little merciful to me. So have mercy. Love people, have mercy. James 4. 12 I believe is the reference to that, but we'll keep going. Contentment. Philippians 4. 11 talks about contentment. You know we're commend we're we're commanded to be con I mean we're supposed to be content. But man, do you know how many Christians I hear complaining? And you're like, how many? I'm like, well, a lot. You know who one of those Christians is? Me. In fact, I hear me complain more than anyone else. Because I complain inside my head. And I talk a lot. Uh I said then I'm like, I can't believe this is going on. And I can just start and I just start getting myself riled up and I'm angry and I'm dissatisfied and God says, wait a second, you're not supposed to be dissatisfied. I died for your sins And what we're doing is we're selling our actions, we're selling out what we believe what we do, even though what we do shouldn't be our choice to sell out. Enjoy. Listen. Bible says um in actually go ahead and go to uh to uh James 1-2. Pastor just went through the book of James, and what I realized when I was going through this, your actions aren't your uh yours to sell, almost every example verse I had was from the book of James. Why? Because James is an excellent how-to book How to be a Christian? Plain and simple with what you do. James 1:2 says this. My brethren count all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. And that's talking about trials. No, he didn't say, you know, if you feel like it, go ahead and be joyful through temptations. It says now, my brethren, you know, just count it. Count it as joy. You know, we go through things sometimes, teenagers look up at me. We go through things sometimes and we're angry. And we're mad, and we're treated unfairly sometimes, and things aren't right, and things didn't go our way, and we get mad and we're just and we're and we're angry and there's no joy in our life at all. But God says Very specifically, count it all joy when you fall into trials, or as I said, diverse temptation temptations. Listen, your moral senses are not yours as hell. Line up with the Bible. But your actions are also not yours as hell. One more thing, and I'll be done. Your name is not yours to sell. Your name is not yours as hell. You know, and look at these three Hebrew children, and man, they're great, aren't they? We uh look at the three Hebrew children who uh who said, you know what? I'm going to follow God's law so much that I'm going to need pulse. Be a vegetarian, which I think is a sin. But yeah, I'm going to be vegetarian. Because I'm not going to touch what God told me not to touch. And we say, wow. And then we go in then later on chapters and they say, I'm going to be so bold, the three Hebrew children said when they were about to be thrown in the fire furnace, because they wouldn't bow down to a golden image. They say, I'm going to be so bold. That I won't even pretend to worship something to save my life. Even though God would know in my heart I didn't mean it, I will not show myself. As someone who falls down to another God. Because I have that much respect for myself. Later on, Daniel says, I'm going to pray, and I'm going to pray with my windows open. Even though it's against the law, and I know it's against the law, I will pray with my windows open because I am not going to sell out my name. I am going to show myself a true Christian. And we do that. And we think that's awesome sometimes. But don't someone else does it. It just annoys us. We get our friend, and they say, you know what? You know, and uh and then this might be a uh a friend takes a stand and says, you know what? I I'm not I'm not gonna walk go to that movie with you. I'm not gonna watch that movie with you. It's it's rated R for horrendous things. I'm not gonna watch it with you. I'm talking to teenagers maybe a little bit, but I might be talking with you. You say, oh my goodness. This person is so annoying. Hmm? You say, well, and you're like, man, I want You're like, hey, how about you come with me uh this weekend? We'll take, you know, maybe maybe we'll join our families together, take like a camping trick. Um you know, it'll be over a Sunday, but that's okay. It's you know, it's a family vacation. God wants family time. And you're like, you know, I can't miss the Sunday and they're like, okay, I understand and then walk away and you're the and you're like, I hate that guy. Huh? But sometimes when other people do it, we're annoyed. Maybe you guys aren't. Maybe I'm the only one. Probably am. Probably I'm the only one. You know how we sell out our names sometimes? Sometimes uh with what you do. Uh James, we're uh if you're still in James, go to one in our verse 26 and 27. It says if any man among you seem to be religious and bridles uh not his tongue He but he deceived his own heart. This man's religion is vain. Pure religion is undefiled before God, and the father is this to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction actions and to keep himself unspotted from the world. You know, on Tuesday, this is kind of cool, or Monday, on Monday night, I drove down to Hagerstown. Not that long, two hour drive. Um, and you don't know why I went over to here and some woman to tell you, so you don't have to wonder anymore. I went down there to see a friend of mine who I had not seen What year is it? Two thousand sixteen two. I haven't seen him in seven years. I graduated high school with him. He was my best friend, really all middle school. We were great friends during high school. Um and we we hung out the summer that uh we graduate high school. I lied, I I was a teenager. And uh and we uh and we graduate high school And um but the beard thing, that was honest. And um and we graduated high school together, and I saw him that summer, we hung out a couple times, and then I never saw him again. And he calls me up or he texted me or vape I don't think Facebook man he just texts me and he's like, Hey, I'm gonna be in uh DC And I was like, cool, when? Because he lives in Seattle. He's like, I'm gonna be in DC. I'm like, cool, when? He's like, uh, such and such dates. I was like, Oh yeah, put it on my counter. Put it on my calendar. And I wasn't gonna get a chance to go see him. And then finally he's like, hey, how do I meet you in like this place called Hagerstown? Like it's kinda like halfway between us. And I was like, yeah, I can meet you in Hagerstown. So I drive down there, I get to see my friend And I experienced something I haven't in a long time. Most of the people I know today have known me either as a pastor. Or when I was in Bible college to become a pastor. Almost everyone I know today. This was the first person in a long time who knew me well before then. Back to when I was eleven years old. This is the guy that uh me and him and uh our other friends would stay up all night and we'd play video games all night. Like a hundred times it feels like. This is the guy that I close your ears, teenagers. We have to confess something to all of you. This is the guy that I started an improv rap group with. That's right. And it was uh it was terrible and we were very white. And um and suburban. And uh this is the guy that uh again I when you when you still get your graduation pictures, he's right next to me because we the you know our names are right next to each other. A lot of things are. He's my b he's one of my best friends ever. And it was really hard not to revert back to who I was. He's not living for God. He's not a he he is he is a saved man. Um and he's actually and my wife had never met he's a he's a very fairly moral man. Or not really uh not not as far as I know being in church at all. I mean he he wouldn't curse around me. He knows I'm a pastor, but he wouldn't curse around me or my kids, he was just he was a stand-up guy, still is, and that's how he always acts around me Uh at least uh when I talked to him on text. It wasn't real con but but it was weird enough to go back to that that good old days mindset. See, some of you became a Christian recently, and that's every single day for you. And it's hard. But you have to keep your name. You have to not sell out your name. Proverbs 22. 1 talks about um actually I'll I'll go ahead and read that for you. Proverbs 22. 1. You can turn there or not. You can turn there or you can believe me. A good name, 22-1. It says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold. A good name. So it's by what you do. But some people sell out their names by who they stand with. And I'm not gonna believe at this point. I'm going to read, but I will read 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 6. I'm done. 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 6 This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of them ownselves, covetousness, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of them that are good. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denier the power thereof, and I want you to stop I want you to stop for a second. I just want to say something that and and this is not this is not meant to offend or point it at absolutely anyone. This election we're going through right now is a terrible situation. It's one of the worst situations I've ever seen in America. It's one of the worst situations ever. Some of you, you're gonna go and you're gonna vote for Trump. Some of you might vote for Clinton, I don't know. And I do not, and listen to me. What you do in your um in that ballot booth is completely your decision and I support you in doing what you think is right in every single way. Let me say again, I support you in doing what you think is right However, because of what happened this Saturday when they released those states, or maybe Friday, I think something needs to be said. And maybe it's pastor's job, and it probably is pastor job to say so. But let me say this. And I'll in all name names because I'm not endorsing or unendorsing a candidate, so that doesn't get me in trouble. Don't defend a man's sin. Like I said, vote for whoever you want. I don't care. But to your friends, you might be the only Christian they know. Don't defend a man's sin. Maybe whoever is better for whatever side of the uh country and and maybe maybe whoever and maybe you're absolutely right. But don't sell your name for someone who could literally care less about you. This is why I don't get ex- Don't get like some people, my dad's one of them, if the Green Bay Packers lost, it would ruin this whole afternoon. I don't feel that way. I love the Packers. I love watching the Packers. You know why that doesn't get to me? It's because I realized something a long time ago. They don't care and ounce about me. They don't know my name. They don't know who I am. And you know what? Unfortunately politics are the exact same way. I'm just, and again, I'm not telling you to vote or not for Rose Frenchman. I'm just saying be careful. Because I saw a lot of Christian leaders Not just not just people in peace, Christian leaders, people who thousands and thousands and thousands of people look up to say Yeah, but it was in the privacy of his own home, so it's or privacy it was a private conversation, so he's fine. Again, vote for who you want and I support you. But don't defend a man's sin. When you wouldn't have defended Bill Clinton in 1998. I'm gonna stop I'm gonna stop there with this point. Because I'm trying not to make anyone mad and I shouldn't have. Because I just want to protect your names, and my names, and names of Christians. Because by the way, we're considered in that evangelical category, and may I say that the evangelical category has lost Because people aren't standing up, by the way, has lost almost all credibility with all liberals. And you're like, well, I don't care what a liberal says. Well they're souls and they need to be saved. And they're not going to go to you now. They might go to the Mormons who have been fairly um consistent on morals. I guess I'm done now. You can't sell what isn't yours. You can't sell your moral stand. Where you stand on issue to issue. Where you say this is wrong, this is this is good. And you say this is good and holy and this is wrong. You can't sell that. You can't stand or you can't sell your actions. Your body is meant to be a machine that loves people. It is meant to be an item. That that is peaceful, that is content, is meant not to judge, but to have mercy. It is meant to be joyous. So when people look at you, they want to be like you because you have this weird, overwhelming joy in the worst of circumstances. That's who you're supposed to be. But when we sell that out, and when we sell out our name Two things happen. See there's a thing called squatter's rights. Squatters' rights, by the way, are stupid. Um if you don't know anything about squatters' rights, this is uh in uh in France, if so if you own a house and someone lives in it for eight months or more It becomes their house. Even if they're living in it illegally. I think it's eight months, if you correct me on that, it's fine. It might be twelve. But eight months you're like, well I yeah, I I have a house down in uh in southern what they say, Florida. I didn't say France. Okay. I almost said Florida. I have a house in southern France. Oh great. Then become my someone's living in here. You're like, no, I have squatters rights. This is now mine because I've been living in it uninterrupted for eight months. And that is and we say that is so wrong. We look at like these uh these uh these scandals. You know, the uh the big like uh the the uh Bernie Madoff scandals where they're saying, Well, hey man, I'm gonna get you a great deal. And and basically what a Ponzi scheme is, is selling things that don't even belong to you. And we think that's awful. Here's what's selling your selling any of yourself when it's not yours does. A. It gets rid of God's tool. Gets rid of God's tool. You sold it. Wasn't yours to sell. It was wicked. It was wrong to sell. Well, you sold it. So now God doesn't have it to sell anymore. God doesn't have it to use anymore. And B And I hope I didn't lose any of you based on the last point. And B you become fraudulent to everyone. You become the same. Everyone. Don't sell yourself. Uh if we could uh please stand, I don't think we have a piano player, but if uh we could just uh have an invitation. Just uh everyone stand and uh lay your head and close your eyes. I want to pray. Dear God, I just Lord, you know my heart. And God, you know my heart's not to offend anyone. But Lord, I just ask that. Lord, when it comes to our stance, our moral stances and our actions and our name, Lord, if we wouldn't just give it up. To make friends. Give it up to be popular. Give it up for financial gain. Give it up for discomfort's sake. For comfort sake, God. Well, God, I pray that you help myself in this. And when it comes to the hard decisions. That I would make them, God, in your name. Amen