You find that, mark it. And if you would go to Mark chapter sixteen, Proverbs in the Old Testament and Mark in the New Testament. I began a series back a number of months ago and my intention was, my heart, my intention was to for God to use the this series to prepare our hearts. For the revival service we were having in the spring. Uh my wife and I have been praying earnestly since January for God to send revealed generoine revival to our hearts. as individual Christians and then also to our church. And we just felt I felt like we just really needed a moving, a stirring of God to uh to just reignite our love for Him, our wife And so this series came out of it. The idea of the series was this that the Holy Spirit of God would confront us as individuals concerning sins that it is very easy for us to be comfortable with. We get worked up about the sins of society. And we ought to take a stand and we will continue to take a stand against that events and the direction society goes that's contrary to the word of God. But we must not think that because we're Standing against the sins of society that somehow we've arrived and we don't have our own issues to deal with. And just as Jesus confronted the Pharisees when they brought that woman taken in adultery He said to them, You that are without sin, cast the first stone. He forced them to confront their own spiritual condition and sins that were present in their hearts and lives that they were very comfortable with But nevertheless, we're hindering their real fellowship with the Lord. We went through a series of sins that I felt like are sins that we very we we get comfortable with And many of them the Lord dealt my own heart about issues I had to deal with. I wanted to conclude the series last week on um how to how that happens. How do you, regardless of what the sin is, how do you get to the point where we are comfortable as a child of God with something in my life that is obviously displeasing to God and yet it doesn't bother me. And we looked at that There's one other area that, boy, about two, three weeks ago, the Lord started stirring my heart that should be included in this series And I put it off and kind of thought, well, I need to finish this and wind it up. And so last week I did that. And all week long the Lord was uh just it w this was just on my heart and mind, and so I thought I'm gonna attack one moron And uh another sin that is very easy for us to be comfortable with, and that is this, the sin of not winning souls. The sin of not sharing the gospel with unsaved people. Now, I'll be very frank with you: soul winning is a challenge for all believers. It is not something that comes easy. Let me read the reference uh references and then have a word of prayer, and then I'll get in and just share these thoughts with you. Notice in Proverbs chapter 11, verse number 30, some of you, maybe many of you, have this memorized. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is what? Wise. He that winneth souls is wise. Mark chapter 16, verse number 15 is not a strange, unfamiliar verse for us. We had it on the walls here for many, many years. This is our great commission as a church. And it reads this: Jesus speaking. And he said unto them, his disciples, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now we use that reference for world missions. And that is the intent of the passage, to go into all the world. But let me remind you, your neighbor, my neighbor, is still part of all the world. And Oakland and Deer Park and McHenry and Grantsville, these towns around us, they are all part of all the world. And God has given us the commission. God has commanded us. To take the gospel of Christ to every single person. Now here's the deal. Well, let me pray and then we'll get into it. Father Bless this message, I pray, use it to help us, God, uh to be the Christians and the church you intend for us to be. I yield myself to you. Lord, I wish that I could put myself up as a better example of what this is. And God, uh I uh it's a struggle for all of us. And so we need your Holy Spirit to help us Fulfill your commission here and around the world, individually and as a corporate body of believers. Fill me with your spirit. Speak through me, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Now what do we mean by soul winning? We use that term a lot, and as a pastor, many times I make the assumption that everybody knows what I'm talking about. But when we use the term soul-winning, generally you have this idea to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now what does the gospel consist of? Let me back up. What does the word gospel mean? It means literally good news. What is the good news that God has commissioned us to share with the lost people? Jesus Christ, how that he died for us, according to the scriptures, was buried, and rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That's the gospel. That Jesus died for our sins. He was our substitute, took our judgment on himself for our disobedience, was buried and rose again. So soul winning is taking that message, that gospel message To the unsaved people, people who have never trusted Christ, with the intention of leading them To the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, telling them what the gospel is, introducing them to the truth of Christ, and trying to do all we can to persuade them to accept Jesus as their own personal Savior. So when we talk about uh soul winning, that is what we're talking about. Uh that taking doing that, fulfilling that uh uh that command, that action, going out to lost people in whatever setting Sharing with them of Christ, trying to persuade them to trust Christ as Savior. Now, tell me if I'm right or wrong. That is a constant battle to be a consistent, faithful, earnest compassionate soul winning, that is something a Christian has to work at. Am I right or wrong? I know very few Christians, if any, that that just comes easily and naturally. It is something that is commanded of us of God and that we must constantly put effort in. Now it's interesting, and for sake of time, we won't go there, but in Acts chapter 4 The New Testament believers prayed to God, and they would pray, God, grant unto us That with all boldness we should speak the word as we ought to. You know what that tells me about those New Testament believers? They struggled with giving out the gospel. And they asked God, God, give me the boldness, God, give me the courage to do this. That I can share the gospel as I ought to. Paul would pray in his epistles. Paul would ask the other churches that he's writing to, pray for us. That we can speak the word as we ought to. You know what Paul was saying? Paul was saying, I need to be a better soul winner. I need you to pray for me that I can be consistent and faithful and effective in sharing the gospel. Not one Christian has arrived in this matter of winning souls and sharing the gospel with others. Great soul winners, you talk to every one of them and you know what they'll say? I'm not nearly what I want to be. I'm not nearly the soul winner I would like to be. And uh so it's a constant challenge, must be deliberately worked at. Now here's where the danger comes in. The danger comes in when we say uh when we when we get comfortable with not doing it. Alright? We have to work at it. I try as a pastor of the church to lead the church and keep the pressure on and keep the opportunities there to share the gospel and be soul winners. But the fact is, we have to work at it. But when we become comfortable and unsatisfied with going day after day, week after week, month after month, some cases year after year And not sharing the message of Christ with the unsaved, that is when it needs to be confronted in my life. Are you with me? And we can, if we're not careful, become satisfied, become comfortable not sharing the gospel with people. And that's not right. And that's not right. And um uh So, I want to make a few statements. Then I'm going to give you the message, and uh we'll get this, and then we'll hopefully the Lord will stir our hearts and we'll be up and maybe a little bit more effective in sharing the gospel. A few statements. Number one Soul winning is a command to all Christians. It is not a gift given to a select few. Now I've heard this argument on occasion over the many years. I've heard this argument by some Christians. They make a statement something like this, Preacher? I just don't have the gift of soul winning. I'm just not gifted in sharing the gospel with other people. Soul winning is not a gift given to us by God. It's not some ability given to us by God. It is a command by God. It would be the equivalent of someone saying, you know, I just don't have the gift of church attendance. I'm just not gifted in that area. Uh attending church is that's not a gift. It's something God is in trouble. Well, I just don't have the gift of tithing. I just don't have the gift of reading the Bible. I just don't have the gift of praying. No, no, no. So soul winning is a command to all of us across the board. It's not a gift to a select few, and this person has the gift of soul winning and they do it. Number two, second statement: people can know that they're saved. Amen? Are you all with me tonight? People can know that they're saved. You and I have a message that is very definite That is very clear. Maybe you're here tonight. You say, preacher, I don't know if I'm saved or not. I'm here to tell you, the Bible says you can know that. That can be a settled fact in your heart and mind. In fact, if it's not a settled matter, it needs to be. And so people can know that they're saved, that their sins are forgiven, that when they die, they go to heaven and not to hell. We have a message that is confident of assurance to them. And so people can know that. And here's what I like. And I hope you'll I have your attention on this one. There is no bad outcome when sharing the gospel. There's no bad outcome when they're sharing the gospel. Now, indulge me here a little bit Um all right, let I got good. I got three guys right there. Robbie, Sam, and Evan. Would you guys come on up here? These are our best looking team guys we have. You know what I'm thinking, Tom, right? You know uh you guys stand here Alright, I'm the soul winner. Do you ever notice in my illustrations, I'm always the hero? That's the advantage of being the pastor. Alright, here's her. I'm walking down the street, I got my gospel tracts, and I'm out soul winning. I'm trying to share the gospel of lost person And uh here's the first lost person I come across. Walk over here to be Evan. I come up to Evan. Hey, how you doing, man? I'm Pastor Lemon. Good to see you. Glad you're here. Listen, here's a little gospel. tract tells how we can know for sure that when we die our sins are forgiven we're on our way to heaven. Do you ever think about that? Do you know for sure when you die you go to heaven? Yeah, good. And um Very good. Wow. Um so anyway. Uh anyway, I go through this with Evan and he bows his head and he accepts the Lord Jesus as his Savior. Question, was that a good outcome? Yes, amen. That's a great outcome. See the old boy got saved. I'm praying for years I would get saved. And uh go ahead, you can keep that. So Evan, I share the gospel with him. He responds positively. He accepts the message and he trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. And all God's people said, Amen. That's a good thing. That's a good outcome. Alright, I come down, here's the next wicked sinner. Works in a booth. And um So, hey man, how you doing? I'm Pastor Leatherman from Mount Lake Baptist Church. You ever hear about us? No, you're kidding. We're right across here from where you work. And uh this little gospel tract tells you how you can know for sure that when you die your sins are gonna on the way to heaven. Do you ever think about that? No, surely down. Oh no, no thanks. It's a no, I don't know. Um well what can't let me share the gospel with you. Uh let me at least share the gospel with you. Uh okay. All right And so I get my Bible out, I go through the gospel. Would you like to accept Christ as Savior? No, that's a that's how do they do it up there, Elizabeth? How do they say no? Alright. Alright. He listens to the gospel. I get to share the gospel with him, but he doesn't want to trust Christ. All right, well here, tell you what, uh just take that with you and read that when you get a chance. And he goes on his way. Question, was that a good outcome? Yeah, what happened? I got to plant the seed. He heard the gospel. That was a good outcome. Now here's another wicked sinner. I'm telling you, we need youth worker bands. Ah, I'm Pastor Letterman for Matt Lake Pat. Oh I'm Pastor Letterman for Matt. You don't want nothing to do with me? Will you take this track? No. And he totally rejects me and walks away, turns his back on me and walks away. Question. He didn't take the track, he didn't let me share the gospel with him in total rejection. Question, was that a good outcome? Ah, you know what Luke tells us? Luke tells us that we should rejoice. And be exceeding glad, and I'm putting this in my own words here, when people reject our efforts to share the gospel with them. When they reject us for his name's sake. Because why? Great is your what? Reward in heaven. Now it's not necessarily good for him, although God can use even that effort. But the Bible says that if I share the gospel with someone and they totally reject me, I get rewards in heaven for that effort. For that rejection. The Lord rewards us for being willing to be rejected for his name's sake. And so really, and I read this uh an evangelist in a book. that I'm reading, the evangelists had written, and uh he pointed this out that there's no bad outcome when you attempt to win souls. If they get saved, praise the Lord. If they don't get saved but let you share the gospel with them, hey, you've planted a seed, praise the Lord. If they don't even let you share the gospel and they want nothing to do with you, maybe they even are rude to you and unkind and say unkind things to you, there's still a good outcome. God will reward me when I get to heaven for that effort And so there's no bad outcome in witnessing. Regardless of what their response, God has a good outcome for it. So, what is it that keeps us from winning souls? What is it that is how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That means every one of us that have been saved, God has given us the responsibility to share that message that we trusted that saved our soul with other folks that need Christ. Now what is it that keeps us from doing that? What is it that we allow to affect our thinking and behavior to the point where suddenly we're completely comfortable in not sharing the gospel with anybody? Let me give you a few things. These are reasons people give that we have in our minds sometime for not winning souls. Number one is a fear of rejection. Fear of rejection. Now, I'll be very honest with you. For me personally, this is a difficult area. I don't like to be rejected. I'm the kind of person that likes when everybody likes me. Can anybody else like that? I want people to like me. Now I have some preacher friends. I think they like it when no one likes them. You know, I mean I think they like that. I don't like that. I want people to like me. I want people to accept me. And so knowing that there's a possibility of rejection Sometimes there's something that hinders us from trying to witness that holds us back because I don't want to be rejected. Let me see. We're just being honest here tonight. How many folks here tonight, you find it difficult to share your faith with close family members or close friends? You find it easier for total strangers than people close to you. How many like that? How many folks your other way around? You say I I can share it with people dear to me and close to me and strangers it's difficult. Anyone like that? My wife is very good. She can family and close and co-workers. Man, she loves that total stranger. It's just tough for her. I'm the other way around. Because why is that? I don't want my friends, I don't want my family members to reject me. I want them to accept me. Now here's the answer to that situation. I'm afraid of being rejected. Here's the answer. The answer it comes down to this bottom line. I'm really more concerned about what others think about me than what God thinks about me. And that's a problem. If I'm more concerned about keeping a friend, so to speak, uh uh maintaining a relationship with someone than I am about their spiritual well-being. Hey, what kind of friend am I? If I let that person die without Christ and go to hell, I never share the gospel with them. What kind of friend was I to that person? Not much of a friend at all. And I'll be very honest with you, when I got saved back in 79, 19 year old boy And I began talking to my buddies and party buddies and drinking buddies and all that about Christ and what he was doing in my life and trying to share I didn't know what I was saying or doing, but I was trying to share Christ with them And buddy, every one of them left me. And here's my question. If a person says, I'll not be your friend or I'll not have a relationship with you because you're concerned about my eternal soul, I tell you what, I'm not losing much of a friend, am I? And my experience has been that when I lose people because of my concern for their soul, I lose friends or whatever relationships because of my concern for their soul, I found that God supplies ten others perhaps that actually are a good friend. You see what I'm saying? And so we the bottom line is many times we're more concerned about what others think of us than we are concerned about where they spend eternity or We're concerned about what God thinks. What's suppose I try Sam was up here and he was uh uh he was very resistant and he wanted nothing to do, in fact he was a little angry about me even trying to talk to him about Christ What's the worst thing that person could do to me? Very worst possible scenario. Kill me. Yeah, right. Sam's been known to do that. No, not really. I don't think Sam could kill a fly. He'd want to, but he just couldn't. But um no, I'm kidding. Uh but the worst possible thing someone could do to me is kill me. Take my life away from me. And by the way, people are doing that around the world today. I sent Brother Pat a website a thing where Kazakhstan is just coming down on Christians And people around the world are giving their life. Now, the worst thing I try I'm concerned about a person's soul, their relationship with the Lord, I'm trying to share with them the gospel of Christ. So they don't die and go to hell? That person gets angry and kills me. What happens to me? I go to heaven. I go to heaven. The worst thing they can do to me is send me to heaven. That's not really bad. Mark chapter 8 and verse 38 says he that's ashamed of me and my words. I would say that would include the gospel. He's ashamed of me and my words. Of him will I be ashamed before I stand before the Father? So if we're worried about rejection, and it's something we I uh many of us struggle with, don't think I've arrived. I'm in the same boat as you guys. We're worried about rejection. We have to remind ourselves Christ was rejected for me. The least I can do is maybe accept a little rejection for his name's sake and for his concern for others. In Galatians chapter 1, verse 10, Paul said that he says basically this, that if I cannot be a servant of Christ, If I am living to please man, I cannot be a servant of Christ. And so I have to decide. Alright, there's a chance I'll be rejected. There's a chance my brother may get angry at me for sharing the gospel. There's a chance my aunt may uh get angry at me for sharing the gospel. There's a chance my neighbor, the guy that works beside me on the job, may get angry at me for Offering a gospel tract, trying to wisdom. Yes, there's that chance. Maybe a very realistic possibility. But nevertheless, that guy's an eternal soul. He's going to spend eternity in hell if he doesn't get saved. So how much does that concern me? Am I willing to risk rejection? For his sake and for his well-being and for the glory of God. So one reason we don't witness and we actually get comfortable with it is because we're afraid of rejection. We don't want to be rejected Second reason is that people give for not witnessing and not winning souls is this. They don't say, I don't know how to win souls. I don't know how to do this. I just a moment ago I asked that all those that are saved and they know it say amen. Sounded to me like the vast majority, if not everybody, said amen. Listen, if you're saved, then you know how to be saved. Can I throw this out? Can I suggest this? If you don't know how you got saved, you ain't saved. Right? I speak, do you know every now and then I'll come across folks. Do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I know how how do you know you're going to heaven? Well, I don't know, I just know. Listen, that is not Bible salvation. Bible salvation is knowing that Christ saved me and forgave me, came into my life. I trust him as my own personal savior. If you're saved, you know how you got saved. And if you know how you got saved, you know how to tell someone else how to be saved. Just tell them what you were told. Just tell them what you did. It's called a personal testimony. Now, here's where I think we struggle. Listen, we're all in the same boat, Here's where I think we struggle. We know how to tell someone how to be saved. We know the basic facts, but we don't know how to bridge the subject. We don't know how to bring up that subject where I can talk about it in a way. You know, you walk up to someone and just say, you're going to hell when you die, aren't you? Probably not going to get very far with them, huh? Um you you knock on someone's door, you're sitting down at you're at Walmart or something, you walk up and say, here's a track, because you're going to hell. Um that's not the way to win friends and influence people. So where we struggle with, I think, as a Christian, isn't so much knowing what to say to them as far as the gospel is concerned. We know to tell them, for Jesus died for your sins, he suffered hell for you, he was buried and rose again If you'll call on them and accept them as your Savior, he'll forgive you and come in your life and save you. It's getting to that point that we don't know what to say or do. Um the classic example, and I brought it up recently, is uh the woman at the well. She had no training, she had no soul-winning class, she didn't have any verses memorized. Man alive, she went into town and told everybody, come out and meet this Christ. And you know what the Bible says? That town got saved. She just told them what she knew. I'm telling you what, if just the people in this auditorium right now, myself included, if we would just go out this week And tell people what we know about the gospel. Just tell them what we know about the gospel. Man alive. How many people you think would get saved this week? I'd rather say scores. Just do them what the woman at the well did. Hey, you know what happened to me? What? What happened to you? Oh, back May 7, 1970, I was such a sinner. Man, I was on my way to hell. I read my Bible, Jesus died and suffered hell for me, was buried and rose again. I called him to come in my life He saved me and forgave me, gave me a new life. When I die, I'm going to heaven. I says, yeah, yeah, great, whatever. But ah, he's heard the gospel. Huh? Uh I don't know how. If you're saved, you know how. If you don't know how you got saved, then you need to hit the altar night and get saved. Um also don't know how to bring up the subject. Now we do have training classes here on how to Work in the subject and get to that point, how to fine-tune sharing the gospel with people. In fact, according to Ephesians chapter 4, that's part of the church's job, is to train people for the work of the ministry The ministry of taking the gospel, part of our church's responsibility, is to teach people how to effectively do that. But if we're saved, we know how. How many people here know how to ride a bike? Anybody here know how to ride a bike? How'd you learn how to ride a bike? You watched videos? You listened 12-week course on bike riding? You uh you uh read books on it? No, how do you learn to ride a bike? You got on the dumb thing and crashed five times. Right? And y and you got training wheels on there and you rode them for a round. And uh I tell ya, my train I just had them off two weeks ago. It was great. I just The only way you learn how to ride a bike is to get on the bike and ride it. You know how that's how you win learn soul winning. You can take all the classes. I've got DVDs on soul winning coming out of my ears. Well, not really, but I mean in my office I got them everywhere. I've got books on soul winning. I've got CDs on soul winning. I've got cassette tapes on how to win souls. And those are great and they're all helpful, but you know how you win souls? You know how you learn how to win souls? You just start talking to people about Jesus. You get you a pocket full of gospel tracts and start giving them out to people. And inevitably an opportunity comes up, inevitably someone asks a question, inevitably you have an opportunity to do that. And that is how you learn how. You just do it. Well, people reject me. Yeah, some might. What are they going to do? Kill you and go to heaven? Well, I just I just don't want people not to like me. So what kind of friend are you? You let them die and go to hell and don't tell them anything. Well, preacher, I just don't know how to I just don't know how to tell people the gospel. Well then you need to get saved if you don't know how you got saved. Number three, here's an argument. I don't witness people because they've already heard it. And I'm being frank with you, I've struggled with this excuse. We first came here in 1993, and I'd been doing this before we came, but I came as a new pastor, and uh I was looking around, there was some tracks here and different old pieces of literature, and I rounded up a bunch And I put a little packet together and uh every day from four o'clock to six o'clock for the first two years I was here, just about every day. I would go out and I put chose that time because that's when people were coming home from work and I seemed like I caught more people home then. And I went door to door all through Mountain Lake Park, all through Oakland, Lochland, the whole area I said, I'm the new pastor over at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I just want to leave an invitation with you and introduce myself to you. And you know what the people said when I came by They said, oh, this is wonderful. We've never had a preacher come by. Come on in. I got some coffee on you. Want some donuts? Sure. And uh They'd invite me in. It would take me two hours to go to five houses. Everybody invited me in, thanked me for coming by. They were all preacher came by. And uh they'd say all this stuff So that was about the first year. Then the second year I come back, I did it the second time. And they say, Oh hey preacher lesman, you were by last year. I said, I know, I just want to invite you out and you know and ask if you ever thought about, you know, you die, you go into heaven or hell. Well then the third time I come by and says, Yeah, you've been here twice already. Then after about the fifteenth time it's go away. And I got this in my mind after about five, six years. I said, good night. I've knocked on all the doors. I've introduced myself to everybody. What's the use? Why keep doing this? I mean, we've reached everybody. You know what I found out? The Bible says go into all the world and preach the gospel. It doesn't tell us how many times. It just says go on, keep doing it, keep doing it, keep doing it, keep doing it. I read a study, and I don't know how in the world they do these studies. But I read this study that said the average Christian Heard the gospel seven point six times before they got saved. They heard the plan of salvation over seven times, almost eight times Before they actually trusted Christ as Savior. You know what that means? Even if they've already heard it, we've got to keep going to them and keep going to them and keep going to them. I was out in Boulder, Colorado. This was probably 95, this is probably 98 around there sometime. I was going out hoping training the Bible time evangelist And we had about that year we had a big group of guys. We had about fifty, fifty-five preacher boys, eighteen to twenty-five years old. So we took them down to what's called the Boulder Mall. It's a open air mall, they block the streets, it's like cobblestone, and uh they have all these shops and r little restaurants and cafes And uh it's right up against the Rocky Mountains. If you've ever been in Boulder, it's just beautiful. And uh they have um uh they have minstrels out there. singing these ridiculous songs and guys with long dreadlocks and oh peace baby groovy to everybody and uh just weirdos and um So we took all these guys down there and we've set them up on, and it's about five, six blocks, and we set them up on street corners, and these guys are just doing some street preaching All the Bible says you need to be saved. And they're just ripping away. You're preaching boys are stirred up. And so I was overseeing this and I go on and they're going on. The guys out here giving up tracks and just stirred the place up And so I had a handful of tracts and I was giving them out. And uh there was a fellow that came up and I I went up to him, hey, can I give you one of the gospel tracts? I said, What do you think about all this preaching? And he goes, Oh, these people are nuts. I said, Well, this is what it's about And uh I've got to go through the plan of salvation, but there's a black fellow. He said, uh, I said, well, where are you from? He says, I'm from Iowa. And I went through the plan of salvation with him. And by the time I was done, he was weeping, probably 24, 25 years old. You know what he told me? He said, I have heard this and heard this and heard this and heard this. He said, My mother's a Christian lady. She's home praying for me. She calls me and writes me that she's praying for me all the time. He says, You know, I've heard it so many times. Tonight's the night. It's time to trust Christ. That old boy bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ with me there on the mall, all the chaos going on, and he prayed with me to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. You say, well, they've already heard it. Yeah, they probably did. And the next time they heard it, might be the time they get saved. Might be the time. Keep going on, keep going on. Some people say, well, it's the fear I don't want to be rejected. Others, I don't know how to share the gospel. They've already heard it all. Here's one. How about this one? I'm too lazy. Boy, there's an honest person, huh? No doubt that's true. But isn't that really an insult to Christ? The price he paid for my salvation, and I'm too lazy to share that message with someone else. Spurgeon said this, Charles Spurgeon. He said the question is not, do the heathen that never heard of the Bible go to hell? But rather, do Christians who have the gospel and won't share it, do they go to heaven? Well, that's a challenging question. Dr. Lee Robertson said, I heard this so many times, I had him in the leadership class down in Chattanooga. He said, he said, in your average church, and he said, this is true at Highland Park, 10,000 members ran 42 Sunday school buses, brought 2,000 plus kids in to children's church. Imagine that, Mark. He said this. He said ten percent of the people of Highland Park Baptist Church do ninety percent of the work. That's 90% of the people in the church do little or nothing to advance the gospel. Why is that? Are we lazy? Spiritually lazy? I think when it comes to soul winning, the figures are probably even less than that. You know what we need? I think, boy, I hate to admit this. Should I do it or not? I have to now. I think I'm lazy. My evaluation of myself is I'm a lazy person. So I try very hard to keep myself busy because I know I'm naturally lazy. You y'all look at me like you're shocked. But I I think that's true. And evangelists come by. Anybody here ever heard an evangelist or a preacher come by and say, Man, this church is so busy. Anyone ever hear them say that? Get the bulletin, good night. You know why you're afflicted with a lazy pastor. And I know that if I don't keep myself busy, if I don't stay after this thing, I'm lay- I'm naturally lazy. I have to keep myself going. And you all say, oh great, he's lazy and we work like dogs. But the fact is, Christ paid too high a price for salvation for me to be lazy with it. I've got to get out there and get about it. It's too valuable. Well, I'm lazy. We need the Lord, and I pray this all the time for myself: we need the Lord to put a soul-winning zeal in our hearts. A zeal for the gospel. You know what I read in the Bible? I read about a bunch of Christians in the book of Acts. I read about a bunch of Christians that were so zealous with the gospel they were willing to die for it. I read in the book of Acts that there was a bunch of Christians that were so zealous in getting the gospel to lost people They were thrown in jail and when they got in jail they sang and praise and sang praises to God and prayed. In fact, one place it says a bunch of these Christians rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer sh suffer shame for the cause of Christ. You know what I need? I need the Spirit of God to fire up an evangelistic zeal in my heart and soul that I quit being lazy, get out there, and give the gospel to people. I'm lazy. No doubt that's true. Well, preacher, I'm just going to use a lifestyle or friendship evangelism. I'm just going to live the best Christian I can, and they'll see my life, and they'll just want to get saved. Nobody ever got saved that way. You and I got saved either by reading or hearing the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's another way. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Nobody gets now. Question: Should we live a Christian lifestyle? Sure, it lines credibility to our message. But can I tell you, I've met some Mormons that lived a better Christian life than some saved people. Huh? Um I hate to say this. My wife and I were talking yesterday. But you know, you have a Christian that has some convictions about what's right and wrong and what they'll do and what they won't do. You know who gives a Christian that has convictions? You know who gives them the hardest time? Not the unsaved. It's other Christians. The unsaved expect us to live that way. The unsaved expect us to have some convictions about right and wrong. So just living a lifestyle isn't going to save anybody that expect that from us. And of course we should live that way. They do expect it. Nobody dies and stands at the great white throne and says, Lord, uh I I I can go into heaven. Why? Because I saw Charlie live a good Christian life, and Charlie lives a good Christian life. But nobody gets into heaven because he lived a good Christian life. They get to heaven because they heard and understood the gospel of Christ and accepted him as their own personal Savior. It must be communicated. Mark 6:15. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. Proclaim it. Declare it. Express it. I saw a sign on the church one time said, Preach the gospel, use words if necessary. I yelled out the window, You can't preach it without words! The sign just didn't move at all, it just stayed right there. No, I didn't do that. But I did think that. How can you preach the gospel without words? Now, a better way, I think, to say it would be preach the gospel and live it. It'll make it more legit. But you can't preach it without words. Um, last one. People are not interested, preacher. I've witnessed, but people just, they're not interested. We're in the last days, nobody cares, nobody listens. Wrong If people are approached in a kind, compassionate, sensible, tactful way, I found the majority of the people are interested in talking about Christ. Now God, if you come out and be hateful and rude, hey fool, you're going to hell when you die. No, they're not going to talk to you. But if you just be sensible and reasonable about it, like any other subject you would approach. People were more than glad to talk about it. I was did I tell you about my bad tooth? Have I mentioned that I was in the dentist twice this week. I had over twelve shots in my gums this past week. I'm I've started I wanted to scream out, Stop sticking needles in my gum. But uh anyway I had a root canal done twelve years ago. And the whole problem I've been having lately is one of the roots weren't canaled. And had been in there dead for 12 years, decaying away until finally two, three weeks ago, that thing just exploded. I'm trying to get you to feel sorry for me and thank you But I got thinking this past week. When I had that first one done, it was emergency, it was a Saturday, and the dentist called me and had me come to his house, and he did a root canal at his house. And um so anyway I had some follow-up calls that might explain why he missed the one route. But um I had some follow-up visits with him and I had given him a track one time and just said I was a pastor and really didn't engage him a whole lot, but we're sitting there. They always do this. Your mouth is full of stuff. He says So what is an independent Baptist anyway? So finally I said, now getting back to your question, I said, let me tell you what an independent Baptist is. And so I explained to him a little bit, and I got to share the gospel with the guy. He was wide open. In fact, he brought the subject up. I shared a gospel, and he claimed to have gotten saved at some point later. About two months later, he was cleaning the gutters out on his house. Ran into a yellow jacket nest, stung him all over the face. He suffocated and died on the spot Now, was he really saved or not? I don't know. His testimony was a little watery, but I got to share the gospel with him. I don't know how God used that. I could have said, this guy, this is a dentist, he's educated, he don't want to talk about Christ. Yeah, he did. He brought it up. I'm telling you, people would like to talk about it. We've got it built up in our mind that we're so paranoid and all this that no, they don't want to talk about it, they don't want to talk about it. They will. I was reading about a guy I was reading this past week, this was a number of years ago, a guy that uh went to school with Charles Barclay. Guy's a Christian, he's an evangelist now. They were friends, they played basketball together. And Charles Barkley invited him over and he said I wanted to witness to him and so he said before I could even witness to him Barclay brought it up. He said, Aren't you going to church somewhere? And he said I was able to share the gospel with him. He didn't get saved He said he invited me one time, they were in Houston or something, and his buddy Michael Jordan was there, and the guy got to share the gospel with Michael Jordan He said he just talked about it like anybody would. Yeah. His mother's, he grew up in a church. He got mad at God when his dad died. Isn't that something? You and I would think those people don't want to talk about God. Go about it the right way? Yeah, they do. Dr. Don Williams was here, passed through, you know, this past spring for a few months or a few weeks, staying in the mission house. And one Thursday night, I think we were up preaching the missions conference up in Pennsylvania and he had called me, said, I'm gonna go visit a fellow. Does anybody know Lee Schillenberg? Anyone know old Lee Schillenberg? He said, pray for me. I'm going to go out and visit Lee. We've been friends for years. He said I was nervous as could be. He said I wanted to share Christ with this he told me later. He said, I wanted to share Christ with him. He says he's eighty-some years old. He says, I'm eighty years old, just about He said, we went through the conversation and visited. It was a nice visit. And he said, I just, he said, I didn't share. I started the lead. And he said, Lee said this to me. He said, Don, I just read a article or something about heaven and about where people go when they die. He said, well, let me tell you about it. He sat back down, opened his Bible, and Mr. Schoenberg trusted Christ as Savior. He brought it up. He said, people don't want to talk about it. Yeah, they will. My wife and I went out and visited him the other week, just a few weeks ago, to do a follow-up visit. You know what he told me? He said, you know, all these years I've been trying hard to live right and do right and get my way to heaven, and here I find out it's by trusting Christ. Eighty some years old. Yeah, people people will talk about it. Last night I was at the hospital, uh Jerry Connie had called and Jerry was taking the hospital for his back. We really need to pray for Jerry. And I was in there and it was different things. And uh when I was going in, a fellow that I had witnessed to and claims we saved his kids come to Bible time. Uh he said, Preacher Leatherman, I said, hey. He goes, My mom fell and broke her hip and uh she can't sleep. This was like 9 30 last night, 10 o'clock, something like that. Says my my mom fell and broke her hip and she can't sleep. She's up on the third floor. Could you do you think you could go visit her quick, maybe she'd sleep better? And uh I said, yeah, I said I got some in the emergency room, I need to go see them, and I said, I'll go up and see her. So I went in and spent a little time with Jerry and saw what was going on there, and uh and then I went up. And she was sitting there and I had buried her husband years ago in hospice and and she claims to be safe. She's very elderly. So I prayed with her, came back down, checked on Jerry, and Charlie was coming in to help And uh so I said, well, I'm going to go home. I still got some things to do. So I was going out, and there's a guy sitting there outside the hospital, he's sitting on the the uh curb And he's like this and he's smoking a cigarette. It's kinda dark. He's got tattoos all over and just rough looking guy. I mean, looks like the kind of guy that would kill you. Kind of like Sam. And um And uh so I walked by and he's just kind of being nervous smoking so he just kind of looked up at me like that and I said, Hey! And I walked by and boy the Spirit of God just pierced me. So I stopped and I came back where did I put my tracks? Uh I c stopped and got one of my got a track. I came back, I said, Hey man, I said, hey man, I said, I'm the preacher over here at the Baptist Church. He said, I said, I don't want to interrupt you, but here's a little gospel track might be a blessing to you. You know when he said to me, Thanks. I went on and got my car. I came around that circle there in front of the hospital. I came around there and he was sitting over there. You know what he had done with that gospel tract? He was sitting there with it open, reading it like this. Mean old rough guy, 1030 at night, smoking a cigarette. And he was interested in what that gospel tract said Don't tell me people won't talk about it. They will. For kind and gracious, they will. Somebody might be mean. Yeah, some might be. But you can go to Walmart, you can go to McDonald's and get treated meanly as a thing. But you keep going to McDonald's. Here's what I'm asking myself and our church to not allow to happen. We get comfortable not winning souls. Now none of us have arrived. I'm not there yet, but I don't want to be comfortable not being there. You follow what I'm saying? I don't want to be satisfied with not being a good soul winner. I want to be a good soul winner. I want God to ignite a fire in my heart to share the gospel with people and see people saved and baptized. And part of the church. The guy, I didn't think that guy would take the track And to be very honest with you, I figured he'd cuss me out or tell me to get out of there. I thought if he did take the once he did take the track, I figured, well, that thing's going in the trash. I drove by in the dark at ten thirty at night there. He's got that thing up like that and he's reading it. Next something. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I preached too long tonight. I pray that you'd stir our hearts. To share this wonderful, wonderful message of Christ with everyone we can. Lord, I look back on my week and I just see so many