Praise the Lord. I tell you, God's good. What did I say? Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter thirty-two. And um I'm thinking a lot of things to say I'm not going to do it. Jeremia thirty-two, verse seventeen. Now This is our memory verse for the month, and so we've closed at the beginning of the service. Pastor Matt read this in our scripture reading, and this is our text for this morning. I'd like for us, if you would, read this here, this verse together again if you would. If you have it there, verse seventeen, Jeremiah thirty-two, all together. Ready? Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. I read this in my personal devotions all a couple weeks ago, and uh this verse stood out in my mind Verse number 17: Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power, thy stretched-out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. I underscored that passage in my Bible. And I don't know if you're in the habit of marking in your Bible, I think it's a good thing. I would underscore, I would underline or highlight that verse. Just to draw attention, it is a significant statement. And I want to take that last phrase where Jeremiah is praying to God and he makes this statement. He says, and there is nothing. Too hard for thee. And my message this morning is there is nothing too hard for God. Nothing too hard for God. If you leave the service today this morning and you don't get anything else, if you don't get anything else out of the service, and I and I'll tell you, uh my heart's already been blessed And to me, that was two s specials by the choir. You know, one I stopped and then they picked up again But if you don't get anything else out of the service this morning, if you don't get anything else, my prayer is we walk out here convinced that there's nothing too hard for the Lord. Whatever situation you and I may be facing, whatever circumstances we find ourselves in, whatever condition we may be in spiritually I want us to walk out of here knowing there's nothing too hard for God. There's nothing too hard for the Lord. Let's pray and ask Him to help us this morning. Father in heaven, we do bow before you. And God, like Jeremiah, We recognize that you are the creator of heaven and earth. You created this world by your great power And God, we believe, as Jeremiah says in this prayer, that there's nothing too hard for you. Help us to believe that, Lord. Help us to live according to that. And I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, for the next few moments that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. We know you're here. Your presence is here. We can't see you Or we can't feel you. We don't hear you. God, we know that you're here. You see us You know us, you're paying attention to what we're thinking and saying and doing. You're conscious of us, Lord. I pray you'd help us be conscious of your presence. I pray you take this passage, these truths, apply it to our hearts. Lord, I pray you'd bring hope to those who are struggling with hopelessness. I pray you'd strengthen those of us who are weak spiritually. Meet needs. Have your way. Be glorified. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Jeremiah is penned by who you would think is Jeremiah. The man that the book is named after is the one that penned this book. Of course, we always emphasize the fact that God is the author. But Jeremiah is the penman. God moved on Jeremiah to record down every word exactly as it's given here in the book of Jeremiah. It is basically, the book of Jeremiah is basically an account of Jeremiah's ministry as a prophet. Jeremiah's father, a little background on the man that God used and the man that made this statement here, that prayed this prayer. His father was a priest in the temple of God there in Jerusalem. He was raised up in a priest's home. We don't know for certain, we're not told, but we would assume That Jeremiah was raised with the anticipation of someday he being a priest in the temple, following in his father's uh footsteps, his father's ministry occupation, however you want to refer to it. No doubt he was trained in how to be a priest, what his responsibilities would be and and uh requirements and all of that. Jeremiah never became a priest. He was called of God to be a prophet very early in his life. Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 6. We won't take the time to go to all these, but you can read there. We have an account of his call to the ministry. He was very, very young. And he was called under a great king of Israel. When Jeremiah was a young man and God ab appeared to him and we don't know how exactly God called him, whether it was audible or God pressed on his heart. Whatever the case is, whenever God called him to be a prophet, he was under the King Josiah. Josiah was a great king of Israel. He brought about great reforms. He brought the people back to worship God as God intended for them. And so he's he's called to be a prophet at a very young age. For 40 years, Jeremiah served as a prophet to Israel, to the nation of Judah primarily. He served under five kings. As I said, Jeremiah was a great king, a godly king. He wasn't perfect, but he was a good man. God used him in a great way in the nation of Israel Four kings followed Josiah. Jeremiah preached as a prophet, served as a prophet under all five of those kings, and their spiritual condition deteriorated. As the king's king, and he served under all of them, as I said. Forty years. He had a long, lonely, and difficult ministry. We read about heartache that Jeremiah experienced throughout his ministry. He shed tears. He was persecuted intensely. thrown in prison multiple times, attempted uh they attempted to kill him multiple times. God would intervene As far as we know, it appears that Jeremiah never married. He never had children. He was alone, him and God. But he was faithful to his calling, and he was faithful to his God, and he was faithful in preaching his message. He's a great man. He had a very unpopular message. It would have been considered in our day, and in that day it was, considered very unpatriotic. Jeremiah's message was this Israel had sinned against God, and they had kept on sinning against God. and kept on sinning against God, and kept on sinning against God, and kept on sinning against God, and God would send prophets, Jeremiah and others To warn them that the end of their sin was going to be bad. And by the way, the end of all sin is bad. The wages of sin is death. Nothing good ever comes out of disobedience to God. There are pleasures in sin for a season, but that season always comes to an end. And they warned him and warned him and warned him. And it was a very unpopular message because this message was this, because of Israel's sin, continually a hard-hearted, uh stubborn sin against God. They would not repent. They would not get right. Judgment was coming. And it was coming in the form of the Babylonian Empire. They were going to invade, take over Israel and Judah, and take them into captivity back to Babylon. That was a very unpatriotic message. In fact, his message was surrender to them. Don't fight them. Go, let God let them do this. God is doing this, God is doing this. And the people would raise up against Jeremiah and say, You don't love our country. You're telling us to surrender to the enemy. You're telling us to give in to the Babylonians. It's a very unpopular message. Long, lonely, difficult ministry. Unpopular message. He was hated and persecuted intensely. As far as I can tell, studying the book of Jeremiah, in 40 years of preaching, 40 years of preaching, he had two converts. Two men that responded to his message humbled themselves and made things right. One of them was a fellow, his name is Baruch. He ended up becoming Jeremiah's scribe. He would write down Jeremiah's messages. He would pen them down. It's very possible Baruch actually was the one that wrote down the book of Jeremiah as Jeremiah dictated to him under the inspiration of God, but Dubaruch was one of them, and another one was a fellow by the name of Ebed Malek He was an Ethiopian fellow that served the king of Is of Judah. And so two converts in 40 years. I've been pastor for 32 years here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We've seen many, many, many, many, many people come to know Christ as Savior, for which we praise the Lord. Would you agree with me? It would be a bit discouraging to serve God in any capacity for 40 years and see only two people respond to the message of God. Jeremiah got discouraged. In fact, there were times when Jeremiah, one time in particular, Jeremiah said, and I'm putting this in my own words, he said, I'm done. I'm preaching what God wants me to preach. It's a not popular message. It's judgment. People have turned against me. They tried to kill me. I'm imprisoned most of my time. I'm alone. I have no family. I'm done. He gave up. But he says the word of God was like a fire burning in his heart. And he couldn't quit. He couldn't quit. He couldn't quit I like Jeremiah, faithful, determined. He's going to be faithful to God no matter what. As I said, he had a hard message. He preaching the coming judgment of God on Israel's sin of idolatry. Israel and Judah in particular had fallen in love with the world's sin. They liked what the world had to offer. They saw the pleasures of the world, and they wanted to enjoy the pleasures of the world. They saw the gods that the world worshipped. They wanted to worship the gods that the world worshiped. They saw the priorities that the world had, and God's priorities, and the world's priorities were very, very different. And they adopted the world's priorities. They wanted what the world had. They loved the world. They adopted the values of the world. They neglected their relationship with God, their Creator, the one that gave them life, the one that loved them dearly, and they ran after the world. I say this often, I want to reiterate it here. It is possible for God's people to fall in love with the world. Right? We say it all the time In fact, in our own heart and soul, we have that sinful nature that has a hankering for the things of the world But I'm here to tell you, we may, as God's people, I'm talking to saved people right now, we may fall in love with the world, but I'll tell you right now, this world will never love God's people. You mark it down. Samson fell in love with Delilah, woman of the world. Delilah never loved Samson. The prodigal son loved and fell in love with the riotous living out in the world, but the world never loved the prodigal son. Israel fell in love with the world around them, but the world around them never loved Israel. And Jeremiah is preaching to them, and he's warning them. And he's calling them to come back to God and come back to the God that loves you. Come back to the God that has blessed you. Come back to the God that holds your destiny in his hands. Come back to God. And Israel refused. And the result would be the coming judgment of God. Israel was facing severe chastisement And they were gonna God was going to take them into captivity. The Babylonians and the Assyrians would come take them into captivity, and they would spend 70 years in captivity. That was his message. Now, I want to point out here, God's judgment on Israel was not to destroy Israel, but to restore their relationship back to Him. Again, I'm so tempted to stop and park on some of these thoughts. But it would be good for every Christian to study Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that if we know Jesus Christ as our Savior, if we've accepted Jesus Christ as our Savior, we are born into the family of God. We are a child of God. Somebody says I saw a church sign somewhere in the last this summer, sometime, I forget where I was at. It said, We're all the children of God. Not everybody's a child of God Jesus said to the unsaved Pharisees, Jesus said to those that had rejected him, he said, You are your father, the devil. Outside of Jesus Christ, if I don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I am not a child of a God. Jesus said, I'm a child of the devil. May 7, 1979, north of Philly. I bowed in the attic of our house at 10:30 on a Monday night. I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to come in my heart and life and be my Savior. I was born into the family of God. God changed my life, gave me purpose and meaning in my life. He gave me eternal life, assurance of a home in heaven, no fear of hell now. I became a child of God. And as a child of God, those of us that trust Christ as have trusted Christ's Savior, we're a child of God. And God keeps us. And He takes care of us as His children. And sometimes we sin. It's not if we sin, it's not we might sin, we do. And God, as a good father, will, here's the Bible term, and this is what Hebrews 12 talks about. He chastens us What that means is he corrects us. He disciplines us. Let me put it this way: He takes us to the woodshed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here been to God's woodshed? We get messed up, we get out of line, we get some lost some things in our life And God comes and he works in our heart and he corrects us, he chastens us, he disciplines us. And that can take many different forms. But the point I'm trying to make is this. When God disciplines his children, it is never to destroy them. There's been times when I've gotten out of fellowship with God. I hate to admit it. And God works in my heart, convicts my heart, and And uh I remember one time in particular, shortly after I got saved, I had a car wreck. A guy drove uh drunk, drove through a stop sign, plowed right into my passenger side And spun around. I'll tell you, as soon as that car, and I was out of the will of God, I knew it was. In one area of my life, I knew it wasn't. And I spun around as I sat there, I knew immediately God was getting my attention I bow my head and say, God, you're right, I'm wrong. I'm going to make it right. God didn't let that wreck happen to me to destroy me. He was getting my attention. He was getting me back. And by the way, 45 years later, I thank God for his intervention in my life and got me back on the way I need to be going. You with me? So God is chastening Israel. He's going to send them into captivity. This brutal Babylonian army is going to invade their land and haul them off. And if they fight and resist, a lot of them are going to lose their lives. And that's that and he's going to take them there, not to destroy Israel. but to get their attention, to get them to wake up and and look at where they're at and look at their spiritual condition and look what they're doing to themselves Seventy years later, he lets them go back. And by the way, it's interesting to note, as I study scripture, before they went into captivity, Israel was caught up in idolatry of all things. And after that 70 years of discipline and captivity, you never find Israel struggling with idolatry again. It cured them. Now they had a lot of other issues, but as far as worshiping these pagan gods, God broke them of that. And so Jeremiah's message is judgment is coming. God's, if you don't make it right, if you keep on going the way you're going. You keep on living the way you're living. You keep on doing the things you're doing. God's going to intervene. He's not going to let you go on like this. And it's not going to be pleasant And either get right with God or submit to his chastisement. And Israel hated his message. And because they hated the message, they hated the messenger. They turned on him. It was a hard message. It was a hard message. He's reassuring them that God is not going to destroy them. In verses 6 through 15, and again, we don't have time to look at all of this, but if you'd read that God is assuring Israel, listen, I'm going to discipline you, it's going to be rough, it's not going to be pleasant, but I'm not going to destroy you. I'm trying to help you, and I'm going to bring you back someday to the land, and you will experience my blessing again. You will experience, you will enjoy the land that I promised you again. And he's reassuring of that. And so God instructs Jeremiah to do something unusual. And really, from a world standpoint, a financial standpoint, it's a very foolish thing to do He instructs Jeremiah to buy some land. Now he's trying to illustrate to Israel what God's going to do. And he tells Jeremiah to buy this plot of land This plot of land was in a very out-of-the-way area. It wasn't a prime location for anything, business, agriculture, anything. So he tells them to buy this plot of land And hold on to it, get witnesses by it, and hold on to what we would call the deed to this land. And he says, someday You're going to come back and that land will prosper. But I want you to buy it now. Now the Babylonian army is at the gates of the city. They're casting a mount. He mentions that And they're about to invade. They're going to take over all this land. What a foolish investment. An out-of-the-way area and a piece of property that the enemy is going to take over. You'll probably never see it again, but God says you will see it again. And God's using this purchase as an illustration, you will come back. I will not destroy you. Everybody with me so far? That's the context of where we're at. So Jeremiah, just a man, he is struggling with this instruction a little bit. Now he does what God says. But in his mind at this point, it doesn't make a lot of sense. And he praised this prayer that Pastor Matt read. a little while ago, verse 16 down through 26, he prays this pair. And notice how he ends in verse 25. He says, Thou hast said to me, O Lord God, said to me, O Lord God, buy thee a field for money and take witnesses. For the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans. Why in the world would I buy some land that the enemy is going to take away right away? Well, God, as I said, God was illustrating. You're going to get it back, Jeremiah. And God goes on and explains. But in this prayer, he makes this profound statement. He says, Ah Lord God, now he's praying to God about this land. Ah Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm. And there is nothing too hard for thee. God, I don't understand exactly what you're doing. God, I don't understand exactly how this is all going to play out. But I know this. I know that you made everything there is. And whatever you say you're going to do, I know you can do it because there's nothing too hard for thee, O God. Now, I found it interesting in verse 27, the Lord responds to Jeremiah's prayer. Now, this is a prayer of faith. He doesn't understand, but he says, God, you're able to do anything. Nothing's too hard for you. And God says back in verse 27, he says, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. You're right, Jeremiah. I did create heaven and earth by my great power and stretched-out arm. I am the God of all flesh. And by the way, I want to remind you, God is still the God of all flesh. He hasn't died He hasn't diminished any of his power. He hasn't walked away from us. God is still the God that we read of all through Scripture And God says, You're right, Jeremiah. You're right. I am the God of all flesh. I did create all of this. And notice what he says: is there anything too hard for me? You say, why would God ask that? I think this is what God is doing. I think He's reassuring Jeremiah. You're right, Jeremiah, I did create all this. And is there anything too hard for me? He's saying this, Jeremiah, you're right. There's nothing too hard for me. There's nothing too hard for me. I want us to walk out of here today, absolutely convinced from the Word of God, that there's nothing too hard for God. You say, You say, Preacher, I got someone dear to me, they're unsaved, they're not right, I'm worried about their spiritual I'm worried about what's going to happen to them, I'm worried whether they're going to go to heaven or hell I don't want to go I'm and you say they're so hard, they're so far in sin, they're so far away from God, I don't think they could ever get saved, I don't think they could ever be right. I'm here to tell you there's nothing too hard for God Say, preacher, I'm so far in debt, I can't even breathe, I don't know, I've got myself in such a mess. I've destroyed things I made such a mess out of things. I don't think it could ever be right. I'm here to tell you there's nothing too hard for God Maybe there's some here say, Preacher, I've sinned so bad you don't know what I've gotten in. You don't know how bad I've been. You don't know how Serious, I've messed up with my life and my standing before it. I'm here to tell you there's not a sin the devil can come up with that God can't handle. There's nothing too hard for God. Nothing too hard for God. The term that there's a theological term. And I like to use big words every now and then just so you know how smart I is. And um But seriously, there's a theological term for what Jeremiah is saying about God. It's called omnipotent It's a Latin word. It means omnipotent. Omni means all-encompassing, unlimited. Potent is power. And so when we say when we use this term about God that He is omnipotent, what we are saying is God has all unlimited power. In other words, there's nothing too hard for God. There's nothing too hard for God. Doesn't matter how hard a person's heart may be. There's not a heart so hard God can't break it. There's not a sin so dark that God can't cleanse it. There's not a need so great that God can't meet it. He is omnipotent. All powerful, all powerful, all powerful. Here's our problem. We've got too small of a God in our minds. Our God is too oh that that could never happen. I tell you, uh God, nothing too hard for God. He's omnipotent. Let me give you, I've got a few minutes left, let me give you a few thoughts about God's all-power. Number one, the proof of God's omnipotence. The proof that God that nothing is too hard for God. How do we know that we can that God can do anything? Well, first of all, the Scripture declares God's power. The omnipotence of God is not some man-made doctrine The Bible teaches that God is all powerful. Fifty seven times In the scriptures refers to God as Almighty God. Fifty-seven times. And by the way That term is only used about God. Not one time is an angel referred to as being almighty Not one time is a king referred to as being Almighty. Not one of Jesus' disciples are referred to as being Almighty. Only God Fifty-seven times the Bible says God is all mighty, all powerful. So we know God's all powerful because the Bible says so over and over and over and over and over You cannot believe the Bible and not believe that God is all powerful. The word Almighty means all-power, all might, most powerful. Revelation 19, verse 6 says directly, God is omnipotent. So you say, preacher, how do you know there's nothing too hard for God? 'Cause the Bible says it over and over and over and over and over and over and over. And I believe the Bible. And by the way, we want Oakland, Garrett County, and all the world to know Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church believes the old King James Bible. And so, how do we know what's the proof God's all-powerful? What's the proof God nothing's too hard for God? Well, number one, the Bible tells us that over and over and over. Second of all, creation displays God's power. Look what he says there. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by what? Thy great power. And stretched out arm. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1 states that God in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And by the way, that truth is repeated throughout Scripture. We're told God created the heaven and the earth God is the author of all life. God is the creator. God is the maker of everything there is. By him all things were made that are made. And without him was not anything made that was made. By him all things consist. We look at creation and we see the power of God. By the way, and I say this so often, and I'm going to keep on saying it, by God's grace till my dying day, evolution is the biggest lie that ever came out of hell. You and I are not the result of natural processes. We are the result of the direct creation of an Almighty God. We look at the sky. I'm fascinated by the night sky. Last night I was on I was trying to see that comet. Anybody see in the news that there's a comet? And um uh I saw a satellite and about nine Planes, but I didn't see no comet. But I look at the sky. I see the stars. I see and I think what amazing God we have. The immensity of God. They say, and I don't know if this is true, but they say, when you look up in the sky at night particularly, it just goes on. It's just infinite. What's beyond that? And more and more and more. And the Bible says that the heaven of the heavens cannot contain God. What an awesome God we serve The immensity of God. And He's here with us. He's right here. He's listening. He's paying attention. He's conscious. And the power of this God to create this world. Say, how do you know God, there's nothing too hard for God? I look at creation and I say, God's able. God's able God's able. The very existence of the universe testifies that God is all-powerful. Oh Lord my God. When I in awesome wonder consider the worlds, thy hands have made, I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe displayed. Oh, we know God's all-powerful because we see it displayed. In creation. We know God's all-powerful because the Bible tells us. We know God can do, there's nothing too hard for Him. We look at the world he made, spoke it into existence And Jesus demonstrated the power of God. Over and over, we find Jesus healing the sick by just speaking a word. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, God Almighty in flesh, He controls nature. He's on a ship with the disciples. There's a storm. They're convinced they're going to sink and drown and die. Jesus stands up in just a word of his mouth, peace, be still, and sleep. The storms obey his very word. I'm telling you, there's nothing God cannot do. He is all powerful. We see it demonstrated in the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. He raises the dead. Lazarus, come forth, and the dead raise up and walk out of the grave Power of God. The power of God. The greatest demonstration of the power of God ever is when Jesus rose up from that tomb. Stone rolled away, and he walked out of there of his own accord, defeating death in the grave. I'm telling you, there is nothing God cannot do. Say, preacher, I got this problem. There's no way. Listen, you need to look beyond your problem and look at the greatness of our God. David and Goliath. All the army, you've heard this, all the army saw this great giant. David saw a great God. He saw a great God. How do you know there's nothing too hard from God for God? There's proof. So told all through the Bible, the word of God, we're told of the power of God. We look at creation, we see what he made, and we see the power of God. We look at the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ and we see the power of God displayed. Now, let me quickly give you the perimeters. That's the proof of God's power. What are the perimeters of God's omnipotence or God's power The Bible clearly states there are some things. Now get this. You say, well, this contradicts everything you just said. No, it doesn't. The Bible says there are some things that God cannot do. Huh? Yeah. One year, we have a tract. I don't know if we have any back there right now. It's printed by Beaking the Truth. It says five things God cannot do. And so we were at the Autumn Glory Parade, this was years ago, and I'm giving out these tracks, walking up and down the road there right before the parade, and we're giving out thousands of them. I'm giving them out And one lady gets that track, it says on the cover, Five Things God Cannot Do. And she was sitting there and uh she saw it, she stands up and says, There ain't nothing God can't do I said, all right, you read that and see if it's right or not. So I kept on going down. Well we got out, I ran out of tracks, and so I'm walking back up and sh when I went by, she stopped me and said, Hey, uh, wow, you're right, there are some things God can't do. Say, what in the world? What can God not do? Well, the Bible tells us there's some things. Number one, God cannot lie. Numbers chapter 23, verse 19, Titus chapter 1 and verse 2, Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 18. God cannot lie. Why not? Because he is truth. He cannot lie. He cannot lie. Listen, if God says something, you mark it down. It's the truth. If God says the only way to heaven is through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, then you mark it down. He ain't lying. The only way to heaven is through faith in Jesus Christ. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot take away anybody's sins. Only Jesus can do that. That's the truth of God. When God says there is a hell, and he says if we And Jesus said this numerous times. If we die in our sins, unforgiven, if we die in that condition He says we'll be separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell, ultimately in the lake of fire. That is not a lie. That is the absolute truth of a God that cannot lie. And hell is just as real today as it was 2,000 years ago when Jesus warned the people about it. God cannot lie. Mankind can and does lie. God cannot lie. The Bible says there's something else God cannot do. The Bible says God cannot change. Malachi chapter 3 and verse 6, thou changest not. James chapter one verse seventeen every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and from the Father of lights with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Jesus Christ Hebrews tells us The same yesterday, today, and forever. Perfection cannot change or it would cease to be perfect. God cannot change. He cannot lie. The Bible says God cannot deny himself. In other words, 2 Timothy 2. 13 says that God cannot be unfaithful. You and I can trust him completely. Anybody here ever trust someone you found out they were unfaithful? You ever trust someone, maybe some with finances or whatever, you trust them and you found out they were phony? Huh? I wonder how many of us somebody trusted us and we failed them. Goes both ways, doesn't it? I'm here to tell you, God never fails. He is faithful, he cannot deny himself. If he says something is so, he cannot deny himself And so there are some things that are omnipotent God that nothing's too hard for him. There are some things he cannot do. The Bible says he cannot be tempted or tempt anybody, according to James 1, verse 13 God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 13 says that, or Habakkuk, I'm sorry, chapter 1, verse 13, God cannot overlook sin. Sin must be dealt with. Some people say, well, what is the unpardonable sin? There's an unpardonable sin. I'm here to tell you, there is no sin that is pardonable. God cannot and will not overlook sin. God doesn't pardon sin. God pardons sinners. There's a difference. God has pardoned me of all my sin. When I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, all my sin, everything my hands have ever done, sinned against God. Every word that's ever come off my lips, that's sin against God, every hateful, bitter attitude in my heart, every wicked thought that's gone through my mind. God's pardoned me for all those sins, but he did not pardon those sins. They were punished in the Lord Jesus Christ. Follow what I'm saying? All sin is punished. Either by Jesus Christ, or if I die without Christ, then I experience the judgment for all eternity. So God cannot overlook sin. God cannot overlook sin. God has, here's the wonderful thing: God has already judged your sin and my sin and the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, but He doesn't overlook it. He deals with it. And thank God Jesus was our sacrifice that he dealt with that. So God cannot lie, He cannot change, He cannot deny Himself, He cannot be tempted, He cannot tempt, He cannot overlook sin. Say, oh well God, then God must be His power is limited. No, no, no. It's not a limitation of God's power. It is rather an expression of his perfection, his consistency. God is holy And if he's holy, he cannot sin. And so that is just consistency. You follow what I'm trying to say? Inconsistency is weakness. Anybody here wish you were a more consistent Christian? My hands raised. I was when I was in Bible college, Tom Sexton was in the bus head of the bus ministry. I was working under him. And uh I said one time, I said, Man, my biggest one of the biggest struggles in my Christian life is just being consistent. Just being consistent in my walk with God, he made this statement to him. He's a great Christian. He's still a great man And he said, Brother Dennis, he says, whenever you learn the secret to consistency, you tell me, because that's the struggle in the Christian life. Inconsistency is weakness. God is all-powerful. He can be consistently holy. That means he cannot lie. You follow the thinking there? And so there's some perimeters to God's power, and then I am with this: the promise of God's omnipotence. The fact that God is all powerful is not just some dry theological truth. Oh, Brother Leatherman, Pastor Leatherman, he uses those big words, omnipotence, omnipotence. Use those big words. I'm here to tell you, it's not just a theological word, it is a practical everyday truth That affects your life and mine. God is all powerful. God is all powerful. One, that means I can trust God completely. If he is all powerful, there's nothing he cannot do, if there's nothing too hard for him, then I can trust him completely. God can and will do what he has promised to do. I can trust God completely. When I first trusted Christ as Savior, way back 1979, as I said, I was I just turned 19, day after my nineteenth birthday. And uh it was all new to me. Uh I'd been in Sunday school as a little kid, my parents took me, but I'd been out for years and years and years. I knew almost nothing about the Bible. I couldn't tell you the books of the Bible if my life depended on it. And so my life was so changed so dramatically. The drugs and drinking and fornication, all that was gone. God took it all away. And it was like, wow. I had peace in my heart. I had a clean conscience. I had purpose in my life. There was assurance that I'm going to heaven someday. And for about a couple weeks there, I got in my head, well, am I really saved or not? I knew what God did, but I just didn't have this assurance. And I was reading a sermon by an old evangelist, John R. Rice. And he is preaching on Romans chapter 10 and verse 13. It says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I read that sermon. I got thinking about that passage. I knew I called on the name of the Lord. I could take it to the spot. I could take it to the minute. Almost when I knelt and called on the Lord Jesus Christ, Commend my heart and life be my personal Savior. I knew that happened. And I got reasoning. That verse says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, and I knew I did that, shall be saved. And this is my logic in my mind, my simple mind. I know I call him the name of the Lord. God said that whoever calls on him shall be saved. If I'm not saved, then God's a liar. Because he promised whoever calls on him would be saved, and I know I called on him. And if I'm not saved, then God lied to me. And I came to this conclusion: God's no liar, therefore I must be saved. And because God can do anything, He keeps His Word, I can trust Him If he tells me, I call on him, I shall be saved. If God says that we pray, he'll hear our prayers, you mark it down, God will hear our prayers. If God says He loves me, you mark it down. God loves me. So what's the practical application? What's the promise of God's power? Of God's power. I can trust him completely. The God that made this universe, I can trust him. I can trust him with my soul. By the way, it's not us getting ourselves to heaven, it's the power of God getting ourselves to heaven. And so I can trust God completely. I can pray to God confidently. Listen to Ephesians 3. 20. Call to me, I'll do great uh who will do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the power that worketh in us God can answer our prayers. God is able. It is impossible to pray too big of a prayer. Now, the will of God is a factor. I need to, I can't ask outside the will of God. God's timing is a factor, but I'm here to tell you we can pray big prayers I'm afraid a lot of times we're afraid to ask God for great things. We have a great God, we can ask Him for great things. Amen? And then let me end with this: the promise of God's power. I can witness courageously. I can witness courageously. Paul said in Romans chapter 1, verse 16, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. You and I can witness them here. I like what Jesus said in Matthew 28. He says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you to the end of the world You know what he's saying? That all-powerful God, when we're witnessing, he's right there with us. He's right there with right there with us. Anybody here ever you uh I'm talking to save people now You ever feel like God wanted you to witness someone, but you were scared to death? Talk to them about the Lord. Anybody? My hands raised. God says, listen, I'm with you. The God that spoke this by his great power spoke this world. He says, I'm right there with you. We are in Indianapolis. I was youth pastor there at Thomson Road Baptist Church. And uh I ran a I had a bus route into the inner city of Indianapolis. Now Indianapolis isn't the worst cities in the world, one of the worst areas, but they had some pretty rough areas. Uh we were running one on a Wednesday night, I was picking up kids and the SWAT team surrounded our church man. They were in there was this house there. They all had their their guns, you know, and everything and they're going up there and we're just like And so there was a rough area where the bus went. And so one Saturday we're going down there, we're just going door to door trying to sign up people to ride our Sunday school bus. And I was making my way down, you can see about halfway, about a half a block down, there was this big party going on out in the front yard, and they were all like motorcycle gangs. They were like Chuck and Tina. No, no, no. I'm I'm teasing. But I mean these now Chuck and Tina are nice. These guys were rough I mean they had hair, their tattoos and everything, and they're out there drinking bit whiskey and vodka and everything. And I'm walking down there and I'm seeing that I'm knocking on doors. I'm gonna end up at this motorcycle gang drunken party. And they're the Lord God my God. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And so we get down there and there's all these rough guys, and so I got my gospel track, and uh I'm I'm shaken, I gotta witness to these guys. And I walk up and the big guy, he's like Pastor Matt's size, you know, he's got long hair, uh leather stuff. And uh and I walk up and say, Hi, I'm Pastor Dennis. He goes, Oh, I'm I'm ace Oh hi. I said, can I tell you about Jesus? He says, sure. Huh? You know, I was able to take my Bible. They gathered around me. These rough scared me to death. These rough guys all come around. I was able to go through, tell all those big guys how to get saved. You know I think that was? I think that was God working on my behalf. Just preparing hearts, working ahead there. Listen, there's nothing that God cannot do. There's nothing too hard for God. Now I don't know how that applies to your life where you're at. Maybe you're here this morning, you're unsaved. You've never trusted Christ as Savior. If you died the way you are right now, you'd split hell wide open. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ has all power. He can forgive your sin. He can take all that away, give you a new life, and get you to heaven someday. Maybe you're here, you've already trusted Christ, and maybe you've messed up and you've messed up bad. Here to tell you God still loves you. And you didn't lose your salvation. We are kept by the power of God. But I'm here to tell you, you can come back. God will cleanse that. God will fix that up for you. Get you back where you need to be. There's nothing too hard for God. You say, preacher, my marriage is a mess. There's no hope. I'm here to tell you, God can fix that marriage. You say, preacher, my finances are a disaster. I'm here to tell you God can fix your finances. Say, preacher, my testimony, I ruined my testimony. I'm here to tell you, God can fix your testimony. There's nothing too hard for God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take this thought. And help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us, Lord, to follow your leadership Help us to pray. And God, we're asking you to do great things in our hearts, our homes, our church, our nation. God help us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ as Savior. I've got that settled. But I've got some things in my life that just are too big for me. And I need God to help me. I believe He can. I need God to help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. Hands all around. Why don't you come this morning in an old altar and just say, Lord, nothing's too hard for you. I'm trusting you. You show me what to do. You lead me. I'll trust you. I'll do what you say. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, my Christian life isn't what it ought to be, and I just struggle. And I want to be a better Christian and I want God to be pleased. And I don't feel like I'm able to do it myself. I need God. Help me live this Christian life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. He's able. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell I want to know that God has forgiven me. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need God. Come in my heart and life and forgive me and save me. Give me eternal life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. How about it, others? Any others? Preacher, I need God to come in my heart and life and help me. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing that invitation hymn. Why don't you come on and open