Thank you very much. That's a great song. The uh we hear all the time about we're living in a changing world. Boy are we living in a changing world. I started out in the ministry in nineteen sixty-seven and I don't live in the same country I lived in in nineteen sixty seven. You know what I mean by that? And uh things change. But he's immutable That means what he was saying, the unchangeable God. He cannot be different than he is. He cannot be other. You and I can have our highs and lows, isn't it a comfort to know God never has highs and lows You ever listened to a guy on TBN named Jesse DuPlantis? If you haven't, don't go looking for him. Weird as to be. He said he's been to heaven. I it last time I heard it was eight times. I don't know how many by now And uh the seventh time he was there God was having a bad day and brought Jesse up and set Jesse on his lap and Jesse said, God, you're allowed to have a good day and he said by the time I got done, uh, he had encouraged God and I thought, that's about as low a view of God as you can possibly imagine. He didn't find that in this Bible. I said he did not find that in this Bible. Somebody said, Well you shouldn't call names like that. Well he shouldn't go on national television and say stuff like that. Amen. Because he is the immutable, unchangeable God. Man, that's good. Good song. Appreciate that very, very much I found myself down there wanting to sing the chorus with him and I started in a little bit and then I remembered, oh boy, there's no accompaniment here and uh usually accompaniment would drown out what I'm doing And if my wife is sitting by me and I try to help somebody while they're singing a solo, I get the old elbow, you know, and the dirty look. If I break out singing while I'm preaching, I don't look at her anymore, because if I do, she's going, No, no Maybe there's a reason our blind piano player said when he heard me sing he wishes he was deaf as well as blind. So anyway, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the book of 2 Corinthians and chapter number 5 And we're going to begin reading again in verse twelve. This time we're going to read through verse number twenty-one. And uh reading verse 12 through 17 again, just to refresh our mind, and then we'll move on verse 18 through 21. How about we stand together for the reading of the word, if you don't mind And I appreciate the pastor saying something about the C Ds. They are back there. I've sold several, quite a few, yeah. I'm um thankful for that. And um not just because uh of the cash, but because this it's good music. It'll be a blessing. and encouragement to you. So I'll just say ditto and amen to what he had to say and I'll be back there at the end. Uh Miss Kathy helped uh some this morning and if somebody like her is back there again, that'd be good It's not good to give a Baptist preacher money. You know what I mean? So if you gave it to her, you might feel better about it. All right. That was a joke, but it wasn't a good joke. But anyway, it was. Alright. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 12 For we commend not ourselves, Paul said again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that you may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance and not in heart. For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. And that he died for all, that they which live, and this is what we really focused on uh today, that because we are now alive unto God, or a better way to say it, we are alive in God. And Christ is in us by the Holy Spirit. And uh that He died for all, that they which now live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Wherefore, henceforth know we no man after the flesh. Paul said, Now that I've been saved I don't see or judge or know any man after the place. Yea, though we have known Christ after the place. Before he was saved, he knew of Christ and made a terrible evaluation of who Jesus was I think I'll run that by again. That would have been a good place for an Amen. He said, Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, before he met Jesus Christ in salvation He had a bad evaluation of who Jesus was. That's why he was persecuting the churches and trying to shut down the gospel. But he said, I don't know him like that anymore Uh where he says in verse sixteen, yet now henceforth know we him no more, not like I did know him. Amen. And that could be true of anyone who is saved. It is true of anyone that is saved. And verse 17, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. That would be, verse 15, living unto oneself. Behold, all things are become new. That would be now living not unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us and rose again. Alright, now verse 18 through 21. Verse 18 And all things, continuing on, he said, all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God. Now this verse ought to be down or known as one of the truly great verses of the Bible. If I had my way, this verse would be as familiar to folks as John 3. 16. Listen to it For he hath made him, God, hath made him Christ, Christ Jesus. For he hath made him to be sin for us. Right, Jesus, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So, Father, we again say thank you for the time to assemble here together, and it has been good for us to fellowship and to greet one another and to encourage one another And uh it's been good to sing your praises uh together and to be ministered to in an in another wonderful uh song. And God, we thank you for what you, all that you have revealed yourself to be. We want to acknowledge right now that you are the Almighty, the unchangeable God. and that you are the immutable God. You cannot be other than who and what you are. And so we thank you that you are all you have revealed yourself to be and more than we can comprehend. And we thank you for that. Now bless our time together in the Word. Might it be meaningful and helpful in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. God bless. Thank you. Maybe seated. I am resisting the um urge and the temptation. to go back and in brief form, uh repreach verse uh number twelve down through verse seventeen. I know there were some that were not in here this morning and because of uh other activities going on that you're involved in in ministry around the church. But I'm not going to take the time to go back. I've tried to emphasize as we read through that what we focused on And uh basically we are reminded just by the reading that we had that we were every one of us who are Saved, we are born of God, we are redeemed, all the ways that we can describe the salvation that is ours in Jesus Christ. That every one of us before we met Christ were dead. Dead in trespasses and sin. We were walking dead men The body function was there, our movement was there, our ability to comprehend was there, all of that, signs of life. The fact that we function, though, did not change the fact that we were dead in our trespasses and sin, dead to God. And now that we, like Paul, as I mentioned this morning, met Jesus Christ in salvation, now we have his life in him. I love Romans chapter 5, verse 1 through 5. I'll only give you verse 5. And he says in verse number five that uh we who are now uh have now trusted uh uh Christ by faith and have received salvation, that he hath shed abroad in our hearts. The Holy Ghost, the love of God, by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. So when we got saved, He shed abroad in our hearts His love. By the Holy Ghost that is given to us. We have the life of God, the love of God in us by receiving Christ Which means we have the Holy Spirit of God within us. And so we are alive to God. Now, if you look down at verse 17 one more time, I tried to emphasize this this morning, and here I go, but I'm not going to repreach it honestly. Verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, any man, therefore if any man I read some commentaries, they said, Well this is really talking about Paul as an apostle and the apostles. Excuse me just a second. In verse seventeen he said, If any man Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new Don't forget that behold. Don't read past that word because you might see it often in the scripture. Don't think it is an insignificant word. It is supposed to get our attention that something magnificent has happened Look at this. Behold, we were living our life unto ourselves, dead in trespasses and sin. And behold, all things are now become new Don't lose that behold in your life. Now mentioning that and reminding us of all that is ours in salvation and by faith in Jesus Christ Paul reminds us of this as we move into verse 18. Watch these words. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Now stop right there for just a moment. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. All right, now, you know what we were saying and emphasizing the behold about You know, that old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Uh Paul reminds us in verse number 18 That all of this, now listen carefully, all of this was initiated by God. All things are of God. who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. It's just a way of saying, now look, you didn't initiate that. You didn't wake up one day because of some streak in goodness that came over you, you said, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna go find God and get saved That isn't what happened. When we were lost and dead in trespasses and sin, the persuasion, the conviction, the awareness of our sinfulness in our heart, that's the work of the Holy Spirit of God And God initiates that. Jesus told or taught us, I just read it in my Bible reading in John chapter sixteen, that when the Holy Spirit of truth is come that he will convince or convict the world and the unbelieving world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And any of us that have come to Jesus Christ in salvation, that conviction and awareness of our need of God, it was initiated by God. Not just the whole plan of salvation in the whole big picture, obviously it's initiated by God. It's amazing, isn't it? that in the very chapter, Genesis chapter 3, where we are introduced how sin entered into the human race, in that very same chapter We have the promise that God's going to provide forgiveness or a means of forgiveness from uh for that from that sin. And so God has initiated all of that. That's why we ought to praise him I said, that's why we ought to praise him. Because he has initiated this and we are saved because of him. Praise him, praise him. I was not going to do anyone. And uh they say, Oh, Southwest Baptist Church, you're that hymn book church. like you poor people lost in the past and all of that kind of thing. And they said, uh you don't do praise music, do you? I said, oh yes, yes, we do praise music Oh I thought that was just a songbook church. I didn't know you did praise music and I said, Well of course. Well what praise songs do you do? And I just started singing Praise him, praise him, Jesus our blessed redeemer. Oh, well that's a hymn. Well what does praise him, praise him mean? That's a praise song, my friend. And there's a whole bunch of them that we see that are sung to his praise and his glory. Why? Because all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. See, it's all of him. And that's why we praise him. And that's why we don't live unto ourselves anymore, but unto him which died for us and rose again. Now I want to call your attention to The fact that he said that all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself And then a form of reconcile is used several times in our passage, as you saw and as we will see. Now, let me just stop and talk to you in just a little bit. Back at Heartland Baptist Bible College and I I teach uh what is called homilades, and it's basically the development of a biblical sermon And the delivery of a biblical sermon. And so I teach uh third year men. Uh I give them an introduction to homiletics And then one of our graduates who is a uh has a wonderful mind and grasps the concepts and and all he teaches what we call applied homiletics and the grad school we have advanced homiletics. So we believe that s preaching is serious business. So a lot of attention, if you're going to be a preacher, a lot of attention ought to be given to not just knowing the Word of God but knowing how to commu put together and communicate the message of the Word of God. See? And so I teach that. Now In teaching that, uh, I read quite a bit. I mean, I have a textbook that I use, I've used for several years, and I teach out of that textbook, but that textbook is not all that I read And so one of the things I try to do is read uh articles or periodicals and uh occasionally a book on contemporary preaching. In other words, what's the mindset out here today? What is the attitude toward preaching? What is the approach to preaching And uh when you read from some of the contemporary writers, some of those that are culturally sensitive, you know, or politically correct And there are some of them out there. And a politically correct person has no business in the pulpit handling the Word of God, because this is not a politically correct book. You know, in terms of how our society looks at it. But anyway, here's here's one of the things they say. One of the things they say, and and I I read this and try to keep my pulse meat on the What's being said out there, so I can see what some of our young men have read or maybe be hearing and try to give them, you know, a biblical perspective of preaching And so one of the things they say is do not use theological terms in contemporary preaching. Because uh the experts Quote unquote. The experts say that, well, uh the awareness and the knowledge of the Bible is not what it used to be. No kidding Excuse the sarcasm, but no kidding, yeah. I mean no, the knowledge of the Bible is not what it used to be. Plus the proliferation of versions has changed the landscape a lot so that terms that we would have understood from the Bible, from a lot of versions, are not used. They are replaced by more simple Or I like to call it, just to be real straight about it, dumbing down words. And so they say, don't use theological terms And what they suggest is you don't use terms like righteousness. Like people don't know what righteousness means. And don't use terms like sanctification. And don't use terms like redemption. And don't use terms and they'll go on and on. Justification. And they'll go on and on about these theological terms, and one of the terms that they would say not to use is the term reconciliation. And the reason is because it kind of goes over people's head and they're not familiar with that, and so you can't do it So I I think I'm among intelligent people here tonight who realize there's been a significant dumbing down in our country in almost every realm, you know, of education. And so basically what they're saying is to do, the pulpits ought to help people dumb down. So rather than using the theological terms and doing what a preacher ought to do is give understanding to them And help people comprehend, understand. Basic fundamental. Did you hear what I said? Fundamental? I'm not afraid to use that word Because it's the very foundation I'm talking about righteousness, justification by faith, sanctification, and uh and personal sanctification, positional sanctification, and uh and reconciliation and redemption. All of these are terms that are fundamental to the truth of what Christianity is. And so the best thing to do in my estimation, I'm really not going with the flow out here The best thing to do is take these terms and make sure people understand them. They are not given to us to confuse the mind. They are given to us so that we might expound upon them and so people might appreciate the fact That we have been made righteous in Jesus Christ. That we are justified before God because of the fact that Jesus Christ is our Savior and He is the just One And that we have been reconciled to God. Now that's the one I want to camp on here a little bit tonight. All things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Now To begin with, I think it'd be good to have a good, clear, working definition and explanation of reconciliation. Reconciled. All things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself. That's in verse number 18. Would you look in verse number 19? The first half of it, to wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them And now would you look at verse 21? For he had the word reconcile isn't there, but the meaning of it is. For he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us. Who knew no sin? Jesus knew no sin. But he became sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. All right, now let's talk about the term reconciliation. I got saved when I was six years old. I heard the message on Sunday morning on the subject of hell. Our preacher preached on hell on Sunday morning. It was back in the day they didn't know you shouldn't do that. And so he did. He preached Sunday morning on health. And so that week, uh that Sunday morning that I heard that, raised up in church. I mean, you know, I was only six years old, so I wasn't raised up yet, but I was being raised up in church. Bible read in our home every single day. My dad read the Bible in the morning, my dad read the Bible at night, we all prayed at night, and I'm just talking about we we never miss church, you know, the went every time the doors were open, so help me, I used to think My parents drove by the church to see if we might be missing something, you know? And just we seemed like we went to church an awful lot. And so grew up in that kind of environment and home. My dad was a deacon and a godly man. My mother maybe the best Christian I ever knew. And so raised in that environment, I knew that there was a place called hell. That Sunday morning when our pastor preached, it was the first time I realized that as I am, I'm going there Now there are a lot of people that would take this way down a kid like that. No, I I I don't really want to listen to all that argument. I know what was going on in my soul that day. And the awareness came that uh not only was there a hell uh where sinners went But as I was, I would go there if I died then. Well, you know, that kind of puts some fear in me. You shouldn't have fear. Uh yeah, the fear of God. It's still in the Bible. Don't get me off on that. We'll never get out of here tonight. And so uh that with the fear of me, I went home and talked to my parents, and I said to my parents I about how you know my heart was affected by that, and I said, I I want to be saved I want to be saved. I'd heard, I'd known, you know, my brothers and sisters older than me were saved and all of that. I said, I want to be saved. And my dad talked to me a little bit, but he Didn't you know I didn't get saved then, he didn't push, my mom didn't push, I look back on that and I'm kinda amazed they didn't do any more than they did, because I said I want to be saved But maybe it was uh wisdom also that made sure that it's the Spirit of God working on this little boy's heart, you know. And so I went back the next Sunday, we did, of course, and that Sunday morning he preached a sermon on hell I thought he did that the last week. Yeah, he did. But he did it again. I mean he sure would be out of step in today's time. What, two Sunday mornings on hell? You know? Only this time he not only preached uh strong the reality of hell, he also preached what Jesus did so a boy like me wouldn't have to go to hell. And the major part of his message is the punishment, uh verse twenty-one, he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Jesus was on that cross, and Peter said in chapter two that he was bearing our sins in his own body on that tree. So when Jesus was on that cross, then God was treating him as though he were the very sinner, not sinter, sinner of all the universe. And God poured out his wrath and his judgment, the full cup of his wrath, upon his only begotten son, who said, Father, why hast thou forsaken me? See And so uh what I understood was from that that Jesus was punished instead of me He was punished for my sin. And so that day I went down. I walked down that aisle to an auditorium just a maybe a little bigger than this. It was massive to me as a kid, see 300, 350 people And so forth and so I remember walking down that long aisle sitting about where our brother is here in the red shirt and walked down that aisle, Mr. Chance, a deacon, met me right over here. Man, my dad loved and respected, and I got on my knees there, and Mr. Chance talked to me a little bit. And I prayed and I called upon Jesus to be my Savior. Now as a six year old boy, you know, I I I don't even think I knew a cuss word I I hadn't cussed before, I hadn't robbed a bank and I uh hadn't done drugs and, you know, all the heinous sins that are so familiar out there. I may have smitten my sister, but if I did, my sisters But it was self defense, honestly it was. And so I knew that I was a sinner. I knew that I would uh I I was a sinner and needed the salvation. And when I When I got up from there and my dad came and stood by me there and I got baptized, I knew this is a different day. I I didn't I didn't know how to explain it. I didn't I didn't know how to explain everything that happened, but I do know that I was invited by the Word of God to call upon Jesus to be my Savior and I did. And I I don't know how to explain it. I just knew this is different. No, not just the experience of standing up there. Everything was different. There was a difference in here Now what if somebody would have walked up to me and said, Sammy, that's what I was called as a boy. I don't really appreciate that name right now, so I know some wise guy in this church is going to call me Sammy right back there Anyway, what if somebody would have walked up to me and said, Sammy, how does it feel now that you're reconciled to God? I would have said, Say what? Reconciled to God? I don't know what reconciled means But I learned through the process of time, like all of us do, I learned through the process of time what happened I learned what it meant to be reconciled to God. Because see, the word reconcile, it simply means an exchange. A change takes place. Or an exchange. If any man being in Christ is a new creature, old things passed away. Come on. That's our verse right here that we talked about this morning. So a change takes place, and probably be more accurate to say, an exchange takes place. A great transaction, a great exchange took place the day I got saved, and the same thing happened to you when you came to know Jesus as your Savior if our conversion Our salvation what we look at is our salvation experience. If it was real, if it was genuine, if it was more than a game, it was more than pretense. If it was more than just trying to get out of some kind of trouble, your back was to the wall. If it was genuine repentance toward God and faith in Jesus Christ, then a great transaction uh transaction took place and an exchange was made that involves You and God. Now what was that exchange? Well, uh see, when two people are reconciled together, uh what kind of Takes place. Married people in here may uh I can talk real bold about this right now, my wife in here, but through fifty years of marriage, you know, there have been times when she created a little stress You know. There was stress in our relationship. You know, there could be stress. You know, you come home and and uh you say, Hi babe, how you doing? Fine. Uh, did you have a good day? Yes. And those little short answers, you know? Something bother you? Anything to talk about? Nope. Then you know you got a problem And so, you know, you got some stressful situations going on. Usually it had to do with me inviting people over to her house without telling her first and uh all kinds of Different things like that. And so there create a little stress in the house. And so there were times though that uh maybe I didn't respond to some questions she asked or some evaluation she made And I would respond in a cutting or hateful way, and I'd get smitten in my heart and I'd go back to her and I would want to be reconciled. I don't want to live in a home nor in a marriage where there is constant stress and division. Don't want to do that. I don't want to have that kind of relationship with children. I don't want to have that kind of relationship with church people when I was pastoring. I don't want to have that kind of relationship with my pastor back home I don't want to have that kind of relationship with anybody if there's stress there. As a matter of fact, Jesus talked about that. He said in the Sermon on the Mount, we were talking about the Sermon on the Mount earlier And Jesus said now if you're going to bring a gift to the altar and you recall that you have something against someone or there's somebody that has aught against you, what did Jesus say to do? He said, You just forget offering that gift right now, and you put it down right there, and you go being reconciled to your brother, and once you've been reconciled to your brother, come back and bring me the gift You remember that? So there are two people that there's a there they are at odds. There's hostility there. There's hostility, there's contention. There is uh what shall we say a hostile or there is a um there is an yeah the Bible word enmity there's enmity between them there's some hostility So what do you do? Well, you go to that brother and you say, uh, you know, I feel like uh we had a better relationship before, and I feel like that uh I owe you an apology Because uh the way you presented that or the way you said that or did that or something, I feel like that uh I was misjudged or you didn't get it right, and I had a bad attitude for you, and I want you to forgive me for that. And he says, Well, I shouldn't have said that. Anyway, and you're you're right. I was I was kind of off base. I was kind of angry and hateful about I was mad about something else and I got hateful with you And I said, Well, I I just want you to forgive me. He said, Well, would you forgive me? Certainly we do. We shake hands and everything's fine. We're reconciled to one another Husband and wife, I go in and say, Sandra, look, I didn't appreciate the question you asked me. More, it was the mother tone in which you asked me the question. Because you're a wonderful mother, but you're not my mother. You know that's what I've told her a few times. And so, Sandra, I s this isn't going over very good, but I'm just being real honest with you. And I go to her and I just say to her, Sandra, that was not right. And I'm sorry I talked to you that way. That's not right. I love you and love doesn't act like that. So I'm I'm asking you to forgive me. Will you forgive me? Well of course I forgive you I shouldn't have ever done that to begin with. I said, no, it wasn't your fault. She said, yes, it was. So she apologizes, I apologize. We're reconciled to one another. Yeah. Isn't that good? And brothers and sisters can be reconciled, parents can be reconciled, we can be reconciled one to another. You got a neighbor, I got some neighbors over there uh to our west right next door to us And uh for the past eight years, I pick up trash out of my yard that's their trash. I have yet to say one word about it Now I I I uh you know I want to. I have to I have to do right about this thing. I want to. And I let their kids play in our yard, I open up our backyard to them. When they lose their ball and all of that kind of stuff over the place, I'll go help them find it if I'm home. I want to be a good neighbor. And uh so there uh are neighbor situations that can create a good deal of division And um I'm gonna I I did say to my neighbor once, you know, I went out and I picked up cans and the bottles and I picked up the trash and the paper, and I want to just tell you, I was so angry and I just threw them away, but I'll just tell you this Uh if you'll uh help me, why we can keep this place looking good in your place and my place. I'm sorry, I didn't know it was over there. Um you'd have to see our house and w uh where they live and how we live. And yeah, you didn't know they were there? That you left your house blindfolded, you know what I mean? And so all of that kind of thing. And people can be reconciled to one another. But here's what he said. All things are of God, we're talking about salvation now, who hath reconciled us to himself. All things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself. Now, listen to this good. You may be reconciled to God, but God will never be reconciled to you. Now that ain't gonna happen. So I went and apologized to God. So what do you want him to do? Apologize to you? Come on. So you go to God and you confess and you make things right with God, and you know what he does? He reconciles you to himself. But here's where many people are out here, and some of them set in church pews. I'm not accusing anybody because I don't even know how to do that here in disassembly. But I'm just saying, uh here's what many people do. They are going to give God their terms of reconciliation Well that's not going to work. Because God establishes the terms of reconciliation and you may only be reconciled to him because it is our sin that has caused the problem or the strained relationship. Come on. The enmity between God and the sinner that is caused by our sin, it is not caused one whit by God. And so for people to say, well, you Baptists talk about being saved and you say that you have to be born again, you know the way I look at it, if a man does this and if a man does that, well you can look at it that way. I mean we can tell the whole world in our soul winning efforts You can look at it that way, but God will never reconcile Himself to your terms. Because He alone could establish the righteous God, could alone establish the terms of righteousness Who are we to try to establish the terms in righteous God when we are the unrighteous sinners? And so the reality is, my friend That God is the one who initiates it and has reconciled us to himself. Now here's what happens when you get reconciled to God. A great exchange is made A tremendous transaction that if we ever stop to think about it, we might want to run around the building a little bit. If we ever stop to think about it, it would get us out of our doldrums about our Christian life and make us fired up about who we are, because here's what happened When I came to Jesus Christ as a little boy and I called upon Jesus to be my Savior and to forgive me of my sin, the reason I felt so different back here is because God had done something that I didn't know how to articulate at that time. And that you couldn't see with the physical eye. But here's what God did. On the authority of His Word, He took my sin He took my sin and put my sin on the account of the cross of his son, Jesus Christ. And he took the righteousness of Jesus Christ, not imputing my trespasses unto me, but imputing my trespasses to his account. And he took the righteousness of Jesus and put his righteousness on my account and the transaction or the great exchange has taken place I am his and he is mine. And the enmity and the hostility between the sinner and God is all erased and done and taken care of by Jesus Christ. And we are. reconciled to God, say. That's what it means. That's exactly what it means Well, here we go again. Don't get too excited about that now. It's just that your sin was on your account. What did he say there in verse number 19? To write that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them? Every one of us, look at me just a second, every one of us that are saved, we had the penalty of our sin hanging right over our head. If a man believes, he is not condemned. If he believes not, he is condemned already. That cloud of condemnation is hanging right over the head of every unbeliever. But when you came and trusted Jesus to forgive you of your sin, he took away that condemnation. And well, what about my sins? Your sins were paid for in the blood of Jesus Christ on his cross. Now watch this, and his righteousness was imputed to you, not your sins. Your sins were put on his account, and you are reconciled to God. Hallelujah. Well, that's a fact. No, th th this this isn't no this isn't an effort just to preach something nice and exciting. That's exactly what he's saying here. Yeah. And he says it three times. All things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Second time, verse 19. To wit that God was in Christ. God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, and not imputing their trespasses unto them. And third time, verse 21, for he hath made him to be sin for us. Imagine that. He knew no sin and yet became judged by God as though he alone had ever sinned. And he knew no sin That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Wow. I had a guy say after a service one time He said, don't you think you're kind of using outdated terms when you're talking about, are you right with God? Are you right with God? Are you right with God? I said, that's a very biblical term. And he said No, it's not a biblical term. He said it's just something preachers do. You know, then you get right with God. You need to get right with God. Well, it he said, okay, I'll use I'll change terms then. I said to him, I'll change terms. You need to be righteous with God. Because that's what it's talking about. You need to be righteous with God. And we need to be righteous in our Christian lives before God. And so it it's uh it's a reality to take place. It happens when we are reconciled to God, that this transaction takes place. Now, when this transaction takes place, what we have to understand then is according to verse number 18. Now would you look at this? Because it's there twice. I'm just giving you the Bible. I want you to look here And verse number 18, and all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Uh-oh, look at this. And hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. So he said, have you been reconciled to God? Then he said, you have been given the ministry of reconciliation. Now this is where the commentators come in, and they say the ministry had to do with the ministry of the apostles in the ministry of reconciliation. I don't buy that. I don't buy it for a minute. Because the scripture said, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed. Any man, any man, not just the apostles, hallelujah, praise God. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away We no longer live unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us and rose again. That's not an apostle thing. That's an every believer thing. I said, that's an any man thing. See And so he said that all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself. Now watch this, and hath committed to us the ministry of reconciliation. The ministry Ministry? Yeah. Ministry. What does that mean? Serve. Minister means to serve. A minister is a servant. That's what the word means. A minister is a servant. It's not some high and mighty title, you know. A minister is one who simply ministers to A minister is one who serves. So he said he hath given to committed to us the ministry of reconciliation. Now follow along, follow along. To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, watch, and hath, I think this is where the use committed uh given is in verse 18 and verse 19 I think it's committed and it's committed to us the word of reconciliation. What does it mean? What does word mean? What do you think word means? Well, word means uh expression. It's how we express ourselves. Words. That's how we express ourselves. Well, all I'm trying to say is, once you are saved and you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, He's given unto you the ministry of reconciliation. In other words How are you going to serve the Lord? Somebody says, well, the way I serve the Lord is uh I I am on the uh welcoming committee. That's how I serve the Lord. It's my ministry right there, welcoming people Well you have to have a title of welcoming people to welcome people? And you're calling that a ministry? It's just what we ought to do We're crying out loud. I mean I'm a visitor in a different church almost every single week. And I go in and there are a lot of people who won't speak to me, so I speak to them And I just go up and I just say, Hi, my name's Sam Davidson and what's your name? Get their name and I say, Well good. And I've even been known to say Do you know those people over there? No, I don't know who they are. Well come here, let's meet 'em. I take them over there and meet them so I can get this thing going. I'm not kidding you And I do that all the time. My wife has to say, you are not the pastor of this church. Now leave people alone. You're not the pastor of the church. I say, Well they need help. So, you know, just kind of helping along then. I mean uh I I serve in the welcoming ministry. I'm an usher. I'm an usher ministry. U uh that's your ministry What a price you pay. Now I'm not making fun of ushers, but come on. That's your ministry? And and you you look at a lot of church, I've been looking through a church paper, so I'm not if it's there, it's fine. We have ministries listed in our uh uh church uh bulletin, weekly bulletin too. But you'll look over here. Such and such a Baptist church and here are the ministries and they got a whole list of things to try to Oftentimes it seems to me it's trying to make it look like this is one church we've got all the basis covered. This ministry, this ministry, this ministry, this ministry. This ministry, this ministry. And I found out there are people that are exercising their ministries that wouldn't go out of their way to talk to a lost soul about the destiny of his soul if you if you put a uh if you Built a fire under them, they wouldn't do it. You know, has nothing to do. Now do you know what he's done? He's given to us the ministry or serving Listen, serving Jesus in this work of reconciliation To wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not impetting their trespasses, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Come on, listen up carefully. People say, well, yeah, I I hear you. I think pastor ought to be uh win souls and deacons ought to win souls, but honestly, I don't know I wouldn't know what to say if I went out and tried to win souls. I I'm not good with words. He's giving you the word. I think going over is a good pastor, but I'm leaving Wednesday, so I'm just gonna go ahead. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. He's given us the word. He's not only committed to us the ministry, it's how we serve him. Somebody says, I believe should a Christian serve the Lord? Yeah, I believe a Christian ought to serve the Lord. How might a Christian serve the Lord? Well, you may name all kinds of ways, but if it doesn't include this, you're not serious about what happened to you And what's been given to you up on your salvation. That's not my gift. I read a book about your spiritual gifts, and that is not my gift. Doesn't matter if it's your gift or not. You've been given, are you any man that was lost and now you're saved? If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, old things are passed away. Is any man like that? Is every believer government is that would include everybody that's here saved Then you've been given the ministry of reconciliation. It looks like it was given to the apostles. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us. Who? All of us that were dead In sin. Now we're alive unto God. What has he done? He has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. We are to serve Jesus by seeing to it that sinners are mindful they don't have to die at odds with God. They can be saved. They can know Jesus as their Savior. Yeah. That's your ministry. Not mine. I don't I I can't I can't talk to people. Uh oh. And hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Committed to us the word how we express ourselves with words. Committed to us the word of reconciliation. I wouldn't know what to say. He's given you the word. How you express yourself. Words. No, I don't know what to say to them. How long have you been saved? X number of years. Have you tried to find out what to say? Look, you don't have to be a Greek scholar to figure this thing out. I'm certainly not. You can tell I'm still working on English. I'm no Greek scholar. But he says he hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. Now that's either so or not so. That's either for some special class out there somewhere, or it's for any man If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature who no longer lives unto himself. But unto him who died for us and rose again, and he's committed to us ha hath uh given to us the ministry of reconciliation, but he didn't just do that, he committed to us the word of reconciliation. That would be the word of God. That would be the way of salvation Well, I wouldn't know what to tell people. Can you tell people what happened to you? That's how Paul did it a few times. He just stood before magistrates and important people, and knowing that they were ignorant of the prophets and many of them, and the message of the Bible, you know what he did? He told them what Jesus did for him And everything that he told them that Jesus did for him is consistent with what God has revealed in his works. Everybody listen to this? And and somebody says, Well, yeah, but I I mean I I've never really uh you know learned what to say to people like that. Well isn't that amazing? I know of people that used to didn't know how to play golf, but they learned how to play golf. Now how do we get to golf? Well just hang on for about an hour. I mean just a minute and I'll show you. No, how how oh yeah. Oh so I see on your table here uh golf digested golf And uh do you read these quite a bit? And before the man can answer, his wife said, Yes. And I said, Um I bet you have some videos too, don't you, show you how to swing, how to, you know, the Right swing to for a driver, right swing for the irons, long irons, short irons, all that. Oh yeah, you had it all. Do you do you read them and study the I said that oh yeah, yeah. He said, I take clients out, it's very important. I don't go out and look like I never played golf before. And now I've really grown to love the game and so he said, Yeah, I spent a lot of time watching those videos. How about that See here on your shelf. You got any books on soul winning? There are some, you know. Or do you know the verses in the Bible about uh soul winning? Telling somebody how they can know they're safe? Well no, you know I I don't uh boy, I don't know, I just I don't know Well, I think I know. You really like golf. You don't care if people go to hell or not. Have you ever told somebody that? Uh yes. I mean it's not like I go into every home and do that, you know, but I was in a certain situation where yeah, you just you know this isn't the time to tiptoe around about things. We've got to get down to business. Jesus is coming again. This world's in a mess Some of you are probably in some kind of pain right now, going through this kind of a service, perhaps. I don't know. But I'm just saying, this is what the Christian life is supposed to be about. Don't toot your horn. I've been saved. Jesus is my savior. Don't ever question me whether I'm saved or not. Well, if number one, if you're saved, you shouldn't really be mad about it. You should be happy to talk about it. And I know I'm saved, you know, and I know Jesus my Savior, but I'm not I'm not I'm just not into that. And the reason you're not is what Well, no, no, don't tell me how you feel. We don't live unto ourselves anymore. We live unto him who died for us and rose again. Come on, we can't get away from that. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, and all things are become new. And all things are of God who is reconciled unto himself by Jesus Christ. If any man be in Christ, then he's c look he's committed to us the ministry of reconciliation and our ministry is we are to engage people that don't know God and let them know that before they leave this life They can be reconciled to God and have peace with God and rather than enmity with God. Come on. If you're saved, that's what happened to you And if you're not saved, that needs to happen to you before you check out of this life. Or you'll go to hell, just sure as I'm standing here. That's just the that's the way it is. Oh no, I know I'm safe. Then he has committed to you the ministry of reconciliation. How's it going? Well, uh, I was told in one church, not even discernment, I hadn't even preached this text, and the person said, uh, you know, my wife and I Our ministry is decoration. Anything we do here at our church, my wife and I have done the decoration. She is so good and I've learned to help her. I'm not in actually good at it by myself, but I learned to help my wife. It's something we can do together. And it's just everybody knows in our church our ministry is a decoration. Well, I have trouble getting excited about that, I confess Mainly if we're gonna have a banquet, let's eat. You know what I mean? I don't really care if there's frilly stuff on the tape or not. I care what the menu is. Come on, somebody help me. And how long before we eat But I understand it's nothing wrong with decoration. It's nothing wrong if people are artistic and gifted that way. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that, but really he saved you to decorate For church functions? And you can't engage somebody about the eternal destiny of their soul because you've already got another ministry? Can somebody help me with this? Because this is any man's stuff. And any man's just not talking about the males, it's talking about anybody that comes to know Jesus. Any living person that comes to know Jesus has been given the ministry of reconciliation. You have been reconciled to God, and now you've been given the ministry of reconciliation. And the word of reconciliation doesn't mean any more than he has given us what to say. Men are sinners before God. Jesus died for our sins. If a man will confess his sin and repent in his heart of his sin toward God and by faith call upon Jesus Christ, trusting the work that he did at Calvary and took our punishment for his sin. If that person will call upon the Lord in believing, then that person will be saved. Old things passed away, behold, all things will become new. Men, look at me, and women need to know this. I said they need to know this. They need to know this. Often I sat by a person and I say, so you do go to church? Yeah, I go. I said, are you a believer in the gospel? Yeah. Okay, when did you get saved? Well and then it goes on I think I've always been saved or I don't know and I say, Well isn't that something because he calls it born again and I bet you you can tell me your birthday Huh. Yeah, oh yeah. I said not you my birthday. Yeah. If a man gets born again, that's even more magnificent than the physical birth. I said that's even more magnificent more awesome than the physical birth. I said, that's even greater than the physical birth. You'd think a person remembers something about that they called upon Jesus. to be their savior. And talk to a lot of people to say they believe the gospel that have never come to the point where they humbled themselves to actually be saved. Now, excuse me just a second. If you as a believer in the gospel are not to do this, who should? Some elite class out of the church, every church an elite group of um what what do we call spatial agents? Why them? Well they just Have the gift of Gab. Sometimes the gift of Gab can get in the way of really caring for somebody's soul and just telling them the simplicity in the gospel that they can be saved. Are you listening to this? And you've been given the ministry of reconciliation. And you've been given the word of reconciliation And I I happen to believe, I know this man's a soul winner, I happen to believe with this congregation, there probably is along the way opportunities to learn how to be an individual, personal soul winner and tell somebody about the saving grace of Jesus Christ. And here's sort of a pattern. I found out that everybody I've ever been able to believe the Lord, it wasn't A, B, C, here's my plan, A, B, C. It's to deal with everybody different. It may take a different approach. Some have compassion. Others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire. There may be some people, look, there's some people, read the book of Jude. There's some people that you sit down and you have compassion upon them and you're gentle and you're easy and you're careful with them And there are other people that are too tough to listen. That's for women and children. I said I told more than one man. Yeah, well you may think it's for women and children. You may think you're tough and you're above this, but I will tell you this of some had compassion Others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. I can tell you, Mr. Tough Guy, you'll die and go straight to hell when you leave this life as you are Now you don't go up to some grandfather in a nursing home and tell him that. But you got some hardened motorcycle type rider guy out here. And he's just too tough to think about the things of God and the Bible. And you know what he needs to do? Oftentimes he needs to hit right between the eyes with the reality This motorcycle crisis, you may think everybody's going to say, what a rider, what a cycle, wow, the noise that thing made. Whoa, you think everyone's gonna be talking about how much fun you had and how much beer you could drink on your motorcycle trips? And I know not all motorcycle people drink, I'm just saying. You you think that's what it's gonna be about? Well I'll tell you what it's gonna be about. You're gonna die and go to hell And if everybody has a big party, drinking party, when you're gone celebrating how much fun you were to be around, you'll be burning in hell, and it'll be no satisfaction to you whatsoever. No, uh now I don't have a plan written out to say that kind of thing. But that's why we beg people be a Bible person. Read your Bible. Read your Bible. Read the Word of God. Read it Well, I don't understand everything. There'll be enough to keep you busy that you do understand. When God's ready for another dose and another step, he'll show you. If he gave us the whole load at once, it'd kill us So that's why we read it. I've written in the last 25 years, I've read the Bible a hundred and two times, and I'm still going and plan to do that till as long as I have able to see and have the presence of mind I'm going to read the Word of God. Why? Because I need the Word of God in my life. You need the Word of God in your life. See, no, no wonder people don't know how to speak to others about the Bible. They don't make it their business to know the Bible. Now we're gonna quit with verse twenty. Look at it. Verse number twenty. Well, I'm not sure I'm with you on that, Brother Sam. Nice try. Well, I'm not done. Verse 20. Now I'm about done, so don't get nervous. Look at verse 20. Now then Now then, understanding this, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. That would be the apostles, right? Well, it would include the apostles, but if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. If I quoted that yet tonight We no longer live unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us and rose again. He said, Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead Be you reconciled to God. Now, hold on just a second. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ. Are you saved? Okay. Now then you're an ambassador for Christ. Well, why else would he leave us here? Little kid's course is uh heaven is better than this. Praise God, what joy and bliss. And I don't know all the rest of the words, but heaven is better than this is how it ends. Heaven's better. Well we all agree with that. But if we said, how many of you are ready to go now? I doubt if we'd get a very big line out here saying, I'm ready, take me out of here right now. Because we're made to live and we want to live till God takes us home. Why does he leave us here? Why didn't he take us to heaven? It's a great place. Why didn't he take us to heaven the day we got saved? We're his. Heaven's our home. We're citizens of heaven. We're not citizens here. Why did he take us to heaven? Well, there's one reason. He has us here on an ambassadorship. What does an ambassador do? Let's see, I talked to somebody here this morning that uh what was it they knew somebody that was actually appointed as the ambassador to where was that? Are they here? Austria or somewhere like that over in Europe? And so they knew somebody related somehow or something and appointed a an ambassador. Now what does an ambassador to any country from here do? Well they go over to there, that other country, from representing the sovereign government of the United States of America, to another sovereign sovereign government and representing our position And trying to keep goodwill between our nation and their nation. That's the whole purpose of an ambassador. Trying to promote goodwill between the government he represents and the government that he is representing to, from, and to. So that's what he's doing. He's trying to keep goodwill between it's better if we can get along with nations w without compromise. That's a better thing. And so we have ambassadors. And we got ambassadors all over the world. Some places we shouldn't even have ambassadors. Like the Vatican. And all of that. And so you have ambassadors. And it's to promote goodwill between us and another country. Well, what's an ambassador? Well, that's what an ambassador does. It's to say to people that are here that are not at peace with your Heavenly Father and my Heavenly Father, look You can have peace with God. You can be reconciled to God. He will reconcile you to himself. And here's what Jesus did so that you could be reconciled to him He look he became the sin bearer of verse 21, so that your trespasses would be paid for by what Jesus did Instead, if you paying for your trespasses against God yourself, you can be at peace with God. You can have fellowship with God. You can know God. You and I, we are supposed to be ambassadors For Jesus Christ to people that are lost. That's it. So how's the ambassadorship going? There are people in our path every day. I said there are people in our path virtually every day that if they died that day, they'd depart from this life and spend eternity in heaven And here's the ambassador going back and forth and saying very a word People all over the place, in Maryland and Oklahoma, and up the East Coast and across the plains and all over the west coast that don't know God as their Savior. And Christians sit and say, well, you know, uh I'm just not comfortable talking to people about Jesus. You know, religion and politics is just, oh, get away. That is a sick mentality for somebody that was dead and is now alive unto God. That's a bad mentality for somebody whose sin was on your account until Jesus saved you and his seat your sin went on his account and his righteousness went on yours and you're what here to live for yourself He said, no, not unto ourselves, but unto him which died for us and rose again. Yeah, well, what's our role supposed to be? Ambassadors for Jesus Christ. How plain does this have to be? This isn't a King James problem. Now then we are ambassadors for Jesus Christ. And God uses us to beseech others. Be reconciled to God. See, so I'm asking the question: how's the ambassadorship going? You've been given the ministry, and you've been given the word. So how's it going? Now, twice this summer, I'll I'll close this a little illustration, twice this summer I drove through downtown Atlanta, going back and forth through the south, drove right through Atlanta. And some of you will remember this name. of uh my generation and so forth. But I I noticed in driving through downtown Atlanta on whatever interstate it was, I noticed twice as I went through there that I passed by Andrew Young Boulevard. How many of you remember the name Andrew Young? And Andrew Young was appointed by Jimmy Carter to be the Ambassador of the United States to South Africa. And during that time in Mr. Carter's administration uh there was a s uh significant play uh during the cold war for Russia to have their way with uh South Africa. And of course we wanted to maintain what had previously been good relationship with South Africa. And so there was some real tension going on and Andrew Young was appointed, later became or before was the mayor of Atlanta and I don't know what other positions. And so he was appointed to go over there as an ambassador. Well it became clear after a time that Mr. Young was over in South Africa as an ambassador the United States of America were supposed to be supporting the policy of the one that appointed him the ambassador, named Jimmy Carter, and lo and behold if he's not Representing more merely the position of our foe Russia than he was the President of the United States. Now, some are maybe get mad at me about this, but Mr. Carter really wasn't known for making the most courageous and bold Decisions about things, you know. And so Mr. Carter uh talked to Andrew Young. Andrew Rung Young stood by his position And Mr. Carter actually had the fortitude to fire him and bring him back to the United States because if you're going to go over there and represent them Russia. Instead of us, you got no business being the ambassador of the United States of America. Somebody ought to say amen right there. And so he fired him and brought him back home to the United States. Alright? Somebody says, well, I uh everybody ought to have their own opinion. Excuse me, he wasn't over there representing Andrew Young. He was supposed to be over there representing Jimmy Carter and the pre uh and the government of the United States of America Now hold on here. I've got Bible proof to show you, as a believer, you are not here for you. I am not here for me. I no longer am to live unto myself, but unto him which died for me and rose again. And if I think, ah, I can shortcut that and it won't make a bit of difference, then probably there are frauds that aren't really saved with that attitude. I mean that's a possibility at least. That's a fraudulent attitude. Because if we understand how we got where we are in relation to God as saved people, It was because we got reconciled to God by faith in Jesus Christ. And come on, we didn't just rise up by our own bootstraps and get that done ourselves. There were people that were engaged and involved in the propagation of the gospel for you and I to be able to be saved. Absolutely. In my house, it was the parents of the pastor of the First Baptist Church of my hometown named Bill Campbell. And they were ambassadors for Jesus Christ. And why are you here? Why do we live here? Why are we breathing God's air? Why are we here on God's time? Now then we are ambassadors for Jesus Christ. We are here. You don't have to be a Sunday school teacher. I don't know what everybody is supposed to do individually, but I do know that our life is to be used in this ministry. reconciling sinners to God, bringing them to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Trying to show people There can be goodwill between you and God, but as things are, there's only enmity between you and God. Read Romans 6, 7, and 8. You'll see that's clear. Right now there can only be enmity till you come to know Jesus and trust the work that He did. And you have His righteousness on your account and your sins are on His account of the cross until then you are at enmity with God. Doesn't mean they're out shaking their fists saying, I hate God. Doesn't mean that. But their sin is between them and God. And they need an ambassador to tell them how their sin can be, watch this, wiped off. Taken away. Redeemed. Forgiven. And if we're not going to do that I have a question. Why should he leave us here? On what grounds do I ask him, bless me, Lord, bless me? Give me good health. No, I'm not going to do what you had for me to do, but give me good health. Help me financially. Meet our needs. Bless our family. On what grounds do we approach God and continually ask His favor, protection, and blessings? when we manifestly are not willing to do what everyone who is in Christ has been given to do. And that is be an ambassador for Jesus Christ No, this isn't a little fancy formula that I figured out myself. I'm just reading the Bible here and seeing what the Word of God says. And it said it to uh I mean Paul Paul was inspired to write this. It lives in the Word of God to speak to me, and it lives in the Word of God to speak to you. Now why don't we bow our heads for just a moment? And uh I'm going to give the invitation in just a minute, but before we do, I would like to simply ask the question. I would like to ask the question. How is your ambassador? Maybe I'll start with this. Were you saved? Are you saved? Do you know you're saved? Do you know what it is for everything to be new? Well, not everybody's affected the same. I mean Paul killed people and Ascended to Stephen's death and put people in prison. I understand that. But I was a six year old kid. I hadn't done any of that. But I knew after I called upon Jesus. I I didn't know how to explain it. I just knew. Whoa I'm not the same. Nothing is the same. Which is pretty consistent with scripture. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Because old all things are become new. Are you saved? Do you know that you're saved? Let's talk about that first and consider that first of all. Do I know that I'm saved? Now, sir, ma'am, If you are not sure that you're saved, why would you choose to live another day without knowing that your sins forgiven? And that if Jesus comes or you die, you go to be with the Lord. What would be the benefit of waiting one more day to have that issue resolved biblically once and for all? There is no benefit in that. That's not even what the Bible teaches. Someday when it's convenient for you, you get saved. No, that's what that man Pilate That's what uh the man uh that Paul stood before said, and he said, some more convenient time. Yeah, not now. Mm-mm-mm-mm. You need to be saved if you're not. And if you are saved, then then I have to ask this question. On what biblical grounds do we excuse ourselves from engaging in the ministry that is clearly ours? And using the word that he has truly given, so that we might be his ambassador to show people they need Christ. He did not say, now then, be ambassadors for Christ. He said, now then we are. Look, listen please. And we're either pulling an Andrew Young, or we're rightly representing Jesus Christ. I said we are either pulling an Andrew Young. I know what it says, but I'll do this my way. I have my own agenda. I have my own idea. We're either doing that. Or we are being an ambassador indeed for Jesus Christ. No, no, there's not much slack to cut here. There's really not. We either are or we aren't. I wonder if there's somebody in this room that would say, Brother Sam, this certainly isn't the first time God's dealt with me about caring about souls and soul winning. Using my mouth to tell somebody about Jesus, somebody at work, somebody in the neighborhood, somebody in my family, somebody I meet, somebody I go find by knocking doors Brother Sam, would you pray for me? Because God's dealt with me about this before, and I know he means for me to be concerned about the people that his son died for. And to be his ambassador. I know that. I'm concerned about it. Would you pray for me? Anybody raise your hand and just say pray for me about this. Yeah. Hold them up just a little bit. Not gonna embarrass anybody. I have no tricks going on here Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for being honest. Thank you for being honest. Thank you. Anybody else? I didn't raise my hand then but I should have. Please pray for me. It's been so long since I've really tried to talk to anybody about whether they're going to heaven or hell or do they know the gospel and have they believed in Jesus Christ? I I sure I know I know God's word means business, preacher. Would you pray for me? Anybody else like that? Yes, ma'am. I bless you. Oh man, honestly. Honestly. Thank you, young man I look around and I see men, I see men that if you would, you could talk to people that would run if they saw your pastor coming. But you could talk to them. You've got an inroad. You have an opportunity. There's some of the ladies sitting right in here, sweet. Sweet Christian ladies that believe in the gospel or believe in Jesus Christ. And you would have access to a neighbor or some lady in distress or losing her marriage in your area, neighborhood, or your family, and you have access to show them the words of life And you could do it with that grace that God has given you and that merciful spirit and just take the Bible and show them how they can have peace with God. How they can know that they're saved. And there are some ladies that could do that masterfully, but it's out of my comfort zone. I don't think I could do that One of my highlights of going to Southwest Baptist Church was developing a sporting program and we had a lady that's been in that church now for 64 of the 65 years the church has been in existence And led her first soul to Christ when she was 70 plus years of age. Been saved, been in that church for years, and led her first soul to Jesus Christ. And until her health broke down, she just you you couldn't stop her. We had another lady whose health was broken, took a phone book every day. made about 25 phone calls and just said, my name is uh Loreline and I'm concerned about people and I'm not able to get out and meet people. I'm not able to go to some of the services, but I love the Lord Jesus Christ who saved me. Do you mind if I ask you, is Jesus your Savior? Have you ever been saved? And there were actually people that hung up on her, there were people that said bad things to her, and there were people that said, thank you for calling, came to church and got saved. Oh yeah. Now then we are ambassadors for Jesus Christ. And it's the the real question is, am I being that or am I pulling an Andrew Young and excusing myself? How we can do that? I don't know how we can do that when the Bible says that we no longer live into ourselves but unto him which died for us and Oh God help us. Some folks raised their hand and said, Pray for me. And and I can't know. Everybody's situation, everybody's circumstance, I can't, but I can see what your word says. If any man be in Christ. That which is old, living unto self, is past, and that which is new is a reality, living unto him who died for us and rose again. Given the ministry of reconciliation, committed the word of reconciliation. Oh God, help us. You've called us, you've equipped us, you've given us everything we need, the Holy Spirit, the Word, and the Words. I pray that you would work mightily. I'm thankful for this church. It's been a delight to be here. I wonder both here and back in Oklahoma City. Uh and and virtually every one of your churches. What would happen if it was more than just a little soul winning club, but if everybody there said, I'm an ambassador for Jesus Christ and this is my responsibility as a Christian? I was dead to God. Now I'm alive to God. I cannot but speak of him. I cannot but fulfill my ambassadorship, and if I will not fulfill my ambassadorship Why, on what grounds can I beseech him for blessings and mercy and kindness and favors in my life when I manifestly will not do what he has for me to do? Help us to consider that. I know this is I know this is just right down on the bottom shelf. I know it just confronts us. It hits us between the eyes But oh God, we all agree that our nation is in a mess, our world is in a mess, and this is no time to play games with the Christian life. Our nation desperately needs that believers be fired up doing what you've called us to do Salt. Light. So bless this invitation time. And any who should humble themselves before you and say, oh God help me with this. I've been negligent. May they be willing to do so. Anybody that needs to say, I want to be saved, I pray they'd have the fortitude, the conviction, the courage to just say, I've got to get this settled. I want to know that Jesus is real in my life. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. We're going to stand, would you please? We're going to stand and have a time