Actually that ties right in with our message this morning. If you would turn back to Psalms chapter 90, I don't know how they know what I'm preaching on, but They often sing songs that uh fit right into my message. I think that's the Lord doing that. Well, two frogs fell into a deep cream bowl. One was an optimistic soul, but the other took a gloomy view. We shall drown, he cried, without more ado. So with a last despairing cry, he flung up his legs and he said, Goodbye. Quote the other frog with a merry grin. I can't get out, but I won't give in. I'll just swim around still till my strength is spent. Then I will die all the more content. So bravely he swam until it would seem his struggles began to churn the cream. On the top of the butter at last he stopped, and out of the bowl he gladly hopped. What is the moral of this story? 'Tis easily found. If he can't hop out, just keep swimming around That's pretty good advice there. Can't get out of the situation, just go for it, you know. Just keep swimming around. Uh that is a blessing. I like that little poem. Alright, notice in Psalms chapter ninety and uh verse number 12. Get turned on here. I'd like for us to read verse 12 together, if you would, just all together in unison. Just that one verse, verse number 12. You got it there? Here, are you ready? Here we go. All together. Verse 12. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. I want to speak this morning. I got two titles for the message. The original one I put in the bulletin is numbering our days. And as I worked on it a little more, I came up with this, taking life seriously. Taking life seriously. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. I thank you for a good week that's gone by. And now as we begin a new week, I pray that you would um just get our attention from your word in these next few moments. I pray that your Holy Spirit would um uh stir our interest in what your word has to say for us and open our hearts and minds. That we would believe and receive your instructions here now in this hour. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to be of any spiritual, eternal value. So with that in mind, Father, again in this hour, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. God, with all my heart again, I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. And Lord, that you would speak through me Challenge us, change us, encourage and direct, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Book of Psalms for a lot of Christians is their favorite book of the Bible. If you ask different Christians what's your favorite book of the Bible, A lot of people will say the book of Psalms, of course, all of Scripture is given by inspiration of God. All of it profits us, but we tend to have favorites that we go to. I uh very diligently try to read a chapter of Psalms every day. Uh I really appreciate the Psalms. The Psalms is an interesting book and just a little bit of information about the book of Psalms. It is really just a collection of songs of praise. These are songs and also prayers. that have been recorded under the inspiration of God. Psalms has been referred to over the years as Israel's hymn book. And they would sing many of these psalms that you and I read and memorize. They would sing them as a congregation there at the temple, or when they would assemble together for various occasions. The book of Psalms is not written by any one person. There's various penmen, various different penmen, but there's only one author to the book of Psalms. And the author of the book of Psalms is who? God Himself. God is the author of Scripture, and he used various men to pen the different psalms and praise songs and prayers that are found in this book. For the most part, the various psalms, 150 Psalms that are in here, for the most part, they're very distinct. In other words, they have little or no connection with other psalms. It's not a progression. necessarily. They're each kind of stand on their own. Now there are exceptions to that. There's a number of psalms that are very closely linked and you can tell that the the the subject, the theme carries over into others, but for the most part, they're unique, distinct, and not necessarily connected one to another. The Jews divided the book of Psalms into five different books. Book one was Psalms chapter one through verse 40 or chapter 41. Those are written primarily, or I should say they're penned primarily by King David. Most of those, the first forty-one. What the Jews referred to as Book 2, and by the way, sometimes you'll still fe find Bibles. You go through the book of Psalms. It'll say book one of the Psalms, book two of the Psalms. You still find that on occasion. Book two is chapter 42 through 72. Again, most of those are written by David, pen by David Book 3, according to the ancient Jews, was chapter 73 through 89. Most of those, primarily those, were written by a fellow by the name of Asap. I don't know a whole lot about them, but um a lot of those were written by Asaph. Book 4 for the Jews, it was chapter 906. And most of those in that section uh are anonymous. We don't know who the penman was. There's no uh no identification uh as to who penned those down. Then the last book Book 5, chapter 107 to 150, is a combination, a lot of them anonymous, and then a lot of them from David So David is the primary penman of the book of Psalms. Seventy-three chapters from Psalms are clearly identified as being penned down So just some interesting things about the book of Psalms. Now we get to Psalms chapter 90. If you look above verse 1 there in your Bible, who was the penman of Psalms 90? Moses. Um this uh Psalm 90 was penned by Moses. It is suggested by those who know a lot more about it than I do that the book of Psalms is perhaps the oldest uh psalm uh in all of the Bible, and one place I was reading, they suggested that Psalms chapter 90 is perhaps the one of the oldest forms of poetic uh literature in all of literature. This was written a long, long time ago, thousands and thousands of years ago. This was written perhaps 3,000 years ago, something like that. So this is a this when we read Psalms chapter 90, we're reading something that's been around for a long time. When we read Psalm chapter 90, we are reading something that literally millions and millions of people have read for several thousand years. And so it has helped a lot of people. Now, what do we know about this psalm? Well, we know obviously it was penned by Moses. It's a prayer of Moses, the man of God. We determined that it was penned, written, some point after Israel had left Egypt. How many folks are familiar with Israel coming out of Egypt? Ten plagues, all that, Pharaoh, that whole deal. They came out of Egypt. The very first thing they ran into was what? The Red Sea. They run into the Red Sea. Now they're in a predicament. They've got the Egyptian army changed their mind. We're not letting them go. They're coming back. They're gonna grab them, take 'em back, maybe kill 'em, they don't know. Ahead of 'em is the sea, they can't get across, they don't got any boats. They're stuck. They're between a rock and a hard place, or an army and a wet place, I guess you could say. But uh they're in a predicament. God miraculously delivers them And they get across the parts of the sea, they get across there, Pharaoh's army runs down into it, uh following them. I don't know what they were thinking. They get in the middle of the uh the sea there, and what happens? Waters close down on them and they're destroyed. So now you have Israel. They begin to make their journey to the promised land. Uh Cain, the promised land, the land of milk and honey. Now I've said this so many times, it it's it's really old, but I like to say it. Little tea teacher asked the little boy, the land was milk and honey. What do you think it was like? He said sticky. And um so I just like saying that. But uh anyway, uh they're on the land they're on their way to the sticky land of milk and honey. They get to Kadesh Barnia, and um they decide we're going to send some spies over into this promised land that God promised us. That we will be able to conquer. We will be able to inhabit it. God has promised us that He will fight for us. Everything's going to be okay. We're going to win this battle. It's going to be fine The God that just parted the Red Sea did ten incredible miracles to get them out of Egypt. The God that did all that promised them that if they'll cross over the Jordan into the promised land that they would be able to possess it and everything's going to be fine. God promised them that. He had promised them. He just did all these. He promised them that. They decided, uh, we better make sure So they send some spies in. Ten were bad, two were good. Ten bad spies says, Man, the place is amazing. They got grapes and stuff, the place is amazing. But the bad thing is, well, there's no way we can beat those people Man, they're giants, they're huge, they're fortified cities. There's no way we're going to be able to take this country. The two good spies, Jay um uh um Joshua and Caleb, kept one say Jacob. Joshua and Caleb, they come back and say, Man, this country's amazing. Uh they got beautiful houses and grapes and clusters and it's just amazing. And uh yeah, there's giants, but good night, they're nothing compared to our God. Good grief. He just split the ocean uh sea open and just the We can take it easy. Let's go. Guess who they listened to? The bad spies. And they didn't go in, they didn't claim God's promise. They didn't do what God says, and they didn't go in to take the land. So God says, all right, if that's the case, if you're not going to trust me, you're not going to believe my promises, then you're going to wander for 40 years in this wilderness until this generation passes away. So Moses is leading them. And even the people that wanted to trust God and go forward, now they're affected by the folks that do not trust God. And so they're delayed forty years because of the unbelief of the majority of the Israelites. And they're wandering. And we've determined that the book of The chapters chapter 90 of the book of Psalms, this psalm written by Moses, was penned during that 40-year wilderness journey. They're out there. They're wandering in the wilderness. Now, what that 40 years, what was it like? What were they experiencing that 40 years? Well, it was a time of incredible trials I mean they're being tested. They've they've they they didn't trust God, they didn't act on faith, they leaned on their understanding, and now they're suffering the consequences. And there's incredible trials And you'll find them a number of times. They're fussing with Moses. In fact, there's several times they said, we want to go back to Egypt. It was better there. At least we had leeks to eat. And it was just ridiculous. So keep this in mind. Moses is penning this prayer down. He's praying the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God has stirred him to record this down. And it's during a time of incredible trial, a time of trouble. They're definitely having a rough time. And it's a time of transition. They're transitioning. This generation is passing off the scene. There's another generation, and they're going to claim the promises And they're actually going to be the ones that enter into the promised land. So Moses is dealing with a huge, huge body of people that are suffering the consequences of unbelief and disobedience. Now I don't know about you, but I like to use my imagination a little bit. Have your attention up here? I like to use my imagination a little bit, but um I kind of see Moses. I don't know if it was after maybe a day when they were really fussing with him. And folks were just mad at him for who knows what. He's trying to lead the congregation. He's trying to lead the people, trusting God, and they're just having a rough time. I don't know what the exact circumstances were, but I imagine It's the end of the day. And he looks out across the wilderness. And he sees The terrain scattered with tombstones and dead bodies. That whole forty years Could be referred to as a 40-year funeral procession. Because the old reason they're in that wilderness 40 years is for that generation to die off. And so as they wander around in that wilderness, people are dying and they're burying. People are dying. People are dying. People are dying. And I just imagine Moses looking out over the landscape. It's littered with dead bodies and graves. And he's dealing with these people who have refused to trust God. They refuse to obey God. They've questioned and challenged his leadership on every step. They've challenged God's leadership. And he's looking out over this, and the Spirit of God moves upon Moses to pen down in this prayer some really profound statements. Now that's the setting of the storm. It's not a jubilant type thing. It's not a wow, we've entered the land and we've got all the blessings. No, no, no. They're suffering. They're suffering the consequences of foolish decisions. And they're fussing. And he made he penned some of these down. I want to just notice a few, and then we're going to zero in on verse 12 there in a minute here, but The first thing I notice is that he pens down here, he pens down that he contrasts the eternality of God, God being eternal. With the limited time that we have on earth here. If you would, look at uh look with me at verse one and two of the psalm. Lord, now think about this. They're out in the wilderness. Maybe he's looking out over the landscape and he just sees this sad thing where so many people are dying. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Lord, it's been you. We're out in this wilderness. I've tried to just find my dwelling in you Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting thou art God. What a great statement. Now you think about it. The situation, and he looks up, he says, Lord, you're my dwelling place, not this. From everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Now I'm going to deliberately take a little rabbit trail here, just a little in teeny weeny one. But I want to encourage you to consider verse 1 and 2 as good verses to share with your Mormon neighbors. Anybody ever have the Mormons come by? Anybody come by and knock in your house or somewhere, maybe at work or something? And a lot of times they're very polite, very respectful, they've always been like that Uh just a little interesting thing. Um about three, four weeks ago the Jehovah's Witness were coming down through the neighborhood and I was cleaning the gutters and uh around the house and work I was up on the roof, I saw them coming. And so I got down and cleaned up a little bit and I got ready and I said, Oh, this'll be interesting. I'd like to talk to him. And I saw him come down and so I was working around the front just acting like I didn't notice anything And um they they came to the neighbor over here, and so I was ready. I was gonna I was gonna try and share the gospel with them and challenge them on their false doctrine and stuff And uh they finished at the neighbor, they got in the car, and so I was ready, they're gonna pull in the driveway, and they backed out and they went all the way over there, then they went to the next house. I said, Hey, wait a minute They skipped me. I don't know this for sure, but I think on their little map on the wall they have an X of 1000 Why would this be a good passage for Mormons to share with Mormons? Mormons believe that as you and I are now, God once was. And as God is now, you and I can someday be. In other words, God was simply a man like you and I just lived like you and I do, but he was an exceptional Mormon, and he attained Godhood And in doing so, he gets an entire universe that is his, and we are now his offspring. And then if you and I would be good Mormons, be baptized in the Mormon Church and be good Mormons, then someday You and I can be gods and have our own universe. The problem with that is it don't square up with scripture, even remotely And notice here, this is why I'm saying this is a good verse to share with the Mormons. I'm taking this little rabbit trail. Before the mountains, verse 2, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth of the world, look at this next statement Even from everlasting to everlasting thou art God. What's he saying? From eternity best, without beginning, God has been God. And from eternity future, without ending, God will be God. God never has been anything other than God. He is eternal, from everlasting to everlasting. I shared that with a fellow, a Mormon fellow, and he has actually attended here a little bit and we got into some discussions and I showed him that verse. I said, how do you explain that? Well he had told me, he says, uh Pastor Lemon, you can be a God. And I said, no, that would be terrible And I showed him this passage, I said, how do you how do you explain this? If God was once a man like I am, wha what does this mean? That from everlasting Everlasting to everlasting He's been God. How do you explain that? He goes, Oh, that was just for us, from our under from our everlasting and our everlasting, just for us. But it doesn't mean out eternal. I said, huh? That doesn't even make sense. Turn with me if you would. Mark and I want to encourage you to jot these down. And if you get an opportunity, very respectfully, very kindly Challenge them on this teaching from Scripture. Let me give you another verse, Isaiah chapter, or I'm sorry, Psalms 93. Just a few chapters over, Psalms 93 and verse number 2. In fact, in my Bible, they're on the same open page here. I don't have to turn a page to get these. I circled verse two of Psalms ninety and I circled verse two of Psalms ninety-three and I drew a line to the two. Psalms 93 verse 2 says this: Thy throne is established of old. Look at this. Thou art from what? Everlasting? Everlasting. Thou art from everlasting. You didn't have a beginning. There's another one, Isaiah 44 in verse 6, if you want to turn there and mark that real quick. We'll note it here real quickly Isaiah 44. And there are many, many other passages. I just picked a few out here Isaiah 44 verse number 6. Now this kind of conf confronts them on the issue of uh they believe there are millions of gods. You know, there have been Mormons that have be been good Mormons and they all became gods and out there somewhere there's tons and tons of gods with their own universe Verse 8, Isaiah 44, verse 6. Thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first and I am the last, and beside me there is no God. Come down to verse 8. Hear ye not, neither be afraid. Have not I told thee from that time and have declared it? Ye are even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? Question. Yea, there is no God. I know not any. So God always has been, always will be God. He's eternal, and there are no other gods. And so I thought those were studying this chapter, Psalms 90, if you would come back there, I thought, hey, here's some good verses That we can be equipped, that we can, when we're chat when we're confronted with false doctrine, we can challenge it and show them from Scripture. But again, we always want to be very respectful and very kind whenever we do that. Another verse we won't turn there. Micah 5. 2, speaking of the Lord Jesus whose goings forth have been from old, from everlasting. So God always has been and always will be. So Moses is leading the nation of Israel under God's direction. They're in the wilderness now. They've not trusted God. They've made decisions that based on their own understanding, and now they're suffering the consequences of that. And Moses is looking out And he's praying this prayer to God. He's worshiping God and praising God and making requests. And he makes this statement. He notice here the contrast, the eternality of God with the limited time that man has on earth. And he addresses there. Then he makes another profound observation. Some of us are going to relate to this a little more than others. He comments, first he contrasts the eternality of God with the limited time that we have on earth. Now he comments on how quickly time flies. Can anybody relate to that? How quickly time flies. Look at verse 4. For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past. And as a watch in the night. What's he saying? He's saying here, time for God is not a factor. God transcends time. And then come down to verse number 10. He says, the days of our lives, now above, he said God's from everlasting to everlasting. He transcends time. A thousand years is just one evening. Then verse 10 he says, the days of our years are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be four score years, yet is their strength Labor and sorrow. Look at this last statement. For it is what? Soon cut off, and we fly away. What's he saying? He's got saying we got 70, 80 years, you know, God's gracious, it's different for everybody, but they go by so quick They're soon cut off. How many people look in the mirror and say, I can't believe I'm at this point in life already? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You have a birthday and you think, good night And the young people don't relate to it, but just wait a few days, you'll be there. And so he comments, God, you're eternal, we have limited time. Then he says, man, time just flies by. Man, it's just gone. Now we get to verse 12. And here he makes this observation. He is very, very concerned that he is living his life wisely. God's eternal. I have a limited amount of time. That limited amount of time I have is screaming by. God, I want to be sure that the little bit I have, and quickly as it's going, I want to use it right. I want to be wise. I had a young man say to me, not just within the last month, he said, he said, I want my life to be right. I want my life to be right. I think that's what Moses is saying. He's seeing people dropping He's seeing the consequences of a lack of faith and how quickly time has gone by and how quickly this generation is passing off the scenes. He says, Lord, teach me to number my days. That I may apply my heart to wisdom. I want to be sure that I'm using my life, the time I have, wisely. You know, worldly people give very little thought to God. They just push him out. Worldly people live their or at least try to live their lives independent of God. I don't know how many people over the years outwitnessing and confronting people with the gospel, thousands and thousands. I don't know how many people have said to me, uh, I ask them, do you ever think about God or the Bible? They'll say something like this, no. No. Never give it any thought. Where you spend heaven or hell? Where you spend eternity, heaven or hell. Do you ever think about that? That's not everybody, but a significant amount will say no. I don't ever think about that Worldly people have little or no concern about God or about their spiritual well-being or about where they're going to spend eternity. They're just doing their thing and living their life, trying to live a life independent of God. But Moses isn't that way. Moses has learned how desperately he needs God. He's learned that it is it is important to seek the Lord. This thing we have life, this thing we call life that we have is very brief and it goes by very, very quickly And we need to seek the Lord and we need God's guidance. We need genuine wisdom from God And that's what Moses is saying here in verse number 12. Now, let's break this down, just a few thoughts from verse 12. First thing I notice here is that he makes a request. And the request is interesting. Look with me at verse 12. How's everybody doing? Alright? Everybody okay out there? Alright? Getting caught up on rest and everything? Wonderful. Praise the Lord. It's one of our ministries To help people be rested. I'm glad we can help. Look at verse 12. He makes a request. Now you've got to look at this carefully, I think. Look at verse 12. So teach us. To number our days. And what does it mean to teach? It means what you think it means. He's saying, instruct me. Cause me to understand. Cause me to perceive. The number of days. Now it's interesting here, notice what he does not ask. What he does not ask. He doesn't say teach us how to number our days. Doesn't say teach me how to do that. Paul knew how, or Paul, Moses knew how to add. He knew how long the average person lived. He knew he could figure out basically the number of days he had left. Paul knew how to number things. He had numbered the people. Many times in this journey. Paul had no problem with mathematics. So he's not asking God, show me how to add up how many days I have left. Nah, he could figure that out pretty good. In fact, he references that there earlier. We pointed that out. But what he does ask is this Lord teach me not how to do it, but teach me To do it. Teach us to actually stop and think about what I had left in my life. Teach us to stop and think about What am I going to do with this limited time I have that is screaming by? Teach me to number that, teach me to do it, not to neglect that. Man has a tendency to squander his life spiritually. So many times our relationship with God, so many times our spiritual well-being is pushed aside and given so little thought. And man, we'll give all kinds of attention to our bank account. We'll give all kinds of attention to our hobbies and our our our our families and and none of these in and of themselves are wrong. They do need attention But Moses is saying, God help me to stop and think about the rest of my life that is screaming by that I can be wise about this And not get to the point where I stand before God and I've been all success on the earth and I am nothing spiritually. Or worse yet, somebody get to the end of their life and stand before God. and not have their soul's salvation settled and spend eternity, eternity separated from God in hell He's saying, teach us to number our days. God, I need you to teach me To evaluate and consider where I'm at spiritually, what my spiritual well-being is, what my standing is with you. For a number of years I had the privilege of being well working with hospice, not as a nurse or anything like that. That would have been bad. But um But as like a chaplain type thing. And what they did was, and I've told church here this many times, it was a tremendous experience. What they did was a lot of times they would have people who, you know, hospice, you have so many days left. Six months, I think, is what it was at the time, diagnosed, live, and so they would care for the end-of-life care And a lot of times people would come to that point and they'd be put on hospice and they did not have a pastor or any kind of spiritual influence. And so they would offer them to them. They would ask the patient, would you like uh do you have a pastor or somebody help you spiritually? If they didn't, uh they you know they'd say no and they said, Would you like one? And if they said yes, they said, Yes, I would like some spiritual uh help and spiritual input at this point in my life then they would refer them to me. And it was a good setup. We had it set up. There's no strings attached. I didn't have to compromise anything. And it worked beautifully. And so I would have on almost a weekly basis for about four years. I'd get a phone call, Pastor Leatherman, we've got a new patient, they're wherever they're at, and uh They would like some spiritual counsel and uh you need to go by and see them. I said, sure. Most of these folks in the situation that I approach, not all of them, but most of them Had lived their whole life and gave no thought to where they were going to spend eternity. Gave no thought. To their standing before God and their spiritual well-being. And now they come to the point where the doctor says those horrendous words. You've only got so much longer to live. And now they're concerned about it. Now, to be fair, I'm glad they were concerned about it at that point. And many of them I talked to them in counseling and I would tell them, listen, this is the mercy of God, that God gave you a heads up, that you actually know that this you're coming to the end and you have an opportunity To trust Christ and get these things settled and get your standing with God in line. But the tragic thing was they didn't do what Moses was doing here. They never thought About their standing with God. Never thought about their spiritual well-being, the salvation of their soul, heaven and hell never gave that any thought. And now all of a sudden they're forced. to face it. And by God's grace I had the opportunity to lead many, many of these people to the Lord. Some of them just days before they would pass away, they would pray with me to trust Christ. You say you believe in deathbed conversions? I think if they called him the Lord with all their heart and believed in their heart, turned to Christ from the sins, I believe God saves them. There was a guy nailed on the cross just moments before he died that got saved And so Moses is making this request. He's not saying, teach me how to number my days. No, he wasn't a dummy. He could number his days. He says, teach me to do it. It's funny I didn't mention my uh maybe it just now, um I can't remember what I said three minutes ago, but um Knock on doors sometimes. And I ask people, you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? No. Do you ever think about that? Yeah, sometimes. And I said some people say, nah, don't worry about it. But a lot of people say, yeah, I did think about that I'd like to ask him this question. Has anything been happening in your life lately that prompts you to think about God? Or the Bible? Or heaven and hell? Eternity, where you spend eternity? And you'll be amazed. I asked that question, you'd be surprised how many people, the majority of the people will say this You know, there have been things happening to make me think about that. There have been things happening. We were sometimes they'll say this, you know, my wife and I were just talking about that the other day Ah, you know, my my nephew passed away and we were just thinking about what's going to happen when we do. You know what that is? God's teaching them to number their days. That's God working in their life, making them say, wait, stop and think about this. And I guess My purpose in this message this morning, and I think I had the mind of Christ in preaching it, but I guess my purpose in preaching this message this morning is to challenge each of us to stop and think about Where we're at spiritually. Do I know for sure that my sins are forgiven that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell? And if I do know Christ as Savior, am I living for Him like I should if the rapture would take place or something happened? I stand before God. Would I be prepared? To meet God? Am I doing my part in helping others be prepared to meet God? He says, teach us not how to number our days, but teach me to do it. Teach me to number my days. Moses is taking his life seriously. It's not something to be fiddled away with, not something to be uh to piddle with and just squander. We've only got so many days, and those are screaming by. We need to be concerned about whether my life is the way God intends for it to be. He understands a couple things I kind of gleaned from this, at least in my thinking, is I think Moses understood that his perception of life was different than God's. God, he's saying, Lord, you teach me to number these days. I I I don't see it clearly. And I think he understands his understanding of life was flawed. God understands what our life is and how much time we have and all of that. And we need God to teach us to take this thing seriously. A lot of times we have the young people down here, and I just thank God for our young people. But a lot of times I think of a young person with the years of their life ahead of them as kind of like us, uh it's kind of like uh Derek said this some time ago. We were talking about something I never heard this before, but it stuck in my mind. He says that they're hillbilly rich. Remember saying that? You don't remember saying that. Maybe I dreamt it But the idea was this. When we got a lot of money, ah, we can waste some here and we can spend too much on that. I got tons, right? And we're kind of a little more loose with it But boy, when that's the money starts running out and starts getting down, all of a sudden I'm a whole lot more careful. I evaluate a whole lot more. What am I going to spend this in? I only got a little bit left I'm very proud of myself when I was in Bible college. I had one dollar, I made it last two weeks. One dollar, two weeks Of course I ate out of the dug through the garbage for food and stuff, no, not really. But I did wash my clothes in the shower and not at the laundromat. But when we're running low, we're a lot more careful with it. Often thought, why don't we be careful with it when we got the good bunch? Last a whole lot longer, be wiser. But I think of life. As a young person, I've got my whole life ahead of me. I can squander it. I can do whatever I want. I can live it up, eat, drink, and be merry. I can just go on. We just preached on a fellow like that last week. He wasted his life in riotous living But boy, when we get older, huh? It's only now we're thinking, all right, what's important? I don't want to squander. I got a little bit of time left. I don't want to squander it You need to be careful. So Paul, so Moses is taking life very, very seriously. And he understands, I've got a limited time. Lord, teach me to think this through, how I'm living my life. Then the second thing I notice, number one, is his request. Then the second thing I notice is his realization. Teach us To number our days. Now that word number has the idea kind of what you and I would think, and to count out But it also has this, there's this aspect to the meaning of the word that it comes from. It has this aspect to place in proper priority. Teach me to number my days. Help me to understand what's important. To put it in priority. Moses understood. Now get this. Everybody still with me? Moses understood that life has an expiration date. There's a certain time, it's a certain point in time when it runs out. It ends. Turn with me, if you would, over to Psalms 139. And notice with me verse number sixteen. Psalms one thirty-nine verse sixteen. Psalms one thirty-nine is a great chapter. Verse 16, and we're going to go, when we're done here, we're going to go over to Hebrews real quick. So keep your Bibles handy. I want you to see these. Psalms 139, 16. The Bible says this, thine eyes, this is David writing, Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being imperfect. Look at this And in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance was fashioned when as yet there was none of them. I think I did it again. I've got the wrong reference What is it? He has our days numbered, so just scratch that. Come over to Hebrews. If you would, Hebrews chapter nine. And verse number 27, if you're in the habit of underscoring in your Bible, marking your Bible, I highly recommend underscoring Psalms Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27. Hebrews 9. 27, as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. Now the key word there is that word appointed. Has this idea, a very specific time and place. There is an appointment. Life has an expiration date And as much as we don't like to think about it, and as much as we try to put it out of our mind, the fact of the matter is there is a very specific time that you and I are going to die. It is appointed unto man once to die, then after this the judgment. Only this is get this, this is important, only God knows when we're going to die. God's the only one that knows that. We don't know how many days we have left. We have the young people here Very real. I'm not trying to be morbid. I'm not trying to be sensual sensational in any way. There's a very real possibility that any one of these young people could pass away before anyone else in this church does I've done funerals for little babies, I've done funerals for teenagers, I've done funerals for people in their 20s that got up one morning. Put on their shoes, got dressed, another day, just like all the other days, and that night they were laying in a casket in a morgue. Only God knows when that appointment when that time comes. Um I had a lady, I was mentioning hospice, I had a lady on hospice one time with her. They gave her six months to live. I visit her six months. She was getting better the whole time. After they took her off, she lived for several years. I I lost touch with her. I don't know how long. She might still be alive So man doesn't know. We can guess, we can estimate, but we don't know. We don't know. One subject the world seeks to avoid but cannot escape is death. I remember one funeral I did over in Ter Alda, and um I don't remember the person, I don't remember who the people involved in this are were, but there was one fella Would not come into the um the room where the body was. He stayed outside. Family member. And so the family's coming in and I like to have f gather the family together and have prayer and read a little verse with them, then we go look at the body and so we're trying to get everybody together and this they said, Oh he's not coming in So I went out and I said, Why don't you come on in? We're gonna have prayer, I'll pray with you. I've got some verse and we'll go see the Bible. If I ain't going in there. I don't go around that, I don't go around that. I said, Well listen, I respect that's your decision What's he doing? He's trying to avoid death. He doesn't want to face it, doesn't want to accept it, doesn't want to deal with it. That's the world. We want to face it. We'll avoid it as much as we can, but we can never escape it. Moses, as I said, was not so much concerned with how long he would live. That's in God's hands. But he was concerned with how he would live his life. How wisely. I think there's three areas, and I'm going to wind down and quit here. I think there's three areas That I believe God holds us accountable for in our lives. Three areas we need to be wise in, in how we live our lives. Three areas. One is I put this down, our time. How we use our time. In Ephesians it says, redeeming the time, for the days are evil. We need to be very, very careful in how we use our time. We should not just squander it. We only have so much, as I've been saying. It goes by so fast. We need to be wise with our time. Another area we need to be careful in is our talents. That's the gifts and abilities that God has given us. Every one of us here, we have different things that God has enabled us to do. Some exceptionally well. And God has given us those gifts, those talents, those abilities for reasons to be used for His glory, to be used to advance the gospel, to be used to be a blessing and a help and encouragement to others. And we must not squander them. We must not be selfish in them. We will remember the parable the Lord said he gave the guy he gave uh one fellow Ten talents, he gave another one five, another one one, and then they were accountable for how they used them. Now, the talent in that context was finances, but it's true for our abilities What am I are you using the abilities God has given you for the glory of God? Are you using it to advance the gospel? Are you using it to be a blessing and a help to the people of God? To be a witness of God's goodness. We'll give an account for that. So Moses can teach me the number of my days I need to My uh I need to be wise about this and how I use my time and how I use the gifts and abilities I have. I tell you, uh Ben and Elizabeth yesterday singing at that at the uh wedding, wasn't that a blessing There I think everybody here yesterday would say those two young people are gifted, at least in the area of music. And I just thought it was a wonderful thing to use that in the midst of their wedding to bring glory to God. Bring glory to God. That's what Moses concerned about. Then there's another area, our time or talents. Anybody want to guess what the third one is? Treasures, our treasures, our resources that God has given us and how we use them. The Bible talks a lot about finances And how we using it for the glory of God. There was one point where they were, Jesus was observing the uh offering at the temple, and uh these rich people were going by and they just dropped some in, probably a significant amount. And then a widow came by and she had a little mite, about what we would call penny maybe. Nickel or a penny. And she cast it in there and walked on. Nobody noticed but Jesus. And he says, that woman that pot dropped that mite in gave more than all those other rich folk that went by. And the disciples are like, What? What are you kidding? She just put a mite in. He goes now, it was all she had In other words, he was saying she was using her resources for the glory of God. Love the Lord. Now, he's not saying that you and I ought to give put all our money in the offering. That's not what he's saying. But he is saying we ought to use the resources God has given to us. We ought to use it wisely. We preached on this recently investing on Wednesday night on the Sermon on Mount. Am I investing my life and my resources in the things of eternity or just temporal things here that don't last? So Moses saying, Lord, teach me to number my days. I want to be wise on how I use my time, my talents, my treasures. I believe the effectiveness of our Christian lives is very much dependent upon how we use our time. We understand the brevity of life. We understand how quickly it's gone by, how quickly we go from our children to be a teen, to be a young adult, to be a senior citizen. Boom, boom, boom, boom. We stop and say, wait a minute, I need to be wise about this thing is screaming by. How am I using it? And we understand how quickly it goes by. We we take our we consider our values a whole lot more We consider our priorities a little bit more carefully. We understand how limited our time was I've said this before, and I know I'm talking a lot about death and all of that, but that's the context here. I couldn't tell you how many times I stood beside a bed. If somebody'd look at me and they'd say, Preacher, they're on their deathbed, they'd say something like this, Preacher, I wish so badly I'd have lived for God. I wish so badly I hadn't done this and I hadn't done that. Preacher, I wish so badly I'd been more careful about this. I wish so badly I'd be more careful about that Never, ever, ever have I had anybody say this to me at the end of their life, say, preacher, I'm glad I didn't live for God. Never had anybody say, Yeah, I'm glad I wasted my years, I'm glad I did all that. Nobody ever said that. I've never had anybody say to me, Preacher, I'm glad I ignored the Bible, I'm glad I disregarded God, I'm glad I rejected The things of God. Never had anybody say that to me. But I've had so many in tears. Preacher, I wish I'd been more careful Wish I'd have thought this through a little more. I've had some over the years say, preacher, I'm sure glad sure glad I trusted Christ and got my salvation settled. I'm so glad I did that By the way, you make it a whole lot easier for me to do your funeral if you're saved. Alright. So for no other reason And by the way, it's easier for me if you live for God too. I don't have to lie. No, I don't. I wouldn't lie. Now I'm being a little silly here, but it's it's intensely serious that we live for God. We live for God. Preacher, I'm sure glad I I'm sure glad I Trusted Christ. I'm sure glad I tried to live for God. I didn't do it perfect, but I'm glad I tried to live for God. Moses said, teach us to number our days. Let's give thought to our life's direction. Let's stop and think about my spiritual well-being, my standing before God, how I'm living my life. Screaming by, am I being wise with this? Maybe some of us need to say, Lord, teach me to number my days. that I may apply my heart to wisdom. I don't squander and end up standing before you with so many regrets. Little boy, a couple thugs broke into a hardware store. They didn't steal a thing. And they were able to sneak in and sneak out without being detected that anybody had been in or out. But they didn't steal a thing. They didn't steal any money, they didn't steal any tools, they didn't steal any hardware, they didn't steal anything. They were just being naughty. And they went in and they changed the prices on everything. They switched them all around. So the next day the owners come in, turn the lights on, unlock, open for business, open the cash register, people start funneling in and they're walking around through the hardware store. And they're behind the counter not thinking anything. And all of a sudden they hear over here, wow, what a great deal! I'm going to get ten of these. And every year they hear someone say, Good grief, that's the most expensive shovel I've ever seen in my life Come up and there'd be a snowblower there for $5. 95. There'd be a couple nails over here for $762 And that's silly. That's exactly what a lot of people are doing with their lives. You've placed a great value on things that are really meaningless And stuff that has no eternal benefit, that means nothing as far as spiritual and standing for God is so important. And the things that are valuable and are important We just are nothing. Or whatever. Paul says Paul Moses says, Lord, don't let me be that way. Teach me to number my days that I may apply my heart to wisdom. That'd be a good prayer for all of us, huh? Be a good prayer for us. We don't know when time's up. We don't know. We need to be ready. We've got to use what we have. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to challenge us and help us Moses was a great man, he was a wise man, he was a flawed man, but help us to learn from him. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some here this morning. Say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I am. There's no doubt about it. I'm glad I got that settled. But you'd say, Preacher, I be honest. God has dealt with my heart. And there's some things in my Christian life I really need to give more attention to. I need to be more serious about. Maybe it's Bible reading. Maybe it's church attendance. Maybe it's witnessing. Maybe it's prayer, maybe it's the world getting in and just squandering time and money or meaningless stuff You'd say, preacher, pray with me. There are adjustments in my Christian life that need to be made. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There are some adjustments there. I need to stop and think this through. How about it? God bless you. Hands all around God will help us. Maybe I'm talking to some, and I would only ask you to respond with a hand raised with this, but maybe there's some that, to be very honest, you've given little or no thought to your spiritual well-being It's been what you think, the way you think, and what you want, and the way you want it. God has not even been a factor in it. And maybe this morning you need to stop and say, Lord, help me to rethink this through. Lord, help me to see this from heaven's perspective and the Word of God's perspective. Will there happen to be any here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven? Say, I don't want to go to hell. No, you don't. Nobody does. You say, preacher, pray with me. I need to be sure that my sins are forgiven. Now when I die I stand before God and not I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure, positively sure that my sins are forgiven Now whenever that day comes, that I go to heaven and not to hell. Any at all, uplifted hand, I want to pray with you, like as do the others. Any at all, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. Any Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at spiritually. Help us to be like Moses and evaluate and ask you, to seek you, to teach us to uh take this thing seriously in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. Now this morning