Peter's writing to these uh believers under the inspiration of God. This is a letter that he's writing to believers that are kind of scattered through a whole region there. And um they're being persecuted. We've been emphasizing that And uh he says in verse 13, he says, wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober And hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children. Not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts and your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Peter's writing to them, as I said, in the midst of Tremendous injustice. They're being treated unjust. It's simply for their faith in God. Lost jobs. Some of them lost their lives because of their faith in Christ. They're preaching the gospel. They've been run out of their homes. They're scattered through Asia Minor there in the different locations he mentions at the beginning. And he's writing to them in the first 12 verses, he's encouraging them. He's giving them great promises. God's got you. You're in the hands of the Lord. It's all right. You're saved. You're secure. But now he's challenging them and he's encouraging them in the midst of this persecution and this injustice, he's trying to encourage them and urge them to maintain their godliness. To develop godliness in their life and maintain that. Do not let, he's writing this, do not let how others are treating you unjustly affect the godliness of the life you're living. And I tell you, when somebody's doing you wrong, when somebody's being unkind, and even the intensity that they're going through, sometimes it's tough to do right when somebody's treating you wrong. Anybody agree with that? I mean they're coming down on you, they're giving you fits, and the tendency is to uh uh maybe respond in kind or want to give up on living for the Lord and and maintaining it. And he's urging them, he's exhorting them, don't give that up. So let's pray and we'll look at this here. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this one verse, and I pray you'd uh challenge us and help us. We certainly are not facing anything remotely Like what these dear believers did so long ago. But nevertheless, Lord, we do want to be godly in our lives. We want to live for you. And um so I pray that you would challenge us from your word and fill me with your Spirit, Lord, as always I yield my will and present my body. Pray you would be the preacher, God. Your Holy Spirit be the speaking to our hearts. And so I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Being treated unjustly does not excuse ungodliness. Well, they treated me this way. Well, then I'm going to And injustice does not excuse ungodliness. Now in verse 13, we already pointed out he challenged them to control their thinking. He says, uh gird up the loins of your mind. Uh keep tighten up your thinking. Don't let it be scattered there. Don't let your mind wander in this situation. Then uh he challenged in in verse 14, I think he's challenging them to conform They're living. If they're living right, make sure they're living, how they're behaving right. So they're thinking, they're living. And then I believe in verse 15 and 16, we'll look at this at another date. He's going to challenge them concerning their character It says, be ye holy. So thinking, and then their living and their character. And all those three are tied together. Now notice verse 13. He says, or verse 14, I'm sorry, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts. In your ignorance. Obedient children. I've found, you've probably found this to be true, children will often take on the characteristics of their parents. Anybody notice that? My boys the last few years have been making statements like this. Dad, I find myself doing things you do more and more. Sam sent me, or Dan sent me a text, oh, it's been a little while ago. He says, Dad, I'm starting to laugh like you do. I said, Well, that's a wonderful thing Children have a tendency to take on the characteristics of their parents. How many of you parents see your kids and sometimes you see yourself in them? Anybody do that? See myself in them. Uh how many how many how many folks here you look in the mirror and you see your parent in you? Yeah Yeah. We did the funeral yesterday for Helen and it was just a sweet funeral. It went very well and I believe the Lord blessed it. But uh I got to meet I met her on a just briefly on occasion before, but I got to spend a little time with Helen's daughter, Judy. Some of you all know Judy. And uh she lives in in a Vancouver islet out in the western end of Canada. And when I first saw her, I thought, huh, there's Helen. And her mannerisms and the way she talked and after I got to spend a little time with her, her sense of humor Came through and uh I could just see Helen in her. So parent, sometimes children take on the characteristics. Often children take on the characteristics of their parents Um thinking about obedient children. Parents generally have expectations of their children, right? How many people here have some, you parent, you have some expectations of your children You expect them to behave a certain way, expect them to do certain things and not do other things. You expect them to have a specific certain kind of type of attitude And we have expectations of our children. Sometimes the folks' expectations would be subpar. I know some parents I'd like to see them have a little bit higher expectations from their kids. But sometimes uh the expectations of the parents are unrealistic. And they expect things from their kids. The kids could never live up to that. And so it takes some wisdom there. Now, I said all that to say this. Peter is writing to these believers. Now, again, they're being intensely persecuted, violently persecuted And he's challenging them, and he references them to be as obedient children. Then we get down verse 15 and 16, and as I said, we're going to see, be holy. For I am holy, saith the Lord. What's he saying? I think he's saying some characteristics of our heavenly Father ought to be evident in our lives. Remember when um oh I wish I wrote the reference down. Remember when uh Peter and I think it was Peter and John, they were somewhere, and it says the folks, the Pharisees, the folks there took note of them that they had been with Jesus. Anybody remember reading that in Acts? There was something about the way they talked. There was something about the way they behaved. There was something about their countenance. We see Jesus in you. We see the Lord's influence in your life. And I tell you, I preach that and make that statement, and I ask myself, I ask myself, how many times Do people see me and the way I talk and my attitude and my actions and it would remind them of Jesus Christ? How often does that happen But that's what the God as our Heavenly Father, I believe He has these expectations. He looks to see His characteristics in our life, just like we see our likeness in our children many times. And God has expectations from his children. God expects his children to be obedient. Obedient children, as obedient children. Now, as obedient children, I put three thoughts down here real quick. I notice, first thing I put down, God is looking for in his children, he is looking for compliance In his children. Look at verse 14 there, as obedient children. I zeroed in on that word obedient. And I found it means this. It means pretty much what you think it would, but the literal definition was this To be compliant or submissive to. Submissive children, compliant children. The word compliant means this: yielding to the will of another. One other definition was this, bending to the will of another. Compliant. God says Peter's writing to these believers, and he says, we need to live our lives, we need to behave ourselves, we need to be like compliant children. Children who yield their will. To the will of the parent. Children who bend their will to the will of the Father. And that's what he's looking for in you and I as a Christian. To yield my will to the Lord Jesus Christ. When I was studying that, there was one statement from the Lord Jesus Christ that stuck out in my mind It was when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane, he was praying, and he left the uh he left uh uh uh fellows there and he brought Peter, James, and John with him. He said, You guys pray here, I'm gonna go off a little way alone And he prayed, and what did he ask the Lord to take away from him? The Lord asked, Jesus asked God the Father to do something. What did he ask him to take away? Take this cup, this bitter cup I'm about to go through. Basically, I believe what he was saying was, Lord, if if you can take away this cross, this what I'm about, this valley I'm about to go through. This judgment I'm about to experience, Lord, if there's any other way, if you can take this from me. Now that was Jesus' will. That God would remove this cup, that he not have to take this. That's his request. But then he made a statement at the end. I believe it's one of the most powerful, powerful prayers. In all of history, he said, nevertheless, help me. Not my will, but thy will be done Now, I don't know. This is so far beyond our ability to grasp. But I wonder if God the Father, at that point, his heart didn't just fill. with love and gratitude and fulfillment and that his son was stepping through to take on the uh uh to provide salvation for mankind. You follow what I'm saying, I'm not trying to bring God down in any way, shape, or form. But I believe that's what Peter's talking about here when he says, as obedient children Submissive, bending my will, not uh bending my will to the will of God the Father Complying my will, yielding my will to the will of God the Father. Take your Bible with me if you would. Just real quickly, come back to the Gospel of John. And chapter number 14, and it's not worded exactly the way I'm referencing here, but I think the thought is there. John chapter 14. So he's writing to these New Testament believers, again persecuted, just we can't even imagine how horrific their circumstances are. They're rejoicing with joy unspeakable. They're rejoicing in the Lord. He's challenging them. Listen, don't let your wit, don't let your thinking get carried away. Keep focused. Keep your thoughts under control, keep focused, and uh uh keep your living right. Be as obedient children. Look in John 14, Jesus is speaking to his disciples And come over to verse number 15. Look what he says here. John 14, 15. If ye love me, what's the next statement? Keep my commandments. If you love me, if you trust me, if your will is yielded to mine, if you love me, yield your will to my will If you love me, comply with my instructions, my commandments. Come down. Now I have that verse underlined. I circled the number 15. I drew a line down to verse number 21. And notice what he says in verse 21, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them, would you agree that would describe an obedient child? He it is that what loveth me. He that keeps my he that has my commandments and keeps them, that's the one that loves me. I circled verse 21 and I drew a line down to verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he'll keep my word. He'll be an obedient child. He'll comply. He'll submit to my instructions, my leadership, my will for his life. I circled number 23. I drew a line down to verse number 24. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. I circled that number 24. I drew a line over to verse 31. I circled number 31. It says this. That the world may know that I love the Father. And that as the Father hath given me commandments, even so I do. That the world knows I love the Father, I do exactly what he commands me to do. Jesus was an obedient child. If you want to think of them that way, the Son of God He was obedient. And Peter is writing to these New Testament. He says, in the midst of your persecution, in the midst of the injustice, in the midst of your suffering, because of your faith in Christ. You be submissive to the Lord's will. You yield to Him, how He's leading you and what He's allowing you to do. You bow the head to that, you bow the will to that, and you say, Nevertheless, not my will But thy will be done. We get a little bit later in the letter that he's writing here, the book of 1 Peter, and we're going to notice that he says that God will allow nothing into their life, but that God knows is what's best for them. And how he can use them. And so he's saying, as obedient children. So God is looking for compliance in his children. Second thought is this: God is looking for conversion in his children. Now, when we think of somebody being a convert, what do we think of? There's somebody who got what? Got saved. Oh, a convert! Conversion begins at salvation But it can continues on throughout life. It's a conversion. It's a change taking place. Notice he says here, as obedient children, look at the next statement, not fashioning yourselves. According to the former lusts and your ignorance. That phrase, not fashion yourself, he's saying this, not being conformed. To the former lusts of your life before. He's saying, I'm uh I'm expecting. God is looking for in his children, he's looking for this conversion, this change taking place in their lives. There is always some sort of pressure. There is always some sort of influence that is affecting how we live our lives. You follow what I'm saying? For every one of us, there's some sort of influence, there's some sort of pressure affecting that is trying to affect how I live my life. Now, sometimes that's an external pressure What do we call that with the young people? We call it peer pressure. Oh, you gotta be like us, you gotta act like us, you gotta behave like us, you gotta like what we like, you gotta hate what we hate You gotta go to the places we you gotta listen to music we listen to. You gotta like the movie stars we like and the peer pressure, and if you don't you're stupid and ugly and an idiot That's peer pressure, peer pressure, peer pressure. Uh kids face that. It's very real in the schools. And the more you try and stand and do right, the more that peer pressure pours on. And my heart goes out and my prayers go out for our young people. I thank God for those that are standing for the Lord. But wait a minute, that doesn't stop when they graduate from high school. It's in college. You have to think the way we think, you have to have the morals we have, you have to have the worldview we have. I'm telling you, this whole wicked world puts the peer pressure of evolution onto our society. Man, pour it on. They'll call you names and everything else if you don't buy into the lies that the devil throws out. And so there's always some sort of Pressure or influence that's trying to affect the way we think, the way we live our lives, what we understand to be right and wrong, and true and false And it's throughout life. A lot of times it's external, but wait a minute. Sometimes it's internal. Sometimes I've got dark forces in my own heart in life. That try and influence me to do wrong. Now you all look at me so pious. What are you talking about? I'm talking about the old sinful nature Not talking about Star Wars. I I thought of that right when I said it. That was that's stupid. We have a sinful anybody here See if it ha see how many honest people we got in the house tonight. Anybody here ever have a thought or a a a a stirring in your heart for something that you know is not right? Yeah, some of you didn't raise your hand right there, you know. And that influenced us, that old sinful nature And so Peter is writing to them, and we'll see here in a moment, but he references not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts and your ignorance, that old desires. And so we have to be very, very careful. God, when God saves us, as he did these dear folks, and man, they're growing in their faith and They're strong in the Lord. And he's writing to them and he says, listen, make sure that your life is changing, being molded, and converting, being transformed. Towards this godliness and not from what I saved you out of. I do not like Christian rock I don't like it. I don't have any time for that whatsoever. I'm sorry. I just don't. And to me, it does not fit into a biblical Christianity. A number of years ago, this is before we had our radio station, um, I was running down here to what's his uh price right, the gas station there, I was going down And of course, uh, we didn't have a radio station or anything. I was trying to get the news and I turned in uh it was the Christian Rock station that was out of uh up north end somewhere, I don't know. But anyway, I was listening to the news, and when I went in to pay for the gas, when I went in it was noobs when I turned the car off. When I came back out, it was blaring rock and roll music And I stopped and listened a little bit, and it was, you know, it was quote unquote Christian. And I'm telling you, it was as rock and roll as what God saved me out of back in the 1970s. I mean hard rock and roll. I mean, I got under my skin, Brother Heimball. I said, I'm going to call them up. We didn't have cell phones, so I got home. I got their number, I called them up and says, uh, I said, this is Pastor Lethem. I'm down here in Oakland. I had your station on And I just heard some of the most wicked worldly music I've ever heard in my life being portrayed as Christianity. And it was just the secretary, bless her heart. She goes, well, I don't really program that. I said, well, I don't care. That ain't right. And I mean, I let her have it And she goes, Well, I'll tell the manager. And finally I said, Well, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I said, I said, but I said, but listen, that is what God saved me out of. Oh, she made this statement. She goes, well, Reverend Leatherman, some people are still into that. Some Christians are into that. I said, that's the whole point. God saves us out of that lifestyle. God saves us out of that. And so anyway, I got that off my chest. But uh But God is calling us. God is calling us out from the world. Not the old former lust, not the way the world lives. He's calling us to a life of holiness and fulfillment and joy and blessing. Anyone know Romans 12, 1 and 2? Anybody familiar with that? I beseech you therefore, brethren By the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. What's the next word? Holy. acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And then he makes this statement. And be not conform to this world, but be ye Transform. Change from the inside out. Conformity is outward. I gotta conform. To the standards of this world, conform to the morals of society, conform, I've got to fit in. God says, no, no, no. He says, I want you to be transformed, completely changed. And he says, as new as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves, the former less, but being changed, being transformed. the uh uh coming acr uh coming out of that. I believe the primary effect upon the life of the believer is a new nature When a person gets saved, God gives us a new nature, a new nature. Um I'm wondering if these believers, the old sinful lusts, the old sinful desires I wonder if that was having effect when they're under this persecution. It's unjust. I mean they're good. They're solid. They're mature. He said that earlier. But Peter's a little concerned here. That uh they might drift back and start giving in to old sinful desires and the way they lived before they were saved. The principle of Scripture, I I like this statement. I hope you'll get this. This spoke to my heart The principles of Scripture must govern my behavior, not my desires. Now think that through with me. What is it that determines my behavior? Is it the desires that I have? Determine what I do and what I indulge in and what I engage in and how I live and what I say? Is it just my desires? Or is it the principles of God's word that govern my behavior? is a little personal. Sometimes my desire for chocolate chip cookies determines my eating patterns. Everybody know what I'm talking about? Now the principle of scripture is, you know, take care of your bodies and and um you know and uh This body's the temple of the Holy Spirit, and the Bible talks about eating and gluttony and all of that. But sometimes it's our desires for blueberry cheesecake. And I know it shouldn't eat it, I gotta watch. Listen, you gotta really work at it to maintain this figure. I'll tell you that right now. But you follow what I'm trying to say? I'm afraid there's too many Christians. Afraid there's too many Christians. Our desires dictate our lifestyle and what we do, not the principles of Scripture. Well, this is what I want. I want that. I like this. This is what I desire. And that dominates us. That governs our life, our desires. And he's saying, listen, don't let that happen. Don't let that happen. It needs to be the principles of Scripture that can govern my life, that govern my behavior And so uh uh too many times I think it's our desires. Then last of all, uh he's looking, God is looking uh for cultivation of his children. Now I use that word cultivate By that I mean this, cultivating our knowledge of God. Look at the last part of the verse. He says, as obedient children, not fashioning ourselves according to the former lusts, in your what? Ignorance, what does it mean to be ignorant? Now we use that term as a derogatory term. Wow, he's just ignorant But the word itself is not really a derogatory term, and I don't think Peter's using it as a derogatory term here. It simply means what? If somebody is ignorant, they are lacking what? Knowledge. They're lacking information And he says, as a believer in Jesus Christ, you ought not to be ignorant Of who God is and what he's like as a God in your relationship with him. In other words, you need to study God. You need to find out how he responds to certain things and what God expects and what he loves and what he hates. I was reading in Proverbs this week or so ago. And did you know God has a hate list? Six things does the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. Whew, I paid attention when I got to that. And what he's saying is cultivate your awareness and your understanding of who God is. I think he might be saying to him, he says, listen, don't you guys go back and start giving in to the former lusts of your old lifestyle. And I think he's saying this, you know better than that. You know better. How many people remember Jimmy Rose? Anybody remember? Old preacher from Brazil. He preached missions conversation revival for us. I need to get him back. He's really his health is failing a little bit But um old Jimmy Rose. And uh I remember Dr. Creed recommended him and I said, all right, so I call him up. He said, he's so humble. Yes, Brother Lemon, I'll be with you. I can come He brought his wife. Anybody remember Mrs. Rose? And um she looked like she my first impression was is the old Pentecostal holiness ladies. Do you ever see them? Her hair is up on top, real much anybody know what I'm talking about? And she walked in and she didn't say two words hardly. And uh so and so it was nice. And uh j uh brother Rose he didn't hardly say Anything come in very nice, gracious. He sat there. And at first I mean I'm just telling you, at first I thought, boy, this is a dud. And uh I thought, goodness. And uh can and then he got behind the pulpit. Good heavens, power of God fell. Brah! And he preached. I said, All right, I'm on board. And he's been a dear friend. I love him dearly, and his wife are as sweet as could be. But he made a statement when he was preaching. This was years ago, and this has stuck in my mind all these years. He was talking about a fellow in Brazil that he was working with And um it was a preacher, actually, uh well Brother Rose uh was preaching against the Catholic Church and preaching the gospel, just preaching the Bible is really what he's doing, and one of the priests Hired a hit man to kill Brother Rose. Remember him telling that story? And the guy showed up to kill him sitting there and they're having a conversation. Brother Rose ended up winning the guy to Christ. He got saved. And he discipled and became a preacher, a Baptist preacher, the hitman. Amazing story. And he was working with a fellow that had been living for God, and he was discipling, if I remember the story correctly, this is another fellow, and uh And uh the fellow was getting involved in things, going back and doing things from the old life. And Brother Rose said, he says, I sat him down, he said, this is all I said to him, Brother so-and-so, you know better. You know better than to live this way. You know better than to be doing this type of stuff. Acting this way. And he said, God's Holy Spirit convicted that old boy. Humble self and get right. You know, I think there's more truth to that simple statement than maybe we want to admit. A lot of times we get ourselves in stuff and we end up doing saying things, and the fact of the matter is we know better. We know better to act that way We know better than to talk that way. We know better than to live like this and engage in that. I think that's what Peter is saying to him. He says, listen, don't fashion yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. You were ignorant. You know better than that now. You've learned more of the Lord. You know what God is like. You know how good God's been to. What are you doing? You know better than that. I believe the better we get to know God, the more the stronger our love for Him will be. And the stronger our love for the Lord grows, the deeper our commitment to the Lord is. And so we need to keep growing in our knowledge of God. I put this down for the child of God, growing in my knowledge and understanding of who God is and what he's like is a high, high priority. I have tried diligently for over 26 years now. I have tried diligently to make this book the basis of everything we do. Because it is through this, it is only through this book that we know anything about God. Only way. And what we need to do, and learning of God and knowing what this book teaches us about our Creator is high priority. Can I challenge you in 2020? Can I challenge you to determine I'm going to spend a little bit of time every day in God's Word and ask God to show Himself to me? And teach me who he is and what he's like, that I can know him, not be ignorant of God That is a high priority. And I put this down. Learning, growing in my knowledge of the Lord is not only just a high priority, but it is a lifelong pursuit. The moment I think, well, I got God figured out, every time I get, and I I hate to say this, but this has happened to me. Every time, every time I about think I got God figured out Man, he turns me on my head, and I realize I don't know nothing. And I need to humble myself and say, God teach me. I remember Sam Davison was preaching here one time. He says, uh, he says, nobody knows anything. Nobody everybody thinks they know all about God. They don't know nothing about God. There's a lot of truth to that. So here's my challenge. Peter's writing to these believers. I mean, they are intense. They would put us to shame, no doubt, their faith, for what they're suffering But he's writing to him and he says, keep your thoughts tightened up. Don't get loose in your thinking. And then he says, you keep growing You conform, you submit to the Lord and keep growing and understanding, learning of the Lord, and let Him lead and direct you and help it develop you. Then He's going to say, and then your character, you'll be holy, be holy. So here's my challenge. Let's make 2020. This next week, Sunday night, we've got a week right ahead of us. Big week, Christmas. Then we go into the new year. How about we just decide tonight that I'm going to make this next year a year of growing in my knowledge of the Lord? I want to get to know God. I want my relationship with Him to be real and vibrant. I just want to want to know God that I may know him. The power of his resurrection. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to know you, Lord. Help us to do our part. To seek after you and walk with you and humble ourselves before you. Let you lead us and direct us. Lord, I want, as a pastor, I want to know you better, Lord. I want to be able to Be a better pastor and know you better, Lord. I believe there's dads here that share that concern for their home. They want to know God better this year. Maybe moms, teenagers, young people. I want to know God. I want to know Him. So Lord help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I share your heart tonight? What you just said is what I want. I want to know God this year. Any like that uplifted hand? I want to learn things of him I never knew before. I want to learn things about him. Grow in my understanding, my love for Him. God bless you, hands all around. How about let's just find a place old altar tonight? Say, Lord, teach me of yourself. Reveal yourself to me. Make me hungry To know you. Make me thirsty to know you. See what God will do. Father, bless our invitation, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the