CDs are any size donation. Luke chapter 19 is a very famous chapter in the Bible. And got little fellow named Zacchaeus in it. Zacchaeus was a wee little man. Yeah, that that's in this chapter And um he climbed up in that sycamore tree. It's hard to climb a sycamore tree. Of course I I don't want to climb a tree ever again myself. I did that as a boy. But um old Zacchaeus, he climbed up in that tree to see Jesus He wanted to see Jesus. Amen. I'm glad he wanted to. And I'm glad that Jesus wanted Zacchaeus. I'm glad Jesus wants all of us old dirty sinners. I'm glad to be saved today. I'm glad to be part of the family of God. And in verse 10, Luke 19, verse 10, we find out why did Jesus come? Why did he leave heaven? Why did he come to this earth? Verse 10: For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. I'm glad he came. Now our text is in verse 13. This is Jesus speaking. And he called his ten servants. And delivered them ten pounds and said unto them, read these four words, ready? Occupy till I come. That's our text today. Occupy. Occupy till I come. Stay active. Do business till I come. The Lord does not want us to be indifferent. The Lord does not want us to be inactive. The Lord does not want us to be passive. God's people are all to be consumed with doing God's work. Addicted to the ministry. Amen to that. Brother Fox, are you trying to get us to be fanatics? We're not even close to being fanatics around here. This is normal Christianity on fire for God with a little holy zeal Yeah. I've uh I even had one preacher I got to his church early in my evangelism and he said to me, he said, Brother Fox, we need you to calm down. I said, Yes, sir. My job to help the preacher. Finally I went back to him and said, Sir, I'm trying to calm down, but I'm having a hard time calming down I'm excited about things of God. Some people may think this is fake. I'm excited about things of God. I'm glad I'm saved. I'm glad I'm getting to serve the Lord. I'm God's full-time servant. I was not called to preach. I was called to be a full-time servant. And I get to do that every day. And it's wonderful. Last Friday I led a young man to Christ. You know, just about every week I get to lead somebody to Christ. Just how wonderful is that? And um then seeing your family serve God and seeing your church on fire for God and have meetings like this, it's wonderful. Now, I titled this morning's message. God's business is big business. Occupy till I come Do business. That Greek word pragma there, you think about the word pragmatic and so forth, and this is the verbal tense of all that. Do business. Do business. Now, in America, um we've had it where businessmen could really make some money and and really get some things done. And um uh one businessman thirteen years ago, he bought his first business and called me. He was uh about uh 38 years old 37 or 38 years old, he bought his first business. He called me, said Brother Fox, Brother Fox, uh, I want you to help me uh with this business. He said, I don't really know what I'm doing. I want you to help me. I said, Okay I said, um, uh, how much did the business make last year that you bought? He said, $300,000. I said, woo, that's good. I said, what was total revenue? He said, um $300,000. I said, oh, lesson number one, you must learn the difference between revenue and profit When I said how much did you make, I was meaning how much profit did it make. I said, how much did it make? What was the profit? He goes, I don't know. I said, Oh We got to find out what the business is making. Because you know, you you come out and say, man, we had a great year. We took in a hundred million dollars We spent $104 million, but we took that's not good. That sounds like the government, doesn't it? This past Thursday our government went ten billion dollars further in federal debt That's ridiculous. $30. 9 trillion? Ridiculous. Our government, our leaders need to get back to the financial principles of the Bible. We don't have a revenue problem with the government. We got a spending problem. But uh back to this young man bought the business and man he's a worker And along the way, for the last 13 years, I've helped coach him. He's bought other businesses now. And that original business, that original business last year did $38 million. He himself from that one business made four point one million dollars. Don't y'all feel sorry for him? You know, only making about I don't know ten thousand, eight, seven, eight, ten thousand dollars a week. That's terrible, isn't it? Terrible Yeah, big business. I was um I was in Washington, D. C. I was invited to uh get together up there And uh there are about five hundred uh big businessmen, generals, Vice President Pence was there, a number of congressmen were there, all that sort of thing. And uh it cost a lot to even go to this thing. I was an invited guest. In fact they uh honored me a little bit at the end of it. That was a total surprise to me because I didn't know who these people even were really And um but for what we had done in Virginia and with the elections and so forth. And uh because I'll tell you in Virginia, last year we registered 77,000 church members 77,000. Our preacher would get up and say, You gotta vote, or make some of those explosive remarks that our preacher made last night. Thank you. I don't think our preacher neither one of these preachers are exactly neutral. You know what I'm saying? Amen. Tired of all this neutral stuff. You know? And um seventy-seven thousand our preacher game say, Gotta vote, everybody say, Amen. And they weren't even registered. And so when our preachers say, You've got to give out gospel tracts, and everybody says, Amen, now the preacher's like, Are you giving them out? You know, that's why we have track month. Find out what you're giving out, you know And it helps us, doesn't it? So I was at this big whatever it was. And um I'm shaking hands with different people and I knew two or three people in the room Shook hands with this one man and uh we're chatting a little bit and he walked off and my friend said that guy's a businessman. I said, woo, how about that He said uh he did $1. 6 billion last year. I said $1. 6 billion? I quit giving out prayer uh uh business cards. I got my prayer cards out, you know what I'm saying? Next man uh shook hands with uh he gave me his business card, I handed him this, he said, that's the biggest business card I've ever seen. I said, Sir, I'm in big business. God's business is the biggest business. There's no business like it. I got four little points that I want to hurry through just off this thought. Occupy till I come. Why do I say this morning that uh God's business is such big business Well, number one, because of the partnership involved. Ladies and gentlemen, we're in partnership with God. You got Orble and Wilbur Wright and all Sears and Roebuck. You got all these conglomerations led by partners and these law firms with partners and all that. The Christians with the best partner in the whole world. Hold your place there. Turn back to the last verse of Mark. Look at this wonderful verse. I love the book of Mark. Just 16 chapters long, 678 verses long. You can read it in just a little while. Look at the last verse. Mark chapter 16 and verse 20. And they went forth and preached everywhere. Then it says this wonderful phrase: the Lord working with them. The disciples and God working together. Greatest partnership in all the world. Let me read you a little bit of 2 Corinthians chapter 6. God hath reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ and hath committed to us the ministry, the ministry of reconciliation, namely to wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed to us, hath committed to you and I, friends, we are that know the Lord, we that are saved, hath committed to us This word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ. Amen. Ambassadors for Jesus Christ. I was out door knocking in Virginia below Washington, D. C. , knocking on a door, turned to be one of our ambassadors. Went inside, chatted with him a little bit, told me of all the different countries he'd been to. By the way, I asked him, I said, Who are the most persecuted people in the world? Is it Christians? He said, Without a doubt, it's Christians Are the most persecuted people in all the world. He said, Brother Fox, there are exterminating sinners around the world to snuff out the lives of Christians. You like our freedom in America? I want it for everybody in the world. And our freedom comes from God, by the way, it doesn't come from our government. That unalienable rights, our forefathers, they recognize it's God. You ever heard this term soul liberty? Oh yeah. Read the book of Genesis, the book of beginnings? This this freedom comes from God Amen to that. And we're ambassadors for the Lord. We're going out representing God, friends. And so I say it's big business because of who we represent and the partnership that is involved working hand in hand with God. Number two, I say it's big business because we're actually getting to fellowship with our partner God as we do all this work. I like these songs that we sing. What a friend we have in Jesus. Isn't that true? Dwight Eisenhower was the only president to ever get baptized while in office. professed receiving Christ as his Savior but never been baptized and during political season they brought it up. Big scandal General Eisenhower wants to become our president. He says he's a Christian, but he's never been baptized. What a scandal. Don't you wish we had scandals that awful today? He made a campaign promise. General Eisenhower said, it's true, I've neglected my faith. I should have been baptized. He said, after this campaign is over, whether I win or lose, I plan on getting baptized. And about 12 days after he was in office, he got baptized publicly. And in his baptismal service, he said, I've got one request. I want you to sing my favorite hymn. What a friend we have in Jesus. Yes, we're doing all this big business that we're trying to do. It is big business trying to reach the whole world. It is big business trying to get the Bible in every language for every people group, and we've not got that done yet. There's plenty of well business left to do There's plenty of people still to try to win to Christ. There's a lot of work left to do. That's why I'm saying we must occupy till he comes. Keep our head on the plow. Do not look back But as we're working, friendship with Jesus, fellowship divine. Oh, what blessed contemplation. Jesus is a friend of mine. Yeah. And you know my my Lord is pleased with me as long as I do my dead level best while I'm trying to do his work This morning I I was tempted to get discouraged. I I've been working so hard. We got five God and Country rallies on Thursday and Friday. I've been working so hard, working so hard, working so hard. And some of the rallies got a good amount of RSVPs But one of them's really lacking and I said, Oh Lord, I've done everything I've pushed every button I know how to push. I keep pestering people. I know I'm aggravating people. Trying to get say, You gotta come, you've got to get involved. Miss That's what us preachers do. I just keep pushing them buttons, you know. I said, Lord, it's I don't know. It's Friday at noon and I've done everything I know how to do And the Lord reminded me that all I'm accountable for is doing my best. And when my best is not very good, he's still pleased. What a partner. What a friend we do have in Jesus. I won't mean you to do our dead level best, but the results are in God's hands. I want to see everybody saved. I was out door knocking in Winchester, Virginia in June or July, I can't remember exactly. And I'm out door knocking with a man named Doug Doug and I are outdoor knocking together. Doug's 60-something years old. While I'm out there trying to do some of the Lord's work, doing some of God's business I'm out there door knocking and I get a text message from someone, a preacher, who said, door knocking no longer works. I'm out door knocking when I got that. I said, come here, Doug, let's take a selfie. And here's two older guys taking selfie out there, and I sent a text of that picture. I said, why don't you tell Doug that? I knocked on his door last year he received Christ as his Savior, and now we're out here door-knocking together. And Doug wants somebody Christ. Hallelujah. No, every time we go door knocking, we don't see multitudes of people getting saved. I wish we did But it's not my job to give the increase. That's in the Lord's hands. My job is just to do business. Do business till he comes. And this business of soul winning that we're in, oh look. We got the right partner in Jesus in this business. We get to actually have friendship with our partner as we go. And then number three, number three. I do business, I say it's it's big business, why? Because number three, because of the extensiveness of the operation The extensiveness of the operation. I uh I had this one missionary journey. I uh we went to England and then uh went to th this place and that place and so forth and I I finally I was I was over here in um in Romania. I'm in Romania and I asked the the fellow with me, I said, now I want us to plan some of those uh remote areas where there are no churches. I want to go to some of those areas too Because I was going to the churches and so forth, and so we went out in this one village, this little village of a couple hundred, dirt road going in. A couple hundred people there, little shacks and so forth. And they had a little makeshift building that they was their store, their trading post. And I stopped by there. Just looked in. By the way, I brought a jar of peanut butter with me. I'll tell you what I did with that jar of peanut butter. I stopped by their little trading post In that trading post, you could get Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola really is trying to reach the whole world. You know what I'm saying? I mean if you've ever drunk a Coca-Cola, yeah Diet Coke now, yeah. Coke zero, yeah. I don't want to drink my calories. Um Man Coca-Cola is trying to reach the world with their product You know? You know what else in that little trade post? Alcoholic beverage. I'd like to wage a war today on alcoholic beverage. It's destroying so many homes, destroying so many lives. How many car wrecks because of it? How many lost jobs? How many lives ruined because of it 75 passages in the Word of God that condemn and warn against that old foolish alcoholic beverage. And now we got preachers taking part of that. Shame on it. But alcoholic beverage there in that little town, that little village. I took my jar of peanut butter around in the village I told everybody, I said, this this is a jar of peanut butter from America. Yeah. I'm an American. I had my translator Rusty was with me. I was telling, I said, we're going to have a little get together over there, a little gathering. I'm gonna let you try peanut butter. I brought some spoons and yeah, we're gonna try it, yeah. And you get a taste of peanut butter. Yeah, you you'll like this. This is good. I'm walking all around the bench talking about this Because I'm going to get them together and I'm going to preach the gospel to them. So I get them there and you know I we open that jar up and I go first. I'm not going last, man. I'm going first. I showed up. Mmm. Mmm. We pass that around. And I mean this little place we're in, there are people looking in the windows. They want some of that peanut butter and so forth. Yeah. Coca-Cola's trying to reach the world Alcoholic beverage trying to reach the world. And me and Rusty had gone there to try to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And yes, I preached the gospel to them. And I established for Rusty to keep coming back as a preaching point. You get you a preaching point. Then you establish a church eventually and so forth. And so this operation is worldwide. This tie, I wore it Sunday, but I decided to wear it again this morning. This tie is from New Zealand. Preacher, you and I went to New Zealand together. And we went to Australia. You and I ate some kangaroo. Remember that kangaroo pie? Anyway. You're the one that bought it, but you got me to try a little of it. Kangaroo pie. He's hopping around all the time, aren't you? We went to New Zealand You know something? We saw people saved in Australia. We saw people saved in New Zealand. The gospel works everywhere. There's not a people group that the Lord doesn't love. That core I've got out there. The car I've got out there. My little Ford fuse and I had somebody change the oil on it and oil filter fell off and they didn't put it on properly. Destroyed my car. And uh the shop would not stand behind their work. And um so I borrowed a car for a few days while I was figuring out what to do 18 of my preacher friends and three of my business preacher uh business friends bought me that car. You know who they bought it from? They bought it from Margaret Stringer That missionary that went to the cannibals. Oh yeah. She was over there is a little single missionary lady over there in the islands. And they kept flying over this one little island. And she just kept saying, I won't go there. Let's go there. They said, we can't go there, Margaret. They're cannibals. I want to go there. I want to go. Finally, she persuaded some of them to take a helicopter and lower her down on the island. That's where I got the car from. She got lowered in all those years ago, decades ago now. She walked in on that little island, all of them looking at her. She walked right into a little hut and sat down, Indian style, them legs crossed up, and those island folk just looking at her. Finally, one of them went and sat in her lap, touched her face. She couldn't speak their language at this point. She's so burdened for them. And by the way, the hut she walked into was a hut where they ate people. Isn't that something? Why not eater? They had a legend on that island that God was going to send somebody to them out of the sky one day. She came. She eventually translated Bible for her for them. Cannibals getting saved. Isn't that amazing? I mean I down there in Louisiana, some door knockers out of a church like this went out door knocking. knocked on the bouncer of the bars door. He fussed at them. Well they weren't too intimidated. They kind of just talked back to him. Said, man, if you don't get saved, you're going to go to hell. And my God used their boldness. There's times for boldness. Now that bouncer fella is a pastor. He started two churches. And he's gun barrel straight, buddy. Amen to that. And the bouncer can get saved. My friend Todd Todd Monaghan. Todd. Mixed martial arts champ. Champ of the world. Yeah. So when I went to him with this Bible, doing some business for God. Handed the mixed martial arts champ a Bible. Said, Todd, you better read this. You're on your way to hell. Todd was a dope dealer and the world champ. A lot of money coming in, a lot of money just squandered. He read the Bible and got saved. Now he's an evangelist. Amazing. I had him with me. We had 413 teenagers, inner city teenagers in Akron, Ohio So I preached and it's his turn to preach. And he's kind of rough. He's only been saved seven years. He's kind of rough. And most of these kids were not saved. About fifty of them saved, three hundred and fifty of them lost. And he said something all laughed. He stomped that platform so it kind of shook the whole building. And talking about kids straightening up, you know what I'm saying? He's still a powerhouse. He's kind of rough Had I don't know fifty or sixty saved that night. I was doing one of these God bless America rallies and I had Todd given his testimony, a little portion of each night, and I brought in a color guard from Kent University. Eighteen of their kids came over. From that university, I had them come early so they could practice. And I said that I'm going to have you have uh supper with the champ. Yeah. I brought some supper in for them all. And there's Todd talking to all of them. He told him a little bit about him getting saved, and then he said, uh now I want to ask each one of you, one by one. Wow, you mean he did that? He said, Yeah, I'm going to ask what each of you one by one if you're saved. Young lady, you're saved? She said, Well, I've always been saved Paul said, that can't be true according to the Bible. How is he dealing with her? Honestly. It's time for some honesty, isn't it? You were not always saved. No. He he led Shalom to Christ before they even rally began. Well we better get back to doing business. And the extensiveness, you can't take the gospel to the wrong person. Every people, group, everybody needs to receive Christ. My last little uh point Woo, time's moving. My last little point, because of the ROI. That's a business term that these business folk like to use. R-O-I. Return on investment. When we do this business for the Lord, is there any any good returns? I mean, the Dow Jones went in bear market territory yesterday NASDAQ's down 32% this year. It's ridiculous, isn't it? Yeah. Not getting good returns. People losing their money in their okay 1K and whatever, whatever, whatever Are there any returns on this? Oh yeah. My wife and I, we were over there in Ohio, and um I'm preaching meeting there. A lady there who's been abused as a child. It's heinous, isn't it? It's unthinkable. What some men have done to some little girls Her name is Alice. And Alice, I'll tell you. A lot of emotional, mental trauma. And so as a coping system, she'd take acid and pour on her body. She'd have to have skin grass on her arms and her belly and so forth. That was her coping system, because when her flesh was melting and burning and so forth, her heart didn't hurt so badly, she said. There's sometimes reasons people do some pretty bizarre things. Well, to make a long story short, my wife led Alice to Christ. Jesus is the solution. He's the answer. Well, I was trying to lead her husband Keith to Christ, and you know he kind of resisted a little bit. And I said, I tell you what, Keith, um you come to church tomorrow night and after church I'll Me and my wife, we take you folks out to eat. I made that, you know, we try to bribe people, all that kind of stuff. You know what we do? I did not know when I said that that I was going to get a kidney stone Oh the worst pain in all the world is kidney stones. It's worse than childbirth. I'm not qualified to really make that that judgment It's bad though. Those kidney stones hurt you. So I said to Keith, I said, You come to church tomorrow night with us. We'll take you out to eat A kidney stone hit, man. I'm telling you, I'm sweating bullets. And I'm preaching mean. Brother, when I got kidney stones, I can preach mean. And I looked and Keith wasn't there. I'm like, well, praise the Lord. Isn't that ridiculous? I don't have to take him out to eat. Then he walked in. I said, Lord, I'll do it. I preached, gave invitation, all that. Took them out to eat. I mean, I'm hurting. I'm in agony. I really didn't talk to him about the gospel at the supper table. I'm trying to hurry this thing up, man. Want dessert? They want a dessert? Okay We went through the dessert, all that, got in the car. It's like the Holy Spirit said right to him. He said, It's time. Tell him. Talk to him. And I said, Lord, I'm hurting. Holy Spirit, do it. I said, Keith, I need to talk to you. I shared with him the precious gospel of Jesus Christ. We pulled into the church onto the church campus, into one of those little parking stalls, and I'm just preaching to him. He's in the front seat and our wives are in the back seat. I said, Keith, don't you want to get saved? He said, Well, I won't think about it. I said, why would you delay? Why would you not receive Christ tonight? You know, I don't understand. There's danger in delay. You know that? I said, why don't you just get saved right here, right now? His wife pop piped up from the back. Said, come on, Keith. I got saved a couple of days ago. You need to get saved. And can I tell you in that front seat, Keith called out to the Lord for salvation? Amen I've had opportunity in the last few years with this God and country effort to speak to people who have a lot of authority and a lot of power and all that sort of thing I was doing a meeting down there in in um in Florida Had uh eight candidates came, all that, and I preached uh a message entitled, um, You Can Be Religious But Lost And we talked a little bit about you need to vote in the election, blah, blah, blah, all that stuff. These are always preaching meetings. Eight candidates. The socialist candidate came. He didn't like anything that took place that night. We were glad he came. We wanted everybody to come. Sitting judge was there. As I preached, I could see he was under conviction And that night after the service, the judge called on the Lord. He had been a lifelong Catholic. You can be a lifelong Catholic and go to hell. You need Jesus. What's this conference all about? About doing business for God. God's business is the greatest business in the whole world. Do you believe that? Would you like to just keep that hand, those hands right to that gospel plow? See, we've got we've got two things to do. What's that? Worship and glorify the Lord and then tell others about him. The furtherance of the gospel. Now there's lots of things that branch off of that. That building. The bill has already been used of God. Getting people on this campus to see somebody saved. Why did Brother Mark and and uh work so hard? Why did we give and get people saved? Trying to stay in business for the Lord. Would you stand with me for a moment? And right where you stand, how's your part of God's business going? With heads bowed a moment. What are you doing? What are you trying to do? There's a preacher up there in Michigan, Rusty Chatfield. He's got a bunch of us evangelists giving out gospel tracts and turning in reports. And me and about 30 or 40 evangelists, we've given out about a half million tracts this year Those who want to come to the altar right now, come on. I don't know. We'll just do this for a moment. Yeah, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Do business. Let's recommit to doing this business. God's work.