Bibles if you would. I'm sure you notice we have uh platform set up for this evening and uh so uh we're excited about that. And with that in mind, I my pulpit here is very small. And so if papers and things start flying different directions, just duck. And um I've been tripping over this stuff up here all morning. So you pray for my safety. Preaching up here. Matthew chapter 14, if you would notice with me Verse number 29. Oh, let's begin in verse 28. And we're going to come down to verse 31. When we get to verse 31, I know James already read this, but I want to touch on it again. And when we get to verse 31, I'd like for us to read that verse together in unison. So I'll give you the clue when we get there. But notice 28, it says, Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he, the Lord, said, Come And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? I'm entitled to me Oh we were supposed to read that together, weren't we? I told you this has got me all upset up here. Let's try that again. Verse number 31, read it with me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? Let's pray. I've entitled the message, O Thou of Little Faith. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for what's already taken place here this morning Morning. It's been a blessing to have assembled together with the people of God, and my heart stirred. Lord, this is a sober day in our country. God, you've allowed our country to go through this trial. And for these ten years we've been uh uh experiencing the consequences of decisions that were made uh by our enemies. With that in mind, I pray you'd help us to put some of these things aside and help us to zero in on our personal walk with you and our personal relationship with you, dear. Dear Lord, I yield myself to you now as the preacher. I present my body anew. I ask you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me, challenge each of us. I pray when this service is over, we'd be better people. I pray we'd be better citizens. And God, I pray especially we'd be better Christians. Our faith in you would be stronger. Our commitment to you would be stronger. But we need your Holy Spirit to do that. So help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. When Jesus, God's Son, came to earth And began his ministry. The first thing he did, one of the first things he did, was he called out twelve men to be his disciples. Now, I want to emphasize at the beginning of the message the fact that these 12 men were just ordinary, everyday men. They were not religious leaders. They were not political leaders. They were just ordinary working people. Now I want to try and illustrate this, and I'm trying to bring the reality of this home And I want I'm going to call on several men to stand. Bill, would you stand? Right where you're at. That's one. Stu, would you stand? That's two. Joe, would you stand? please three Pat would you stand Charlie if you would what do we got one two three four five uh let's come over here James would you Would you stand? Let's see. Kurt, would you stand up there where you are? What how many we got? Seven? Is that right? I can't count seven. Yeah. Thank you. Let's see. Ron Coddington, would you stand up? That's eight. Mark, would you stand up? No, not Tom. Tom, would you stand up please? Uh Chuck, Frock, would Charlie, would you stand up? How many is that? That's ten. We got two more. Brother Jerry, would you stand up? And uh let's see, Bob Morgan back there You're the shortest of them all. We got twelve men standing, correct? Take a look at these guys. These guys are no different than the men that Jesus called out to be his disciples. Just ordinary people, just fellows out of the crowd. And Jesus spent three and a half years with these guys, discipling them. By the time that three and a half years was done, they had forsaken everything for the Lord Jesus Christ. They left their jobs, they left their homes for the most part In some ways, in many ways, left their families to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, had committed their lives to Jesus Christ, who he was, and what he stood for. At the end of three and a half years, of course, Jesus was crucified. He's buried, rose again, and before he ascended to heaven He assured these men, along with all believers, that they would be filled and empowered with the Holy Spirit of God. Just ordinary fellows from various walks of life. And they were filled with the Holy Spirit of God, and this world has never been the same. Totally transformed. Thank you, fellas. You may be seated. And the reason I did that was to try and emphasize the fact they're just ordinary people. Called of God. God stirred their hearts. They committed themselves. The Bible says they forsook all and followed him. And as I said, here we are, 2,000 plus years later. And we're still influenced by their ministry and the power that God put upon them. Of those twelve men, one stands out in my mind, particularly this morning And that is Peter. What a guy Peter is If you're familiar with the Gospels, if you've been Christian any length of time and are very familiar with the Bible, you know that Peter was a character. Am I right? Sometimes, when I'm reading and studying the gospels, sometimes I want to be like Peter. I read something and I thought, boy, I'd like to be like that. And then other times, I read about Peter, and I think, that's the last guy I ever want to be like. I don't even want to be around him. Peter was an amazing fellow. In our text, what James read and what I read and then what we all read again together We have what I consider, in my mind anyway, one of the high points in Peter's discipleship training under the Lord Jesus Christ. This storm that Jesus compels them to get on the boat, they go out, the storm. We just read this story here. To me, this is one of the high points in Peter's ministry, in his training, I should say. Two reasons Number one, he walked on water. Now how cool is that I I'd I'd like to try that sometime, you know. In fact I have tried it, didn't work. But um how many people agree with me? That would be a high point to be do uh uh walk on water. Anybody agree? Yeah, that's pretty amazing. But I think there's another aspect here that makes this a high point and In some ways, I may be reading into it a little bit, but in some ways I see this as a turning point in Peter's life. I think another reason it's a high point is Peter is learning some things About himself. The whole time he's in training, he's learning about the Lord Jesus. But other things are happening Peter, along with the other disciples, not only are they learning about the Son of God, who he is, what he's like, and his will for their lives, but they're learning a lot about themselves. And that, is that not true of the Christian life? As I understand more about the God, about my God, who he is and what he is, as I learn to know him, I realize some things about myself. And that's what's happening to Peter here. I think some things, without preaching the message twice, but some things I think Peter picks up here is uh at least we can maybe if he didn't, is uh little faith. Can accomplish great things. Now think about that. Peter walked on the water. If you and I saw somebody Walking on the water in faith in the Lord. They put their faith in the Lord and were able to walk in the water. We would say, what would we say about their faith That was great faith. Man, I don't know anybody else that's done that. That's tremendous faith to trust God enough to step out of a boat in a storm and walk on water. What great faith You read down a little bit, we read, what did the Lord say about his faith? He says, Oh ye of little faith. So what does that tell us? That tells me that just a little bit of faith in God can do some amazing things. Something else I think he's learning here about himself is, and maybe we can learn, it's easier to start out in the matters of faith than it is to carry through in the matters of faith. Stepping out, apparently stepping out of that boat and stepping onto the water was not too difficult for Peter. But getting to his destination became the difficult part. And you know, a lot of people start out great. A lot of people start out with a bang. Start out great. But as time goes by, their faith wavers and their commitment diminishes. And you look around, you can't find them. So starting out is a whole lot easier than carrying through And something else I think Peter learned about himself, and we can learn about ourselves. Peter, like many of us, had a tendency to overestimate himself. He had a tendency to think that his commitment was a whole lot stronger than what it really was. He had a tendency to think his love for the Lord was a lot greater than what it really was. And he's learning here that in himself he finds only weakness. In himself, his confidence in himself is being shaken And he's warning, you know, I'm not everything I think I am. I'm not as great as I imagine myself to be. And he's learning that Christ must increase and he needs to decrease. And so a highlight of Peter's life: walking on water Learning some valuable things about himself. Now I have two points to my message. And a lot of people are very excited to hear that. Don't get too excited. There's 39 subpoints under each of these two points. But the first thing I'd like for us to look at is some facts about Peter. Here we have the situation, storm, boat, Peter walking the water, sinking, Lord rebukes them. Back in a boat, they get to the other side We learned some things about Peter. Let me give you a few. Some facts about Peter. Now, would you agree with me? Peter had his faults. How many people agree with me on that? Peter had his faults. One of the biggest ones was his mouth. And we can I get a witness we can relate to that. But in spite of his faults, Peter was a genuine believer. Let's not forget that. We say it so I I say this often, and I and I feel it's important for us to understand. It is not the amount of the faith, it's not the amount of my faith. It's not the quantity of my faith, but it is the object of my faith that determines my salvation. Now remember, Jesus said of Peter when he was walking on when he walked on water and then began to say, Peter said, You have little faith. And that word little means of very small amounts. Jesus was not impressed with the amount of Peter's faith. And I want to suggest to you: it is not the amount of our faith that is going to save us from sin in hell. It is the object of our faith, what we put our faith into. For instance, you can have a tremendous amount of faith. in your church membership to save you from sin and hell. But that faith in church membership has never and will never Save a soul from the judgment of God on sin and eternity in the lake of fire. So somebody can have tr absolutely be convinced in their mind, without a doubt, absolutely, my church membership will get me to heaven. And they will die and go to hell. It's not the amount of faith I have, it is the object of my faith. A person can have a tremendous amount of faith in their baptism. They can be absolutely convinced in their mind that when I was baptized, it washed my sins away, it made me acceptable to God, and I am on my way to heaven. But that great amount, strong faith in baptism, completely fails when it comes to the matter of salvation. It's not the amount of our faith. We had a number of years ago in neighborhood Bible time, we had a couple little boys Came and attended Bible time. Their daddy was the pastor of a local church that teaches baptismal regeneration. Now, how many people know what I'm talking about when I use that term baptismal regeneration? You're familiar with that? Simply means that your baptism saves you. And so their daddy, they came all week. Their daddy was a pastor of a church that teaches and preaches, and he believed that your baptism saves you. They came all week, they were fired up, Daddy was fired up about it, he is excited to come out every night and every day when I drove the bus and thankfully said my kids are memorizing scripture and reading the Bible and doing this and doing a booster chair and uh he was just fired up. Lo and behold he came Friday night to the closing program. And as you that have been around here know, closing program, we always give a simple gospel presentation invite folks to trust Christ. I did that night, nothing different than uh 18 other times we've done this, shared the gospel in a simple form, invited the folks to call on the Lord and trust him as their savior. And if I remember correctly, there was a number of folks that trusted the Lord. And we went on. Sometime later, one of our folks ended up working in the same place with this fellow. He made an interesting statement. He asked about me and the church and different things, and he says, you know, at that Friday closing program, I learned something. I learn that a person is saved from sin in hell not through baptism, but through trusting Jesus and Jesus alone. Isn't that exciting? It's not the amount of faith that saves me. It is the object of my faith. You say, preacher, uh uh, my faith is not very strong. You know, I just don't have a lot of confidence in my faith If you will take the faith you have and put it into the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus will save you from sin and And you can know you're going to heaven. Say, boy, I don't know. I just uh you know, I just my faith is I don't know. Listen, you trust Jesus and He'll try get the job done. Amen? Charles Spurgeon used illustration years ago and I've used it occasion over the years. But apparently there was a large canyon that they were wanting. This was years ago before they had to quit They do now, and they were wanting to build a bridge across this canyon. But it was too wide for them to move the steel beams and whatnot across. And so the engineers Came up with a solution. They took a fellow with a bow and arrow and tied a little thread, very long little thread, onto the arrow, and they shot the arrow across the canyon, stretched the thread across. They tied to that thread a string. They pulled the thread back, pulled that string across that canyon. To the string, they tied a rope. And they pulled that rope across the canyon. To the rope they tied a chain. They pulled the chain across the canyon. To the chain they tied a steel beam and they pulled it across and they were able to build the bridge Across the canyon. The little thread spanned the gap and made it possible for that distance to be bridged. It may just be a little thread of faith, maybe all that you have, but if you'll put that faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, That gap between you and God will be bridged, and you can be saved. Isn't that wonderful? So one thing we learn about Peter here, though he had little faith, nevertheless he was a genuine believer because that little faith was in the Lord. Another fact we see about Peter here is in spite of his faults, and he had plenty of them, in spite of his faults, Peter had a great desire. He wanted to please God. You cannot escape that. Wherever Jesus was, that's where Peter wanted to be. Whatever Jesus was involved in, Brother Peter wanted to be involved in it also. If Jesus is out in the middle of a lake on a storm walking on water, well Peter wanted to be out in the middle of the lake In a storm walking on water. Whatever Jesus was doing, Peter wanted to be doing. Wherever Jesus was, Peter wanted to be. He had an incredible desire. In spite of all his faults He wanted to be with the Lord. He wanted to be involved in what God was doing. That is a healthy sign when somebody wants to be involved in what Jesus is doing. That's a good sign. Can I suggest to you, we complain about young people a lot, but uh uh but I can I suggest to you, it's a good sign when young people want to be in church on Sunday morning. I thank God for some of these young folks. Their parents didn't drag them out of bed kicking and screaming and tie a n tie around their neck and drag them to church by the tie, hollering it. You know what? Some of these kids got themselves up themselves. That's a good healthy sign. Some of you men, your wife didn't kick you out of bed and drag you here kicking and screaming like our deacons' wives have to do to them. But um Boy, that makes my wife mad when I do that. I need to quit picking on deacons. But do you agree with me? It's a help healthy sign when somebody wants to be involved in the things of the Lord. Though his understanding of the Lord at this point in time was very immature, God recognized and he honored Peter's desire to live by faith. You know how many times have we been like that? I believe I'm talking to some folks this morning, that in your heart, in our hearts, we sincerely want to live for God. We sincerely want to please God. But we look at ourselves and we think, man, I keep blowing it. Man, I keep I get my eyes off the lure and I see the water and I think. Man, I open my mouth and say stuff. I want to live for God, but I constantly see myself failing the Lord. Hey, I tell you what, I am glad that we have a God That can take us as we are, with our faults and failures, and he can mold us and challenge us and stretch us and help us to be what he intends for us to be. Peter had a desire. In spite of all his faults, down inside his heart, he wanted to be what the Lord wanted to be. He wanted to live by faith. Third fact about Peter I notice here is that in spite of his faults, Peter knew how to pray Look at verse 30 with me. But when he saw the wind, boisterous, he was what? He was afraid. Listen, now don't tell me you don't ever get afraid. Don't tell me you don't have financial situations, health situations that don't uh uh put a bit of fear in your heart and life. We've all been here But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid, and he be and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord save me. Lord save me. Peter's faith was not what it could have been, but Peter knew where his faith needed to be. He knew where to go in the time of desperation. He knew who to look to when all his resources were gone. He said Lord, save me. Lord, I need you to intervene. God, there is nothing I can do about my situation I cannot change my circumstances. Lord, I am looking to you to intervene in my life and save me. It doesn't take a lot of faith to know that Jesus can help us when we need him. Amen. In spite of all his faults, he knew how to pray. I think it's interesting when Peter began to sink. The Bible doesn't say he looked back at the guys in the boat and said, John, James, help me, I'm sinking. He didn't cry. He didn't look to the church to help him. He looked to the Lord to help him. Listen to me. I thank God for our church. I thank God for our church I think God our church has been able to help people various ways, various times over the years. But listen, our church cannot do for you what Jesus can do for you. Don't look to the church to do for you what only God can do. Don't look to your h husband to do for you ladies what only God can do. Don't look to your wife to do to bring uh to bring fulfillment and peace and and uh uh direction in your life that only Jesus can give. We've got to learn to pray. We've got to learn to look to God. We run to all of man's institutions. We look to the government. We look to the church. We look to the financial institutions, we look to our peers, we look at everything else, but Peter, for all his faults, he knew who to look to, he knew to look to God for help. That's what we need. I shared with the choir last evening. Yesterday afternoon we were practicing, and I thank God for the choir and everybody that's a part of it and all this presentation. I'm excited about it But you know, if we're looking for our programs and our videos and our ability to portray people If we're looking to that, to bring our country back to God, to change lives and help people, we're going to fall flat on our face. God has to do that. And so Peter, for all his faults, he knew how to pray. He knew how to pray. It was a very short, but very earnest prayer. He got right to the point There's no way there's a crowd this size, and I'm not talking to somebody who's in a situation where you feel like you're sinking I'm here to tell you, regardless of how strong or weak your faith is, you can call out to the Lord Jesus Christ. He'll help you. He'll help you. There's people in this auditorium who could stand and testify for hours on end how they were at the end of themselves and cried out to the Lord and God stepped in. Gave them help. Am I right or wrong? Lord, save me. Lord, help me. You've got to intervene. And Jesus came through. I want to suggest to you that genuine believing prayer is just as much an act of faith as walking on water. So first of all, we have some facts about Peter. In spite of all his faults, he was still a genuine believer. And by the way, let me throw this out. If you think believers are without faults, you're in for a rude awakening. Sometimes folks come to church or they get saved or whatever and they're not in the family too long and they realize that the family is made up of a bunch of sinners saved by grace. And sometimes they take offense. And sometimes they can't handle that. The fact of the matter is we all have our faults. And until the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, we've got to deal with it. So Peter, for all his faults, nevertheless, he was a A genuine believer. Peter, in spite of all his faults, he had a great desire to live by faith and be involved in what God was in. In spite of all his faults, he knew how to pray. Now I want us to quickly look at the faith of Peter The faith of Peter. Though his faith was little, it was nevertheless genuine. Now, just a couple things, real quick. First of all, I noticed concerning the faith of Peter, His faith, when he cried out, got Jesus' immediate attention. Look at verse 31. And immediately, now let's back up, verse 30. He was afraid, began to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me! And what? Immediately, immediately. Not a little bit later, not until he goes down the third time. As soon as those words came off of the lips of Peter, Lord save me, immediately the Lord reached out. I'm telling you, when we call on the name of Jesus, we have his attention immediately. One thing God is looking for above all else is our faith in Him. God is watching and waiting for people to trust him. We don't have to scream to get his attention We don't have to go through all kinds of religious contortions and religious rituals and All these things to get the attention of Almighty God. All we need to do is look to Him in faith, and we immediately have His attention I was reading this week, Brother Mike Barden sent gave his prayer letter from Utah, and he always puts at the bottom news about Mormons. And this pastor, I just came yesterday actually, and uh the pastor, this this recent one said uh something about um Mormonism teaches that when we do all we can Then God steps in and saves us. And the whole idea is we need to, and he goes through and documents it all, and we need to keep the commands and do this and do that and do this. And then when we do all of that. Then we have God's attention. Then God will step in. Listen, that is about as unscriptural as you can get. Peter cried out, Lord, save me immediately. I'm so glad on May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine It's funny, somebody the other day came to me and they said, Pastor, you remember that show, Laverne and Shirley? How many people remember that show? Let me tell you a story about Laverne and Shirley. Here we go. May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, I bowed by my bed and trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. People ask me sometimes, how do you remember it was 1039 because it was right after Laverne and Shirley went off. I watched Laverne and Shirley under the conviction of a Holy Spirit of God. Got in my room and got on my knees and called on God. I'm glad that a 19 and messed up Nineteen-year-old brat. When he called on Jesus, Jesus immediately gave his attention. Saved me. Immediately. The faith of Peter got Jesus' immediate attention. I made the statement: more than God, more than anything else, God wants our faith. I'm going to make a statement. You might not believe that I believe this, but I'm absolutely convinced of it. God is looking for our faith more than he's looking for our money. Lord's been stirring my heart about this. Now I thank God for our faith promise. We got to stay at that. It's necessary part of missions. But I'm afraid sometimes we put more faith in the money than we do in God. We put more faith in our programs and our schemes and all of that than we do in Almighty God. Listen We're not going to reach the world with the gospel with $10 billion. We're going to reach the world with the gospel with the power of God on our lives. Faith in God I don't misunderstand. But more than God wants your money, He wants your faith. More than God wants our works. I feel like we're a busy church. We try to stay after it. We I my view is we live in a world that is full of lost sinners who are dying and going to hell. We have got to get after this. We have got to take the gospel To every person we possibly can, we have got to work hard at that. But I'm suggesting more than God's looking for our works, He's looking for our faith. Trusting him to lead us and direct us and enable us. Peter's faith got Jesus' immediate attention Now, having said made those statements, I believe once Jesus has our faith, then money's not an issue. If I'm trusting in Jesus completely and fully, then I can follow his leadership with my finances. Make sense? If I'm trusting Jesus completely, then I have no problem investing my life and my time and my energies into the service of the King. But it starts with faith. So Peter's faith got Jesus' immediate attention. By the way, the matter of salvation, as I've been saying, is a matter of faith. Trusting Jesus, my personal Savior, putting my hope, my dependence upon Jesus Christ to forgive me and save me. But not only that, Christian living is a matter of faith. Paul said, under the inspiration of God, we walk not by sight, but by what? Faith. Every day as a believer I get up and I rejoice in the fact that Jesus has saved me. He's keeping me saved. He's going to lead me through the day. If I'll trust him and obey him and And do what he says, God will take care of me. It's living by faith. Christian service is a matter of faith Believing in the power of the Word of God as we distribute it. Believing that God can work through me as I give Him my time and my talents, and He uses me for His glory. It's all faith. Faith of Peter, it got Jesus' immediate attention. The faith of Peter kept him from drowning. We all sink sometimes. Do you know even Christians sink sometimes? Hey, do you know even preachers sink sometimes? But it's Jesus Christ that keeps us from drowning. Anybody notice Peter didn't have a life preserver on? Anybody notice that? Or what do they call now personal flotation device? It was Jesus that kept him from drowning. Hey, here's the problem. Sometimes folks get the idea, they say, oh yeah, you're saved by grace. You're saved by faith in Jesus. That's what gets you into the family of God. But you've got to live it or you're going to lose it. Now, I don't mean to be unkind, but I'm telling you that is a lie of the devil. I cannot keep myself saved any more than I saved myself in the first place. It's trusting Jesus and Jesus Jesus alone. That not only saves me, but keeps me saved. So it kept them from drowning. Sometimes Christians blow it. Sometimes Christians sink, their testimony sink, sometimes their walk with God saints, sometimes their resolve saints. But Jesus keeps them from drowning. I like that. John 10, 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. I like Hebrews thirteen five. Jesus uh uh uh uh Jesus I like that verse a lot. Jesus said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Tell you that's that's a good place to say amen right there. How many times have we failed the Lord? How many times have we come up short? How many times have we got our eyes off the Lord and we looked at our circumstances, situations, and we lost it? But Jesus has been faithful. And he's not forsaken us. He has not failed us. Romans 8, 35 through 39, he says, What shall separate us from the love of God? And he goes down through a list of things. Are horrendous things, persecutions, trials, afflictions. And he says, none of these will separate us from the love of God. Not failure, not foolishness. Jesus keeps us. I'd like you to turn one verse in the Bible, if you would, turn over to 2 Corinthians. Now I want you to see this, because this passage stirs my heart. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, please. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And we are so close to the end of this message, you would be very excited. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, look at verse 7. Personally, I think this is a good message. I think this is helpful. 2 Corinthians 4, look at verse 7. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now look at verse 8. For we are troubled on every side But not distressed. Were perplexed, but not in despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken. Cast down, but not destroyed. Can I add one on to that? Sinking, but not drowning. Jesus kept him from drowning. If our faith is in Jesus Christ, we're safe. We're secure. You're going to be okay. Say, preacher, oh, if you knew all the problems, if you know how to glow it, if you know the mess I've gotten myself into. So be honest with you, I'd really rather not know. But Jesus knows. And He can keep you from drowning. And He will. If your faith is in Him. And the last one here, the faith of Peter that I notice in our passage, it produced miraculous fellowship with the Lord. Now to be honest with you, I've been kind of rushing through this message because I wanted to get to this point. Now I don't know if I'm just a little dense I'm glad no one said amen there. In fact, I think maybe that could be the case. But I've never, when I've preached on this passage before, I've read it scores of times. And I never really gave it thought until preparing this message Peter steps out. Now, and I've brought this out in previous messages. Now remember, they're in the midst of a storm. How many people have ever seen the water in the midst of a storm? What's it doing? Big white caps and waves and wind blowing. You all see the little coloring pictures the kids have in Sunday school about Peter walking the water. It's nice and calm. It's like you're out on Broadford here, you know, and he's walking across just It wasn't that way at all. He stepped out of that. I mean the boat is going. And it says he climbed down out of the boat. So apparently he had a hold on the side and go down like this. It's not like he's stepping out of a canoe. You know, so he's climbing over the edge of the boat. He's hanging on, perhaps, and he's stepping down. Now, if it was me, it would be like this. Come on now. I don't know what Peter did, maybe he just went And then that first wave. Right? Can you see it? Step jump that white cat. And he's going on. Now picture this. And then he gets looking at everything else. He thinks, what in the world have I done? Have you ever been there? What in the world have I gotten myself into? What an idiot. Maybe he looks back and sees the other guys and they're all And he's singing, yeah. And he begins to what? Blub blub blub blub blub blub. Now last I watched, things don't sink very slowly. Right, it's kind of like down. However it was, Jesus reaches out and gets them. Now here's what I was always been dense about, never gave it much thought. How do they get back to the boat? Peter's not done walking on water yet. But the difference is this time he's not walking by himself. This time he's walking with Jesus And for all that we want to criticize Peter, and the Lord rebuked him, you little faith. But not only did he walk on water, he walked on water arm in arm. Back to the boat. Step in the boat. This is what I'm trying to say. When we trust Jesus Christ There's no promise we're not going to have storms. In fact, you go back, I think it's verse 22, 23, the Bible says God constrained, Jesus constrained them to get in that boat. He made them get in there. He knew that storm was coming. He knew what they were going to go through and he put them in that situation. It wasn't disobedience on their part that put them in the storm. It wasn't lack of faith on their part that put them on the storm. They did what Jesus told them to do, and they ended up in the middle of a horrific storm But Peter exercised faith in the Lord. Now he struggled with it, he stumbled with it, it wasn't perfect, he sank. But not only did he walk on water, he walked on water arm in arm with Jesus. I don't know where you're at. I don't know what situations you're dealing with or what your circumstances are. I don't know how you got into them. Whether you got yourself there, it was something outside of your control. But I do know this. God allowed it to happen. And that tells me you can trust God in that situation and you can experience in the midst of your most difficult time of life, you can experience the presence and fellowship of the Lord Jesus like you can How do you think Peter felt in the arms of Jesus walking on that water? I don't know about you, but I'd feel like king of the world. Hey guys. I doubt that he did that. He is pretty humble. But he learned a powerful lesson. The Lord can be trusted. And no matter what mess you get yourself into, if we'll simply do what the Lord says, trust him we can experience blessing and victory like we've never dreamed of before. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven. Thank you for Peter's uh his Stepping out, Lord, just not even thinking. God, you taught us a great lesson here that you're faithful. And that if we'll just trust you, you'll not only save us from sin and hell, but you'll help us through life. And we can experience your blessing and victory and see you You do things we never dreamed is possible. But I pray you'd help us to trust you. Help us to die to self, to get our confidence off of ourselves and completely in you.