I was uh this evening to Revelation chapter number one. I'm going to begin there, Revelation chapter number one. And uh If I had a title for the message tonight, it would be Oh, What a Moment. Oh, What a Moment. And I'll explain that here in just a little bit, but Revelation chapter number one. And verse number one, the Bible says the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. I like that right there. Shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. Then verse 2 says, Who bear record of the word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw, blessed is he that readeth And they that hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand You say, Well, we've been looking for the Lord. There have been scoffers all the way through from Bible days, from New Testament days, saying, Where is the coming of the Lord? And and I'm not a date setter. I I do not do that. Uh but I see right there it says it must shortly come to pass. These things are shortly going to come to pass, for the time is at hand I'm excited that the Lord could come at any moment. It may be a thousand years from now. I don't know when he's coming. I'm not a date setter, but I know that we're a day closer to it than we were yesterday And we're 2,000 years closer to it than we was the day that he ascended into heaven. I'm excited that He is going to come back because he said he was. I want to read a few more verses here. Verse 4 says, John to the seven churches which are in Asia Grace be unto you and peace from him which is and which was and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne And in verse 5, you could preach a whole message, seven points from there. I'm not going to do that. But it says, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, we see right there his purity Uh I'm not going to preach the whole message, but I'm going to give you the points right there. Uh who is the faithful witness? We see his purity because he was the only one fit to be our perfect sacrifice He was the only one that was sinless. He was the only one that had never said a word out of the way. He was the sinless Son of God, Emmanuel, God with us Came to this earth, and he is the only one pure enough who is the faithful witness. And then number two, uh the first begotten of the dead. We see his power He is the only one that raised from the dead. He said, I have power to lay my life down and I have power to take it up again. Only he they didn't take his life from him. No man took his life from him, but he laid it down and he took it up again So we see his power. And then the pr he uh and the prince of the kings of the earth. We think of a prince as being lower than a king We think of a prince as as maybe somebody that'll be a king in the future. But this king, this prince right here, he is the prince of all kings. That means he's the best of all kings. And he's coming again, the Prince of all kings of the earth, unto him that loved us. We see his passion. He came for one reason and one reason only, because he loved us, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Unto him that loved us we see his passion and washed us. That was his purpose His blood shed on the cross at Calvary washed away our sins. He took my place on the cross. He took the place I should have been taking And I should be in hell today. But because of the blood of Jesus Christ shed on the cross of Calvary, I'll never spend one moment in that place He washed us from our sins. That's the problem. I've heard Pastor Cobalt say many times. Sin is the problem. Christ is the answer. And that's the answer for any problem we have today. And then finally it says, in his own blood, that was the price that was paid. So we've seen his purity, power, prince, passion, purpose, problem, and price right there. Then verse six says, And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierce him, and all kindreds of the earth shall uh wail because of him, even so, amen Now this is talking about the judgment whenever he comes back in chapter number nineteen. We're not talking about the rapture of the church right here, because it says every eye is going to see him. I believe the calling away, the catching up of the church He's going to take us out, and people are going to look around and say, Where did they go? But this is talking about chapter 19. He's coming back to judge the earth, and then there will be the great white throne judgment where he'll cast out sin forever. So he says, uh the earth shall wail because of him. People are going to wail. They're going to uh be burdened, they're going to be troubled because of Christ. coming at that time to set up his kingdom and to judge the world of sin, reprove the world of sin. And Paul, John says right here, even so, even though that has to take place, he says, Amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty Now I want you to look at a couple of verses here. It says, And I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmas for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. If we read that and just reason in our minds a little bit, we'll understand that John was not there setting up a tent revival He wasn't there uh to uh to give the gospel there on a preaching uh rally or crusade. He was there because he was preaching the word of God. He was being exiled, he was being Gotten out of the way so that he could not uh witness for the Lord anymore. That's where they sent the prisoners. That's why where they exiled the prisoners and the and and the wicked people that had done uh evil. And it says, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Because he was a witness for Jesus Christ, he was exiled. Now history tells us that they had already tried to kill John. They had tried to boil him in oil and it didn't kill him. Can you imagine being let down in a vat of boiling oil and you living through it I I I don't even like to get burnt just a little bit. I picked up something hot one time that it was on fire the day before and I thought, well, it's cooled off by now. No, it hadn't. It was hot Uh but can you imagine John over his whole body being boiled in oil, and he survives it, and they say, What are we going to do with him? We can't kill him, so they exiled him to the Isle of Patmos And I worked up a little bit about the Isle of Patmos. It's a volcanic island. It doesn't have any beautiful shrubs or palm trees or flowers or You don't even hear bird singing, they say, on that island. It's just a a barren wasteland. It's where they send people to die Technically and historically, they sent people there to die. But look at verse 10. It says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. He was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. If anybody had reason to grumble and complain and talk about their pain and everything that they had been through, it would have been John But he said, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And we're over here and we have been given the best of everything. God has blessed us here in America and we come in sometimes on Sunday mornings uh with our jaw dragging the floor. How can we do that when God has been so good to us It's time that we got in the Spirit on the Lord's day and every day thereafter Then I want to turn over for one verse of Scripture there in Revelation 4, verse 1. He talks about the churches. In chapters 1 through 3, and then in verse 4, it says, After this, I looked and behold, a door was opened in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter From there, that point to the end of the Bible, you do not see the church, the New Testament church on earth anymore. That's a picture and a type of the rapture of the church that Jesus Christ bled and died for and gave his life for. That is a picture and type of the rapture. Uh so that is going to happen. And we look back here in the in the first couple of verses, shortly come to pass, for the time is at hand. We're to be looking for him. He said he's coming for those that are looking for his appearing. that rejoice in his appearing. The next great event on God's timetable is the rapture of the church. Nothing else has to take place from here on out is that the Lord come and take us home. We're looking forward to that Uh you've heard preachers back in the old days. They were praying and preaching that he was coming, that he was coming soon. Well guess what? We're closer to it now than they were then I'm going to look for him today. I look for him to come before tonight. If he don't come tonight, I'm going to be looking for him tomorrow. Amen. Until he comes, I'm going to be looking for him I know we could have another great awakening and a great turning back to the Lord in our land, and we need it in America. We have strayed so far and the sin is so heavy on America. The blood is on our hands and and uh we've got to get back to to the way this country uh was started. For religious liberty. But as far as prophecy goes, the rapture is next. I want us to look back at December today. December, we celebrated the birth of Jesus Christ. I don't know when he was born But I know he was born because it's recorded in God's Word. We worship the Messiah, come God with us. He came. He came with one purpose. He came to live a sinless life and to die for the sins of the world. We celebrated that in December. You can't have the cross without the cradle. The cradle had to come first, and you can't have the crown without the cross. We just celebrated sometime back, I think it was the last week of March, we celebrated Palm Sunday on the Christian calendar That was Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, where they were looking for him to set up his kingdom right then And to overcome the Roman uh conquerors and and uh and all of them and and uh he he he came in riding on a Nash's cold And they put their clothes upon it and they strolled uh uh their clothing in the way, their their garments and and the palm leaves, the palm limbs and all that, and they were saying, Hosanna! Hosanna Uh I I love that time of year. I love just picturing in my mind, if I could, the Lord making that triumphal entry and fulfilling that prophecy that was written about him. Luke chapter number. 19, I'll read just a couple of verses there. Luke chapter number nineteen and verse number thirty-three, the Bible says, And as they were loosened the coat, the owners thereof saith unto them Why loose ye the coat? And they said, The Lord hath need of him. And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the coat, and they Set Jesus thereon, and as he went, they spread their clothes in the way, and when he was come nigh, even now of the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice And praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest reminds me of when that little baby uh was uh let know uh they let the the shepherds know out there. They said, Peace on earth and and glory unto God, glory unto the highest. And on earth peace goodwill toward men. Then verse 39 says, And some of the Pharisees from among the multitudes said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. Verse 40 says, And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. That tells us something maybe about our worship and our praise of the Lord Jesus Christ. How is our praise going of him? Are we telling people about him? I don't want some rock crying out. I I don't want uh uh anybody else to uh to take the place that I should have in praising my Lord You know, I go outside sometimes and I I I study the Word of God early in the morning and and it's just a blessing to go outside and see God's creation. And sometimes I see the trees And their limbs looks like they're praising God. The the wind's blowing a little bit, and those trees, they're praising God. And I think about those birds that wake me up every morning. Sometimes I get up before them, but sometimes they wake me up in the morning They're thanking God. They're chirping and they're thanking God and praising Him for a worm to eat. Amen. And God's been so much better to us. He loves us And then the the week after I think it was the first week in April this year, uh the Lord's day was Resurrection Sunday, Easter, is what we call it on the Christian calendar. The gospel was completed. His death, burial, and resurrection had taken place He ascended and our our hearts ought to just be about to burst open tonight, knowing that Jesus could come back at any moment. And that we will see him. The reason I've entitled it, oh what a moment, FBN plays a song, oh what a moment when we see Jesus when we see face to f when we stand face to face in his embrace and thank him for amazing grace. We're going to see that one that hung on the cross at Calvary We're going to see the ancient of days. He's going to stand in heaven and we're going to rise up together with those that died first. We're going to rise up together and we're going to meet him in the clouds. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. We're going to see him. Vance Habner said, I I'm not looking for something to happen. I'm looking for someone to come. Children sing a song sometime, There's Coming A Day. And I know this choir probably in the congregation probably sings it too. There's coming a day. We know heartaches will come. No more clouds in the sky, no more tears in the eye. All is peace forevermore on that happy golden shore. What a day, glorious day that'll be. What a day that'll be when my Jesus I shall see The one that we have been looking for from the day we got saved. Can you imagine? Oh what a moment, but I think a better title would be, Oh, what an overwhelming moment It's going to be an overwhelming moment. We're going to see the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. So, well I've not been in church that long. I don't know if there's anybody like that here or not. I I don't know. I can't see people's hearts or anything, but but um How do we know that he's coming? How do we know? Jesus told us himself. I used the scripture yesterday at the at the shootout and stakeout And uh it's it's John chapter number 14. He said, Let not your heart be troubled. He was talking to the disciples. He said, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me Would you believe I've got some neighbors just out the road from me? And the the lady, uh someone talked to her about the Lord, she said, Oh, I believe in God and I believe in his son, Jesus Christ. And her husband said, Well, I believe in God, but I don't believe in Jesus. Well, Jesus said right there, you believe in God, believe also in me. He said, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. It's not rooms, the way some of these perverted word of God will tell you. It's a mansion I'm not going to a holiday in Express. I've stayed in enough of them down here. I'm going to a mansion one of these days Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house with many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. He's been gone 2,000 years. Can you imagine what those mansions look like? I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. He's preparing a place for us. We're going there I'm thankful for what he's given me down here. He didn't have to give me the place that I live, the best place in the whole world, and and every one of you can say the same thing about where he gave you. Amen I love where I live and I love what God has done for me and provided for me. I'm thankful for it. I don't want to be like those that say in the last days, unthankful, unholy. I'm thankful for what God's given me. And then he said, And whithersoever I go, you know, and the way you know. And Thomas came in there, he said, Lord, we not know not whither uh whither that whither to thou goest, and how can we know the way? Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me That we don't have to worry about it. Everybody will say, well, everybody uh has their own idea about that. There's oh everybody's trying to get there. There's just different roads, and there's one way That one way is Jesus Christ. There's no other way. You can't go through Buddha or Muhammad or Confucius. There's their bones or their dust is lying in the ground somewhere. But Jesus Christ, you go to his grave and it is an empty tomb. He rose from the dead. And then Paul told the Corinthian church, uh Paul told the Corinthian church that Jesus is coming again and explained it a little bit. You say, Well, don't we usually hear these mess these scriptures during a funeral? Hey, that's resurrection ground out there in the graveyard. One day those graves are going to burst forth and all those uh in Christ are going to raise from the dead. But Paul was telling the Corinthian church there in 1 Corinthians chapter number 15. And verse number 51, he said, Behold, I show you mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible And we shall be changed, for this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when the corruptible shall have put on incorruption and the mortal and this mortal shall have put on immortality Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sing? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast and movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Hey, that excites me That excites me knowing that my mom that we just planted out in the cemetery last spring, she's gonna get up And she's, well I'm not going to hinder her. We're going up together and meet the Lord in the air. It's going to be like not like she never died. And we're I'm going to see her and see those eyes again that I got to see right before she took her last breath. And but they're going to be so much better then than they are now. We're going to have a uh an incorruptible body. And then Paul tells the church at Thessalonica. He goes over there in First Thessalonians chapter number four And he says there in verse 13 and following, he says, But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that you saw or not. Even as others which have no hope, and we've all seen those that go about as as if they have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus Will God bring with him? For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first Says it's gonna be a shout. And pick preachers have speculated and I've looked, I've thought, I wonder what he's gonna say I wonder what the Lord's going to shout when he descends from heaven with a shout. I wonder what it'll be. I heard a preacher not too long ago. He said he thinks it's going to be attention to all Walmart shoppers I don't know. Because that's where most people are today. I don't know. I heard another evangelist that travels right much. He said, well, whatever, wherever whenever the rapture takes place, everybody's going to have to go through Atlanta Because anytime you ta travel by plane anywhere, you gotta go through Atlanta. But seriously, he is coming. He's coming. It could be today. It could be tonight. It could be tomorrow. So what do we do? Luke nineteen, verse eleven through thirteen Luke chapter number nineteen and verse number eleven, the Bible says, And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear, he saith, Therefore a certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. Talking about the Lord ascending to heaven and then coming back one day. Verse 13 says, And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds and said unto them, Occupy till I come We can't be so heavenly minded that we're no earthly goods. We've got to continue on for the Lord We've got to continue giving the gospel out to a lost and dying world. I want more people to go with it. Hey, there's not going to be any empty mansions in heaven. God's not going to be defeated. He's and he's looking for he's coming for a victorious church The Bible says that when the Lord returns, will he find faith on the earth? It seems like it's waning a lot, but but We've got to occupy. We've got to continue forward for His honor and glory. We read that verse of scripture over there in 1 Chronicles chapter 15 and verse 58. It says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. That's another thing we need to do. Be steadfast. Be ready to give somebody an answer and tell them why you believe what you believe and why it's based on the Word of God. We need to be unmovable Not shaken, uh not be able to be fooled or deceived uh by things going on in our world. Always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord We got to be unshakable, unmovable, uh, uh steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. We received a letter. You know, there's a certain um cult that goes around and knocks on doors. I'm being careful. But they're not doing that because of COVID, so they're sending letters. And we received a letter and said, I would like to, as a woman, she said, I'd like to help you with some biblical counseling. And uh had a little newspaper, their newspaper in there, and I I looked through it and everything and I thought, I want to see what what she's getting to right here. She said, and one of the articles was Jesus is not God So I wrote her a very nice letter back and explained that she had been awfully deceived And that I don't want to see her go to hell. I want to see her in heaven one day. And I gave her the gospel. I gave her several tracts in there, but I showed her where Jesus is God He uses the same pronouns about himself that God did about himself. He said, I am. They said, Are you Jesus? Are you the Son of God? Are you are you God? And he said in Mark, he said, I am That same I am that told Moses to go and tell the children of Israel, say, I am sent you. He is What does that mean? Why would somebody say my name's I am? Because he's everything we need. He supplies it all for us. And then finally In 2 Corinthians chapter number 5, verse 1, the Bible says, For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, and a house not made with hands. eternal in the heavens. Now that excites me too. That's that mansion we're talking about right there. We're going to be with God. Uh wherever He is there in heaven, we're going to be with Him. Then verse 6 says, Therefore We are always confident knowing that whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him Now this is Paul speaking these words right here. Why how would Paul know what's going on in heaven? Well, inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God for one thing But I believe that Paul, and you can disagree, that's okay. But I believe Paul, whenever he was stoned and left for dead and drug outside the city of Lystra, I believe he's the one that he's talking about in 2 Corinthians. Uh I knew a man above so many years ago, uh whether in the body or out of the body, I know not, uh, but was taken up to the third heaven. I think he's talking about himself. I believe he died uh from that stoning, uh, but then he gets up Uh the Lord raises him back up and he goes back in. I think he was ready to go to heaven again for the rest of his life. He preached like it because he didn't care. He he did not fear man He wanted to serve God and honor God and not worry about what man said. And then he says right here, for we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor That what whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. And then verse eleven says, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. We persuade people. We witness to them To all mankind, anybody. God can save anybody. And we persuade them. We give them the gospel. You say, well, I'm not too good at testifying. What did the Lord do for you? Just tell them what he did for you That's witnessing, that's testifying. Giving them the gospel. Tell them that He was on the cross at Calvary and He shed His blood for us. He died, raised from the dead for our sins. He washed away our sins in his blood. That's the gospel. It's not hard, but we fear man many times. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God, and thy trust also are made manifest in your consciences. Oh, what a moment when we see Jesus. He's coming. I don't know when, but he is coming because he said he was. He has the witness of the Word of God, and his witness is true. Father, I pray, Lord, as Pastor Leatherman comes, that you'll just deal with hearts. Do that work that we can't do and just draw people to yourself and encourage people just to keep on another day and to occupy till you come. And Lord, we're going to trust you. And Lord, we love you in Jesus' name. Amen. Our heads are bowed up.