If you would take your Bibles, turn back to Luke chapter 19. Luke chapter 19. I believe we had a few other visitors come in while uh we were doing that. If the visitor got in here and you didn't get one of our visitors packet visitor packets we'd like for you to get one of those. And uh We're thrilled as we said before to have folks visiting. Uh Luke chapter 19, I want to express my gratitude. A number of folks were praying for um uh me last night. We went up to Brother Tom Sher and went with it Mith me up to Vienna, Ohio, a little town just outside of Youngstown last evening. Drove up about three and a half hours, preached a wild game dinner there, had a great crowd, said it was the biggest crowd they've ever had And uh and when it was all said and done, we were able to preach give the gospel and um had uh I believe around fifteen folks trusted the Lord as Savior last evening. So we praise the Lord for that and uh appreciate the prayers. of everyone for us when we went up there. The most trying thing it poured down rain the whole way up, the whole way back, three and a half hours. The most trying thing was I had Tom Sharon in the car with me the whole way. Seven hours And um so very challenging and appreciate your prayers. Luke chapter 19, I'd like to just read one verse out of what Brother Pat read a few moments ago, verse number nine Bible says, Jesus said unto him, this is Zacchaeus, this day is salvation come to this house. I want to preach this morning on a subject I've entitled, Oh, What a Wonderful, Wonderful Day. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, my heart's been stirred this morning from the singing and Lord, the fellowship with your people. We're grateful again, Lord, for the visitors are with us. Just bless this hour now as we look into your word. God, uh we ask you would give us faith to believe that what is said and presented here in this passage Is uh your word for us today. I pray your Holy Spirit would take the truths that are given here, apply it to our hearts and lives. Lord, we go out of here I pray our homes would be a little sweeter than they were before. Lord, our our hearts would be a little fuller of the joy of the Lord. Our testimony to this old sinful world would be a little more effective And God, we're just asking you to do something real in our hearts and lives. God, I cannot, I readily acknowledge, Lord, that I cannot of and of myself offer anything of any spiritual, eternal help. So Lord, it has to be you. I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew, Lord. Fill me. I plead with you with your Holy Spirit and speak through me and have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Luke chapter 19, verse 1 through 10. You have a fascinating account of Zacchaeus' salvation. Now, if you've been in a Bible-believing, preaching, teaching church very long, you're familiar with Zacchaeus. Now and uh it's a fascinating story. We're gonna look at this a little bit, but I want to suggest to you that there were many, many others, thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of folks That had trusted Christ and found salvation during the earthly ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. We do not have a complete record of all of those who came to Christ and found forgiveness of sins Salvation and eternal light. But in Luke chapter 19, in these first ten verses that Brother Pat read a few moments ago, we do have an account of the greatest day In the life of this fella named Zacchaeus. Now, as I said, if you've been in a Bible-teaching church, you're familiar with Zacchaeus. I think he was a fascinating man By way of introduction, I jotted down a few things I notice about Zacchaeus here. First of all, I put this down again by way of introduction. Zacchaeus was a wee little man. If you would notice with me, verse number three. It says, verse one introduces Zacchaeus. And it says verse three, and he sought to see Jesus, who he was. And could not for the press. In other words, the crowd it was a big crowd, and everybody's pressing together. And look at this last statement. It tells us something interesting about Zacchaeus. It says, because he was little of stature. Zacchaeus was a wee little man. A wee little man was he. And we get that from verse number three. That phrase of little stature means he was not very tall. Zacchaeus was a very short man. In fact, in studying this, I've come to the conclusion, Zacchaeus was what we would call, what we used to call a midget. Now, I understand today that term is not politically correct. You call there to refer to them as little people. So whatever the term you want to use Zacchaeus was small. In fact, he was so small that it was significant. It was he was so short in that the Lord Thought that it was important to include in his eternal word the fact that Zacchaeus was of little stature. So he was a we little man. Second thing I notice about Zacchaeus in reading this by way of introduction, not only was he a wee little man, he was a wicked little man. The Bible says in verse number two, says, Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was chief among the publicans. Now, question, those of you that are familiar with the Bible a little bit, when you think your understanding of publican from the gospel, do you think of something positive or negative? Negative. Nobody liked the publicans. And there was a reason for that, and that reason was twofold. First of all, the publicans were folks who were hired by the Roman government to collect taxes. They were the ones responsible for pulling the taxes in from the people. I don't have anything against them personally, but I'm not real thrilled about the IRS. Can I get a witness? They come and take all my money. And uh, or not all of it, but a whole lot of it. And uh uh so he was a publican, people didn't like that But the publicans had this other characteristic about them, not just that their employment was to collect taxes, but they were known to be very deceitful. The Roman government Gave the publicans a lot of freedom. For instance, if Brother Bill Cole, suppose I was a, suppose I'm a publican I'm not, but suppose I was. And he comes, I say, hey Bill, tax time, April 15th coming up. And suppose his taxes for the year 2010. We're just throwing it out there. He's a very, very wealthy man. We'll say it was uh I think he is. I don't know. But um If he is, I want to be his friend. But anyway, uh I s let's say we come and say uh his let's suppose his actual taxes were twenty-five hundred dollars. I just throw that out there Now, as a publican, I had the liberty from the Roman government to collect from him not just $2,500, but whatever I could get out of him. I could come and say, Bill, your taxes are actually $5,000. As long as the government got their $2,500, they could care less what I got off of them. And so he may raise a fuss and stink and all that, and I'll say, Oh yeah, I'll just call in the centurions, they'll throw you in jail for not paying your taxes And so the publicans were very dishonest. They were thieves in every sense of the word. They were very wicked people. Now I noticed something about Zacchaeus. It doesn't just say in verse number two that he was a publican. Look at your Bible. What does it say? He was what? Chief of the publicans. In other words, he had worked his way up the ranks. He had that pyramid scheme gone, in a sense, where he was actually to the point where he had been so successful in gathering taxes for the Roman government He had become so successful in patting his own bank with a corrupt uh extortion to a degree uh that he was able to hire other publicans to work under him, subcontracted out. They got what they could off of the poor citizens, and then Zacchaeus would take from them a percentage of the profits they made. This was a very dishonest man. He was a wee little man, but I suggest to you was a wicked wicked little man. I noticed something else about Zacchaeus. He was a wee little man. He was a wicked little man. I noticed he was a wealthy little man Notice again, verse number two, and behold, there was a certain man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among publicans. And the Lord adds a few words onto the end of that verse, and was what? Rich. This guy had a lot of money. This guy was very, very wealthy. And by the way, his riches were not the result of honest hard work. Now I want to throw something out here. I want to point something out here. There is nothing sinful about being wealthy. Nothing at all sinful about being wealthy. Don't get this idea that somehow because a person's rich, they're corrupt. That's not necessarily true. Question, Abraham in the Bible. Abraham, father Abraham, was he good guy or bad guy? He was a great guy. He's a father of the faithful. He was a father of God's people, humanly speaking. Do you know Abraham was extremely wealthy? Uh Job, good guy or bad guy? Great guy. Job was one of the wealthiest people in all the world at his time. So the fact that Zacchaeus was a wealthy little man doesn't necessarily mean that that's not why he was wicked. He was his wealth was the result, no doubt, of deceitful gain, dishonest gain. Listen, I think if you work hard. You honestly invest your money and do and follow biblical principles. You honor the Lord with the with your uh uh your uh Proverbs says, uh honor the Lord with substance And God blesses you. Thank God for it and give Him the glory. Amen. I had lunch this week. My wife and I had lunch. Was it Wednesday? I think she went to McDonald's. I'm not sure where Kathy went. No, I think she's in the nursery. Uh we had lunch, I think it was Wednesday with a fella that has a ministry helping churches, uh church planners guys start a church And he has a very unique ministry. His ministry is to when a fella is starting a church and they go to the bank for the very first time to get the loan to build their building They don't have any credit. They don't have any history. Generally, they don't have a whole lot of money to put down. So his ministry is to provide That down payment for a person starting a church so they can get that loan and get the church. Isn't that a unique ministry? I thought that's great. He was telling me. I said, how did you come about this? And he made this statement He said for what he said we only been saved. My wife and I got saved late in life. He said for whatever reason, from the year out from the time I was 16 years old, for whatever reason, God blessed me financially. He says everything I did just turned to cash. He said, I'm not educated, I'm not real smart in this stuff. He said, it just happened. I wanted to choke him So Zacchaeus was a wealthy man, but his wealth was not the result of hard work and honest labor and honest investment. It was a deceitful gain. So Zacchaeus was a wee little man, he was a wicked little guy, and he was a wealthy little guy, but I put a third uh fourth observation here by way of introduction: he was a wanting little man In other words, there's something missing from this guy's life. Something in his heart and soul was lacking. There was a vacuum in his life, and we notice we'll notice this here in a little bit. The purpose was not there. Listen, if you have a person that all they're living for is the here and now. If all they're living for is what they can touch and what they can possess and what they can accumulate, I know one thing about that life. It's awfully empty. Life is more than possessions. Life is more than simply getting stuff. And having a big time here and now. The emptiest people in the world are the people who are simply living for self and for material things. And the sad fact is, we have a country that is God has blessed our country with so much prosperity, but along with that, prosperity becomes a danger where we begin living simply for things. It's called materialism. Zacchaeus realized something was missing in his life. Purpose, meaning, peace, assurance, confidence, all that was missing. And he wanted something beyond. Listen, if you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, maybe you're sitting there, maybe you're thinking, you know, there's got to be more to life than what I'm living. Something is missing from my heart and soul. I remember before I got saved. Just involved in everything, doing what I want it, when I wanted, the way I want it. You know what? I realized I didn't have any purpose in life. I lay my head down at night and it was just empty. I was scared to death. I didn't know in a dive where I'd go Something missing in my life. Maybe you're here this morning. You say, you know, preacher, there's something missing in my life. I'm like Zacchaeus. Maybe you're not wee little person. Maybe you're not uh humanly speaking overly wicked or that wealthy. But you say, preacher, there is something missing from my life. You know what? You got something to learn from the experience of Zacchaeus. God has something for you from this So he was a wanting man. There was something in the heart and soul of Zacchaeus that longed for, that was hungry For something only Jesus could fulfill. And he came to the point where he realized that there was something about the Lord Jesus Christ. He had heard of him. He had heard the stories of lives changed, no doubt. He had heard of people who were blind and Jesus touched them and they could see. No doubt he heard of folks that were lame and Jesus touched them and they could walk. They were deaf and Jesus healed them and they could hear. I'm confident Zacchaeus heard heard of folks who were p uh drunkards and uh harlots. No doubt he had perhaps heard of Mary Magdalene, who was a uh Excuse the word, but as a prostitute, had come to Christ and been saved and forgiven, her life was changed. He had heard all about this And he came to the conclusion, I've got to see Jesus. That man, there's something about the Lord Jesus Christ that I've got to find out about. I believe he has something that I need. And so he was very, very hungry. He was a wanting man. This intense hunger to understand who the Lord was and what he had to offer. Look at verse number four. This is a fascinating verse to me. He, Zacchaeus, ran before. There's a big crowd. Jesus coming through town. It's a huge crowd, thousands of people, just packed upon him. around him. And he's moving down the street. If you put if you picture in your mind this Middle Eastern city back in this day and age, and G's coming down, people are crowded all over, no doubt up on the roofs, looking and yelling to him and trying to get him to touch them. Jesus making his way, and here's little Zacchaeus. You know? And all he sees are knees Jesus, Jesus, where and uh uh look look at the verse here. It says, and he ran before. I I hope I'm not being insensitive here, but you see this crowd, can you see this little midget guy running down ahead of the big crowd? And he's just running As fast he can. Now you gotta understand, one step of yours and mine is about three for Zacchaeus. So his little legs are just burning up the ground. He's heading on there. Now let's read on. And he ran. I like to use my imagination when I read the Bible Uh and he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree. Now I got thinking about this week. I wonder what that looked like. Now this isn't in the Bible, okay? This is the figment of Leatherman's imagination. But I can see him getting over there and coming up and the his concl- he's way ahead of the crowd. They're making their way down. Just a few people standing around here. His conclusion is the only way I'm going to see this guy All I'm seeing is kneecaps. The only way I can see this guy, I've got to get up above the crowd, at least to the eye level of everyone else. If not, I've got to be above everyone else so I can look down on them So he gets there's a sycamore tree. Oh I'll climb up that. I I don't know if this happened this way, but I can see him He can't reach the branch. He's a wee little man. And so he's looking around and uh there's a box over there. He pulls it up, jumps, gets up on the box. Now he's hanging there His little legs. I don't know how he does it. And I don't know that it happened that way. But finally he gets himself up in that tree. And uh he wants to see the Lord Jesus Christ. Um look what it says. He ran before, climbed up in the sycamore tree to see him. For he was to pass that way. So he got ahead, he's up in the street. This is what that verse tells me about the thinking of Zacchaeus. He didn't care what anybody thought about him. He needed to find out who and what Jesus was about. And it didn't matter if people laughed at him He uh I mean this is a rich guy. This is a fairly s influential little young man, and he's running down there and jumping trying to get up in a tree And I don't think for one minute that he was concerned in the least bit what anybody thought about him coming to Jesus. You know what? When you get to the point in your life, when you and I, our eyes are opened to the point that we realize there is something very important missing from my life. When we finally come to the conclusion, you know, I don't have my act together. You know, there's something missing. And we realize that Jesus has what we're missing. Suddenly what other people think about us is not nearly as important. Huh? I remember uh back in nineteen seventy-nine uh I made a resolution uh uh and that New Year's Eve that I was gonna turn my life around, I was gonna straighten up and I was gonna do this and I was gonna do that and I was gonna be a new man. Well, that fell flat. And the more I tried to be what I thought I should be, the more I failed. And I began crying out, oh God, I need you to help me. My life is a mess. My heart is empty. I need you to help me. And the stronger that understanding of how much I needed the Lord, the stronger that came in my heart and soul. You know what? The less I cared about what my buddies thought about me. Until it got to the point where I needed the Lord, if it meant I lost everything else, I need God to be what I need. I believe that's where Zacchaeus was. He didn't care if anybody laughed at him running up the road. Didn't care if anybody laughed at him hanging in that tree. He needed to see Jesus. He was hungry. He needed the Lord. I wonder how many people Now bear with me. I wonder how many people die and go to hell because they're afraid of what people think They know they need to be saved. They go to a church service or revival meeting, and the preacher preaches and says, You need to be saved, preaches from the Bible, you must be born again. You need to trust Christ If you die in your sins, you'll spend eternity separated from God in a place called hell. And they know they need to be saved. They know they need forgiveness of their sins, but they're afraid of what people around will think And they never trust Christ, and they die and go to hell. Isn't that sad? Isn't that sad? I wonder, now this it took me a long time to accept this But I come to the conclusion, I wonder how many Christians there are that won't live for God because they're worried and afraid of what people will think. They're worried somebody might laugh at me. Somebody might think I look silly if I do right, if I do what the Bible says. My family will make fun of me if I go to church. If I take a Bible to work and read it on the break hour, the other guys will laugh at me. And we're worried about what people think rather than having our needs met by the Lord. And we go and our whole souls are empty and our souls are hungry. I tell you, Zacchaeus, you know the story. We talk, but I tell you, I admire this guy. He was determined to have the needs of his heart and soul met by the Lord Jesus, regardless of what anybody said or anybody thought. If he had a run in front of a whole crowd, little midget guy climbing a tree, he didn't care. He needed Jesus. There's something missing in his life. So Zacchaeus was a wee little man, he was a wicked little man, he was a wealthy little man, he was a wanting little man. Now look at verse number uh four with me again. He ran before, he climbed up in a sycamore tree to see him for he was to pass that way. He wanted to see Jesus. That word see there is an interesting word The word see has this idea to observe, which is what you normally think of when you see something, you're observing it, but it goes beyond that. Zacchaeus, if I understand the definition of this word right, as I studied it, he didn't climb up and run ahead and climb up in that sycamore tree just so he could see what Jesus looked like. I do not believe for one minute Zacchaeus' major concern was what Jesus looked like. That was insignificant. That was of no uh value to his soul his soul's needs. Now, can I just inject this here? There's a lot of people spending a lot of time on insignificant things about the Lord. They're worried about this, that, and the other, and they completely miss who Jesus is. Now we're not in competition with anybody. Every church, every individual has to stand and answer to God. But I'll say this There are a lot of churches in our world that are spending a lot of time on very insignificant things, and they're missing the point of who and what Jesus is. Zacchaeus, when he climbed that tree, he didn't just want to observe Jesus. I'm convinced of that. It wasn't just to see what he looked like, what color is his beard, does he have gray hair? That word see also has this idea: to understand, to perceive. One of the definitions is this: to experience. He wanted to know what Jesus was about. He wanted to know: can this man who claims to be the Son of God, who has healed the sick, who has raised the dead, Who has forgiven some of the most wicked people you can know? He's forgiven their sins and saw their lives change. Can this man meet my needs? Can he satisfy the needs of my heart and soul? I must understand who he is. I must experience what he has to offer. So when he says he wanted to see Jesus, it was a whole lot more than just looking at him. It was understanding who and what he was. Zacchaeus verse 5 through 8 for sake of time we'll just say this. Jacchaeus finally, the Lord comes by, sees him He says, come down. Zacchaeus, we find trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. If you notice verse number eight, a drastic change takes place in Zacchaeus' life. Before his whole purpose was to pad his bank. Before his whole purpose was to fill uh uh was to pad his wallet and fill his bank account, whether it meant stealing, lying, cheating, whatever it took, he was gonna get what he wanted. But he meets Jesus, he trusts Jesus as his personal Savior. And a drastic change takes place. And his thinking is altered. And he says, Listen, if I've stolen from anybody, I'm going to report refor restore uh, what's he say, fourfold? I give to uh he says Zacchaeus said uh said unto the Lord, Behold Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. Good grief. I can hear the people saying standing around saying, What? That's Zacchaeus giving half his money to the poor? He used to rip off the poor. Something's changed. My half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I can hear the crowd saying, yeah, if That guy ripped me off. If I've taken anybody false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Zacchaeus' life was changed. His thinking was changed. The way he viewed himself was different, the way he viewed others was different, the way he viewed finances was different, the way he viewed life was different. God Had changed this man As a result of him trusting Jesus as his personal Savior. Then look at verse 9. This is what stirred my heart as I read my devotions earlier in the week, several days ago. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house. Now this song wasn't available back then, but I would imagine if it was, I can hear Zacchaeus in response to that saying. Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful day. Day I will never forget. After I wandered in darkness away, Jesus, my Savior, I met. Oh, this day is salvation come to this house. The greatest day in a person's life is the day that Jesus saves their soul. Now you may be sitting here and saying, I don't see what's great about that. That tells me you haven't trusted Jesus your Savior. Those of us that have trusted Christ as Savior, we say without a shadow of a doubt, greatest day of my life was the day Jesus Christ came. Come in my heart and life. Greatest day of my life was the day Jesus saved my soul, changed my life, changed the way I think, change the way I view life, change the way I view uh God and others Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful day. This day is salvation come to this house. Couple observations real quick about this day. Number one, uh salvate Zacchaeus' day of salvation was prompt. His salvation was prompt. I'm going to explain the words I use here. Jesus says, this day Salvation, when salvation happens in the heart and soul of a life, it happens instantaneously. This was a very specific point of time that Zacchaeus came to salvation. Being saved, having my sins forgiven. Having a new nature, having the needs of my heart and soul met, is not a long drug process. It is something that happens in a moment of time. A very prompt, a very uh uh instant thing takes place. Salvation requires no time frame One minute before that, he was lost in his sins, empty heart on his way to hell. He trusted Christ as Savior, sins forgiven. Heart has purpose and meaning on his way to heaven. No time frame involved here. It's an instantaneous thing. Very prompt. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here. Turn a few pages over to Luke chapter 23. Here we have the life of Jesus progresses. He's finally rejected, betrayed by Bartimaeus, betrayed by Judas. And uh he's taken before Pilate. Uh he's scourged, he has the crown of thorns. Now he's hanging on the cross. Look at Luke chapter 23. And notice verse 43. If you'll remember the story, as he's hanging on a cross, there's two thieves, one on either side of him. Initially they both railed on Jesus. They mocked him. They're just trashing him, bad mouth tra uh what's the what do they do in basketball? trash talking him. They're just grailing on Jesus. Finally, the one guy gets under conviction. And he starts thinking about this, you know. Jesus never did anything wrong. We're here justly. We deserve to be crucified. We broke the law, and this is a capital punishment. We deserve this. And he makes a statement. He says, Lord, remember me. The thief says to Lord Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. You know what he was doing? He was receiving Jesus as his personal Savior. Nailed to a cross, moments from eternity. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. I'm trusting you. I'm putting my faith in you. I'm accepting you and what you are to be my personal Savior. Notice what the Lord says back to him in verse number 43. Of Luke twenty-three. He says, And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, look at that next word, today. Thou shalt I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. You know what happened? That old thief hanging on the cross got saved in an instant. He doesn't say, alright, well you're in the right frame of mind. You can start working on your salvation now. Doesn't say that at all. You're putting your faith in me, you're trusting me today. You're gonna die in a few moments, and you'll be with me in paradise Salvation is an instant thing. Person can be sitting in an auditorium just like this, listening to a sermon just like that If that person will recognize in their heart and soul that they're a sinner before God, if they'll believe that Jesus died for their sins, was buried, and rose again, and in their heart and mind trust Jesus as their Savior, God will save them like that. I believe it's good to come to the altar. We give invitations, we think it's a good thing for and by the way, I think Christians ought to be very feel very at home at the altar. But you don't have to come to an altar to be saved. I believe people get I believe persons be sitting in a pew, hear the gospel, God's dealing with their heart and say, you know, I believe that. I want you I I'm trust I'll trust Jesus my Savior. Before they ever step out, Jesus already saved them. Jesus already saved him. It was prompt. This day is salvation come to this house. A law center can be saved. A law center here this morning can be saved before you leave this building. It's not a process. It's not something. A lost sinner can escape the judgment of God in just a moment by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Have a new heart and new life. So uh his salvation, this day his salvation come to this house. His salvation was prompt. I put a second thing down real quick. It was perceivable In other words, by that, his salvation produced immediate and visible results. We saw that in verse number eight. Where suddenly his life has changed, he's saying things he never said before. I guarantee you, no one in that crowd ever heard Zacchaeus before say, I'll give half my goods to the poor. In fact, this might be in the Greek, half the crowd passed out, fell over in unbelief. No, not really But he was saying things he never said before. He was doing things he never did before. You know what? Person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. There's a change takes place. There's a change that takes place. As I said, I got saved May 7, 1979. It was on a Monday night. My birthday was the 6th, May 6th. My birthday is May 6th. May 6th. I had taken Monday off from work. My friend Denny Swartley and I went out just partying all day long. My birthday, celebrating my birthday the day after my birthday. And um That night we came home. God had been dealing with my heart as I said. I've been praying May 7, 1979, 10. 30 at night. I got home, I had to work the next day. 10 o'clock, I always watched this show. I don't know why. I always watched Laverne and Shirley. Anybody ever see Laverne and Shirley? Years ago I watched Laverne and Shoey. As soon as Laverne and Shoey went off, I went to bed. I was under such conviction. I slipped out of bed, got to my knees, I accepted Jesus as my Savior. I know it was 1030 because it was right after Laverne and Shirley went off. So we're starting Laverne and Shirley Evangelistic Ministry. We're going to go around the world showing Laverne and Shirley, give an invitation. No, we're not. But this is what I'm trying to say. And there's others in this auditorium could stand and testify the same thing. Something changed. Something was different. Next morning I came into work. I worked in a meat packing plant and uh rough crowd. Uh uh and uh I mean just a rough crowd. Excons, drugs, drinking. I mean the it was a rough crowd. I come in that next morning, we're working on the line cutting up meat, hindquarters, and um I said last night I accepted Jesus my Savior. And God began changing my life, changing my life. That next fall we went up, we had a hunting camp we were part of up in um up in uh uh outside Williamsport, Pennsylvania And we went up. And all the other years we'd go up there and be partying and cussing and just carrying on. This year I went up, and my dad's cousin came to my dad and said, This She goes, there's something different about Denny. That's me. Denny is me. She said, there's something different about Denny. My dad's beaming. My dad was a Christian. He goes, yeah, he got saved. He got saved. Salvate uh Zacchaeus' salvation was perceivable. People saw something was different. Someone's changed. He's saying stuff he never said before. He's doing things he never did before. What? She's going to church? Huh? She never did that before What he's carrying his Bible around and giving people gospel tracts? He never did that before. What happened to him? He got saved. Salvation came to that house. God changed him. Man, he used to have a filthy mouth. He used nasty language. Now he says nice things. He doesn't say bad things. What happened to him? Salvation came to this happen Man, he was always I remember the first Saturday after I got saved. My mom was living at home at the time right then, and um I didn't go out. I stayed home, watched Laverne and Stroy. No, I My mom said aren't you going out? Nah. Huh? You always go outside tonight, nah. I'll stay home. What are you gonna do? I'm gonna go to bed so I can go to church tomorrow. Huh? You never go to church. Salvation came to this house. It's a change. So his salvation was prompt. This day, man, he trusted Christ, he got saved. His salvation was perceivable. Hey, uh, let me ask you a question. If I came up behind you and stuck a football down your shirt, do you think you'd know it was there? Yeah. Hey, you trust Christ and the Spirit of God moves into you. Don't you think you know that? Hey, Zacchaeus knew something was different. Christ moved in. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. God starts changing things. So it was perceivable, it was prompt. Let me give you another one. It was perfect. Now, by that I mean it was settled. It wasn't a question anymore. From this point on, Zacchaeus did not have to say, Well, I hope I'm saved. It was settled Uh it wasn't, I think so. Man, every week of the year we go out and knock on doors. And you asked many of the folks in our church, we're out knocking on doors, we're giving gospel tracts to people, we're sharing the gospel with people, and you know what we hear over and over and over and over and over? Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? I hope so. I think so Tell you what, you get salvation that God offers. You don't hope so or think so. You know-so. It is a no-so salvation. It was perfect. It was settled. There was no question from this point on whether Zacchaeus would go to heaven or hell when he died. There was no question from this point on whether his sins were forgiven or not. That was a settled matter. His sins were forgiven. He had a home in heaven. He was a new man in Christ. It was settled. It's a perfect salvation. I like what 1 John 5. 13 says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. I like John chapter 10 verse 28. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. It's settled. It's taken care of. It was a prompt salvation. It was perceivable. It was perfect. I put this one down. It was a potent salvation. In other words, his salvation was settled, but he didn't have everything God had for him yet. In other words, his salvation, this day, this wonderful day when salvation came to this house, that wasn't the end, that was just the beginning. Of a whole new life in Christ. God had blessings for him. God had prayers to answer. God had ways he wanted to use Zacchaeus that he never dreamed were possible. I tell you what, when you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, your potential as a person a hundredfold increased. God can do things with a person who's trusted Christ that uh you would never dream of. It was a potent salvation, continual growth, the beginning of new blessings and new victories in his life I've been saved. Did I tell you I got saved May 7th, 1979? Right after Laverne and Shirley, did I ever mention that to you? That was how many years ago? 79, 89, 99, 209. That was 32 years ago, this May. You didn't think I was even 32 years old, did you? You know what I found? Every day goes by, God shows me something new. God does something for me. Yeah, I I've been saved 32 years. Some of you have been saved longer than I am. Some of you are old people. But you know what I found out? It hadn't gotten old yet I feel it's just still beginning. I read my Bible through for 30, I'm working on the 32nd time reading my Bible through, Genesis Revelation. You know what I'm finding? Every time I read that, man, there's I never saw that before. Man, here's a promise. I never even wow God did that for me. And when you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, it's not just all right, here we go, that's it, now you go on. No, no, it's the beginning of a whole new life: a life of blessing, a life of answer prayer, a life of seeing God do great things. When we were young, we celebrated Christmas as folks do. But my mom was kind of sneaky We'd have all the gifts there. Now my parents, they uh we did Christmas right when I was a kid. People today have it all messed up. You when I was a kid, there was no Christmas presents under the tree for days and weeks ahead of time. That was nothing. Bare dust. And when we went to bed Christmas Eve, there wasn't nothing under that tree. I'm sorry, there wasn't anything under that tree. And we got up Christmas morning. Wow, lots of presents. And we get up, mom and dad, you couldn't op you could not open a present for mom and dad were out there or you were dead. One year they broke both my arms No. But we could go. Sometimes we'd unwrap it and peek in and wrap it back up. Mom and dad came out, then it was one at a time. Right? Open it up, show everybody. Next! But my mom was sneaky. We'd have it all done. We're all playing everything. About an hour later, she'd go, oh I forgot. There's another present back here I forgot to put out. And she'd come out and it was all over again. About lunchtime. Mom caught, hey, guess, oh, I forgot there's another present and uh she'd come out later. Oh and it was all day long You know what? That's the way the Christian life is. Man, maybe I got saved. It's like wow, this is I'm reading my Bible. There's a whole new life. And five years go by, and you know what Man, God's doing this for me. And God's doing 33 years later. Wow, God's and God keeps bringing presents out. Now he doesn't forget, but uh he just keeps bringing them out Bringing them out. And so, Zacchaeus, this was the beginning of a life that he never dreamed of, the potential in the life of someone that's trusted Christ. Third fifth thing I did real quick, I put down this. It was pandemic. Wow, there's a $5 word. How many people know what an epidemic is? What's an epidemic? If there's a epidemic of flu. It's an outbreak. Everybody's getting it. It's spreading. Well that's what pandemic means. Pandemic means it's just going to cross the land. Salvation, at least as far as God's concerned, ought to be an epidemic. I think it's interesting when the Lord said to Zacchaeus in Luke chapter 19, verse 9. He says this day is salvation. He doesn't say this day is salvation come to this life This person. Look what he says. This day is salvation come to what? His house. You know what Jesus was saying? Zacchaeus, you got saved. I expect that salvation to spread to your wife. Your kids, your servants, your employees, your associates, your cousins, your aunts and uncles, your mom and dad, your grandkids God wants our families to be saved. And with Zacchaeus trusting Christ, God was expecting it to spread to his wife. Hey, Romans 10:13 says the same thing. For uh whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved and thy house. I believe what he's telling us, God expects you and I, if we when we trust Christ as Savior, he expects us to conduct ourselves and to be such a witness that our family gets saved. Um I my daddy got saved when I was ten. Our family uh told you a story about our family was uh separated and different things, marriage, my parents and all that. But um Daddy started living for God. God changed his life. He began praying for his wife and kids to get saved. My two sisters, unbeknown to me at the time, had been going to church when Dad they trusted Christ got saved. From when I was 10 years old, I was the day after my 19th birthday, I got saved. Did I mention May 7th, 1979? Day after my 19th birthday, I trusted Christ. My daddy had been praying for me since I was 10 years old that I'd be saved. He was witnessing to me. He was living the Christian life. He was going through some of the most horrific things a spouse can go through. And he maintained a consistent, humble, sweet testimony. And he prayed, and as of today, his kids, his wife And uh many of his grandkids have all trusted Christ. God honored my daddy's testimony, and salvation came to our household. Jesus said, This day is salvation come into this house. Into this house. It's sad when a professing Christian Has such a poor testimony that nobody in his house wants to be saved. Isn't that sad? Their testimony is so poor the kids want nothing to do with it. Spouse wants nothing to do with it. Isn't that sad? It's not the way God intends for it to be God intends for our salvation to be an epidemic, to be contagious. Others see what Christ did in us. Now, don't misunderstand, people have a free will. I can't make my family get saved. And there's instances in the Bible where good, godly people had family members who didn't get saved. But God's intention I wish we had more time. We could go to, we won't go there, but 1 Peter chapter 3, the first several verses, he gives instructions, and there's really principles there for a wife who has an unbelieving husband. She has a husband that's not been born again, but she's saved. And you know what he tells her? He doesn't say beat him over the Bible with your big back King James Bible. Beat him over the Bible. Beat him over the head. With a big back black King James. It's not what he says. You know what he says? I'll summarize, I'll put my own words. He says, you live a good, godly, humble Christian life You be the sweet wife, sweetest wife, Christian wife you can possibly be. And he'll notice God working in your life And he'll see and respond to that. Now that's talking about a wife with an unsaved husband, but I suggest to you there's a principle there that applies to husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, parents, kids. If we'll simply let Christ work in our life and be the Christian God intends for us to be, that will have a powerful influence. Listen, mom, you come home, uh you you got an unsaved husband, lady, you come home and you smack him around, said, Boy, you should have been in church today. The preacher preached to you where it was you and you weren't there Oh, he'll want to get saved. I'll be there next week. But you go home And you be the best wife and you pray for him and you be everything. And it's true with the husbands. You got an unsaved wife? Well, woman, you should have been there today Nah, that doesn't work. You let Christ fill you. You let the fruit of the Holy Spirit, love, joy, peace, longsuffering, goodness, patience, kindness. Let that influence them And it'll become an epidemic, and God will use you. What a wonderful, wonderful day. Salvation came to this house. It was pandemic. And last of all, Like this one. It was permanent. Salvation came to that house and never left. Never left. Salvation never ends. Sometimes you'll hear folks say, You better live it or you'll lose it. That's not true. Number one, it wasn't living it that got me it in the first place. It was the grace of God that gave it to me Let me ask you a question. John 3. 16, you know what it says, for God sloved the world, he gave his only begotten son, and whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. Let me ask you a question. If something's everlasting, how long does it last? Forever. How long's that? Well you don't use the same word to define the word. If it lasts forever, it's if it's everlasting, it never ends. It's permanent. It doesn't stop. God doesn't say you believe on me and I'll give you probationary life. We got some deacons on probation. No, we don't Say, boy, you better live it or you're back in jail. That's not Bible. He didn't say, well, you better live it, or I'll send you back to hell. No, he says it's everlasting life. It's eternal life. It's not probationary life. It's not temporary life. This day is salvation. Come to this house. Never left. I like John 10, 28. I give unto them eternal life. If something's eternal, how long does it last? Forever. And they shall never perish. Perish means die and go to hell. Jesus said they will never perish. When's never? When's that going to happen? Jesus said you will never perish. If a person receives Christ as Savior, He gives them eternal life, they will never perish. Perish means die and go to hell. When will that person die and go to hell? What if they cuss? Still says never. Question, should a Christian cuss? No, absolutely not. And if you're genuinely saved, you're a child of God, you keep cussing, God's going to spank you. Right? How many Don't raise your hand. How many of you would spank your kid if they cuss? Don't raise your hand. You may be incriminated. But the answer is you should. But how many of you if your kid cussed you'd chop their head off? No, you won't kill them. That's your child. You discipline them. Here's what people misunderstand what the Bible teaches. Well, you can never lose your salvation. Amen. And they say this. Well, that means you have a license to sin. I can do whatever I want and still go to heaven. I can do whatever I want and still be saved. I can do, I can go out and carry on and still God forgives me. Well, you can do that, but Hebrews chapter 12 says, you're a child of God, and whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. God's a good daddy. How many people think a good daddy would let his kid go out drinking and cussing and carrying on and doing all that? No. You discipline him, son Well, God's a good daddy. He doesn't let his kids just live wild. He disciplines us. He doesn't kill us and send them to hell. Good grief. But he does chasten, he does discipline. Well he can take he can take our toys away pretty quick, huh? Hey, he can take our health away. He can take that job away. God can do what he needs to do to get his children to live right, but he will not take our salvation away. That is as unscriptural as you can get. So it was permanent salvation. Let me ask you a question. Has salvation come to your house? Have you trusted Christ? Do you have that assurance? Have that longing in your heart, that emptiness? Have you had that filled by Christ? You can today. And all of us know folks that need what Zacchaeus Found. They need to see lives changed. They need to see God working in us. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you for the testimony of Zacchaeus. Thank you for the wonderful salvation that is so freely available to whoever will come and trust you and find eternal life