Uh I'm gonna try to get the preacher to contract another five. Open your Bibles if you would please to the book of Luke, chapter number ten. Luke chapter number ten. I want to begin reading in verse number thirty-eight. Luke 10, 38, now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Bamotha was coming about much serving, and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she helped me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful And Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Was Martha a bad woman? No. No, she was a servant. Motha was. And that's what she's doing. She's serving her guests. And um, but Complaining about her sister not helping her. So Jesus makes this statement. He says, um There's something more important than serving others. In fact, if we're going to be the right kind of servant, We must be a Mary before we can be an effective Martha. Jesus said, Mary hath chosen that good part. In other words, Uh Martha, what you're doing good, but what Mary's doing better, and it's more important. I want you to look at verse number um 39 She had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Three times in the gospel, three separate occasions, we find Mary sitting are kneeling at Jesus' feet. Each one of those experiences uh gives us some insight uh into the uh into the love that Mary had, uh in her into her character. Her fidelity to the Lord Jesus Christ. Mary loved Jesus. Each one of these situations teaches us some valuable personal lessons. After all, they know what the Bible's all about. We read the Bible to get personal spiritual benefit. You agree to that? I want to look at two of those occasions where we find Mary sitting at the feet of Jesus. This is the foundational experience for the other two. We'll deal with another one in John 11 if we if we get there. The lesson that we learn here is a valuable lesson in the Christian life. That is this: that the place of love Is found and maintained at Jesus' feet. One of the things that the devil and the world Well, do their best to try to accomplish in your life and mine is to try to isolate us in our thinking, especially when we're going through some difficult time. And he'll put ideas in our mind like, well, you know, if God loves you, he wouldn't let this happen or that or whatever, you know. Sometimes we get to the place where some of us anyway get to the place where we don't think anybody cares about us at all. But there is one that does. And the place of love is found and maintained at the feet of Jesus. You see, we need to have a daily, we need to have a daily communion with the Lord. And he reassures us on a daily basis of his great love and compassion and care and concern for us. The place of love is found and maintained at the feet of Jesus. When we get into those difficult places And it seems like everybody's abandoned us. Well, there's one place we can go. Uh, and that that love that God has for us uh will uh once again uh grip our heart and our mind And we'll be able to do like old Wagel did in an hour of difficulty. We'll be able to write our own song, No One Ever Cared for Me like Jesus. A lot of people may abandon us, but he's not going to, amen. And when and when we're we're feeling the pressure from uh from uh uh other sources that want to try to convince us that he has, all we have to do is just kneel at his feet. There are two reasons why she knelt at Jesus' feet. Number one, because she's kneeling at the feet of the person that she loved. Mary sat at Jesus' feet. You know, love always wants to be near the object of his affection. Amen. Amen. You heard about the woman after 40 years just packed her bag and left her husband Said, duh, where are you going? She said, I'm leaving. Said, uh, well, how come? She said, you never tell me that you love me. He said, woman, the day we got married, I told you I loved you. And if I ever change my mind, you'll be the first to know. But I'll be honest with you, that won't cut it. That will not get the job done. Amen? And one reason is because love won't let it happen that way. Love always wants to be near the object of its affection Some of you old rednecked boys, you old country boys, you know you know how it was. Way back when you was dating your Tootsie Wootsy You work all all week long. Friday evening you go home and take a bath. Every Friday. Go pick her up and take her up on a date. Have to have her home by eleven o'clock. Dad's sitting on that front porch with a shotgun. And so you drop her off, you go to the house, get her on telephone, talk to her for another three hours. Want to know why? Because love always wants to be near the object of its affection. Barbara was nine years old. Her and her mother lived by themselves. They were going through some deep water. That was a difficult time. They were in town one day and they were walking by the church where they attended. Mother said to Bobra, why don't we just go in and let's just go in and and talk to God. Let's just go ahead and have prayer. Ask the Lord to help us. So they went in the church building and Barbara said, Mother, do you do you mind if I go to my Sunday school class? I'll go to my Sunday school class and I'll kneel at the the seat where I sit have a Sunday morning and I'll pray to Jesus. She said, okay. She said, I'm gonna I'm gonna go into the auditorium. I'm gonna kneel at the altar and pray. And when I'm finished I'll just sit on another one of the pews and wait for if you get done before me, just go come in and sit on the pew and tell I'm finished. So uh Bob prayed for a while and she got up and she's sitting on a Pew and Barbara didn't come, Barbara didn't come. She just about ready to go look for it. Here come Barbara. She said, Barbara, where have you been? She said, I've been with you Jesus. She said, I I got my Sunday school class and I got down on my knees at my chair and I said, Jesus, this is Barbara. And he said to me, Barbara This is Jesus. And she said, we just loved each other for a while. See, love always wants to be near the object. She's kneeling at the feet of the person that she loved. Now what I'm about to say doesn't go into this sermon, but I'm going to throw it in there anyway. You didn't know that if I didn't tell you. I'm an old-time independent separated so-wheated fundamental premillennial missionary of mine and fried chicken, eating, peach pie, loving, coffee, drinking bad. Now I I I give you my doctrinal statement every year when I come. But you know why I won't change? One reason is because we're we're the only crowd left just about that gives invitation You know, you know you know when a preacher preaches give an invitation. You know what he's doing? He's trying to encourage people to come and kneel Kneel at Jesus' feet. Not kneeling at the foot of a preacher or the song leader. We're trying to get people to come and kneel. and get closer to Jesus. See, the place of love is found and maintained at the feet of Jesus. Why? Because she's kneeling at the feet of the person that she loved. That's not the only reason She's listened to the voice that she loves. And heard his word. Oh, oh preacher, I I I I would like to I'd like for I'd like to hear the voice of Jesus speak to me. Well, better King James on it. You know what happens every time you open this book and you begin to read? It's God Speaking to you. That's how God talks to you. Amen. And it's just as real as if Jesus was standing here talking God speaks to you and me through his word. She listened to the voice that she loved. That's why we preachers constantly hound everybody. They try to stay in the Word of God and on their knees on a daily basis. You ever uh you ever sing this song in the garden? Do you ever think about the words of those songs that we sing? You know what songs are. They're poems put to music, you know So the poet said, uh, I come to the garden alone while the dew is still on the roses. Now country people know what time of day that is. That's early because uh once that sun gets out there it burns that dew off real quick. City people don't know what dew is because it didn't fall on the concrete. You say you got a thing against city people? Oh not really. You know, you gotta have them. But uh if you can't be number one, number two's not that bad. I come to the garden alone while the dew is still on the roses, and the voice I hear falling on mine ear, the Son of God, is closes. He speaks, and the sound of his voice makes the birds in the trees That's their singing. And the melody that he gives to me is in my heart. You ever take them about how in the world do you read this small print? To a night? You're you're a miracle, man. My best day I couldn't read that small print. You ever you ever have an occasion in your life where you really needed to hear from God and you took your Bible and you you once you said dear God I just need for you to talk to me I just need for you to speak to me I just need help from you you began reading Passage almost like a neon sign just lit up. Speaking directly to your heart Before you even realize it, hot tears are coursing down your cheeks. You know why? Because God's talking to you. And He's addressing that need. He's speaking to you from His Word. The melody that he gives to me is in my heart. I'd stay in the garden with him, though the night around me be fallen What time of day is that? That's evening time. That's sundown. Been in the garden with God all day and not wanting to leave Boy, that's a far cry from a fellow that opens his Bible and takes out a little booklet and reads three verses and three paragraphs and says uh Amen and takes off For the day's activity. Now I'd stay in the garden with him, though the night around me be fallen. He bids me go. But his voice said, Whoa. Son of God is calling. He said, I've I've helped you now. It's time to you go Help somebody else with the help that I've given you. He walks with me and he talks with me. He tells me I'm his own. And the joy we share as we tarry there, I can't get any place else. The joy we share as we tarry there, none other has ever known. You see, the place of love is found and maintained. At the feet of Jesus. Why? Because we're kneeling at the feet of the person that we love And are ordered to love him with all of our heart and all of our soul and all of our mind and all of our strength. And it's necessary Because there's so many pools from the world and uh from uh other influences that try to dra uh drain our uh uh love uh uh away, and siphon our love uh away from the Lord. No no no it's imperative That we stay in love with Jesus. But neither of his feet. Listen to his word. Now I'd like for you to turn over to the book of John, chapter number 11, with that thought in mind now. Look at verse number one. Now a certain man was sick named Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary, and her sister Martha. It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. Therefore his sister said unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Now, the key to the next 40 verses is this statement. What's happened is for the glory of God. Well, by the time Jesus gets to Bethany, Lazarus has died and has been in the grave four days. So they get there, and we see over in verse number 20, then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, but Mary sits still in the house Then said Moth unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Jesus said unto her, excuse me, I am the resurrection and the life. He that Is this mine? It's got ice, so it's not left over from last week. That's a lifesaver, thank you. Jesus said unto her, I'm the resurrection of the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believeest thou this? She saith unto him, Yea, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world. When she had so said, she went away and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, The master is come and calleth for thee As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly and came to him. Now look at verse 32. Then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down where? At his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled And said, Where have you laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. Now the first lesson we got out of Luke was the place of love is found and maintained. At Jesus' feet. Here's lesson number two. The problems of life, the problems of life are resolved at Jesus' feet. Every problem we'll ever encounter in life, the answer is found at the feet of Jesus. The problems of life are resolved at the feet of Jesus. Now don't you think about something? First of all, think about the disturbance in the hearts of Martha and Mary, the disturbance. That that produced produced hurt and and anxiety. They did What we are commanded to do when someone is ill. James chapter 5 states and even tells us how to go about praying for the sick. So Lazarus is sick and they've done exactly what they're supposed to do, exactly what you and I should do when we have a loved one that's ill. They sent for Jesus. They prayed to the Lord. Ask the Lord to come. Isn't that what we do? We go to the Lord and pray. We pray for those that so what they've done is exactly right But Jesus doesn't come immediately. In fact, by the time he gets there, their brother has already died and been buried for four days. A disturbance that hurt. Why this inaction? Why Did Jesus respond exactly when they asked? Does he not care? Why the inaction? Why did they come? The servants that hurt. But Mary made a discovery. The healed. She discovered two things. Number one, she discovered that Jesus did care. Now why? See, when you read that, you read that Mary said the same thing that Martha did. But Martha didn't get any help Martha went back to house, still as disturbed as she was before she had her meeting with Jesus. Mary, on the other hand, she Find out something. Why? Well, two reasons. Number one, I believe Martha approached Jesus with the wrong posture and the wrong attitude. Doesn't say she knelt before Jesus. I see Martha standing eyeball to eyeball with Jesus. And I can picture in my mind, in my ear, the tenor of her voice, more of an indictment. Why? Didn't you come when we ask? Why didn't you respond to our request? But I'm going to tell you, that's not the way to get through to the Lord. That's not the way to get the response that we need from the Lord. But when Mary came to Jesus, she came number one with a different posture and a different attitude. She said the same thing, I know, but she said it while she's kneeling at Jesus' feet. And she doesn't understand. But she's not going to let that drive a wedge between her and her communion fellowship with the Lord. And so I I believe that she obviously came with a different posture but a different attitude when she asked. You know, when she said, you know Why didn't you come and all that? She discovered that Jesus cared. You know how I know that? Because while she's kneeling at Jesus' feet, she feels something wet and warm begin to fall on her hands. See that next verse says, Jesus wet. And she felt those tears on her hands as she looked up into the tear-stained face. of Jesus and she's thinking in her mind. I don't know how all this is going, but I know one thing. I know Jesus cares Amen. No matter what I'm going through, he's not turned his back. He has not abandoned me. He's a sympathizing savior. Things will work, people will say things and all of that to try to make you think that Jesus does not care, but Jesus does care. As she made that discovery that healed the hurt in her heart, not only that, but she discovered that he was still in control Raveuling. So they take him out there to that to that uh that that grave site. And I I'm a little bit of a novice. I like to think that when uh they rolled that stone back, Jesus had to say, Lazarus come forth, because if he'd have just said come forth, he'd have emptied every grave in a hundred mile radius of that place. I don't either, but I like to think that, you know. He had to be specific. I know one thing. Lazarus came. Amen. Now. Now along about verse 44 and 45, you know what happened? The Bible says that many of the Jews believed on the Lord and God was glorified. What did Jesus say back in verse 4? He said, this is for the glory of God. Huh? Now, if he had healed Lazarus from where he was at, he could have done it. He didn't have to go to Lazarus. He didn't have to put uh oil on his on his face or or uh get a prayer uh a card from or a pair uh kerchief or whatever it is from Benny Hen or anything like that. No. He could have just he could he could have just thought the thought and it could have healed him. Why didn't he do that Now I'm gonna give you the sermon. Sermon doesn't take very long. That was all introductory. Here's the sermon. He didn't heal him because he wanted to raise him from the dead He didn't do the lesser because he wanted to do the greater. Amen. And doing it that way, what happened? A bunch of Jews got you know how tough it is to lead a Jew to Jesus And God was glorified. Now wait a minute. I said this a few years ago when I preached on James 4. 14. I said this to you and me and everybody really. Did you know that there's nobody in all the world that God loves more than he loves you? He loves everybody the same. By the way, there's nobody he loves any less. He loves everybody with uh with uh uh uh with an everlasting love. Amen. See, when Jesus died on the cross, who'd he die for? Died for everybody. Well, what was the motivating factor that caused all that to happen? For God so loved. So Jesus died for everybody's sins. Why? Because he loved. Want everybody to be saved. Amen? That includes you and me. So my point is this: God loves you. The Lord Jesus loves you. Amen. Also, we learn that he is no respecter of persons. There was no boy out of California, Long Louis, the same last name as mine. In fact, my grandma on my dad's side said that he was some relation to her. His name was Stuart Hamblin, and he was a songwriter, and he wrote a song one time entitled It Is No Secret What God Can Do, What He's Done for Others He'll do for you. See, he's no respect for persons. So what we're dealing with here in it in this whole in this whole uh scenario, uh Jesus Not healing Lazarus because he wants to raise him from the dead, not doing the lesser because he wants to do the greater. That's a principle uh that the way that God operates with his people. In other words God will do the same thing for you and me that he did for Motha and Mary and Lazarus. How do you know that? Well, because I read the Bible. Amen. And I read in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 this great faith healer. The Apostle Paul traveled with a serious physical affliction. He called it the messenger of Satan. And it caused him to live in excruciating pain and would have kept the average man from going like he went On and on and on and on and on. And he says, by way of testimony, he says three times, thrice, I prayed for God to remove this messenger of Satan. You know what God told him? Paul, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to do something better. I'm going to give you my grace. You're still going to suffer the pain. You're still going to have a difficult uh time traveling and all of that. You're still going to carry the same heavy schedule that you've got. But my grace is going to produce strength in you that will enable you to just keep going and keep going and keep going. He said, my grace is sufficient for thee So what is the result of that? People are going to look at you and they're going to say, How is that little bald-headed hooked-nosed Jew uh living with all of this pain, how does he keep going and keep going and keep going? It's supernatural. They're not going to look at you. They're going to look at me. Paul said, most gladly, therefore. Most gladly, I'll I'll join I'll rejoice in my affliction But the power of Christ may rest upon me. You know what God was saying to Paul? I'm not going to do the lesser. I'm going to do the greater. Huh? Now listen, that's exactly what God will do if we let Him have His way in our life. Let's approach him, not like Martha. Let's approach him like Mary on our knees in worship and praise and prayer. Let's trust him, whether we can understand it or whether we can't. And no matter how much we may be hurting, let's trust him. And wait on him. And when he doesn't answer the prayer in the time frame that we give him When he doesn't respond according to the directions that we've given him, you know what that means? That means he's going to do something better. See, he's bigger than the Ford Motor Company. He's got a better idea. And he will not do the lesser because he wants to do the greater. And our problem is we bail out too quick. We get upset because it's not getting worked out exactly the way and in the time that we want it. And so we give up on God. No! Don't give up. Stay at his feet. Keep on praying. Keep on trusting Don't you think he knows the sorrow and the even the bitterness and the anguish and the concern and the pain in your heart? Don't you think He understands everything that you're uh involved in, all of the intri in uh uh the uh uh the uh uh different uh uh things about the problem uh that you're facing uh that you can't grasp and you can't do anything about. Don't you think he understands all that? Sure he does Don't you think he wants to bring you out in victory? That's exactly what he wants to do. Amen. It's got to be his way in his time But he's not going to do the lesser. He's going to do the greater. So, what does he tell us in the Bible? Casting all of your care upon him for he cares. for you. How do we cast all of our care upon Him? Well the first thing we've got to do is think we've got to have the right posture. We've got to get on our knees. Number two, we have to have the right attitude. And let's not pray ordering him around Let's not pray meaning, bringing an indictment against him. Why are you letting this happen to me? No, no, no, no. That's just somebody wrote a gospel song, preacher. I don't know if you've heard it or not. That gang over in Atco, New Jersey, Clark's family, they sing it, I just want to be merry for a while. So I'm saying, folks, stay at Jesus' feet. Cast all your care upon him He cares for you. Don't get mad at him. Don't get upset. He's working. He's never late. He's right on time. But I'll tell you what happens. When we allow our faith to be short-circuited, that's the end of it. And we have to suffer the brunt, all that alone. So he said, Come unto me, all you that labor are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. Take it to the Lord in prayer, the songwriter said He'll work in your life just like he did in John 11, just like he did in Paul's life, and a thousand other illustrations we could give, and you already know them anyway. And he'll work in your life. So there's no problem too big for him to handle. But it's got to be his way. Don't you forget something Amidst the pain, the anguish, and the fears and the questions, don't ever forget that he does care and that he is in control. And he will help us. Amen? Amen. Let's bow for prayer, preacher. We're bowed, her eyes are closed. God's speaking to hearts all across the auditorium. There's no doubt about it. There's needs, there's situations. Some of us have been fussing with With God. Some of us have been complaining, fretting. This morning God's given us instructions that we need to stop all that, humble ourselves, come before the Lord, trust him.