Can you hear me alright? Can you hear me at all? Alright, I only showed him this top half of the scarred anyway, so I charged five dollars to see the whole thing Open your Bibles if you would have believed the book of Mark, chapter number eight. Mark chapter number eight, and I want to preach uh this morning. I'm going to preach my signature sermon of my ministry from my life's verse. There are over 31,000 verses of scripture. In the 1189 chapters, the 66 books of the Bible, and every word Of every verse is inspired. I don't have any doubt about that. I don't have any qualms with that. I don't have any questions about that. And um So no matter where you read, whether you're reading the genealogies and chronicles or your favorite place, it's all inspired and it's and it's profitable. But some places in the Bible speak to you in clearer ways and more definite ways than maybe other places. Sometimes that's dependent upon what we're going through in life or um uh uh maybe maybe other circumstances And uh there's a verse in Mark chapter number eight that uh from the time I started preaching Uh well, over forty-one years ago, this verse uh speaks to me And it in a definite ways reaches the recesses of my soul more than any other verse of the Bible. It's not any more s uh inspired than any rest of it But it speaks to me. I I believe it's the most profound statement made by anybody at any place at any time. And it's spoken by the Lord Jesus. He said in Mark chapter 8 and verse number 36 For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? In the long ago, decades ago, I I I read uh read that verse and they got me reading the Bible through within weeks after I got saved. I started reading the Bible through every year and sometimes as many as three or four times uh a year and uh that verse that verse always just always just stirred me For what shall the prophet a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Not long after I started preaching, like very soon. The Lord dealt with me about this verse. And So I ask him. Charles Spurgeon, who was a very Baptist preacher back in the 1800s over in England Said never preach a text unless it bites. And that text bit me in my soul, in my spirit. I believe in this verse, I believe that God has set up an eternal set of scales. On one side of the scales, He's placed the world. All of it. On the other side of the scales, he's placed a soul, one soul. Now they're somewhere around 6. 8 billion to a little over 7 billion, depending on uh whose record you listen to. uh that many uh souls in the world. He didn't say the salvation of the all seven billion souls is worth more than the world There are there were one and a quarter billion people who live in China. He did not say the one uh billion two hundred and fifty million that live in China, the salvation of their souls collectively is worth more than the world. There are almost one and a fourth billion in India soon will pass China in total population. He didn't say the souls of all of those in India. There are over three hundred million in the United States of America, third largest uh numerical uh country in the world. He did not say that the salvation of all three hundred plus million people in America, uh, the salvation of uh their souls is worth more than although no, he said one. One little one little uh Indian boy run alongside the Amazon River down in South America. The salvation of his soul is real. more than all the world. Well a little toe-headed bus kid, the salvation of his soul is worth more than all the world. And so as God began to deal with me in the long ago about this, I I asked I asked God two questions. I said, Lord, if you if you want me to preach this verse and Uh and if you uh want it want to be able to to do in other people's hearts uh uh with the reality and uh and the the severity and the profundity of this message Then I I need to understand what you mean when you say, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world? How how can one man gain the whole world I began to search for a satisfactory definition of the world and how it relates to one man. And I found the answer in 1 John chapter 2. In 1 John 2, verse number 15, the Bible says, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. Listen to this. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now, in that verse, he's not talking about the people in the world like he is in John 3. 16 He's talking about this world system and all of that. And the first thing we find out is God doesn't love it. Then he says in verse 16 of 1 John chapter 2, for all that is in the world. For all that is in the world. You see, man, I'm I I I'm goal oriented. Uh I I I want to rise uh to the to the uh the highest uh heights that I can I want to accomplish, I want to reach, I want to have as much as I can possibly have and accumulate in my life He tells us in that verse the sum total of everything that you could possibly have in your lifetime. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. The lust of the flesh. That's the desire to do things. And God is saying if you can do everything in your life, you can do everything you ever wanted to do, you've accumulated one-third of the world. The lust of the eyes is the desire to have a thing. Somebody said Three generations ago in America, the heart cry was give me liberty or give me death. Two generations ago the heart cry of America was give me liberty. Today the heart cry of America is give me. The lust of the eyes, he said that if you could have everything you ever wanted to have, you've accumulated one third of the world. And the pride of life. That's the desire to be somebody, to have a position, or to be that person. uh to have that particular uh that particular popularity or fame or whatever. You could be anybody you ever dreamed about being or ever uh aspired to be You have accumulated one third of the world. That's all you can get. If you can do everything you want to do, if you can have everything you want to have, if you can be anybody that you want to be, that's all you can get in this world Multiply that by however many people have ever lived and ever will live and are living right now, and place that sum on one side of the scales, and God Almighty says That the salvation of one soul is worth more than all the world. And then my next question was, well, what is the soul? It evidently is pretty valuable. And his value system and his economy What is the soul? So I began to search for definition of the soul. And I found it in the Bible. In Luke 9 25, uh uh Luke uh uh God had Luke put it this way, what is a man advantage if he gained the whole world and lose himself? I read that one time when the light came on. That's what the soul is The soul is the real person. Lose himself. The soul is not our physical body. The soul is the person that inhabits this body. You see, when I look at you, I don't really see you. I see the tabernacle, the tent, the house, the body that you live in, but I don't really see you. You don't see me. You see this tabernacle. The soul is the one who inhabits the body. Job said, Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with Bone and sinew, he said, God, you created me, and then you gave me a body to live in The soul is that part of us that's able to think and reason and make decisions, to uh be able to love and hate, and be able to remember things until you reach a certain age Be able to make plans and to s to even sin and be redeemed from sin. The so the soul is all the personality, intellect, emotions, conscience, and everything else that makes us a living individual. By the way, that's the part Jesus come to die for. The glorification of the body, that's just thrown in extra. We will have that, amen. Now, why then? Why Why is the salvation of one soul more valuable than the entire world? I'll give you a fourfold answer, and there are no doubt many more reasons. But I'll give you a fourfold Answer this morning why the salvation of one soul is worth more than all the world. First of all, because of its durability. You see, if you go back to 1 John chapter 2, he says, love not the world, verse 15. He says, for all that's in the world, verse 16. But then in verse 17, he says this, and the world passeth away. The world passeth away. This world has the mark of death upon it. It's going to cease. It's going to end. Time's going to stop. You mean to tell me uh that that house uh that I spent uh twenty-five years paying for, uh you you mean to tell me that one day it's not even going to exist? That's exactly what I'm telling you You mean that automobile that I that I pay and pay and pay and pay and pay on is one day uh going to be a bucket of bowls? No, no, it it it's not even going to exist And the world passeth away. But not so with the soul. You see, way back in the beginning of the Bible, the Bible says that God has created man in his own image. Well, what does that mean? Well, it means several things. One of the things it does not mean that we've been created in the physical likeness of God. Because God doesn't have a body. God is a spirit. And those of you that are in your doctrines class, If you've had theology, the the the precise study uh of God, you found out about God, where it says God is a spirit, you find out two things about a spirit. A spirit is invisible to the to the physical eye, and it's incorporal That's a big 50 cent word. I just like to throw in there and let you know I've been to Bible college. If I didn't tell you, you'd never be able to figure it out. I do my best to hide it I did get through the Bible because it didn't ruin me completely. What does incorporal mean? That means without a body. That's God. And so if we've been creating the image of God, it's got to be more than a physical likeness because God the Father is a spirit. He doesn't have a body. How am I created in the likeness or in the image of God? Well, let me tell you the first and foremost and most important way I think that we're creating the image of God. God Almighty has put into us his eternal existence. We have not always been. God has always been. From everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. The eternal God is thy refuge, Deuteronomy says. And he's always been, he always will be. There's never going to be a time in the future when the light of God's existence is ever going to be extinguished And so with you and me, we haven't always been, but we are always going to be. He's given us eternal existence. And when you think about the uh what the Bible says about the uh the eternal abode uh for all of mankind. It's either in hell or it's in heaven. Uh he uses the uh the same adjective to describe the length of both of them. These shall go away into everlasting punishment, everlasting, that's eternal, and the righteous into life eternal. So we've been created. So how long are the people that die and go to hell, how long are they going to be in hell? They're going to be there as long as the people uh that go to heaven are going to be in heaven. Well, how long is that? Uh that's until God dies. Well, when's that going to happen? Never. So we've been created in the image of God. That's one reason why God says That uh one the salvation of one soul is far more f precious, far more valuable than all of this world, this temporal existence. With all of its billions and trillions and everything else, because of its durability. Let me give you a second reason why the salvation of one soul is worth more than all the world. That's because of the price Jesus had to pay to redeem our soul from hell. The Bible says in the book of 1 Peter, chapter 1, for we're not redeemed with corruptible things, perishable things, such as silver and gold. Or from your vain conversation received by the elders, but with the precious blood of Christ. We're not redeemed with silver and gold. Now, in my forty-one plus years of preaching, I've pastored a good number of those years and And uh and even as an evangelist I I I teach and preach uh that uh uh tithing will not save you. I used to tell my church members it won't save you, it'll get you closer than anything else But it won't get you in. You had to be a pastor to understand that Nor are are you redeemed by your vain conversation. That's turning over a new leaf, trying to live right, trying to do right. No uh-uh No, good works won't get us there. Nor by the ri by ritualism or religion received by the elders. No. Uh church is important, but church will not save. Baptism is very important. Uh that's in our name. Uh so we understand how important it is. Uh but baptism never has nor never never nor ever will save us. How can a soul be redeemed only by the precious blood, by the suffering that Jesus endured to redeem that soul from hell? You see, we're eternal beings. The Bible says all have sinned come short of the glory of God. We've sinned against the eternal God. That sin, then, is eternal, is eternal sin, which requires an eternal payment. That's why we can't pay for it ourselves in this world, because everything's corruptible. Everything's marked for death. Everything's temporal. But with the precious blood of Christ. Go yonder with me to Gethsemane's garden the night uh the passion of Christ began and we find him there in Luke 22. It says and being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly and his sweat was as it were Great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Two athletic terms in that verse. Earnestly in agony And it gives us a idea, uh some insight into the uh the tremendous pressure uh that's uh upon the Lord Jesus as he's Pouring his heart out, praying and earnest and agony, and his capillary rupture, and he sweat great drops of blood through the pores of his skin Why? What's he doing that? Why is he even doing that? Salvation of your soul, that's why. Amen. A little later on, it says that they scourged us I don't know how much you know about that Roman scourge But they would take that victim and strip him at least naked to the waist and and uh tie his hands either behind him or in front of him to a whipping post and that Roman Uh that Roman soldier uh would take that cat of nine tails nine whips each uh leather uh throng and uh thong and embedded with uh sharp objects like glass and metal and whatever Uh and he would bring that he would bring that cat of nine tails down uh on the uh on the upper torso uh of of that victim time and time and time and time again In fact, many of the victims were disemboweled and died there at that scourge The Bible tells us, written over 700 years before the birth of Christ in Isaiah chapter 50, pointing to that scourge, says that his visage was so marred more than any man. Means he was completely beaten, completely recognizable as a as a human being. In the long ago I love a man with Christ in Covington, Indiana when I was there the first time back in the 70s. His first name was Audie. Audie weighed 375 pounds. He was one big dude. Let him, let his wife to Christ. He told me one day we baptized him. I had a deacon to help me. And he told me one day, he said, you know, preacher, he said, I'm a bit of an artist. He said, I he said, I'm so appreciative of what you've done for Frankie and me. And he said, I've decided I am going to put on camp, I'm going to put on canvas a picture of Christ hanging on the cross. I said, Auddy, before you do that, I want to give you some verses of scripture to read. Because you've never seen a picture of Jesus hanging on the cross that's anywhere close to what the Bible says he looked like. And so I gave him the verses out of the gospels and Isaiah and some other places. And I said, now you study these and then see if you can put that on canvas. He came back two weeks later, tears in his eyes, and he said, Preacher, no man can paint that. No man can paint that. Hello. Almost this yeah, his visage was so large more than any man Beaten, unrecognizable, as a whom I say to myself, Jesus, why, why, why? The answer is the same, the salvation of the souls of mankind And they led him up the Via Dol Rosa, the way of sorrow, and nailed him to the cross. Lifted that cross and dropped it in that hole prepared for it with such a jar that every bolt in his body is out of joint, and there he hangs, uh, suspended uh between heaven and earth and uh uh battered and beaten and bloody, uh that crud uh shouting their blasphemies and Cursing and mocking and laughing, we look at him, we say, Jesus, why? Why? Why? Why? And the salvation the answer is the same. The salvation of your soul and mind See, his sin had to be paid for. And if you're going to pay for your sin, you're going to have to die and go to hell and suffer forever. That's the payment. That's exactly what took place when Jesus hung on the cross. One of my old mentors, Dr. Ford Porter, used to say, when Jesus died on the cross, he not only died for us, he died as us. That's the substitutionary atonement. He took my place. He took your place Shed his blood and paid your sin debt. What did the prophet a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Why? Why? Why is the salvation of one soul worth more than all the world? Because of its durability Because of the price that Jesus had to pay to redeem that soul from hell. And then I'd like to say this The value of this whole is determined by the torment of hell. Matthew chapter twenty five, uh three There are three overwhelming truths about hell. Alarming truths He will say in that day to the lost, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire. You know what I believe God's favorite word is today? I believe it's come. He wants everybody to come. It doesn't make any difference what we've done, what we haven't done. Doesn't make any difference where we've been, where we haven't been. Jesus the Bible says the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin. Whosoever will may come, he said. He said, Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Him that cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast out I'm preaching in Westminster, Maryland this past week, Sunday through Friday, and a a man, a 58-year-old farmer, was in the service on Thursday night and he raised his hand for prayer for salvation. And I talked to him after the service. His name was Bruce. And I went over the gospel with him and explained and Well, he said, I just he said, I'm just not, I'm just not ready yet. I'm just not ready yet It's amazing when you witness to people who are not obstinate and they're not uh want to pick a fight, they're not argumentative. They're agreeing with you, but there's just still something there that's keeping them. And I gave him a track, gave him four Porter's track. I said, Brooks, promise me when you go home that you'll read this And then promise me that you'll come back again tomorrow night. Tears in his eyes. He said, Preacher, I'll do my best. Man, I couldn't wait to get to church on the next night on the Friday night, and when I got there, Bruce was there. He had that track in his pocket I said, Bruce, did you read that tray? He said, I read it. And he said, I put it in my pocket. He said I carried it in my pocket all day long. He said, I found myself through the day reaching, just reaching and patting. that track. And I preached and I gave the imitation. Meaning he's shot out of that seat like he'd been shot out of a cannon. Before he got to the front, tears were running down his cheeks. And I said, Bruce, have you come to be saved? He said, I come to be saved. She responded to that invitation. The invitation is come, come, come. Oh, but I've done this, and you don't know how that dog Jesus said, come. Yeah, but I I'm just the people that I've hurt, I know, but the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin. Jesus says, Come, come, come There's gonna be a day when the last invitation is extended And the word of God is going to go from depart or from come to departed. Depart It's a horrible thing, think. That a person would live his life without God and die without God and go out into a Christless eternity Depart from me, ye cursed. You see, people are not going to be cursed, they're already cursed. They're not going to be condemned, they're condemned already. God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. See, you don't have to sin to be a sinner. We sin because we are sinners. It's the nature all of sin. All are under the curse, the condemnation of God. Depart from me, ye cursed into everlasting fire. I tell you, eternity grips me You see, the people that die without God, I preached a couple years ago here on the on the consummation time of the Great White Throne Judgment Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. See, they're not going there just for a millennium. They're not going there just for uh a hundred millenniums. They're not going there for a thousand millenniums No, the people that die and go to hell are going to hell forever. It's everlasting. I'm telling you, that scares me. That frightens me. To think. But down through these years all the thousands of people that have preached to preacher uh and sitting in probably Almost ever one of those congregations there are people sitting there one heartbeat away from going out into everlasting fire Why is the salvation of one soul more important than all of the world because of the reality of the suffering of hell? And then lastly I say this. The salvation of one soul is worth more than all that time can ever produce and have all the world. One soul is worth more than that. Why? Because of the reality of the joys of heaven Heaven is a wonderful place filled with glory and grace. Amen. I said goodnight last Monday. I said goodnight to one of my preacher friends over, we were together, co-labourers for over 43 years. Before he or I either one ever surrendered to preach, we were co-laborers, deacons, soul winners together in the church in Indiana. Avon, you know where that's at. I told that crowd, hundreds of people back in that auditorium, I said, uh we're not saying, we're not saying goodbye We know where he's at and we know where we're heading, so we're not saying goodbye. I'm just simply saying goodnight, Dick. I'll see you in the morning Years ago, my wife and I buried one of our daughters, and I found myself singing one one little strain of a of a of a hymn, of a gospel song. Heaven's sounding sweeter all the time. Heaven's real Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I'll come again and receive you unto myself. That where I am, there you may be also. It's written in Thessalonians that we uh sorrow not even as others which have no hope. We believe that Jesus will descend in the clouds. The dead in Christ shall rise first. That's not the Baptist church. You you you you you you you think Baptists are the only ones going to heaven. Oh no. No, I'm concerned about half our crowd But as long as you go and might as well go first clo X. And we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words And we have to say, we won't say goodbye. One preacher friend wrote me a note when we buried our daughter and said, remember, death uh divides, uh death hides but never divides. Amen. What do you mean? Here's what I mean. I mean they're on the other side waiting on us. We sing it in our hymn. One of the songs we were singing this morning was talking about that. You believe that? Huh? You believe you got you believe you got saved relatives, saved friends over on the other side? You believe you're going to be reunited with them someday If I didn't believe that, I'd close this book. Not only would I never preach again, I'd never touch it again. I believe what Jesus said. He said at my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so I'd have told you. I go to prepare a place for you Here's Hamlin's version of those verses. Jesus said, I'm going back to the house, I'm going to build you one and we'll come back and get you. Amen. Huh? Oh, you say that's just pile of sky. Well let me tell you something about that. It's better than the only other alternative. Amen. I was preaching along this line years ago just outside of Cincinnati, Ohio, uh the autochrome j just about this size, maybe maybe not quite that large and but it was like this two sections of pews and The building had pretty much emptied out after the morning service and and I I got to the back and I'd I had told some stories, uh real stories, illustrations about uh people but knew in love that had passed on and gone on to glory And uh I got I got to the back there and I'm getting ready to go uh out what I still call the swinging doors. Uh it's a carryover from the old world, but uh anyways And there's a lady, there was an elderly what we would call back in the old days an elderly lady. I I don't know what elderly is anymore, but uh one guy came up and talked to me a while ago and he was wondering if I was eighty-two years old. No, I just look it. And this lady had one of those walkers and she she'd come across the back there and she she'd take a step, she'd said, Hey Sonny! Hey Sonny She take another step. I'm looking around, I'm the only one there. She talked to me. I said, Yes, ma'am. And she got up to me and she said, You you talk about meeting your loved ones in in heaven? She said, I know I know what you're talking about. She said, I raised four boys. And I lost, I lost every one of them in the Second War As for the Sullivan Act, all four of the boys went and fought for our country. All of them were killed on the battlefield. Big old tears began to run down her cheeks, and she said, But I know where my boys are. She said, I led each one of my sons to Christ. And she said, I'm going to see him. I'm going to be reunited with them over on the other side. See, that's what he's talking about. He said, so so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore, comfort one another with the Huh? What does the prophet of man if he should gain the whole world? And lose his own control. Now I I I I want to make two closing statements. If you're in this room this morning And you're not saved. I'm not asking you, are you a member of the church? I'm not asking you if you've been baptized. Those are important things, but they don't say one of the things that one of the things that that disturbs me in my spirit and my soul is to get around people up my age or older and I say I say to them, uh when when when were you saved? And they say, well, I got baptized. No, no, no, no. No, I'm not asking you when you got saved. When you got baptized, when did you get saved? Well, I went into the church. That's where the old timers in the country used to talk. Going into the church. I mean to join the church. No, I'm not asking you when you went into the church. When did you get saved? Some of them can't. I had a lady western Indiana back in the 70s. Her and her husband married over 60 years. He he was not able to get out. He was an invalid. He wasn't able to get out. They got a burden for his soul. So they had me go down and talk to him. I went down and led him to his name was Sherman Child. I led him to Christ. He got saved. And his wife was there. She her uh son and daughter-in-law would bring her to our services on Sunday night and and um I asked her, we called her grandma's side and said, now have you received Christ? She said, oh yes I have. And a little while after that, he had he had a stroke and he and he went, they rushed him to the hospital, and I went to the hospital midnight on Sunday night. And uh he he was in a coma. He'd never come out of that coma. And I and I talked to her there, uh in the hallway or the waiting room, one of the two. Uh asked her again for the second time, eyeball to eyeball, I'm grandma, have you re yes, I I I'm saved, brother Bob He passed away in the Veterans Cemetery in Danville, Illinois, when we had his interment. Right there, right there beside his casket, before they lowered it in the ground. I looked at her. I said, now grandma, uh uh are you sure? Are you positive that you've received Yes Brother Bob I am Sometime after that I went into evangelism. I've been gone from that area for over a year, and I'm back preaching in three churches. Uh a week a peace and and uh her son and daughter-in-law brought her to one of the services. On the way on the way after the service, Calvin the son came by and said, Mom, mom wants you to come by. She wants to talk to you. So I got the preacher the next day and we went out there. And she was very, she's very shy, she's very standoff. She didn't she didn't talk, she was kind, but she And I left after a while. I was kind of bewildered because she she didn't uh she didn't she didn't say why she wanted us to cut anything. The next week I'm in another church not too far from there, and the son and daughter-in-law came on the way out. He said to me, he said, Mom wants you to come by the house alone. Well, she's ninety some years old. So I thought, well I I don't I I I don't think it would start any rumors. So I went. She'd fixed peach pie. All people that love God eat peach pie. If you really want to know the best kind of deep dish double crust to each pie, she had it and countrywomen make it the best. is good. Cup of coffee, she had a little gift for me, a mento from her husband. After we'd all left, she took me in the in the in the living room and set me in what we country people call the easy chair. Sherman's easy chair And she pulled up what we would call a footstool, a hassack, or whatever you want to call it. And here's this 97-year-old woman. She pulled this she pulled this hask, this footstool right up right at my feet. And she sat down. 97 years old. Her and Sean, I think they've been married 63 years, if I remember right. And she looked at me. And she said, Brother Bob, I gotta talk to you. She said, I've three times I've lied to you. Three times. And she recalled. Three times. She said, every one of those times, when you asked me, I said, yes, I'm saved. I'm going to heaven. I'll see Sherman on the other side. She said, the truth of the matter is, I'm not saved. She said, when I was a 12-year-old girl, that was 80 years ago. 80 years ago She's when I was a twelve year old girl. They took uh uh some of us girls that took us down to the what we would say in the country, the creek. You refined these coast people, you would say, Oh wait a minute, no, I'm in the mountains, are you? Okay, you know how to talk. So they took us down to Cricker Creek and baptized and said that washed away our sins. And then she said, that's the only thing I've been holding on to all these years. She said, I'm not saved. And she said, I I didn't want to talk to any other preacher I I'm just glad God kept her alive. She said I don't want to talk to anybody else. I won't to talk to you. She said, I want to get saved. And I led that 97-year-old lady to Christ. Amen. Eighty years of her life. She was hanging on to getting baptized and running water. And any of that time she'd have died, she'd split hell wide open No, no, listen to me. No, I'm not asking you when you got baptized. I'm not asking you when you went into church. I'm not asking you if you've just gone through the motions. I did that when I was twelve. At the Broadway Baptist Church in Annapolis, Indiana, 12 years old, I made a profession of faith. But I didn't get saved until I was 23 and a half. But I'm asking you, the morning. Are you saved? Now the way Jesus puts it, and you don't you don't have to do this, but if you did, it'd still be worth if you had to give everything you got in order to get saved. Now you don't have to. I'm just saying. That's how valuable your soul is. And then I'd like to say this to you and me who are saved. And we don't have to do this. But if we did, it'd be worth if we had to give up a thing we own. Just to get one person saved in the light of eternity it'd be worth. Now we don't have to. But it helps us. It helps us to understand. God's value system. What does it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Let's bow for prayer. Now, I'm going to ask you. I'm going to ask you to be serious with God this morning. I'm gonna ask you to be honest with God I'm going to ask you not to just go through emotion that you've done a thousand times just because it's a thing to do. I'm going to ask you To answer to the very best of your own knowledge and ability. How many of you here this morning can see to be by the upraised hand, Brother Preacher? I may not always be everything I should be as a Christian, but there's one thing I know beyond any shadow of doubt. I know I'm saved. I didn't just go through the emotions. I have received Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And I know without a shadow of a doubt that heaven is my home. If that's your testimony this morning, and you're saved, and you you know According to the Bible, that you're a child of God. Would you just hold up your hand, please? Now don't hold up your hand if you're not sure. But you just raise your hand. That upraised hand says, Preacher, I know but I'm saved. Amen. God bless you. Put your hands down. Now I wonder, I wonder, am I speaking with somebody here this morning? You'd say by the upraised hand, brother preacher. I'm not saved. I'm not saved I know I need to be. I know I believe the Bible. I believe saved people go to heaven, lost people go to hell. And I'd like for you to pray for me. I'll be safe before it's too late. Is there someone like that here this morning? That's the condition of your heart. You're concerned about it. Would you just slip up your hand, please? Let me pray for you. I'm not going to embarrass you. But I would like to pray for you I'd like to go to God on your behalf for your eternal soul. Anybody here this morning? You don't have to say a word. That upraised hand says it all. So preacher, I'm not saying maybe it's somebody here you're not sure whether you are or not. You just slip up your hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. That I'm head and bound. Pray for me. I can't help but believe that there's somebody in that condition here this morning. Let me pray for you. You just slip up your hand. Pray for me. I'm not saved. I'm not sure whether I am or not. Now let me ask you this Is there a Christian here this morning? You you you have some somebody that That you love and care for very, very much, who's not saved. You have a burden for them. Is there anybody like that? Maybe it's a son, a daughter, a father, mother, friend, classmate, neighbor, co-worker. You just raise your hand and say I got some people that I know. that I care about and they're lost. Can I see? I'm not trying to trick anybody. You just slip up your hand. I know some people that I have burden for. Okay, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna pray for. Lord help us now. Maybe there's somebody here this morning couldn't raise their hand didn't raise their hand, but they've lifted their heart to you. There might be somebody under the sound of my voice right now who's not saved. Somebody said in his congregation, if they die before the sun goes down to you tonight they'd be lost forever. I pray if that is true, that one or those ones would step out and come. And I pray as well Dr. Green down in South Carolina used to pray, Lord, save that soul nearest hell. And then I pray for these. They raised their hand and said, I guess some people have no one in love, care for them. They're not saved. Dear Lord, help us to renew our efforts, renew the burden on our heart to pray for Him and to witness in whatever means away that you'd give. Give us to be able to do to win our loved ones to Christ. And I pray that there'll be some decisions made around this altar here today on Old Fashion Day that will result in people coming to Christ. Bless as we get this invitation here in just a moment. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.