With me tonight if you will please. Let's turn to uh I want to go to the book of Acts to start with. And as we get started, get ready to warm up here a little bit. I want to thank the ladies of the church for all of the food that they've been cooking. I'm telling you, now I know why all you men have swelled up so bad. You know, uh guys are pretty good eaters, you know, and your leftovers are pretty good. Um so I just want to say thank you, all the work that takes place and all the plan, the plagues and everything So I know all the missionaries want to say thank you also. Now I I'm going to give you a few things tonight And we might go a little bit longer, but uh as my dad said, toughen up. You'll be alright. You'll get over it. No one cares. How many how many likes the new commercials This guy like I don't know if it's Gyco Progressive. He's got the he's like a teacher and he says, you know, you know, the waiter does not want to know your last name a and uh no we don't one cares how early you get up and I laugh at that stuff because that's where I am. And and Uh how many watch commercials and get a kick out of 'em? Alright. How many ever watched a commercial has no idea what's going on. Alright. And so we hope we can hit a home run tonight. Know why we're here. Faith promised missions Grace giving. Now Lord willing you'll be supporting the lanes and the salt traps or salt traps. I don't know, I'm just gonna cut it. Okay, salty dog, all right. And uh uh the uh I knew uh this couple before they got married, you know, and uh I don't know what she ever saw on him, but I guess she saw the future, amen. How many can see a difference in them now than when they did the video? Like, okay, I'm scared to death. Now they're more relaxed, you know. You should have seen the lanes two years ago. Hey, we're the lay lanes. And uh but now they're more relaxed. They got the support raised a little bit and They're getting down the track. Let me give this to you tonight. I want you to be in s uh Acts chapter sixteen. I also want you to slide to Second Corinthians chapter nine tonight. I got a little longer introduction as We get into this message tonight. I want you to catch this with me. It's entitled, On Purpose, Your Macedonian Call. I do a revival message. On purpose, God brings into our lives things that we do not want. But I want to talk tonight for a little bit that understand faith promise, four thoughts. Number one, it's a commitment made to God, not Pastor Leatherman. It's a commitment made to God, not to the missionaries. You know, the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 8. 5, but first gave their own selves unto the Lord. It says in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, and I want you to catch this, in verse 7, it makes this statement: every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. So it's a commitment made to God Secondly, tonight, as we run through this message, it's a commitment to be carried out through the year through the local church. You don't give to the if you do, I'm sorry, but you don't give to the local flower society. You don't do this, you don't do that. When you give to missions, I've been in places where guys would wait outside and try to give me five one hundred dollar bills. Uh, I say take that and give that in through the church. Amen. How many know what I'm saying on that? But I want you to catch this thought here. It's to be given throughout the year. It says in 2nd Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 10, it makes this statement, and here I give my advice. Paul writes, for this is expedient for you. This is good for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Now therefore perform perform this thing, get her done That's why you have a yearly missions conference. I know last year we were all gerbling in the pandemic, but isn't it good to be back about the father's business? Through the local church, number three. It's a commitment to be given above your tithes. Bible says in 2 Corinthians 8. 3 For to their power, that's your tithe. And he goes on, I bear a record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. Hey, trust God with this, all right? He's got to figure it out You can't add it up, you can't subtract it, but I guarantee you you understand that it's a not only a commitment to be given above the tithes, but it's a commitment to be given with consistency What do you mean? 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 6. It says, But this I say he which soweth sparingly shall also what? Reap sparingly. But he which soweth bountifully shall uh reap also bountifully. Every man According as he purpose in his heart, so let him give. Verse and eight. God is able. How many think God is able? So you better trust him with this. You have this mission conference to get these missionaries to the mission field and support the missionaries that you have. And I want to teach you a valuable lesson tonight This is happening on purpose. Not only here in this church, but around the world, God Almighty has set it up on purpose. Now I play a game when I preach chapels. It's called either or. Line everybody up in the middle and you gotta make a decision. And we'll talk Christmas or we'll talk marriage, different things. We have a lot of fun with the teenagers and married couples and either it's this answer and that. You ought to watch people, watch other people make decisions for them, even in a church service. Amen. This one time I was doing it in Twin Rivers Baptist Church, you can call the preacher there in Marietta, Ohio, and they about had about a hundred workers there at this conference on the weekend, and I played this game with them And the first question was, Christmas trees. His wife was up on the platform and she didn't know I was going to ask her, and everybody lined up the boat. Does she want a real Christmas tree or an artificial one? Ninety-nine people voted that she wanted a real Christmas tree, but her husband voted that she wanted an artificial tree. All right. Now how many things the preacher got it right and the people got it wrong? Could you raise your hand? Wrong? He was wrong too. Man, did he have a hassle in his cap? She didn't even come to church the next day. Now I'm just I she did, she did. But he he he did not know what his wife Christmas tree was. Yet the church did, amen. Now I know a lot of people that go to church and they have no idea what faith promise is They have no idea what grace giving is, all right? It's something like, well, you're begging for more another avenue to pay the preacher. No, it has nothing to do with that. So tonight I want to set a little thing straight on purpose On purpose, God does things in the Bible for you. I want you to catch a few of them tonight by way of introduction. Now I'll get To Acts chapter 16, Amen. But I want you to listen to a few thoughts that I wrote down here. You know, it says in 2 Peter chapter 2, verse 9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and a holy nation. You know God makes you that way on what? Purpose He did that for us on purpose. John 4 4 says Jesus said and he must needs go through Samaria. Why? He needs to win that woman at the well to Christ. You understand what's going on here He does things on purpose. Acts chapter 2, verse 23, him being delivered by a determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God on purpose for the Lord Jesus Christ went to the cross. He was on his way to the cross, the second in Adam and Eve sin. How many understand this is all on purpose? That birth in Bethlehem, it was on purpose It says in Acts chapter 16 verse 36, For David after he had served his own generation by the will of God He did this on purpose. Man, he took down Goliath. Amen. He did exactly what God put in. Now he didn't walk on water. You know that. But on purpose God was working in his life. On purpose those stones were in the right place on the right day. On purpose that little lad that loved the Lord had that sling in his hand And took down that giant and saved an army. I want you to understand God has things happening on purpose. Colossians chapter 1, verse 16 says, For by him were all things created that are in the heaven, that are in the earth visible and invisible. How many of you folks believe that? Here comes this pandemic. You know it's here to get all the Democrats. Gonna get all those Chinese. Going to get all those unsaved people. Got a hold of a lot of saved people last time I counted, amen. How many figured out you're not in charge, but God is? Some of us don't like what I'm preaching tonight, but on purpose, God does things in you, on you, to you, to work through you. All God's people said. On purpose have you answered your Macedonian call? I'm not talking about missionaries tonight, but it's in Scripture, and it's a nice story of Paul and all these mates going around and winning everybody to Christ. But I want you to understand, it says in Jeremiah 29, 11, For I know the thoughts as I think towards you. To give you an expected end. Amen. He's got on purpose your life figured out. You've got to let the Holy Spirit get a hold of you and say, here are my Lord, send me. Well, I don't want to go there because they don't have running water, or they don't have air conditioning, or they don't have diet coke. I got news for you. God's will for your life is not anything about your feelings. All right You can go to all these good feeling seminar things people do, but God's will sometimes is not as sweet as you think it is. Missionaries get ready, saddle up, tie it up, cinch it up, you're going to have some bad days There were some bad days in New Guinea. The only people would talk to me were my two Rottweiler dogs. My wife was mad at me. My people were mad at me. My cats were mad at me, you know, good and night. But those dogs just sat there and listened to me as long as I feed them, amen. Now listen to this thought. You missionaries are going to have days like that Pastor, you've had days like that. But I want you to understand God has this for us on purpose to really go to the next level. You know, Job says in chapter 42, verse 2, I know that thou canst do everything. And that no thought can be withhold from you, from thee, from the Lord. Now listen to this. That's on purpose. And then when I read Acts 1, verse 8, the Bible makes this statement: But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost is come upon you. Now watch this. How many know Christ is your Savior? Amen. How many have the Holy Spirit in your heart? How many m have the Holy Spirit in your life? Now I'm going to ask this question to me. Dan de longs agreed the Holy Spirit. He sins against him once or twice and he doesn't walk on water, and that was not good. How about you? You know where I'm going with this. Now listen carefully. Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and Samaria and to the uttermost part of the earth. On purpose, Christ told those disciples that. I want you to catch this. And for 70 years, first seven years, they didn't go seven miles out from Jerusalem. And he had to bring persecution, Holy Spirit did, to get the gospel out. Amen. Now I want you to catch this tonight just a little bit. On purpose, on purpose, God has a Macedonian call for all of us. As you're getting in your Bibles now to Acts chapter 16. Would you turn there with me? And I I I want to want you to catch this with me. Paul and them have been blessed. It says in verse 5, and so were the churches established in faith. They were church planters. Amen. People get saved. People get discipled. Just like last night's message. End up people that got things going on. And it was a church planting ministry. Catch this here. I want you to see this. in faith and increase in number daily. Now when they had gone throughout the Gira and the region of Galatia and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in uh in Asia. After they were come to my Asia, they essayed or tried to go to Bethnia, but the Spirit suffered them not. Who's driving the bus here? The Holy Spirit. Now catch this And they passing by Myasia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. Now he's standing there. Come over and help us. Come over and help us. Last year my wife's daddy died April 4th, right in the middle of this pandemic. I did the funeral by myself with four men and her and her mom. I had to carry the body to the grave. One of the carriers got sick and stumbled and fell and dropped a corner of the coffin. One of the lone o uh one of the worst funerals I've ever been at in my life, and I was officiating it. It was a bad day in America. And I want you to understand that when I was uh putting him in the ground there and understanding that Man, I don't understand all this, but God's in charge of it. And uh and then a few weeks later a cousin died, and uh a few weeks later uh another cousin died and the COVID got him and A month ago my my uh brother-in-law died and and uh just as uh two years older than me and man, things are falling apart, amen. And I through all those funerals and things I went through, I I had the opportunity to help people. Amen. And when that man dropped my my father-in-law's cor corner, I picked it up and helped get it to the graveside. When my cousin died, I went to the funeral and helped them get through that sadness. When my brother-in-law died, I helped my sister take through all that. Good Christian, godly man, I helped them through that Tonight I want God to use me a little bit to help you through this. If you do not participate in faith promise giving, you need to look at what God does to the in this church, on this church for years, and on purpose, this is how God wants it done. You do it right here, amen. And I was at a church last October, twice this size. They'd never had a missions conference in 21 years. They only gave a percentage. I did faith promise, lit that place up, I didn't, God did. That church come alive and they were not given anything to first time through preacher, 42,000 Promise to God, didn't I? And uh they only swore about seven missionaries. They said, We're gonna divide that and give them about six thousand apiece. I said, No, no, you need to pick on more six uh you know, uh pick me up for support, amen. When you do things right on purpose, God will always give the end grace. Five thoughts tonight, I want you to see in this as I read. It'll jump out at you. Look in the next verse there, verse ten. It's so uh it said that uh come over in verse nine to Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision immediately we endeavored to go to Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Now catch this thought here. Therefore, loosening from Troaz, we came with a straight course to Samatakaira and the next day to Neapolis, and then from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony. And we were in that city abiding certain days And on the Sabbath we went out of the city by the river where prayer was wont to be made, and we sat down and spake unto the women which retorted thither I want you to understand tonight as I preach this message, and I'm going to go quickly and I've got a lot of ground to cover, I want to give you five thoughts about the Macedonian call. here in Acts chapter 16. And we're going to flip back to Acts chapter 2 a bit, and I'm going to intertwine, Lord willing, a story that happened in my ministry in Papua New Guinea. If you ever heard me preach before, sometimes I intertwine a story all the way through. How many have ever heard me do that thing? You think I'm crazy, but at the end of the thing it makes sense, amen. It does to my wife, and that's about all that matters, amen. Let's look at the first thought, verse nine and ten of chapter sixteen. This Macedonian call on purpose was an urgent call. It was an urgent call. It says in verse 9, the vision appeared to Paul in the night, and there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us And it says in verse 10, and after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored. I want you to understand that word immediately means it means it was an urgent call. Verse 10, gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel. Hey I brother, going to New York, I have gathered just talking to you. You're not interested in going to Suriname Oh you'll sit there politely and listen to listen to what he's doing and but you're not going there. Because he's been called somewhere else, amen. And you listened to him last night, and it's good, that's sweet, hey, amen. But I'm not going there Brother Lane sitting there, you know, he can tell he's a BI missionary, he's bold-headed, you know, and and we've got a thing going on, you know, and and uh and uh and he's sitting there watching you two last night and tonight and and he gives his little speech here. He could care less about well you do but you don't. You do but you don't. But you as a church, you have to care for all of 'em And you don't think about it the next week? It's an urgent call right now. It's right there in Scripture. He was a church planner. He had it going on in verse 5 and 6. And then they want to continue serving, continue the min and the ministry of the missions, and then God, God, hey, we want to go here, uh-uh, want to go there, uh-uh, want to go there? No way. Jose, want to go that way? No what no no. The Holy Spirit said, I want you to go over here. And when they found out God's will, well I'll just pray about it. I'll let the dead bury them well, I'll wait for my dad to die so I can get the inheritance, then I can go No, no, no, no. Immediately. Let me give you three thoughts why it's urgent. Number one is this for the gospel, for the good news. You know, Acts chapter 1, verse 8, but you shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has what? Come upon you. Then you shall be what? Witnesses. And he even told us where to go. Everywhere. Amen. Think about it. Why is it so urgent? It's for the gospel's sake. And I want you to catch catch this. Secondly, for the church's sake, for church planting. It says in Acts chapter 2, verse 4, kind of ties along here, or verse 41. I want you to see this with me. For the church planting. It's not only for the gospel, it's not only for given uh doing discipleship, but on purpose there's an urgency to plant churches Watch what it says here in verse forty one of chapter two. It makes this statement. When they gladly received his word, were baptized the same day, and were added to them about three thousand souls. That's to the church, not the coffee house Not the mission board. All right. All God's people said. I'm just telling you it works. And number three, I want you to see the urgency also is for the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ That's why it was urgent. Look at chapter 2, verse 47. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added unto the church daily and should be saved. You don't do the adding, God does. Amen. It says in the book of Mark, and the Lord working with them. I want you missionaries to understand it. I want you to church to understand it. On purpose, every one of us is going to have a Macedonian call. And it's urgent. Why is it urgent? For the gospel, for church planning, and for the testimony of Christ. Man, I had it made in the shade with all the lemonade I'd been at P and G for about a eighteen months, almost two years. For Sunday, we had about six or eight people come. I went took a van out the next week and bought brought in twenty four people. I got pictures of it in an eight passenger van, or one load. Okay. It was a an old Toyota green thing And it had three on the tree. You older folks know what that means. You young ones, what's three? Yeah, three little squirrels on the no, it's a transmission, okay? Had a clutch. You realize these new missionaries, you know what a clutch is. But but in the old days Man, I brought those people in there and they filled up those those kids, uh twenty-four of them, my son, my wife, two teenage boys helped us, about seven old people over here, dead in last week last week's roadkill, and said, Oh What's it look what the American brought in the church? Souls. Souls. Man, I watched that church grow, God grew that thing About a year two years later we're running 150, 180, 200. I'm telling you what, the church was full. We was moving the walls back. And I brought their preaching one Sunday, a little guy come in. He sat in the back and he had a basket of clams I don't know. You're from Lacey, Washington, right? They call them doo gooey ducks. You ever know what a gooey duck is? These people don't know what do you all know what a gooey duck is? Uh uh they'll tell you later. But anyway, uh he had a basket of those things Mud clams, blue mud clams and crabs, and they stunk the church up. I get done preaching, and he has the world's dirtiest glasses. How many of you folks ever see people with other where their glasses are dirty and you're trying to talk to them and you just want to take them off and sit on? How many ever thought, oh can I have your glasses for just a minute? Guy walked up to me, his name was Hanawa. I love that guy because he's five foot one and a five foot seven with high heels. No, with five foot six with good shoes on. I look a lot taller than him He looked at me and said, Atasta, my name is Hanawa. Miha mamaslam look at me. Ah, Miha Mamas. Bel belong me. Mi uh me uh question. I don't know. What are you here for? Oh, I gotta see you. What do you gotta see me about? I brought you a gift. Will you take the gift? Now in their culture, when they give you a gift, you've got to give one back. And so he gave me a gift in front of the deacons and my wife, and she looked down in there and go, Oh my goodness, this looks fantastic, you know. And uh and uh it was these blue mud crabs and And it was some clams and I looked at him and said, What's this for? He said, It's for the gospel. People tell me you can show me in Scripture where you can't lose your salvation once you get it. Can you do that? Yes, I can show you. He said, we got a preacher in our village of a thousand people. And I got five brothers unsaved, and they're all married, about 45 of us And we, I don't think he's preaching the truth. Are you sure you can show me where I can't lose my salvation? Yes, I can. And I did And he said, you know what? That's your gift to me. I had to take the clams. And he took the Bible I gave him. And he said, Pastor, I'll be back in a week with my five brothers. So you can win them to Christ and show them where they never lose salvation. I said, Well no, no, wait a minute, I'm busy. I got my own mystery going on here. All right. And you'll never show back up anyway, but God bless you And he waddled off and went his way. I want to tell you people something. God was not calling these missionaries by accident where he's calling them. He's done it for a purpose. Now you missionaries remember that when you want to die, when you're surrounded by the Indians, all right, or by crocs or by disease and every you get an in-grown toenail, you want to go home. Now you stay right there where God has you. All of God's people said Man, they need to hear that. If it's urgent, number two, it's an understood call. It's an understood call. What do you mean? How do you know it's understood? Look what it says here in verse ten. Immediately we endeavored To go to Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for there to preach the gospel unto them. Not to raise hogs, dogs, or frogs Not to dig wells, not to sell sheep, not to do uh uh uh mini banking, and all these are ministries you can see. Uh it it didn't even it didn't even say to start a Christian school, did it It didn't say to start a printing ministry, did it? And those are all great, we all do those things. Amen. It said to preach the gospel. Not only was it an urgent call, number two, it was an understood call They knew what to do. They knew how to do it. They knew how to get it done. Let me give you three thoughts about having an understood call. I want you to catch this with me. Number one, why did the Holy Spirit do this? Why did he push them? It said he called us in verse twelve. And and I want you to catch catch this. What did the Holy Spirit do in verse 10? He's guiding this thing, he's taking him through all those towns. The first thing is understood that it's a Holy Spirit plan. It's a Holy Spirit plan. The other day I want to take my wife something to eat. I didn't realize she'd cooked me a special meal. I said, honey, I'm coming home. I want to stop by your favorite hamburger place and get us a hamburger. She said, no, honey, I got this and this here just for you. You know, I said, well, I didn't want that, honey. I want hamburger. I don't want no stew, you know. No, I didn't say that. Because my wife's a good cook and I'm smart enough to keep the hassle out of the castle It's funny, isn't it? You better understand that this this call, you can't play around with this thing. You can't have it your way. You can't have it your way. You've got to understand the Holy Spirit has a plan for salvation, a plan for repentance, a plan for baptism, a plan I call it ownership. discipleship, a plan to get a church start. Now the Holy Spirit has a plan. Number two, you gotta understand this. You have to understand the Holy Spirit has a purpose in speaking to your hearts. He wants to get the gospel out there. And I want you to understand, he he the purpose is to get a church started, as it says here in our text, and add it to the church. daily. I want you to catch this third of all. It was an understood call because it was a program set down in God's Word. How do you know that, Brother DeLong? Well, let's take a look at chapter 2. Look what it tells us there in verse 42. And I know I'm preaching fast because I got a long way to go. All right. Can I slow down a little bit? No, keep on going. All right, here we go. Are you ready? I did that so you could get to chapter two. You know, go back, go back, go back. Verse forty two, look what it says here. Catch this with me. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and the breaking of bread and in prayers. Look a little closer with me. I want you to catch this thought too. Look at verse forty six. It makes this statement. And they continually daily with one accord in the temple breaking bread from house to house and eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people It's a program daily. It's a gladness. It's continuing. It's a unity. It's a singleness of heart. And I want you to understand, God, when We understand this Macedonian call that it was urgent and it was understood. Sometimes it's hard to understand what God's doing, right? How many's ever taken a driver's test in here on paper And they ask this question. How far are you supposed to travel behind a vehicle going 60 miles an hour? Piece of cake. Then they write down Five or six options, right? Not a piece of cake. Six hundred feet? Six thousand feet? Six thousand one hundred feet or six miles I have no idea. They got me confused, right? Nobody's ever wrote one of those answers down and you chose the wrong wrong one. And when you got the great, oh I knew that Nobody's ever reacted. No you didn't and you got it right the first time. I used to play basketball, there was one day I was a six foot five preacher On a ladder. And every time I shoot the basketball and it would not wouldn't go in the basket, there's something wrong with the ball or the basket. Right? Baseball last week I was playing the some high school boys were throwing some balls at me, they didn't know the old man could swing. I hit ten out of twelve dingers and the the two I missed was the bat's fault. The guy didn't throw the ball in the right place We always have an excuse. Are you listening? Well we know what God's will is and it's urgent. And we do understand it, but we just don't do it. Oh, we like the purpose. We like the plan. But in the program, let him work on someone else's heart. Ooh, that's cold-blooded, isn't it? That's right there for us to see Number one, it was urgent. Number two, it was understood. Number three, I want you to write this down. It was an undone call. You know, Hanawa showed back up at my house on a Saturday night It was uh two weeks later. Eleven o'clock at night. He had his five unsaved brothers ranging from the age of 21 to about 30. He was about 35 at this time And uh they get in a fight with the guards. I had guards at this church, we've been robbed so many times, that I would do guard duty all night long, Sunday night after I preached. Four men would help me and we'd stay up all night and kill mosquitoes, tell stories and laugh and have a good time. But we got robbed a lot when I first went there, so to stop it we ha we had a couple of guns sitting there on the property and You would just shoot them in the air about every three or four days at one or two o'clock in the morning. Amazing how that keeps people away from you, amen. And uh Especially with the American. But the and I want you to understand as we we were doing this and as we were working here that that uh Holloway showed up. And Buck got in a fight with my guards. And I come out on the front porch and stopped them and looked at, got a flashlight, and it was Hama with his dirty glasses. Hadn't been washed yet Had five younger brothers standing beside him. We're here to get the gospel. Are you kidding me? You know, at eleven thirty at night? Oh man, I want to sleep. Come on, come on up here. So they come up to my front porch, Pastor, about the size of this here. It was a second floor, it's a high set. And I said, You guys sleep here tonight, and uh my wife got him something to drink, and we'll get up at daylight in the morning, maybe seven o'clock and Before I go on visitation, I'll give you guys the gospel. She'll cook you some bacon, some blueberry pancakes, and they've never had iced tea in their life You want to own a New Guinean? Give them blueberry pancakes, bacon, and iced tea. They are yours. They'll follow you everywhere like a puppy. But anyway, uh, so they went to bed. We got up. She cooked did the cooking. I went out about seven. They're sitting there, we got our Bibles open and led every one of them to Christ over the next hour and a half It was fantastic. Reunion, I mean not revival we're having, soul wing, front porch with pancakes, bacon, King James Bible, and that's all blueberries. I love blueberries. Could get any better And when it got time to be done, I said, okay, we're done here. I got visitation in a half hour with the rest of the church. God's blessing my ministry. And God, hey, got you out here last night. Honor, you can take them the rest of the way here. God bless you so much for this. He said, Oh Pastor, we brought gifts with us. Oh no. Not again. And he said, You give us the gospel, you led my brothers to Christ. Now and and and he had coolers downstairs. I didn't see them And he brought up four or five reef fish about that big. Oh, they're yours, Pastor. Our gifts to you. So he I give him the gift of salvation. He gives me fish. That means I got to reciprocate. Okay, here it comes. He said, can you, when you're done visiting today, we'll just wait here. And can you teach us that thought called assurance of salvation? Oh, I don't have time for this. I got my own church. You guys, just just wait. Just wait. I'll come back this afternoon. We'll wait here I went soul winning, come back three or four hours later, they're still sitting there on the porch right where I left them, waiting for me to show them assurance of salvation. Not only did I let it leave them to Christ, I didn't have time for this You know, on purpose tonight, some of you might be getting a tad itchy because you'd rather be doing something else right now. I want you to understand this, but some things have to come undone And I was thinking seeing in my life, my ministry, I was uncomfortable doing all this extra stuff. I did not want to do this extra stuff. Go to Acts chapter 16 Paul's really serving the Lord here. I mean, uh uh Olivia gets saved and uh and she was going to hell when this story started, but her Direction and life come undone. Amen. Uh Luke was going to go to one town, but God called him to go to Paul with another, and things come undone. Uh Timothy's life uh it was coming undone. Lydia's uh life was coming undone. The damsel in distress, she's that kind of demon-possessed When that thing's over. I think she's saved and she's part of that first church a few verses later. How about the jailer? Uh remember the earthquake at night? Hey, things are coming undone He's going to commit suicide. Paul said, hey, no one does they're all here. Don't need to kill yourself. And then what did they say? What must I do to be saved? Now he got saved that night His house got saved that night. Paul and uh his mate got cleaned up that night, and they they went back to the jailer's house and had a baptismal service. I mean when the story starts Everybody's going this way, but all that got undone by God going this way because Paul on purpose immediately endeavored To do what God put in our heart to do. Things will come undone. And that's where we get very, can I say this my next point, I can't rush. That's where we say, well, hold the boat right there Stop that salvation wagon right there. Are you telling me that I'm not going to be in charge if I'm part of the faith-promise missions outreach of this church? The answer is yes, you're not going to be in charge. God is. Amen. Isn't that fantastic? If it doesn't work, you can put that on God. If it does work, you put that on God. Amen. Now I want you to catch this with me The Macedonian call uh had some things that have to be undone. They had to undo their direction. They had to undo some of their decisions They had an und they undone their display. They were living one way when this chapter started. They were all living as Christians when the chapter's ending. Isn't that great? That just because a church plant of missionaries was doing what God put in their heart to do. Now let me give you the fourth thing. It's a an uncomfortable call. Oh uncomfortable. Uncomfortable because of time's sake It was an urgent, it was understood, it was undone, but this next thing, it got uncomfortable. Look at chapter 16 and verse 23. The Bible says, when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in stocks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the prisoners heard them. Now on purpose, God goes to work again. Earthquake comes. No one knew it was coming but God. Bad day at the office for Paul, right? Got beat beat up. Got whooped Throwed into jail for serving God. And on top of that, you're praising God the best you can and witnessing to the people in jail. And then there's an earthquake. We're all going to die. How many there been in an earthquake in here The ground starts moving, buildings turn to jello, starts doing that dance, and we all do what? You'll say, thank you Lord for bringing us. No, you're running for your hide. Am I right? And Paul and there stood there that night because they knew who was in charge. And it was very uncomfortable. And sometimes giving the faith promise given might make you just a tad uncomfortable, but I want you to understand. Think of Paul here. They were arrested. They were beaten. They were followed around by a demonic uh controlled girl. I'm telling you they uh were ostracized and beat up and and all this was happening. Very uncomfortable God's will for your life is not the safest place. It's not the most comfortable place, missionaries, but it's the best place. Amen. And sure all how in the world and I came back and he said, Pastor, you come to our village and I went out to the village and we started a little building. I got pictures of it. I think I have I can show you all we want to see it. Put a hut up, church about half the size of this side over here. We had forty-five people come. I baptized all those five and boys that got saved and their wives all got saved and Everything was good and man that little church was growing and and my mother in law come about six months later and uh Sandy's mom and dad and we took 'em up the Brown Rivers a two hour truck ride, two hour a powerboat ride, and about an hour walk up the beach and You get to that little place there called Gorahu, about a thousand people, and I see all a little church there, you know. We had about a third of an acre and man we're meeting there on the beach and man and then uh we had a little service there and uh we got prayed and got done. We turned around and there stood a drunken pastor with about 900 villagers wanting to run us out and wanting to run that little church out Because these men started preaching and living, once you get saved, always saved. And that their a united preacher was a drunk, an alcoholic. had more than one wife. He was controlling that city. And he wanted to fight. I mean they had some spears and I I looked at him I go, Oh my, they didn't teach this at by Bob Jones University how to get out of this And uh Hanowa looked at me and said, Pastor! Ah, God's at work. I go, Okay, I'll go I'll I'll stand there with you. I can see the book. Dan Delong killed on this beach. But you know, I'll stand there with you. He said, No, you get in the canoe and go home. What? No, you go home. Take your mama-in-law. My mother-in-law, she always talks about the first time I've ever seen her quiet. She didn't say a word. She got in that canoe and she went downriver. My wife got in there. Oh man, I'll sit. No, go, go, go. We'll take care of this. God will take care of this. We're taking that boat down the river, turn around, Honda was talking up to these people. His brothers are right behind him. They got spears and Holland was just standing there with nothing in his hand. I thought that would be the last time I'd ever see that man alive. I was very uncomfortable going down that river That little spip squeak national pastor tell me, God's in charge of this, you're going home. Don't want you here. Let God take care of it. But I'm an American missionary. I'm the big shot here. No, you you going home. God will take care of this I went home. There's no t there's no radios out there. There's no phones. There's no that there's nothing out. They don't even use smoke signals in Southeast Asia. Amen. You just see people about once a year and say hi and that's it Maybe read the news to them and catch up. When I went home, I would have felt very uncomfortable that I was a total failure. I want you to understand something tonight. Doing things that God puts in your heart to do is never going to fail. Ever. Ever Ever. Ever. Ever. Ever. But you worry about those things, don't you? Well then the law, what's your last thought tonight? Man, we need to get there, don't we? Urgent. Understood. Undone. Uncomfortable. And man, I did not like how it was coming out. Let me give you the last thought, but it's unstoppable. Unstoppable. The purpose of the Macedonian call in your life when you do it is unstoppable. That night when that earthquake took place with Paul, Silas, they're inside that jail I want you to understand the unstoppable of it before that happened. They go down by the river and just listen to watching women there coming to hear the gospel and Paul gives it to them. Look what it says in chapter 16, verse 14. Whose heart the Lord had opened. That's Lydia. And I want you to understand in verse 15 Uh the the Bible's very clear that that and when she was baptized in her household, she besought us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house there. There's our mission's house. And the body's there, and she constrained us. That means she took care of us financially. And that's God's at work, amen. I want you to catch this thought. It's unstoppable. Yes, the earthquake takes place Yes, the jailer's going to die, but for time's sake, look what it says in verse 31 of chapter 16. And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. What must I do to be saved? said that jailer after the earthquake And thou shalt be saved, and thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord unto all that were in the house. And you go back to the beginning of this thing. Why was he called to Macedonia to preach the gospel? Lydia got it, the damsel got it, the jailer got it, they all got it. Are you seeing this now? I want you to understand this There is a purpose in this, and God has it for us. As I read this and go down to verse 32, and when they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and they all were in his house, and he took them the same hour, the night And washed their stripes and was baptized he and all his straight way. And when they had brought them into the house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. And that's why the guy shows up in the Macedonian vision in Acts chapter 16, verse 5, 6, 7, and 8. And when you get to the end of the story, you understand that it is unstoppable. Verse 34 says, And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and rejoiced, believing in God. with all his house. You know, on purpose tonight I'm going to ask the Holy Spirit, maybe he calls some of you in the missions Well preacher I'm too old you're never too old. I got out there the first I've been in ministry now forty-six years. I was in the ministry twenty years before I hit the sands of P and G. Good night, I've been in it ever since. I want you to understand this. Man, I I tell I had some trepidation. Lord, you call me, but man, I'm telling you, you realize I gotta change how I live and You realize I I you know, I can't root for the highest butt guys over there and I I can't I can't get any Uno Dewey's pizza from Chicago over there and you realize, you know, they they still do headhunting over there and you know, it may not be real big but it might be tasty. I don't know. But I understood it was urgent. I understood that God wanted me to do it. And some things had to become undone in my life to do it. I'd unhooks and wagons. I understand that it was uncomfortable in things I had to do, but at the end of the day, it is unstoppable. The rest of the story, amen. Hanowa showed up at my house. He survived that thing. He said, Pasta, they voted for me to be the head man of the village. Pasta, I'm the big shot now. Pasta, we didn't fight. They ran him off. Oh, Pastor, come help us. Well, I believe we will. Went out there and preached and had a good service and came back and and uh about a week later the youngest man that I led to Christ, his brother is uh he's a minister in the in he's uh like a governor now in PNG all these years later. But he had a little girl that was sick, full of malaria. And he brought her to our house at ten o'clock at night And she was about dead. We rushed her to the hospital and got her there, got medicine in her, and she got feeling better She stayed in the hospital for a week, went back home. The next week they had her back in the hospital relapse. He walked 14 miles to get me at midnight on a Saturday night to get money to the hospital so she could get medicine So my wife jumped in the car and I jumped in the or in the truck with me and him and we drove there. I took a couple hundred dollars with me, got there. As we're going into the emergency room there in his third world, out come that little girl's mom And I'll never forget that blue the blue uh towel she had. She had that little baby, about a year and a half old, weighed twenty-six pounds. She was bloated with malaria. And when she handed it to me, I thought she was alive. And she said, Pastor, she's passed on. And that's the first time I've ever had a held a dead child in my hands. And I looked at her and she said, Pastor, you know what to do. She just put her head down and got in the truck. And my wife was standing there and I covered her up and gave her to my wife and we drove home and my wife said, Honey, what are we going to do? Well Well, I think we're gonna freeze the body. There's no mortar. We have a freezer. Yeah, I think we're gonna do an igloo cooler tomorrow. You take mama and buy a dress downtown. We'll dress her up. I'll call Quantas Airline and get a hundred pounds of dry ice. Keep her proper. I think we need to take her out there and bury her in that village And I was said that's the thing to do. So we got her all fixed up, drove that Toyota Land Cruiser with twenty people in it, and that little igloo cooler was a coffin Got to the village, thousand people lined up. Split culture, women was in one house and the men was in another. I went in to preach the tell the women where that little girl's soul was in heaven, as David tells us. Hanno is translating. Me, I don't talk pigeon liklik kihaim nek belong me now, but I did not know his language. Sixteen, some ladies got saved in that first service. And several men got saved in the second service. They had the grave dug down four or five feet. They had a couple hundred pound of line. Hundred pounds of salt we brought with us. We salt them over there. We put that little girl to the ground. And we prayed over her. I told her mom and dad she's in heaven. I didn't know when we did that and buried her there that community gave him ten acres of land to put a church on. And they have a Christian school there today. It runs about three hundred. That young man who lost that child grew up in that village and he's Hannah's brother and he became like the governor of that area And he was the first one to sign on to have a P<unk>G Bible project twenty-some years later for BIMI to give a million Bibles in the public school kids' hands Over fifteen thousand people got saved in the public school system. On purpose, God touched his heart to hear me preach on a Sunday morning with a basket full of crabs. Start a story that today that only God could write. It is unstoppable On purpose, you have this missions conference. On purpose, God has had these missionaries here. On purpose, God wants you to support them. Because on purpose he's going to bless them in an unbelievable way that brings a peace that passes all understanding And now God's people say it. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. No one's looking around. The urgency of this call Having an understanding. When God calls you, people's coming forward already. If God's dealing with your heart, you come ahead. And I'm telling you, God may call you tonight or call you tomorrow. It may make you uncomfortable. But I want you to understand when it comes to faith promise giving God wants us to serve. God wants us to send. God wants us to go. God wants us to pray. And folks, there's an urgency in this. There's an understanding in this. But I want you to understand this. It's unstoppable. And the Bible says this, that when they got done with the story, they comforted everybody in this story and departed. And went on planning churches on purpose. Father, thank you for this church. Thank you for the heart of this people Thank you for the opportunity that we can still preach your thoughts here and touch our hearts, not only be missionaries, but be supporter of the works of God Almighty. Pastor Lethelman. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Wonder how many tonight would be willing to sincerely pray, sincerely from your heart, pray God. I want you to use me whatever way you see fit to get the gospel around the world and support those. Or is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I would be willing to pray sincerely That God would take me and use me and show me exactly what my role is in getting the gospel around. God bless you, hands all around. That's a serious prayer. I wonder how many others tonight would be willing to pray this old altar and just come and pray. God, let our church do exactly what you want us to do as a church. That God's will would be done in our body of believers here and getting the gospel around the world. I hope you'll do that. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.