First Peter chapter number two, we are going to begin reading in verse 18, just two verses tonight. Notice what the Bible says: Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear Not only to the good and gentle, how many people agree? It be not wouldn't be too hard being subject to good and gentle masters, bosses, yeah. That wouldn't be hard. Not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. For this is thankworthy. If a man for conscience toward God endured grief, suffering wrongfully. I changed the title from what I had in the bulletin initially. I changed it to On the Job Submission. On the job submission. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our time and your word this evening. I pray that you would challenge us to be good Christian employees And I pray you would stir us to have a testimony of your goodness, of your grace, and your power, your love Not just in the church house on Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, but Lord in the workplace throughout the week be a testimony. So Lord, we need you to help us do this. We need you to stir us and challenge, convict, motivate us, provoke us to good works. And I yield my will to you, present my body, and pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and you would speak through me and do just that very thing. Provoke us to good works, Lord In this workplace uh principle that's given to us here. I pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. I was reading about John Wesley uh this past week And um he was preaching on a Sunday night in a church some distance from where he lived. And of course, back in those days the uh the transportation was very limited. He was walking home So several miles is a good distance. I don't know the exact distance, but it was quite a ways. And it got late into the evening as he was making his way home, and lo and behold, a highwayman, a robber jumped out and um approached John Wesley. Of course he didn't have much money. He didn't have uh but uh a few coins or whatnot on him And so whatever he had, he offered to the robber, and uh he stole his money. And as the robber made his way away from him, John Wesley said, Wait, sir, wait a minute. He goes, I have something else for you And the robber was startled. He turned around. He says, What do you mean? He says, and John Wesley had reached into his garment and had a gospel tract. And he said, before you go, I want to leave a gospel track with you. He says, someday you may tire of this type of lifestyle. And if you do, I want you to read this, and it will tell you how God can change your life to be a different man. The guy took it, stuck it in his thing, and took off. John Wesley said that a number of years went by. He was preaching again on a Sunday night in a faraway town. And after the service, a man approached him. Said he didn't know the man, he didn't believe he had ever seen him before. And the fellow said, You no doubt don't recognize me, or don't remember me, and you certainly don't recognize me. He said, but I robbed you on a Sunday night several years ago. And he says, you gave me a gospel literature. And he says, eventually I read that, I believed it, and God shaved me and changed my life. Isn't that an amazing thing? We're talking about the power of God's word and what God can do In just with a portion of Scripture in completely transforming a person's life. Matt, Brother Matt and I were talking this week, trying to figure out how many gospel tracts We have distributed throughout the 27 years we've been here. And uh we have no idea, and really it's not uh that's up to God. I don't wanna I don't want to pull a David on that trying to count numbers too much, but it was we were just curious. And best we can tell, maybe a million over the years we're trying to figure out track month and all for a number of years, and probably somewhere around a million gospel tracts. I can't help but believe That God has used all this literature and the swords going out and the gospel tracts and door hangers that we've done all these years. I can't help but believe that God hasn't used that That God has used that to change lives that we may never know about till someday we get to heaven. The power of the Word of God Christianity and the gospel of Jesus Christ particularly absolutely transformed the world That Peter was living in in that day. And all these thousands of years since, the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that message of forgiveness, eternal life, new life. And a home in heaven, that uh salvation from hell, that message in Christ has absolutely transformed the world. And it has actually changed. I put it this way. Christianity introduced a whole new relationship. between employers and employees. It affected every area of life and even the area of voice or vocation where people work, the workplace It affected that. Now, they say, and I understand it's true, there's no doubt about it, in some regions of our country, jobs are hard to find. Especially right now. Some people it's hard to find jobs. Now for our case here, the way I can understand it in our community, I guess just because of the type of uh economy we have with the tourism and the land and all that. It's not jobs that are hard to find. It's not a good job is hard to find in our area. It's finding good workers for those jobs is the hard in our area. Can I get a witness? And Mark says amen to that And I know there's other employers in our church that are constantly saying, you know, I got work. I got more work than I can handle. I just need some workers that will show up and be on time and do the work and just be here. And uh finding good workers. I came across these are supposedly actual statements from employ emplo employee evaluations These guys did evaluations on employees, and uh I came across seven of them. These are what employers said about their evaluation when they were evaluating their employees One guy said this, he works well when under constant supervision and cornered like a rat in a trap. Probably truth to that. Another one said this. This employee is depriving a village somewhere of their idiot. These are apparently are actual evaluations of employee uh of employees. Another one said this. This guy slipped into the gene pool when the lifeguard wasn't watching. Here's another one. I'm glad Pastor Matt likes these. Here's another one. She brings a lot of joy when she leaves the room. A couple more here. Some drink from the fountain of knowledge. This guy only gargled. If brains were taxed, he'd get a rebate. He said here's the last one. He said, the gates are down, the lights are flashing, but there ain't no train coming. So in our circumstance, in our community, at least at this point in time, there's jobs to be had. There's good work out there. But the lack is good work earths to take those jobs and fill those jobs. Peter is addressing that subject here in writing to these believers. Take your Bible if you would. And turn to Philippians. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at these verses in detail. But go back to Philemon. You say, where in the world is Philemon? It is not in the Old Testament, it's in the New Testament. It's right before Hebrews. So if you're in 1 Peter, go backwards. You'll hit the James, and then you'll hit Hebrews. Then you'll come to the little one-chapter book of Philemon. And Paul is writing to Onesimus about Philemon. Or I'm sorry, he's writing to Philemon about Anesimus, I'm sorry. But look with me if you would at verse 16. He makes this statement. Now Anesimus was a servant. Of Philemon. And he had escaped. He was a slave, really. He had escaped. He had run away. He got arrested. He was in prison. Paul led him to Christ in prison. Now he's writing back to Philemon about this young slave that he got saved and that Philemon was supposed to take him back. But notice what he says in verse 16 He says verse 15, perhaps he therefore departed for a season that thou shouldest receive him forever. So take him back. In our context, it would be, listen, hire him back on. Don't take him back. But look what he says. Not now as a what? Servant, not as a servant. Don't you hire him back on as a servant, but above a servant, a brother, beloved, especially to me. But how much the more unto thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord. You see, the gospel changed the whole environment. The whole relationship between employer and employee. I guess I'd like to say this. The gospel changes every aspect of life. Completely transforms every aspect of life. In fact, many times a saved person will refer to themselves as a completely different person than they were before they got saved. Can I get a witness on that? I'm not the man I used to be. I'm not that person. I look back on my life before I got saved, and it's like I'm looking at a completely different person, someone I don't hardly even know. The gospel changes everything. And Peter is writing here about this matter of servants and their masters. Now, come back to 1 Peter. Let's break this down. Let me give you a few thoughts as quick as I can here in the time we have left. My first point is this, the principle of submission. And he's continuing this subject of submission that we looked at before. Before it was submission to the state. Now it's submission to masters, to employers, if you will. We'll explain that. Verse 18, the first part he says, servants Be subject to your masters. That's the principle. The servant is to be subject To the masters. Now, what does that mean? Well, the word servants, I got looking that up, and it means kind of what you would think it would, although there's two aspects. Most of the commentaries and the books I referenced in this matter of servants referred to them as slaves And it can, in this case, it could refer, and no doubt did to some extent refer to slaves. Slavery was very, very common in the Roman Empire. In fact, one figure I came up with was 60 million slaves in the Roman Empire at the time of this writing. 60 million. That's a lot of slaves. Slaves made up, according to some of the authorities that I found, slaves made up the majority of the New Testament church. Most of the members of New Testament church were slaves of some sort or servants of some sort to Romans or Greeks or or uh various uh situations there. So the majority of the New Testament churches were made up of what we would refer to as slaves, 60 million throughout the Roman Empire. Most of the slaves uh were what what would were what we would consider prisoners of war. Uh the Roman army would go to war against somebody And they would bring back these prisoners of war. Well, rather than just keeping them in prisons or in prisoner of war camps or executing them They would sell them off and people could buy them as their slaves, these prisoners of war. Now I don't know about you, but um I'd rather work for some guy out on the farm as his slave than sit in a prison for the rest of my life. and horrific conditions. So it wasn't really, all in all, it wasn't that bad of a deal for them. I'm not trying to excuse or justify anything, but A lot of the times it was prisoners of war, which means many of the slaves were very educated people. In fact, the one uh history book I was looking at, they said that many of the slaves were teachers. That would be become a prisoner of war. They'd lose to Rome and they would bring them back. And they were very educated teachers. And people would buy them and bring them in their household, and they would teach their family and their children, their household, teach them. Um others, it said, were doctors, uh, musicians, and every every area of society these people would come back as slaves. We picture slaves as some poor mongrel getting beat up and just poor. And that wasn't necessarily the case. Some were very, very educated and and were wealthy before they were became prisoners of war, bought that. Some of them became slaves because of debt. They had gone into debt and they couldn't pay it off, so they would offer their services as a servant To pay off that debt. The one book I was reading, one article I was reading, said many of these slaves were very loved by their masters. And actually became part of the household in a lot of ways. And uh uh and so This term servants here can refer to slavery and could be, but my looking at it, I looked at how it was used in scripture various places, the word that it comes from, and the definition of the word itself. And it sounds to me more, it would include that, but also would include domestic workers, like a hired uh somebody you'd hire them to come in to clean your houses. Or come in and cook your meals for you. And they would actually work for a salary to some extent or some sort of benefit in coming in. So it's not limited just to slavery, it could be to hired household workers. Much like we think of today. And then he uses the term masters. He says, servants, be subject to your masters. And that, of course, would be the one that would be over, whether it was a slave, the owner of that slave, or if it was a hired household worker or whatever, and then it would be what it would be what we would refer to as what? I see if you're with me. And what would we call them today? The boss or the employer. This would simply, the master in our context, would be the employer. The servant would be the employee. So that's the principle here behind these two. And the interesting thing is, it says this instruction applies to all, to every employer, employee situation. No matter what it may be, it applies to all of them. In other words, if you work for somebody, it applies to you If you have an employer, if you're employed by somebody, this principle, this instruction applies to every one of us here. And so, uh, uh, take your Bible. Again, keep your place here. It's touched on in various places in the New Testament. Come back to Ephesians chapter number six, if you would. Ephesians chapter six. And uh notice with me, if you would, just briefly, uh verse number five, Ephesians 6 and verse number 5. Paul is writing to the church at Ephesus, and again, they they have the same situation there. It's a Greek city, it's under Roman rule. They have servants. They have these household workers that are brought in. And Paul, writing to the church at Ephesus, says almost the exact same thing Peter does. Look at verse 5. Servants Now Peter said, be subject. Here Paul says, be what? Obedient to them that are your masters, according to the flesh. With fear and trembling. That echoes a little bit what Peter says in singleness of heart. Look at that last phrase. As what? As under Christ. You know what he's saying? He's saying you ought to work for your boss as if your boss was Jesus How many people would how many of you agree with me that would probably change my approach to work a little bit if Jesus was my boss? I know what some of you are saying. You're saying, my boss ain't no Jesus. I'll tell you that right now But he says that's the way you are to work. We are to work. That's the principle as unto Christ. Verse number six. Boy, he goes even farther here. Not with eye service as men pleasers. What does he mean by that? Yeah, it doesn't mean he's saying, don't just work when the boss shows up. I know how that goes. And uh and so I mean not talking about Pastor Matt, but uh uh but uh Uh how many people ever worked somewhere where you saw that, you know, they didn't do nothing, then the boss showed up, suddenly they're the hardest worker around. No, I didn't say how many y'all did that. I said how many y'all know somebody Not with I service as men pleaders, but as servants of who? Christ. I'm the servant of this master, but I'm supposed to work as if I'm a service servant of Christ. Doing the will of God from the heart ties in, right. Come on, ties in what Peter says. Come over to Colossians chapter 3. A few pages over there. Colossians chapter 3. How many people are excited about being told to be a better worker? This is great. Look at verse number 22, Colossians chapter 3, verse 22. Servants, here it is. What's the next word? Obey, obey in just about everything. No, obey in what? All things your masters, according to the flesh. Here it is. He says the same thing to the church in Colossae. Not with eye service as men pleaders, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. Then he tacks us on, and whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to who? As to the Lord and not unto man. So the principle here is this: we must approach our job as if our boss was Jesus. So tomorrow morning you get up, you go to work, just keep in the back of your head, I'm going to work as if my boss is Jesus. And my boss is Jesus. So the first point here in verse number 18, the first part, I see the principle of submission on the job. Like I said, I know what some of us are thinking, some of y'all are thinking, my boss ain't no Jesus, Pastor Well that leads me to my second point, the pain of submission on the job. The principle is work as if Jesus is your boss with all your heart, not putting on a show But doing it for the Lord. The pain of submission. Come back here. Look at verse 18. 1 Peter 2. Servants be subject to your masters with all fear. Well look at that Not only to the good and gentle, but also to the forward. I put this down. Oh, by the way, submission is never easy. Never easy. Doesn't matter in the home, on the job, in the government. Submission goes against our sinful nature. The very core of our sinful nature, it goes against We don't want to submit. We want everything to submit to us. Nevertheless, not thy will, but my will be done. That's the prayer of the old flesh. So let's look at this. Number one, this response this is re this is responsive submission, and by that I mean this. It's voluntary. That phrase, be subject, implies a voluntary act. I, of my own free will, place myself under the authority of my boss. My master. I of my own free will choose to obey what that boss tells me. I, of my own free will, yield my will To the will of my boss. And people agree with me, that can be tough. That's not necessarily an easy thing to do. There's pain involved. Yeah, that's what the Bible says. So number one, uh this is a voluntary submission, goes against our very uh nature, but nevertheless That's the principle. It's painful, number two, because it is to be respectful submission. Notice he adds a little word there. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear. You say, what? I'm supposed to be terrified of my boss know that praise all fear there is the same fear used in referring to God In other words, I'm to submit to my boss, my master, with reverence and respect Not talking about terrified of them, I'm scared of death. No, no, no. I submit to them, I voluntarily place myself under their authority, follow their instructions, obey them Not because I'm terrified of them, but out of respect and reverence for them, for the role they have over me. And by the way, as we said, it's not just outward submission But with a correct frame of mind. God has placed me, God has given me this job, God has put me in this position, and I am to show respect, I am to treat with honor and reverence the one over me Submitting to them, following their instructions, doing what they ask of me to do. Submission with respect and reverence Can be awfully difficult. Can be awfully difficult. Then I noticed I put this down, this is unrestricted submission. Notice what he says here. Not only to the good and gentle. Alright, that wouldn't be hard. I mean you got a you got a boss like me that's so nice and gentle and good and so easy to work with. And Pastor Matt said, well, you just got to raise right there. Praise the Lord How many people agree with me? It's not hard to do what somebody that's real nice to me, gives me a bonus and helps me and does gives me days off. How many people say, yeah, that's I could yeah, no problem there Yeah, and uh we can do that. That's not hard. The word good and gentle means this kind, cooperative. I like this one, flexible, nice Undemanding. Anybody here ever have a nice boss? Not too many couples did. You enjoy working for them. That's not hard. There's no pain involved in that. Easy to work for them, easy to submit to them, but then look what he says. Not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. Now what does he mean by froward? I looked that word up. You know what it means? Crooked. Unfair, unreasonable, unkind. In fact, it's translated a few times perverse. When I was studying this, I thought of a boss I had when I was in Bible college. I worked at a carpet mill in Georgia, North Georgia. And just for a while, third ship. And um, you know, maybe I didn't know the guy very well, but he was the meanest, most unkind foreman I have ever worked in all my years of my life. And that was tough. And Peter is telling these believers, these slaves, these servants, been persecuted, run out. He says, you treat that froward boss An unfair, unkind boss, you work for them just the same as you work for the kind one, the good one, the gentle one. You agree with me? That's tough. That's where I got the idea of pain. That hurts. You're telling me, you're telling me, Peter, that I've got to work hard? And submit to this guy and the way he is, Peter's saying, yeah. Yeah, you do. You do. I put this down. My level of submission Is not dependent upon the character of my master. I am to submit and work and give of myself regardless. Of the character and conditions of my master. Now, you and I are blessed in the day and age we live in where we're not servants, we're not slaves. We can do what? We can look for another job. We have that option, and there's nothing wrong with that. But while I'm under somebody, while somebody is my master, to use the Bible term, I am to give it all I have. I'm to subject myself to them. I am to work for them. I am to yield myself to what they ask of me to do. And so the pain of submission. Last of all, my last thought is this, the praise of submission. Now come here and look at verse 19. Verse 18, servants be subject to your masters with all fear, reverence, respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the frawler, that rascal. Now look at verse 19. For this is what? Thankworthy. If a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering, and wrongfully, this is thankworthy. Is thankworthy. You say, preacher, I'm supposed to work for this rascal, this frawward guy, unfair, inflexible, unkind, because I like him. No, you're supposed to do it as to the Lord As to, see how he words it there? As good conscience towards God. The reason I want to work hard and do my job and submit to this guy is because I want to have a good conscience with my God. And God says that's thankworthy. I looked up that word thankworthy. The word it comes from is translated 130 times. It's translated grace. For this is grace. You show me an employee, a Christian employee, that works just as hard for the boss that's a knucklehead. As he does for the boss, that's a nice guy. And I'll show you the grace of God. The grace of God. God stepping in and enabling that to take. You say, preacher, I couldn't do that. No, but we have God's grace. This is thankworthy. God says, that is what I want. That is my will. In fact, I circled the word thankworthy and I drew a line up to verse number 15 where it says, this is the will of God. Same thought ties in. God looks down, he sees that Christian fellow working hard. He's trying to meet his family's needs and provide. And he's got a hateful boss, an unreasonable boss, and he is working with respect and reverence to that man and giving it all he has from the di day he steps on the job from the morning and he punches in to the night when he punches out, he gives a full day work. He gives eight hours work for eight hours pay and he does it with a good spirit and a good attitude God looks down and says, I'm going to give that guy grace. That pleases me. I am thankful for that one. I'm telling you, God honors submission to his will. I submit to his will, God honors that. For this is thankworthy. You say, I don't get no thanks from my boss. No, that's not where we're looking for the thanks. We're looking for the praise from where? From God. I tell you, I'd far rather have God's praise than man's praise I decided, I determined back when I went into ministry, especially when I became pastor, I decided, God, with your help, I will never do anything for the praise of man, I will do it for the praise of God, period. And that should be our work ethic. That should be our motive for the praise of God. Thankworthy, 130 times grace, to submit to my master with respect and reverence. regardless of his demeanor, displays the grace of God in my life and delights my God. God is well pleased with this sacrifice. We should work in such a way and with such an attitude that when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we not be ashamed of our work ethic. Say, yeah, but preacher, my boss is forward. Yeah, but when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, I can stand there. If I worked hard and reverenced him, I can receive the praise of God. Forgive me my own. Am I making sense? This is what Peter's telling these believers who are being persecuted, that are in horrific circumstances Many of them have no choice. They can't ever leave that. They're servants, they're slaves. And yet they're to work with that attitude. Christians, I believe Christians should be the hardest working, most reliable, most productive, and most pleasant employees in the plan. on the job, Christians. When I was down at college, Tennessee Temple University, the school had a, the the students of the school had a good testimony for the most part And when a student went out and looked for a job, the employees found out you were a student at Tennessee Temple, boy, they'd hire you up just like that. They'd hire you up just like that. You know what they'd say? I had a fella when I worked at the hospital, fellas said, those young people from Tennessee Temple He said, they'll work hard. They're on time. They're honest. We trust them. Now there was exceptions. You know, there's bad apples in every batch. But for the most part, that was a testimony. I thank God for that. And that's what God's looking for us. Honest, hardworking, reliable, pleasant, respectful. Regardless what the boss is. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to take heed to your instructions here in this area of our work, this area of our vocation. I pray you'd fill us with your Spirit and be just as Christian on Monday on the job as we are Sunday in the church. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want to be a good Christian worker I want to have a good testimony on a job, somebody that's trustworthy, hardworking, reliable, pleasant. Or anything like that by the uphand preacher, I want that testimony as an employee. God bless you. That's thankworthy to God. That's grace. When we carry that out. Maybe a person's unsaved, maybe here or listening in, you don't know for sure your sins are given on your way to heaven. You can be the best worker in the country. Still die and go to hell if you've not trusted Christ You need to come to Christ. Accept Him as your Savior. God will make you a new person. And you can be that Christian employee. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen.