We're going to be in the 20th chapter of the book of Numbers. Numbers chapter 20. As you're getting to Numbers chapter 20, let me start by saying something that you may, at first, when I say it think is controversial or maybe even incorrect. God is not fair. Never one time in the Word of God does God say that He's fair. He says that he's holy. He says that he's righteous. He says that he is no respecter of persons. He says that he is without error, without contradiction, and without mistake, but he never claims that he is fair It's important to realize, though, that I don't want a fair God, and you shouldn't want a fair God either. If you have a fair God, then you get what you deserve, and what you deserve, and what I didn't deserve is an eternity in a lake that burns with fire and brimstone. No, no. I'd rather have a gracious God. I'd rather have a merciful God. I'd rather have a forgiving God than a fair God. But especially not fair in the way that you and I would consider fairness. The reason I mention that tonight is this is perhaps the most unfair Bible story in all of the Old Testament. It doesn't add up when we look at it through the human idea of fairness. As we travel around the country, oftentimes We're in our trailer, other times we're in prophets' chambers or something like that. But almost all the time, somewhere along the line, we get a key to the church. Now I was telling someone last night, you better make sure you get that key back from us because we have a whole collection. We put the names of the churches on there. We'll call up a pastor and say well we're going to be there. If it's alright with you were going to stay in your prophet's chamber and they say, Well we can meet you with the key. I'm like, don't worry, I got the key. Is the passcode still 2874? And they'll say yes, and then everything's just fine. But I have a whole collection of them. Not that I did it on purpose, but that's just the way it worked. But we are almost always and we have our trailer most of the time or a lot of the time the pastor will give us, because we're connected to the church's power, the pastor will give us a key to the church, so if we have any kind of problem any electrical issue or anything like that. We can go in and have access to the breaker box, etc. So oftentimes I find myself in church buildings after everyone else is gone There are a couple things that are true about church buildings when everybody else is gone. The first and foremost thing about a church building when everybody else is gone is that church buildings are the scariest buildings on the planet If you're ever in a church building late at night when no one else is there, you'll hear creaks and squeaks and sounds coming from different directions. I was with a pastor one time Just outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, they had a they had purchased a 150-year-old school building and had put their church in there. Now they'd been there for about fifteen years by the time uh well by the time I went there and heard this. And I found out then that this pastor who was in his seventies actually locked his office door from the inside when he was in church by himself because that building was so scary. You walk through church buildings and you hear all kinds of sounds, but churches church buildings without anybody there are some of the scariest buildings on the planet. But there's a second thing that are true about church buildings. As you walk up and down the hallways, especially of the Sunday school wing of a church building, you're going to walk in and you're going to see something. Maybe it's in the Preschool class, the first grade, second grade, all the way up through sixth grade. It works basically through fifth grade. It starts losing its potency at sixth grade, but Now there's you'll see a little chart there. Some industrious teacher has figured out the secret to get little boys and little girls to do anything When it comes comes time to go to church. I know your first thought is candy, but it is not candy. Something works better than candy. You're going to look in those Sunday school rooms, and invariably you're going to find a little chart On that chart, coming down this side right here, from your point of view, coming down this side right here, it's going to be the names of all these boys and girls. And it's going to be a grid that comes down like this. At the top, it's going to have things like brought their Bible, brought a f Friend, send their memory first. was here on this day or this day or this day. And then those Sunday school teachers have discovered that those little boys and girls can be motivated by a little gold star I don't know why children think that is so amazing, but they do. And you're going to see, and every time you see these charts, there's going to be one guy that has one little chart one little star way over here on the end of the chart. Then there's that other kid that it looks like the Milky Way galaxy beside his name. He's got a star for everything. When they're little little gold stars work. But like I told you last night When they're older, pepperoni pizza is what works. You realize teenagers will do just about anything for a slice of pepperoni pizza? I'll give you this illustration quickly just to prove my point there. Several years ago I was the director of a camp in West Virginia. My nephew was actually that year my assistant director of the camp. On Thursday night, I believe it was, we bought pizza for all the kids at the camp. And so there they all were. gathered together eating pizza and they'd all gone through the line one time and then we had plenty, so we said, All right, if you want seconds, come through the line a second time. Sixty, seventy some campers there. Then we realized that we had five pieces of pizza left. You certainly can't say if anybody wants thirst, come and get some more pizza, because what if six people show up in line? Now you're without hope and you're in trouble. So we came up with the idea that the five teenagers that were able to do the five most disgusting things would win those pieces of pizza. I'll never forget one thirteen year old girl walked up. She brought a boy named Christian. Christian was about six foot four and had a size thirteen and a half tennis shoe. Christian walked up and he put his foot up on one of those big white tables like that. This little girl got down, this thirteen year old girl got down and licked the bottom of his shoe from the heel all the way to the toe She did get one of those pieces of pizza and she made her daddy really proud. Yes, that was my daughter, in case you were wondering. But she did not win. She did get a piece of pizza. One young man came over every morning. We had cold cereal for breakfast. We were real fancy had cold cereal and juice and all of that. And when they empty, when they finished eating, they took their leftover cold cereal and milk, and they all dumped it in a fifty-five gallon trash can that was Specially lined with two with double trash cans and they would dump their juice and dump everything else that they drank in there. It had been sitting there. This is lunchtime now It's been sitting there since breakfast that morning. This boy walked up, got a sixteen ounce styrofoam cup, walked straight straight up to that fifty-five gallon drum, dunk uh sunk it down in there, and drank every single drop of it in front of us all. Yes, he did win a piece of pizza. Then we told him after he finished drinking everything and got his pizza pizza that his team had won the best cabin and so he was getting free pizza that night anyway. We probably should have told him that before he drank the Teenagers will do anything for a piece of pizza. Little kids will do anything for a little gold star. You know if we're going to give little gold stars in the Old Testament? I personally believe Moses would have more little gold stars than anybody else. He has been faithful when no one else was faithful. Think about it for a second. Here you have Moses has led the children of Israel to the banks of the Red Sea. We've already talked about this. And what do the children of Israel say? Well, there are no graves in Egypt that they'll make, or God is forced to die in this wilderness In other words, they said, Listen, we're gonna die now. The God who sent flies and frogs and killed the firstborn of every household of the Egyptians and made the sun go black and turned the water to blood has all of a sudden become Powerless, and while they were losing their faith, Moses stayed faithful, stand still, fear not, and see the salvation of the Lord Moses was faithful when the children of Israel came to him and it said, Our soul loatheth this white bread, and God sends fiery serpents, and the children of Israel begin to die as quickly as they were bitten, and Moses put that serpent, that brazen serpent on the pole and said, Look and live. He was faithful when Korah and Dathan and Abraham came to him and said, Listen, Moses, ye take too much upon you, seeing that all the congregation of Israel is holy. And these Levites told Moses, You shouldn't be in charge of the nation of Israel. We should be in charge of the nation of Israel. And Moses said, Well, I've got an idea. Let's have a contest. Let's have a contest and let God vote on who's going to lead the children of Israel. He said, Tomorrow morning you come with your incense off the altar, and I'll come with my incense off the altar, and then we'll let God make his decision. When they showed up the next day, Korh, Dathan, Nabaram, the two hundred and fifty princes of the Levites, all showed up. Then Moses gave them the rest of the rules of the competition. He said, listen, if you die some normal death, then you'll know I'm not God's man. You get run over by a chariot. You have a heart attack and die. You die of cancer. You'll know I'm not God's man. He said this, but if God does some new thing. and opens up the earth and swallows you, then you'll know I'm God's man. While Moses is speaking, the ground begins to quake. It opens up and swallows all of them down live into the pit, Korah, Dathan, Abaram, and all that appertaineth unto them. In other words, not just them, but everyone that was with them The funny part of that story to me, though, is the next day, the Bible says, the next day came the children of Israel unto Moses and saith unto him, Ye have killed the people of the Lord. I think that is one of the funniest statements in all the word of God. First off, Moses didn't kill anybody. Secondly, if God opens up the earth and swallows you directly down into the pit, then you weren't the people of the Lord in the first place. God's patience runs out. He sends pestilence into the land. They begin to die as fast as you could snap your fingers. And Moses yells to Aaron and says, Aaron. Run as quickly as your eighty-three year old legs will carry you, and get some incense off the altar and come stand between the dead and the living. Aaron runs as fast as as he can and comes back and stands between the dead and the living and God stopped the plague, but not until after 14,700 Israelites died that day Moses has been faithful every time they've complained. He was faithful when he came down from the mountain and saw them worshipping a golden calf and announcing, These be thy gods, O Israel, which deliver thee up from the hands of the Egyptians. He's been faithful when no one else was faithful. I've preached for a whole lot of pastors. I've preached for some incredible pastors who love their flock and preach to their flock and watch for their souls as ones that must give an account. I've met some pastors that have gone through some great trials and tribulations and had some really stubborn church members, but I've never yet In 28 years of doing this, met a pastor that said, you know what, Brother Harper, I'm such a good pastor. I'd like to go back and try my hand at pastoring the children of Israel. They were never satisfied with anything. They still had the audacity to question Moses' leadership when they're being led above by a pillar of cloud during the day and a pillar of fire during the night If anybody deserves gold stars, it's Moses. But here's what we do, Christian. It's what all of us do, is it not? After we've got enough gold stars, we think it's time to coast. Or worse yet, after we've got enough gold stars, we decide that we're pretty good just the way we are. We'll say things like this. I don't need to come to an altar anymore I'm a good Christian. Remember how you got to be a good Christian? It was at an altar somewhere along the way. I don't want to come to an altar anymore. Someone might think there's something wrong with me. I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad news But we all know there's something wrong with you. And you all know there's something wrong with me. Simple truth of the matter is, we get to the place and we even use that excuse. Well, that's just the way. He is. Listen carefully. There is not a single one of us that ought to be satisfied with the way he or she is. That should be a statement of conviction, not a statement of pride. Moses in this passage of scripture is going to sin. He's going to sin against a holy God. One sin. He certainly is not the most wicked person now. As a matter of fact, we use the term oftentimes to describe Old Testament saints. We often call them Christians. Well, they weren't Christians at that point in time. They're first called Christians in Antioch, like we mentioned the other night. But the truth of the matter is we tend to use that term. We talk about Daniel as a Christian and Moses as a Christian. They were not But if we are to define in in defense for the preachers, if we're to define a Christian as someone who loves the Lord, believes in the Lord, obeys the Lord, walks after the Lord, and tries to serve the Lord, then Moses was not just a good Christian. He wasn't even just a great Christian. Think about this for a second. By the time we read Numbers chapter 20, Moses would have been the best Christian on the face of the earth. The gold star charted Moses, the best Christian on the face of the earth, Moses, the up on the mountain getting the law, Moses, the holding your rod out over the Red Sea, Moses. It's that Moses that is going to sin. In this passage of Scripture, I want you to notice that God does not give Moses a pass when he sins, just like God does not give us a pass. At the beginning of the story, he's the best Christian on the face of the earth. Watch this one though. At the end of the story, he's still the best Christian on the face of the earth Let's look if you will please. I'm going to preach a message entitled One Sin, Too Many. One Sin Too Many Numbers chapter twenty, begin with reading with me please in verse one. Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month. The people abode in Kadesh, and Miriam died there and was buried there. There was no water for the congregation. They gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the people showed with Moses and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the Lord? Why have you brought up the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness that we and our cattle should die there Wherefore have you made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us into this e unto this evil place? It is no place of seed or figs or vines or pomegranates, neither is there any water to drink Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces. And the glory of the Lord appeared unto them. And the Lord speaking to Moses, saying, Take the rod And gather thou the assembly together, thou and ere and thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock, so thou shalt give the congregation and their beast drink And Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him. And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, you rebels! Must we fetch you water out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand. With his rod he smote the rock twice, and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, because ye believe me not to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them. One sin, too many. Let's have a word of prayer. Lord Henry Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for our time in your word. Father, we ask that you bless the message. Father, that it convicts hearts tonight as your word goes forth. Father, have your will and your way, and may we be willing to submit to your will and your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice first we see the situation. Here is Moses and Aaron, and they're leading the entire nation of Israel. Follow me carefully with this, because I want to look at a few things as we look at the situation first. the people involved. There are two groups of people that are diametrically opposed. They're polar opposites. They're antithetical of each other. On one side you have the children of Israel, and on the other side you have Moses and Aaron. Let's start with the children of Israel for a moment. Notice three quick things about these people, the children of Israel. Number one, they're unpraying people. They get to this place outside of Kadesh and they start looking around and they don't see any water there. Let me remind you that their first response ought to have been to pray about this thing, shouldn't it? See, listen, Christian, our first response ought to be to pray. Unfortunately, it's usually our last resort that is prayer. They should have said, let's get together in groups of fifty. Let's have a men's fair meeting and a ladies' fair meeting. Listen, this group of people right here that we're talking about in Numbers chapter 20 has seen more manifold miracles involving water than any group of people that ever lived until our Savior walked the earth. They saw God turn water into blood. They saw God part the Red Sea. They saw God deliver water out of a rock earlier. They've seen God do manifold miracles with water. They should have looked around and said, Listen, I don't see any water here But there are plenty of rocks. God could certainly give us water out of a rock. I don't see any water here, but there's lots of sand, and if God could turn water uh blo uh water into blood, he can turn sand into water. So we have nothing to worry about. Let's just start Praying about this thing. It doesn't even cross their mind to compla to pray doesn't even enter their thought process to get on their knees and talk to Jehovah God and ask him for water. Not at all. They're unpraying people. The Bible tells us to be praying people, to pray without ceasing. 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 17. 1 Chronicles 16 and verse 11. Seek the Lord in his strength, seek his face continually. Should have prayed, but they didn't. They're an unpraying people. Notice number two, quickly, please. They're an untrusting people, aren't they? Moses? Why'd you lead us out here to die? First off, as we've already mentioned multiple times this week, it is not Moses that led them here. It is the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire that led them here. Every time they said, Moses, we're going to die in this wilderness, do you know what they're really saying? We just don't trust God to take care of us. They have no confidence in the Lord, they have no trust in Him whatsoever. You brought us here to die. You promised us milk and honey, and there's no figs, and there's no vines, and there's no pomegranates, and there's no water to drink So you and God lied to us. They're unpraying people. They're untrusting people. Listen, Christian, how far does our trust go? When we're looking around and we don't see our way through, do we just continue to go on and step with our Lord? Or do we stop and say, I'm just going to wait here till I see the end result clearly? Listen, Christian, if God did sit down and explain to us the end result, we still wouldn't be able to understand it. Because as the heavens are above the earth, so are my ways above your ways, and my thoughts above your thoughts You wouldn't understand him if he explained it all to you. Romans 11, 33, the Apostle Paul says, Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out They're unpraying people. They're untrusting people. But number three, watch this carefully. They're unsympathetic people. Look, if you will, please, at what it says in verse one. So much is in verse one. Now Now then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zen in the first month, and the people abode in Kadesh and Miriam died there. And was buried there. Realize Miriam has just died. They're in this place where there is no water. Miriam dies. Remember Miriam following Moses' little bassinet as it floats down the Nile River? It's Miriam that actually approached Pharaoh's daughter And told her she knew someone that could help raise her newfound adopted baby boy. And Miriam put her mother and her baby brother back together Miriam's been faithful except for just one little bout with her own pride a few chapters before, and God has dealt with her about that, and now Miriam is dead. And the children of Israel realize that this man who has loved them and led them, this man that has guided them and guarded them, this man that has offered up his own salvation If God would not deliver the children of Israel, this man just lost his sister, the dearest person on the planet to him And not one single member of the children of Israel says, you know, I'm as thirsty as the next guy, but I think we need to give Moses a day or two. To mourn for the loss of his sister. I think we need to have some sympathy toward Moses and Aaron. It doesn't even cross their minds to even think about anybody other than themselves On one side, we have these people, the children of Israel. They're unpraying, untrusting, and unsympathetic. On the other side, we have Moses and Aaron. The first thing Moses does, he comes back, he and Aaron come back from the funeral, wearing their funeral clothes, and here come the children of Israel. Boy, sure are awful thirsty, Moses. What are you going to do about it? And Moses said, Here's what I'm going to do I'm going to organize a blue ribbon commission. We're going to have them study this thing about the best place to find water. And then I'll get No, it's not what he did He said, here's what we're going to do. We're going to get groups on eight-hour shifts of men that'll just work and dig and dig, because if we keep digging long enough, we're eventually going to get to the water table and then we'll find water in the front. No, that's not what he did He said, Listen, a couple of miles back I remember seeing an oasis and I know the pillar of cloud is not moving and the pillar of fire is not Stationary, but you know what? I'm gonna go where there's water, so we're just gonna get up and move from here and go back to where we know there's no that's not what he did You know what the first thing Moses did? He left the assembly of the congregation and went to the door of the tabernacle, and he and Aaron fell on their face. The children of Israel were unpraying people. Moses and Aaron prayed. Moses got down on his face and talked to Almighty God, because Moses knew this. If you're going to find water where there is no water, God's got to be involved. Children of Israel were unpraying people, Moses and Aaron prayed. Children of Israel were untrusting people, Moses and Aaron trusted. God said, take all of the thirsty, complaining Israelites, and take them over to a rock. And talk to it. You say, Brother Harper, of course Moses did that. That's what God told him to do. If God told you and I tonight that before the end of the night This offering plate was going to spew out water. How many of us would go in the kitchen and get a cup and wait for a drink Moses just trusted. Do you ever notice that God doesn't tell Moses what to say when he speaks to the rock? Can you imagine one and a half to two million Israelites? Thirsty, complaining, and griping, standing around. Moses and Aaron lead them all. And there they are. There's this big rock. And Moses walks up to it and goes, um Hey. Funny weather we're having here. God doesn't even tell him what to say to the rock, right? Just go and speak to the rock. By the way. Do you realize what Moses is risking here? Isn't Moses pretty much risking everything here? Put yourself in Moses' situation. He gets all one and a half to two million thirsty complaining Israelites. He bring them brings them all over to the rock and he says Hey, Mr. Ruck, we sure would like to have water. What happens if water doesn't come out? How long is Moses going to be leading the children of Israel? How long would it take those children of Israel standing there around this big rock to reach down and pick up some little rocks and stone Moses? At the very best, they're going to put him in one of those jackets where the sleeves tie together in the back. Because Moses is crazy. But Moses just trusted God. He trusted God when it put himself at risk. He trusted God when no one else trusted God. Notice. You have the untr unpraying children of Israel. Moses and Aaron prayed. The untrusting children of Israel. Moses and Aaron trusted. Then you have the unsympathetic children of Israel. Moses and Aaron have just come back from their sister's funeral, and they put their own needs, their own pain, and their own heartache aside, and cared for everybody else When I was a teenager, there was a popular poem, and it seemed that every single time you went to some kind of youth rally or something like that, some preacher quoted it I don't hear it very often anymore, but I'll never forget what it says, as it's talking about this very thing, others, Lord yes others. Let this my motto be. Lord, let me live more for others that I may live more like Thee. The first verse says, Lord, let me live from day to day in such a self-forgetful way that even when I kneel to pray, my prayer will be for others Notice, it's not hard to see who the good guys are in this story and who the bad guys are. It's not hard to see who the good Christians are, the praying, trusting, sympathetic Moses and Aaron, and the unpraying, untrusting, unsympathetic Uh children of Israel. Number one, we see the people. Number two, won't you see the problem? Back to that first verse, so rich with information. Notice what it says. Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the field of Zen The prairie of Zen. The rainforest of Zen. The oasis of Zen. The pasture of Zen? No, as we talked about the other night, it says the desert of Zen. That means there's no water there Why did the Lord lead them to a place where there is no water? The simple truth is this, sometimes, Christian, God leads us to a place where there is no water, so we're forced to trust Him for our next drink. Notice, we saw the people. We see the problem. We see number three, the prescription. Notice what God says to m to Moses and Aaron there in verse eight. Take the rod and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak unto the rock before their eyes. Four things. Get the rod, get the people, uh, get Aaron and speak to the rock. It's just that simple. Four things. Get the rod, get the people, get Aaron and speak to the rock, and water will come out Notice number one, that's the situation. Notice number two, the sin. Now you will get some commentaries and things like that, and some guys on the internet are going to say that Moses is judged so harshly in this passage of scripture. By the way, that's my Bible scholar voice. Moses was judged so harshly in this passage of Scripture is because Moses ruined a type of Christ First, Moses did ruin a type of Christ. Jesus is referred to as the rock in the book of First Corinthians. The rock was only smitten once, it wasn't smitten twice. When Moses hits the rock He is ruining a type of Christ. We understand that. Do you think Moses woke up that morning and said, You know what? I'm so upset that Miriam has died that I'm going to ruin a type of Christ today He had no idea that's what he was doing. You know why Moses is going to be judged in this passage of Scripture? Because God told him to do one thing and he did something else. Do you know why people want to make it sound like he's being judged for something else? Because when you put the principles in this passage into practice in your life, you start to realize that it doesn't matter how many gold stars you are, you have. You're just a rock hitter away. Notice. The sin. First thing I want you to notice about the sin. Three quick things about it. Number one His temptation was available. Now I'm going to ask you some questions, all right? And you guys do very good. Most churches do not respond the way you respond I'm going to ask you some questions and you're going to give me the right answer because I'm not going to ask hard questions. I've been in services where preachers will ask all these questions so they can stump you. And I'm not I'm not in the least bit interested in stumping you Question number one. Did God love Moses? Yes or no? Very good. Number two, did God know what's going to happen next? Yes or no? Number three, does God want what's best for Moses? Yes or no? Yes. Now don't answer this one. Why does God begin verse 8 the way he begins it? If God loves Moses, and he does. And if God wants the best for Moses, and he does. And if God knows what is going to happen next, and he does, why does he begin verse 8 with these words? Take the rod. Why didn't God say, Moses, this one time? Lay there and hold the rod. Moses, this one time, put the rod in the tent. Don't take it with you. Moses, I want you to walk 100 yards outside of camp. And I want you to dig a six foot hole, and I want you to bury that rod and put something on top so you can find it later. Why didn't God do that? If God does love Moses and he does, and he wants what's best for Moses and he does, and he knows what's going to happen next, why does God tell Moses to take the rod? Here's the best answer I can give you, Christian. Because God never promised us a life without temptation. It would be an easy thing for an Almighty God. If the moment you trusted Christ as your personal Savior, God put you in a protective bubble so that you could not see all the wickedness and all the sin That surrounds us every day. It would have been an easy thing for the moment you got saved for God to just translate us into heaven, wouldn't it? But He never promised us a life without temptation It surrounds us everywhere we go. Now God has made lots of promises about temptation, hasn't he? Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 18, in that he himself has suffered being tempted. He's able to succor them that are tempted Hebrews chapter four and verse fifteen, We have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was at all points tempted like as we, and yet without sin. First Corinthians chapter ten and verse thirteen, there is no temptation taken you, but such is common. But God is faithful, who also with the temptation also maketh a way of escape that we may able to beareth First John chapter four and verse four. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. First John chapter five and verse four. And that which is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world even our faith. Or John 16, 33. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. What I'm trying to say is God has promised to love us when we're going through a temptation. He's promised to understand us when we're going through a temptation. He has promised to control the severity of the temptation. He has promised to make sure that every temptation coming into your life is less than you're not. than what his power is inside your life. But he never promised you a life without temptation. By the way, that's where some parents make mistakes. You'll hear this from parents every now and then. Well, by the way, that's my less than intelligent parent voice when you hear that one. Well, they're going to be tempted eventually Might as well let them be tempted when they're 13. My father-in-law, I've talked a lot about him this week. He's 85 years of age. When you're 85 years of age, you can say Anything you want to say. No one's going to correct you when you're 85. Except maybe your son-in-law. No one's going to correct you when you're 85. So my father-in-law can say things that as a preacher I would never say from the pulpit So I quote him. If my father-in-law heard you say, Well, they're going to be tempted eventually, might as well let them be tempted when they're 13 years of age. My father-in-law would look you in the eye and say this, and I quote Are you an idiot in any other area? Now you know I didn't say that. That's not me saying that. That's my father-in-law Truth of the matter is, Christian, our jobs as moms and dads are to stand between the doorposts and lintels of our house. and stand there with our sword drawn and protect our children from every single temptation that we can protect them for. You say, Brother Harper, that's going to make me overbearing That's just fine. It doesn't take a village to raise a child. It takes a loving mother and father who actually care enough to step in and stop friends are and know what their friends are doing. Parents who are actually concerned about it. Parents who are willing to die on the door, on the on the entryway to their house to protect their children from every temptation they can And by the way, if that's you, mom and dad, you're half right. You're half right. Because while we're protecting them from every single temptation that we possibly can, We need to also make sure that we teach them that the way that they overcome temptation isn't through the power of daddy. It's through the power of God. Because there's going to come a time when daddy can't be there. But there'll never be a time when God can't be there. His temptation is available. The rod that he is going to use to literally ruin his ministry. He's not going to set foot in the promised land. The rod. In his hand is his temptation. His temptation is available. Secondly, watch this. His teammate is absent. So what did God say in verse 8? Read it with me, please. Now take take the rod, take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron. My brother. Look down at verse 9. And Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him. And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rod. Aaron is standing right there. So as Moses is standing there with the rod in his hand, and you can almost fixture Moses. He's emotional and he's mad. His heart is broken, and his feelings have been hurt by these people who do not love him enough to let him mourn properly for the loss of his sister. And as he stands there, you can see the grip on uh that he has on the rod get tighter and tighter as all the children of Israel are standing there, and he looks each one of them in the eye that are right And he looks at them and becomes even more upset and more incensed. And he lifts that rod up and he says, Here now you rebels! And he gets ready to hit that rock. Let me ask you a question As Moses is standing there with the rod above his head and that tight grip on the rod, ready to bring it down, where's Aaron? Why doesn't Aaron say, uh, Moses? Excuse me, just a second. Let's talk. I think God said to speak to the rock this time. He didn't say to hit it Aaron should have said, Moses, I think somebody might need a timeout. Why doesn't he do what he did in Exodus chapter fourteen, I believe it is, as Joshua is leading the children of Israel in a battle down in the valley against the Amalekites, and as Moses stands on the hill above as long as his hands are in the air. Remember the story The battle goes well for the children of Israel. When his hands go down, the battle would go poorly. And so Aaron and Hur stood on either side of Moses and held his hands up Let me ask you, when Moses lifts up that rod and Aaron stands there and watches and waits for the rod to start coming down, why doesn't Aaron step in and say, Hold it? And stop him right then and there Aaron doesn't say anything. Oh, Brother Harper, and Aaron done that. That would have embarrassed Moses. Yeah, probably right If Aaron had corrected him in front of all of the children of Israel, it would have embarrassed Moses. I have no problems agreeing with that. But let me tell you this. About 38 years after this As Moses and Aaron yelled to the top of their lungs on the other side of Jordan, and watched the walls of Jericho come tumbling down. Don't you think Moses would have looked at his big brother and says, Hey Aaron, thanks for not letting me hit that rock Let me tell you something, Christian. I don't give anybody permission to be a busybody. You shouldn't be the type of person that's posting every single thing that comes to your mind on your social media page. It's not your responsibility to the policeman for all the world. But I'm here to tell you, if you know someone that is about ready to destroy their life, their family, their home, or their ministry, and you stand idly by and watch it happen, you're every bit as guilty as Aaron is His temptation is available. His teammate is absent. Number three, quickly, his temper is apparent. Here is Moses. Fear now, you rebels. I don't think he said it like some of the modern day television preachers. Here now you rebels. Must we fetch you some odd round rock. No, no, no. Moses with his booming voice says, Hear now, you rebels! As we fetch you water out of this rock. He's basically calling them children. No, if there is a water shortage in the world, some people say there is. If there is, I know how to fix it. Just if we could just have all that water back that our children drank whenever it was time to go to bed. Your child will go all day long without a drink of water, but when it's time to go to bed they become so thirsty that you have to give them water. He said, do I have to come in there and bring you a sippy cup worth of water? By the way, every pastor I know has had a Moses moment like this. Brother Harper, what do you mean? Someone comes to Pastor Leatherman. A couple. You've been fighting. You've been going at each other's throats for the last ten years. You don't get along, you never say a kind word to either one You come to the office and Pastor is sitting there and you say, Pastor, can you help us? We have problems in our family, problems in our or our finances, we have problems in everything Can you help us? And I know your pastor well enough to know that he's not going to reach on his bookshelf and get you a book by Dr. Phil. He's going to pick up the Bible that's laying on his desk already open. He's going to turn to Ephesians chapter 5. I'm chapter 6, and he's going to say, chapter 5. I said it right the first time. He's going to turn to Ephesians chapter 5 and he's going to say, alright. Wife, submit yourself unto your own husbands. And every husband is going to sit there and go, Well, glory. About sometime somebody said that to her. Submit yourself unto your own husband as unto the Lord. You're supposed to be in subjection to him. The wife doesn't like it at all, but the husband's enjoying every second of it And just before the wife walks out and the husband starts running laps, shouting amen, the pastor then turns his attention to the husband. And he said, And you, sir, you're supposed to love your own wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself For it. You're supposed to love her as your own body. And by the way, the two commands aren't based upon one another. They're mutual exclusive You're supposed to be in subjection to him even if he doesn't love you the right way. You're supposed to love her the right way even if she isn't in subjection. But I'm here to tell you, it's a lot easier to be in subjection to a man that loves you sacrificially, and it's a lot easier to love a wife sacrificially that's in subjection. You stand up and you walk out. For the first time in ten years, first time in ten years, you're in complete agreement. Husband looks at the wife before you get to those glass doors out there and he says, Phew. Wow That was a little harsh. The wife says, I know. I was thinking the same thing. She says, I thought he was hard on you. And the husband looks at her and says, Yes, and you're you're more subjective subjective than some wives. Tell you something. The Bible advice is always the right advice. But the Bible advice is almost never the easy advice. You walk out the door, you go home, you get online, you download the latest v book, latest offering by Dr. Phil. I'm not just picking on Dr. Phil or any one of those experts out there that don't know anything about it, uh are are fine You sit down there and you read it, you put into practice, and by the end of the first day you're fighting again. Two weeks later you've been fighting every single day You come back to Pastor's office. You say, Preacher, listen, we still have problems in our family and problems in our finances. As a matter of fact, preacher, we've only agreed about one thing in the last two weeks. You don't tell him that the one thing you agreed on is that you think he's all wet. Pastor looks at you and says, I don't understand. Did you try what I told you to do two weeks ago? And you look at him and you say, Well, preacher. We thought what you said was a little drastic. Every pastor I know, every loving pastor I know, at that moment would like to reach out with his right hand. and lay it gently on the left side of your neck. Then reach out with his left hand and lay it gently on the right side of your neck. And then squeeze. And say, Here now, Rebel, I can preach it, I can teach it, I can live it, I can counsel it, but I can't come home and make you do it. Must I fetch you water out of this rock? Moses tempts temper is apparent. Because as you study the life of Moses, you find that he is probably as quick as any other person in the Word of God, maybe quicker, to give God the glory every time God does a miracle. But you won't find him mentioning the Lord's name in Numbers chapter 20. Notice number one. We saw the situation. Number two, we saw the sin. The temptation is available. The teammate is absent, the temper is apparent. Number three, watch the supply. All of a sudden, we get to transport ourselves. Now preachers use terms, and I don't know whether your pastor uses this term or not. I have not asked him. Sometimes preachers use terms that make them sound more intellectual than they are. We're all guilty of that. But we'll say this Let's go back to the desert of Zen in our mind's eye. You've heard that before. Do you use that very often? Okay. Our mind's eye. Now, uh Pastor asked me today, I I turned sixty in November of this year. And I don't know what in the world they're talking about with the mind's eye. I I think they're talking about your imagination or visualize it in your head. I understand that But why not say your imagination? I just don't understand. But anyway, let's go back to the desert of Zen in our minds, I There we are. There in front of us is two million people is in a circle around the big rock. In the middle of that we can see an 80-year-old bearded man holding a stick in his hand and his brother standing beside him Being Americans, we start to elbow our way to the front. We're not going to watch from the back, that's for sure. We elbow our way to the front. There we are in the front, and we watch Verse 11 happened before our very eyes. We watch verse 11 as it unfolds, and Moses lifted up his hand. With his rod, he smote the rock twice, and the water came out abundantly. What will we have said, every single one of us? We would have said, wow, God sure is blessing Moses. Look at all those people drinking water. Water doesn't actually come out of rocks. That's a miracle we just saw. Look what Moses just did. We can tell by the fact that water is coming out of that rock that Moses is doing everything right. That is our typical thinking, is it not? But God didn't send water out of that rock because of Moses. He sent water out of that rock in spite of Moses. He sent water out of that rock. You can't say that you believe it's a type and not understand that God had always intended on water coming out of that rock. God led them to the desert of Zinn. So he could make water come out of that rock. This is what God was going to do from the beginning. He didn't leave the children of Israel there to die in the wilderness of thirst But we all would have given Moses the credit, wouldn't we? Don't we do that, Christian? You come to the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church on a Sunday morning, you hear the word of God Preach, your wonderful song sung. You have fellowship with brothers and sisters in Christ. It's just a wonderful place to be, isn't it? Then you go home and you grab the clicker and you turn on Uh the channel on your television and there stands a man in a remodeled NBA basketball stadium with twenty thousand people standing there He doesn't preach like your pastor, doesn't preach from the same book, doesn't preach the same gospel. He's actually said he doesn't believe if you reject Jesus Christ that you'll go to hell He doesn't believe that homosexuality or abortion are actually sins. Those are just a few of the things that he said. And you say this in your heart. You know, he doesn't preach like my pastor His services don't look anything like ours do at church, but look at that crowd. God sure is blessing. Listen, Christian, stop judging God's blessings by external things. God blesses one thing and one thing only. He blesses this book right here. If it is in here, he blesses it. If it's not in here, he does not. It's just that simple. I don't think I've given you this quote before, but A. W. Tozier said this, preach the truth, whether it fills the house or whether it empties it We would have all thought Moses was a miracle worker when Moses is about to get judged. Now before I give you the last point, I want you to notice there's a time lapse here. Follow it with me. The end of verse 11. And we'll read all of verse 11. And Moses lift up his rod and hand, and with the rod he smote the rock twice, and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also. Most Bible scholars will tell you there's roughly two million Israelites at this point in time that have come out of Egypt. Here they are. Two million of them, and they all got something to drink. Now, I certainly don't believe that this water coming out of the rock is like the local church water fountain Where e uh one kid can take up thirty minutes while they're standing there at that little water farm, that little trickle of water that's coming out of there. I believe there's more water than that, but I don't know how much water there is. I do know that if there are two million people, there are multiple million animals Congregation drank past tense. Their beasts also past tense. How to go get the beasts and bring them to the water. In other words, there's a long time here. It's not as if Moses hit the rod and hit the rock with uh the rock with the rod and God said immediately, as soon as his rod hit the rock, I got you now. No. Moses had time Don't you think, knowing the kind of man that Moses is, that he probably stood there and thought, I shouldn't have hit that rock. God didn't tell me to hit the rock. At least I prayed more than those guys did. At least I was at church more than they are. At least I worked harder than that family. Brought more visitors than those did. I read my Bible more than that guy does. Isn't that what we do? We're so busy looking at everybody else and comparing ourselves to everybody else, and the reason we do that is because the person we pick to compare ourselves to is someone that we always beat. We compare ourselves to others so we can feel good about ourselves. Because if you compare yourself to Christ, you're not going to feel good about yourself. Moses had plenty of time to get right. See, but the Arthur, if Moses had confessed his sin, would he have still gone to the promised land? I can't answer that question. But just as your pastor said last night, I can say this. If Moses had confessed his sin, he's still faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If he had confessed it, he would have been forgiven. Just because you confess and are forgiven doesn't take away all the ramifications of our sin, though. But I want you to notice the sorrow. Look at verse 12. And the Lord spake unto Moses, he hit the rock, right? And Aaron. Huh. Because you believe me not to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this congregation to the land that I have given them. Moses is going to miss the promised land. You know all those people that were complaining and griping because they didn't have water, all those people that were saying, You brought us forth to die in this wilderness If they were under the age of twenty in Numbers chapter fourteen, in just forty years, they're going to walk across the dry Jordan riverbed, they're going to watch the walls of Jericho fall down, they're going to see the sun stand still in the sky. But Moses won't see it. People that didn't pray, weren't sympathetic, and didn't trust God, who were certainly not nearly the giant of a child of God that Moses is. Will walk into the promised land, and Moses will not. Wow! I wonder what big sin Moses committed. Did he have another God before God? Did he make a graven image? Did he fail to keep the Sabbath day? Did he not honor his mother and his father? Did he take the name of the Lord thy God in vain Did he lie, bear false witness, and steal, kill, commit adultery? Did he covet? No, he didn't do any of those things. What big humongous sin toppled this giant? He helped you. That's it. He hit a stick with a rock You can look it up. It's not the eleventh commandment. Thou shalt not hit thy stick with a rock. It's not in there. Oh no, Brother Harper. No, no, no. You're trying to get us there. You know what Moses did, he disobeyed God. So let me ask you a question. Is there a single one of us, just one of us in this auditorium, that hasn't disobeyed God worse than this today? Here's our problem, Christian, and it's the same problem that Moses has right here. We're all a bunch of rock hitters. But instead of being broken about it, we count our gold stars. By the way, you know what Aaron did to miss the promised land? Now watch, you don't want to miss this. Here it is. God said, take Aaron. Aaron went with Moses. He said, gather the people. Aaron helped gather the people. Aaron's standing there right by the rock. Aaron doesn't hit a rock. Aaron doesn't even have the rod in his hand. Why isn't Aaron going to the Promised Land? Because him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. Moses isn't the only one that fails this test. Aaron fails too. He just stood there and did nothing. Watch this, because it's scary, Christian. And God held him every bit as accountable as he held Moses. Think about that the next time you wink and nod and don't say something when the Lord lays something on your heart. Listen, Christian, we can walk in and out of church, come to church every time the doors are open, say amen, put money in an offering plate. But until the Lord starts breaking our hearts, when we just hit a rock, we'll never develop into the Christian that God wants us to be. When God starts breaking your hearts about being a rock hitter, then you're ready to grow. He asked you a question and we're done. When's the last time you sat at a church service on Sunday? You couldn't wait for pastor to get finished. Not because you had an appointment. Not because you had a roast in the crock pot. Not because the grandkids were coming over in a little while. She couldn't wait for Pastor to get finished. She had to get to that altar as soon as possible. If it's been a while, then you've forgotten that you're a rock hitter. By the way, the same God Who judges the children of judges Moses? You see why in our mind he's unfair? Some of those very children of Israel will see the promised land and Moses won't. But that same God, who judges the Christian for one sin too many, also forgives the sinner of every single sin he's ever committed. Wouldn't you like to trust him tonight? Wouldn't you like to know that your sins are gone? But if you're a Christian, it's time to come face to face with the truth that we're all just a bunch of rock hitters. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around. Every head bowed, every eye closed