Same as if I needed the lapel, I said, if I don't have to have it, I'll just stay right here. It's nine. But uh I uh prayed about, you know, what I should preach about and a couple things. Uh I just weren't working out and I had uh told the pastor that sometimes as I read my Bible, you know, I'd uh I knew the day would come when uh the pastor would ask me to preach. just I don't know how I knew that but I knew that. So as I read my Bible it's if the verse jumped out at me or I I'd I'd write it down and maybe write a little note by it or something. Um maybe I could come back and develop that sometime. And of course I procrastinated, never did it. But I got to thinking about that, so I went back and the the first entry I had on there was 1 Corinthians 12 verse 14 and I had after that the importance of all church members And that's going to be my text for this this evening. So if you would uh turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 14. I'm going to be reading through pretty much the whole chapter, but uh I'm just going to read verse 14 to get started. 1 Corinthians 12, 14 reads, For the body is not one member, but many. Let's go ahead and open up with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this day, Lord, and uh the opportunity again to be in your house. Father, I pray that you would fill me with your spirit, Lord. If you'll speak through me, just use me as your instrument, Father, to preach this message. I do feel you've laid on my heart, Lord. Thank you and praise you in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, when the the verse talks about when we're talking about the body here being one member, or many members made up. Um we're not talking uh we're talking about the body of believers, and that's in general all saved individuals, but for all purposes here tonight, we're uh basically talking about um our church body, our church uh uh family. And as Paul was writing this letter, he was writing it to the Corinthian church. And uh he was writing this book for uh a couple different reasons. Number one, he was writing um to address the sin that the current that was being allowed by the church to come in and affect the church. The second reason he was writing it was to answer questions. that were brought to him that the church had. And one of the biggest the questions was about the diversity of gifts in chapter chapter twelve. One of the main problems in this church, the Corinthians, that seems to be come up multiple times throughout this letter, is the problem of division in the church. Now I know, you know, the Bible was written a long time ago and uh you know that the the the churches back then they they probably had a lot of problems with divisions and you know we We probably don't have too much problem with that anymore. So this verse probably gonna apply to a lot to us, right? You know, it's it's amazing how the the Bible was written so long ago and it just still applies Uh we still have the same problems we go through. Our churches go through the same problems that those churches went through. And it it still applies uh to us. I want to go back to chapter uh chapter one just to look at this problem of divisions when it first uh first comes up. Uh 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10 says, Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you. For that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Now this I say that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, I am of Cephas, and I of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? The answer to those two questions in 13s was no. Christ is not divided. Paul was not crucified. Let me just ask ask you all a question and uh you can speak up. If Paul would have been crucified, if he'd went to the cross, or Cephas, or uh Apollos, what would have happened to them? If they would have gone to the cross They'd have died and gone to hell, right? They were sinners. So that's what Paul is saying here. He's saying, look, it's it's not me, it's not Apollos, it's not Ticephus, it's it's Christ. Mike told me to keep up on my notes that be a good help and I'm not doing it here, so I'll have to find my plane. Uh but but like I said, uh the we we see the division here. Uh Paul is talking about the divisions amongst the the people that they were following, some were following Paul, some were following Apollos, some were following Cephas, some Christ. And Paul says, Look, it's not it's not us. It's Christ. And uh in chapter three, turn over to chapter three uh three through five, he he talks about this again. Says chapter three, verse three for ye are not for ye are yet carnal, for whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? For while one saith, I am of Paul, and And another, I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to you every man. And here again he's he's he's addressing this This problem of divisions in the church and he's he's saying this the same thing again. He's saying, Look, we're just ministers. You know. Uh you know, the word of the the Bible is is by inspiration. And it uh it is God's word. It wasn't their word. They were just bringing bringing the word to this church. Um Be happy to know on one page through four. Chapter twelve, back to my text, is really what I wanted to get to tonight. It deals with these divisions too. That's kind of why I started out in there in verse one with talking about the divisions. And if you remember there at the beginning, one of the reasons Paul wrote this letter was to address these questions. And as it said said there in chapter one that these questions came to him through uh I believe it was the the house of Chloe that that's how he knew about what the problems were in the church and uh and knew uh what to write them and address these questions. So in chapter twelve we we see a question. Verse one says, Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you to be ignorant. So apparently there was a question raised about these uh diversities of gifts in the church. And apparently it was causing uh causing divisions amongst the body. Verse 25 says that there be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. And that word schism means division. So he's he's addressing that uh This this thing about division again. And Paul answers this question about the diversity of gifts in a an interesting way. You know, he doesn't do it like probably I would, and just uh he could give a simple answer. He uh he made it personal And um he he he shows the the Corinthians through through I wrote down three things. One he discusses what the body of believers had in common. The second thing was he uh showed them that every individual in the body was important and that as an in as the body that we need one another. Uh the third thing was he he showed them in this chapter how that they affected one another. Um number one was what did the body have in common? Uh number one I wrote down was they served the same God. And as I preach this tonight, I'm preaching this, uh, Paul preaching it to the Corinthians, but you know, we know the Bible, it's preaching it to us as well. So, you know, I I would say what do we, uh this church as a body of believers have in common Number one, they served the same God. Verses four through six. Says now there now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord, and there are diversities of operations, but is the same God which worketh all in all. All churches, all bodies, we we there's all there's differences, and thank God for that. Thank God there's differences in in each of us and our personalities. So it's Jackie and I Pastor always picks on Tom, so I don't pick on him, but I was like, Can you imagine if we were all like head if we were all heads back there and But uh anyway, you know there there are differences. Verse 4 says there there there are differences in gifts. We all share different gifts. We don't all have the same gifts. You know, there there are differences in the administrations, there are diversities in operations. But there's one thing common in all three of those verses. At the end of them it says, but the same Lord, the same Spirit in verse 4, verse 5, the same Lord, verse 6, the same God, which worketh all in all. And we all serve, we serve, we serve the same God. It's not uh you know it's not uh we don't have many ways to heaven like a lot of people preach. You know, it's it's there's there's one way to heaven. The Bible teaches one way to heaven and it's not uh it's not just what whatever you believe and whatever you worship. Um it's it's one God that we uh that we serve. Um the second thing that we have in common As we share the same goal, verses 7 through 12. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. But to one is given by the Spirit, the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit, to another the to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another diverse kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues, but all these worketh that one in the selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. Now the goal of the goal of every uh every church I believe, and it it's sad that it's not these days, but for a Bible-believing fundamental church, the the main goal and purpose of our church should be to share the gospel, spread the gospel. um tell people how to be saved. Now we have other purposes, but that should be at the forefront. Um sad to say that the church we left, that was the biggest reason we left the church, because that was as far from as far from their mind as as as it could get pretty much. And um you know I I just I knew that uh the the the the focus of the church should be, first of all, is is is spreading the gospel And uh these verses show us that we need to combine all our gifts. Each individual has a gift, a spiritual gift. And we need to combine the gifts that God has given to us. and bringing them together into one body for the purpose of of spreading of spreading the gospel. And we need to also use these gifts that he speaks about here. uh to build up the body, our our our individual church body, the body of believers in in general, but our church body. And we wanna we want to see it grow. and uh and move forward. Um but three, uh the third thing I I saw that we have in common is we share the same salvation In verse 13, For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink of one spirit And when he's talking about baptism here, I think you all realize he's not talking about physically being immersed in water. He's talking about You know, we're we're spiritually baptized and united with Christ and salvation. And that's what he's saying. And there again, it's there's only one way. It it's not it's not uh as many say that that there's uh yeah, there's many different ways. Uh the third thing or the fourth thing that uh I thought I share that we had in common is we all share the the same home. Actually I missed something there Mike, I'm not paying attention. Uh that verse also says we're we'll go back to verse thirteen. Uh we're we're we're all saved, it's it's uh by one spirit to be baptized in the same body. And so whether we be Jews or Gentiles, bond or free, we've all been made. And you know, it doesn't matter whether we're uh you know, black or white, rich or poor, you know, American From Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Ireland, you go on down the list. It doesn't matter. We all have been baptized into one spirit, and we all need to combine our gifts together to uh to form one body. You know, we the There should be no racial divisions in in the church. It's sad to say that there are. But uh another I had one for Becky there uh I said uh rich or poor, black or white, uh was it pretty or not attractive. I told her I'd throw that in there. But last thing was we shared the same home And uh like I said, if we are in the body of believers, like I said, we're talking about saved, saved people here. Saved body of the believers. We all share the same home, and that is heaven someday But uh while we're here, we need to use these gifts that we're gonna talk a little more about here in a minute for God's purpose. Number two, the second thing that Paul um discusses in this is he's answering this question about the diversity of gifts. He shows them that everyone in the body is important and that we need each and every one of us in the body. Verse 21 Through twenty-five. And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble or necessary or I'm sorry, more feeble are necessary, and those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor. And upon And our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness, for our comely parts have no need. But God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to the part which lacked. That there should be no schism, and again that word means division, that there be no division in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another There in number twenty-five, he's talking about divisions again, and it caused uh what he's saying there through verse twenty-one through twenty-five, he's saying, like, these gifts are causing divisions. in in the church. You know, apparently they were uh some some of the members were looking upon others as if, you know, they didn't need that part of the body. And um he he uses, you know, the the illustration of the eye and the hand. You know, the eye can see, but if he can't he can but he can't do anything because he doesn't if he doesn't have the hand. And the same way with the head to the feet, you know, the the head can say, I don't need the feet, but he's just gonna sit there. He's gonna be able to do anything. And uh, you know, he's he's telling these these uh Corinthians here and telling us that You know, y it it may seem that that some of the the the jobs in the church and the gifts are are less important, but uh they're not. Each and every person is needed. Just as much as the other. You know, um can't read. Um you know in in the in the church body, obviously we think uh the pastor is the head of the church, and rightly so. He should be the head of the church. And he can't do it alone. You know, we have from the pastors you go down, you have the you know officers in the church, the deacons, the trustees, you have ushers, nursery workers. I'm sure I'm gonna miss someone, so if I left someone out, don't yell at me. Teachers, Sunday school teachers, we have bus ministry, bus workers, bus drivers, you know, people that clean the facilities. uh keep up the the outside, mow the grass. You know, there there's all kinds of jobs. And, you know, e even though the pastor is the head of the church, he can't do it without, you know, the person that that cleans the church. And with without the pastor, then you know the other the body it doesn't it just doesn't work. You know, without each person, there in reality No job in the church, if it's if God gives us a gift, he expects us to use that gift to our full potential. And uh like I say, he he hasn't he doesn't give everyone the same gift. We all have different gifts. But if we use it to our full potential, it's just as important as the pastor of the church because they're all vital to the the workings of the church And uh I just want to say, you know, in our church right now we need we need uh people to step up and use their gifts. I know the bus ministry right now is is struggling. Uh with with James Leaving, he was really keeping that thing going and uh we need workers. We need uh we need people to get out there. And I'm preaching this message to myself, believe me. It's uh it's just as much to me. I I think that's sometimes the Lord lays stuff in your heart because he he's directing it at you as much as anybody else. But uh you know we need we need people in in the bus ministry. This act sixteen thirty project. We don't want to drag this thing out You know, we want to keep at it. Keep working. You know, there may be someone out there that you know, people people die each and every day. They might not they might not get that booklet. You know? And I'm not saying we should finish it tomorrow, but we should, you know, keep at it so we can move on. And y you don't have to look too far, especially around this church, to find something to do. I tell you what, I've never seen a man such as our pastor who There there's something to do. You can't do it all. You're never gonna you're not gonna be able to do it all. You can try, but it's impossible. Um But he gives us so much, he keeps so much out there. And it's all different things. You might not have the gift to do one job, but there's something out there that believe me that can be done in the church and to help out the body The third thing that Paul uh talks about is uh how that we affect one another. Verses twenty-six through thirty. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now you're the body of Christ, and members in particular And God has set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles and gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all apostles, are all prophets, are all teachers, are all workers of miracles, have all the gifts of healing, do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret. And there again, he he gives us a line of questions, and the answer to all those questions are no. We don't we don't possess all the gifts. God gives us uh the gifts as we need them. Verse 26. I really got stuck on this verse. It says, Whether one member suffer all members suffer with it. And that's that's a that's a real that's another purpose of the body of our church. You know, it seems like may maybe it's not, but it seems like since I've been here, th there's been an awful lot of suffering. that that's been going on and it it you know w I think of brother Charlie, you know, with the with his house and uh the over streets, you know, in that situation and all they went through. You know, and uh Brother Jerry with with uh everything he's been going through, uh with the passing of his dad just lately, brother Mike, you know, the the trials that he's been going through with this. I was thinking about uh Tammy with you know the complications with little Reagan. You know that's gotta just rip your heart out when uh it's a little baby like that. And um you know, like I say there's there's all It it th there's um there's more, you know, the with Linda, you know, the fight she had, just uh all these this suffering, and and that's that's what we're here for as a body. You know, it says members uh whether one member suffer, all members suffer with it. You know, we should we should suffer with them. We should do you know everything that we we can do. That that's that's what that's what the body's here for to uh uh to help them. And number the one first way we can help them obviously is prayer. Let's pray for them. Prayer I I I know I I struggle with it. It's so underrated. I mean prayer is is powerful Um the pastor preaches about it often how powerful it is and how uh I I'm sure we don't we don't pray near enough. But we can help them, you know, financially and uh uh physical help, help them out in any way they can, encourage them. You know, and uh there's all kinds of way. But that that's what we're here for. To uh To help them out. And something that uh I was thinking about, and uh I know it's been said before, you know, I you hear about pastors talk about uh the altars being tear-stained, you know, from I I've never seen that. Uh I think I would have liked to have seen that. And I think that's something missing uh and I know it's missing in in In my life. I I you know, if if something if I'm feeling you know emotional, I'll I'll fight it. I'll I'll try to hold them back. And you know, I I think uh something that's really missing is tears in our our churches and in our our body this now uh there's something I I noticed I I thought about tears is they're hard to fake. You know, some people can might might be able to fake 'em, but that's that's a difficult thing to fake. And when someone, you know, that's going through something sees you, you may just be there just uh a shoulder and um w when they see you know the tears come they I I think it they really they really understand that you really we really do care and uh it's it's humbling. And I I just thought of that. You know it just seems like it's something missing. um today. It's like uh it's almost against the law to uh to cry an anymore. But uh the second part of verse twenty six Uh goes on to say, uh one member be honored, all members rejoice with it. And this is the other side of it. You know, if someone comes out of one of those those suffering or trials, we need to you know rejoice with them. And just there there's all kinds of things, you know, uh like Brother Pat, you know, graduating fr with uh his doctorate. That's a great, great achievement. You know, we need to rejoice in that. Um, you know, we have our our Um you know just our Sunday school they do uh they graduate from from the classes and do the programs and uh our uh s school kids graduating from college and stuff like that. Rejoice and and another thing Uh when we see and and I know this church is good about this, when someone gets saved and baptized, you know, that's a time of of rejoicing. Uh I don't know if I can quote the verse. perfectly, but it uh says there's rejoicing in heaven over over one individual getting saved. And um And that's just uh something that we really need to do. And and they're new members, you know. And when someone comes into the church, I know I'm bad at I'm bad for this. So this is uh going to me. But uh we need to welcome them and and talk to them. Sometimes you know they're just they're just back there by themselves and welcome them in, you know, invite them out to dinner. You know, do uh do whatever we can and and just that just goes along with you know rejoicing. Um lost again. Verse twenty eight and twenty nine Um we just it it's going back to the same the same thing about you know the body of believers. We don't all have, and I've said this pretty enough times, but we don't all have the same gift. Um but uh it's many, many members with many spiritual gifts. We all have one gift, at least one gift. Probably many have uh have multiple gifts. And we talked about not one gift necessarily being more important um than the other than another gift. But uh we we bring uh you know we bring our gifts that God has given to us together. uh with with many members to make up make up one body, the body of believers in our church. Verse thirty-one pretty much sums up the the whole chapter, I believe. And what Paul was trying to convey to the Corinthian church, it says, But covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet show I unto you a more excellent way. Now here again was was something that was causing divisions in the church, and we talked about that earlier. You know, apparently um There were some in the church that were they were looking at those you know, they was looking at the the gifts that seem like they're you know they're higher up on the the ladder And they were they were coveting those gifts and you know if you know if y if if you don't have that gift you're you're not gonna be able to to perform it. You can try all you want. But uh apparently they you know some were trying. They were coveting these these gifts that they thought were better and they were you know they were coveting them earnestly, it says But Paul says, look, and this is what he said through the whole chapter, he says, I'm going to show you, you know, the right way. I'm going to show you a more excellent, a more excellent way to look at this. He says, look, you guys Uh as a body you have these so many things in common, you need one another, not one more important than the other You need to use your gift, the one I've given to you, and use it to your fullest potential. I I truly believe when we get to heaven, you know, even though it may seem like it's a lower job than than another, if If you use your gift to the fullness, your your potential, the gift that God gave you to use, we don't want to put it up on a shelf, you know, and not use it. It's not it's not ten percent of the the body doing a hundred percent of the work It's it should be a hundred percent of the body. You know, it might it might just be, you know, something small, but we should be doing something. You know, someone else you might see someone else and you say, Well, they have the same gift I have. and they're already doing it. But uh and this is a problem I have. Uh I have a problem taking help from from other people. I think I can do it my s myself. But uh we need uh we need to to take help, like uh our Act sixteen thirty project. you can sign up for it and then you you you have helpers, people to to help you out. And uh that's that's not a bad thing. But uh I forget what I was talking about before I went off on that But uh but anyway, um like I said, Paul is saying here, he said, look uh you have things in common, you need one another. It's not just you know you and uh you affect one another more so than than we think. Um you know I used to uh when I was younger, I still like to, I don't do it much anymore, but uh basketball was my sport. It was pretty much the only sport I played And uh as motorsports it's a it's a team sport. But uh you have uh five players, you have a coach, it's it's made up of of uh diversity of of people, and they all have diversities of gifts Um some can handle the ball better than others, some can shoot better, some can score, you know, some can make the plays, they can make the assists, some you got tall, big guys in the bottom, they can push people around. And uh you know, get up there and get to rebounds and and uh and do that. And it's just like anything like that. We uh we look at you know, u usually it's it's the score, you know, whoever gets the the most attention or those who who have the highest scores. And we covet, you know. We we want that. We want to be doing that. We want to we want to do whatever we can, you know, to get that. But if if that's not our ability it's it's not gonna work. You know, it it it takes it takes each each team member to uh to do what they can do, the use the ability that they have working together towards that that one single goal. And uh we need to we need to do that in uh in our church. We need to, as I've said, take the gifts God has given to us. Remember, God gave gives us these gifts. We need to not put them up on a shelf, we need to use them uh for what he intended us to use him for. And uh each member, like I say, with with the spiritual gift that God has given to him to unite together into one body for the purpose of of spreading the gospel and building up the uh the body of believers to build up the church. I know we're mostly I'd say we're all home folk tonight. Um But you know, I hate to to not give the opportunity if there's someone here tonight that uh you know they're not a you're not a member of the body, it might be a young person. You know, I was just thinking about that. You know, sometimes we we look at our our home church and we say, Well, you know, we think everybody's saved here, but there's always that that age coming up, uh that age uh w where they they need to accept Christ. You know, you might not be part of the body of believers, uh saved. And uh if you're not tonight, I would urge you to uh to settle that before it's uh before it's too late. Uh well that's pretty much it. Uh let's just bow our heads. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this uh opportunity again to be here, Lord. I thank you for uh helping me to deliver this message. Uh La light on my heart, Father. I uh just ask Lord that uh if you've spoken to anybody, uh that uh they would respond and come forward during the invitation. Let's all stand our heads uh heads bowed, eyes closed. Uh You know, I I don't know uh how God might have spoken to you tonight. Maybe there's uh maybe you were involved at one time, uh maybe something got in the way of that. Uh You know, you're f you might have got your your feelings hurt or pride got in the way and and you put your gift up and you're not using it. Maybe you need to uh to get back into uh to using that gift for the Lord's purpose. Maybe maybe it's just something to totally unrelated to the message. Maybe you just need to do business with God about something. Maybe you have a lost loved one you're burning for. Or maybe you're a young person or someone here tonight who does not know for sure that they're uh they're saved and on your way to heaven. Uh Kathy Place uh a verse of invitation. I just uh ask you if if there's anything the Lord's dealing with your heart on, just uh come forward and do business with God tonight.