Passages of scripture tonight with me. First Thessalonians chapter two. First Thessalonians chapter two. We're preaching our way through the book of uh First Thessalonians We've entitled it the um uh a rapture ready church. And a church that we want to be like, a model church. And I'm afraid to talk too loud, Dave. I'm afraid I'll say something loud and blow everybody's ears And once you find 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, and then if you would turn to Acts chapter 16. 1 Thessalonians 2 and Acts chapter 16. As we said, and we've been saying, the church at Thessalonica is a model church. It was a church that Paul said other churches could follow their example and uh and uh set them up as a pattern. Um and uh it's a church that we would like to be like. Notice in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Verse numbers 17 and 18, the Bible says, but we, brethren, question, who's the we here? I've been asking this every time we come across it. Who's the we speaking here? Well, no, it's not the well, I mean they're believers, but uh who is it? It's the persons doing the writing. It's Paul and Silas and um Who's the other one? Timotheus, Timothy, Paul and Silas and Timothy. They're writing this letter together. And they said, we, brethren. being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire. Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I, Paul, once and again. But Satan hindered us. That phrase, that last phrase of verse 18, but Satan hindered us, caught my attention. That look in this, and I come up with uh this subject tonight, and uh that is this, one thing that Satan loves to do One thing that Satan loves to do. Let's pray, and we'll work our way through these verses. Father, bless now our study of your word. I pray that uh again I ask that your Holy Spirit would apply these truths and these verses to our lives. Help us to grow. God, I pray you'd help me as pastor and all of us as members of this church to do our part to make this a rapture-ready church that we could be a people prepared for your coming and uh could be a help and it'd be everything that you uh desire for us to be as a church. So please bless, Lord, and uh fill me with your spirit is my plea in Jesus' name. Amen When Paul left the church at Thessalonica, he left under peculiar circumstances. His departure from Thessalonica, the city, and from the church in particular, was very sudden. It wasn't something planned on ahead of time. It wasn't something that he and the church folk could prepare for. It was just all of a sudden, boom, he's gone. So that is a factor in why I believe he is saying some of the things he's saying here. Now, if you would, come back to Acts chapter 16. Actually, at this point, I want to look at Acts chapter 17. Paul's departure from here, when he left the church at Thessalonica, it was sudden, it was unprepared for. It was, they couldn't uh you know prepare themselves, their hearts, they couldn't say their last goodbyes, it was all sudden But in Acts chapter 17 and verse number 5, when he left the church at Thessalonica, he left under very difficult circumstances Look at verse number 5, Acts chapter 17. The Bible says this: But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellers Fellows. That was that was West Virginia version there. Lewd fellers. Lewd fellows of the baser sort. I just like that wording there So these lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered together a company, and set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people. And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also. This is all taken place in Thessalonica uh whom Jason hath received, and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there's another king, one Jesus. And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city when they heard these things. This is all happening in Thessalonica when Paul was there. And when they had taken security of Jason and of the other, they let him go And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea, who coming thither went to the synagogues of Jews. So you see the circumstances here. Things had started out great. People were getting saved. If you look there, verse 3, Paul was opening and alleging that Christ must suffer. Look at verse 4. And some of them believed and consorted with Paul and Silas. And of the gr of devout Greeks, a great multitude. And of the chief women, not a few. I mean, people are getting saved. The church is just exploding. Paul's teaching them and preaching uh discipling them, uh winning people to Christ when these fellers from West Virginia showed up. No, they weren't from West Virginia, they were from Philippi. And uh they showed up. Actually Philippi is in West Virginia. I just thought of that. I'm right even when I'm wrong. But um uh so anyway, these guys show up and they just turn things upside down, and Paul has to leave in those circumstances I tell you, I've never had to do this, but I know preachers that have. It is never a pleasant thing to have to leave a church under bad circumstances. You don't ever want to do that. If you want to leave a church, you want to do it when things are going good, when things are clicking and going well. So Paul has to leave. Suddenly, unprepared, he doesn't have a chance to say goodbyes, they don't have a chance to have a final going-away service for Paul. The Ephesians did, but here in Thessalonica doesn't happen. It's terrible circumstances. Jason's being dragged around, accusations are being made, and Christians are being persecuted. It's not a good thing. The third thing I notice about Paul's departure from the church at Thessalonica here is apparently it was against his will. Look at verse number 10 again with me. Notice it says, and the brethren immediately sent away Paul. Doesn't say that Paul says, you know, I need to get out of here. Doesn't say that Paul says, you know, probably be best for everybody if I just step out of the picture here. I get the impression that Paul wanted to stay there. The way I understand Paul reading and studying the book of Acts, he is not one that's afraid of a battle. He is ready to step up to the front, four-line, he's ready to be point man, he's ready to go after it. But the brethren say, Paul, you cannot be here. It's not good for the church. It's not good for the other churches. You need to leave. And I get the impression, as I said that Paul is being pressured into leaving against his will. He wants to stay there. He wants to be with them. Come down to verse number 14. Now he's at Berea. And a very similar thing takes place. And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul. And again he doesn't want to leave. And the believers at Berea were good people. They studied the says they were noble. And so Paul has this desire to stay and be with these Thessalonic believers. They're strong, they're hungry, they're growing, they're submissive to the Lord. They're everything a preacher would dream of in a church body. But he has to leave against his will. You read through the book of Acts, and it's kind of interesting, and I went this afternoon, I just kind of read through some of the chapters and Paul showing up at a town, church starting and his leaving. Some of the churches he left, you kind of get the impression he was eager to get out of there. Uh at Corinth, you know, he had no problem. He says, alright, let's leave. Um, several of these churches he had no problem. Do you ever go on vacation and visit a church and when you left you were glad it was over? We've been there a few churches like yikes. But Paul said, those folks in Thessalonica, I want to be with them. I don't want to leave. And so we've already noticed in the first several chapter in the first chapter and a half here, chapter two. Paul loved the believers at Thessalonica. There's no doubt about that. He had strong feelings for him. Now, I believe Paul loved all of God's people. You read the book at Corinth, and we I pick on them, I know, because it was such a disastrous church. But nevertheless, even though Paul was frustrated with them, and you can pick that up, almost angry with them, use that hesitantly. But he loved the people there. But there was something about the people at Thessalonica That just drew out Paul's heart. I put this down. Their sincerity, their purity, and their godliness touched the heart of Paul, I believe. And he just loved them. He wanted to be with him. Verse 18 and 19. Now, with all of that in mind, how he left the church, the circumstances and the procedure and all of it of him leaving. Verse 18 and 19, he now wants to go back. And he gives us a little insight into his thinking and the issues that he had to deal with in his attempts to get back there. Now, I'll tell you up front, his attempts to go back to this church and visit them did not work out. He couldn't make it back And he gives us a couple reasons. But look, look at verse 17. My first observation here tonight, the first issue that Paul reveals to us, I put it this way, Paul experienced separation anxiety. Separation anxiety. Now to be honest with you, I'm very proud of myself. That is a very psychological thought. And I don't usually think in psychological terms. But as I got looking at verse number 18, at verse number 17, I mean, that's what I see. Read it again with that concept in mind. But we, brethren, being taken from you, for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavor the more abundantly to see your face with great desire. Do you agree with me? Sounds like separation anxiety to me. I got looking up. I thought that term came to mind. I thought I'm going to look it up and see what the definition of separation anxiety is. And it means this. It means it's referring to intense grief over the absence of a loved one. And the illustrations they gave and the definition for this separation anxiety was they would illustrate it like a child on their first day of school. Screaming and yelling and kicking and hollering, I want my mommy, I want my mommy. That's the whole idea. In fact, I got looking up in my strongest concordance and looking at definitions and that phrase But we brethren, look at this next phrase, being taken from you is actually a term that is used, I'm told, that is used in other literature of the day To refer to a child or a person, a child who is forcibly removed from their parents In fact, the term that several of the dictionaries I use that I looked up used the term orphaned A child whose parents is taken from them suddenly in death. And the experience, the grief that that child is experiencing, is what that term there is used to describe in other literature. A child that is maybe in a war situation and the parents are taken and the child's left. And the grief and the anxiety. That that child feels. Now get this. That is the term that Paul is using for his separation from the believers at Thessalonica. Don't see he didn't love those people Man alive, he's saying, I feel like a child who's been orphaned without you all. I've been forcibly removed from you. I put this down under this heading. Paul's heart was broken over his separation from the Thessalonians. A term used to describe an orphan child. Referring to intense grief that he could not be with his church. Now listen, I love our church. I thank God for it. We go away, I look forward to getting back. But I'll be very honest with you, I've met very few people in my years in the ministry and serving that have that type of longing and desire for their church. I wonder when's the last time a person literally wept. Because they could not be in church. When is the last time a person felt anxiety And even had grief because they could not be with their church. Now, I don't mean to be cynical or critical here. But I would, you know, our experience has been over the years that for the majority of Christians, uh, if we miss church or whatever reason, it's just kind of like, oh well There's always another service. And it's amazing to me, and I'm not rebuking anybody, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm trying to apply what's being said here. But uh, you know, you have so many folks that for the slightest reason We can miss church. If there's any inconvenience at all about being with my church, well then I just can't do it. I just can't be there tonight. Now, obviously I'm not preaching at you. You're here. Amen? So we're talking about other people. We're not talking about us That's why we're here. Amen. But do you get the feeling of Paul's intense desire to be with this church? Now the question that comes to my mind as I'm studying this What in the world was it about this church that made Paul feel that way? And that's what this study is going to reveal as we go through here. But he he uh uh compared to current attitude among a lot of believers uh is just uh you know he he wanted to be with those dear people, these people of God So first of all, under this thought about his anxiet separation anxiety, his heart was broken over his separation from them. And I put this down, his heart longed for their reunion Look again at verse number 17. But brethren, being taken away from you, taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored we more abundantly to seek your face, to see your face with great desire. Man, you get the idea. He is doing everything he can. I've got to get back there. I've got to get to Thessalonica, to that church. I've got to get back with those folks And his heart longed to get back with them. That phrase great desire means has the idea of strong longings. It was almost like he's heart sick. Um remember when you fur maybe when you first started dating or you first uh got married and whatever and you were away from your sweetheart for a period of time Anybody remember way back then? And oh, your heart just ached. Oh, I can't wait to see him. I tell you, my heart went out for Brother Jua Adams. All the way on the other side of the world is family not knowing if they're going to come over. I think that's the idea being referred to here. And so It was the at the church at Thessalonica, that's where he wanted to be. I put this down. I believe it was at Thessalonica, the church at Thessalonica, where Paul felt the most at home. It seems that way. He just wanted to be there with them. That was where he felt the most comfortable. Where he felt the most loved. In fact, it says that was where his heart was. He said, I was taken from you for a short time, but not in heart. The heart was there. What's the old saying? Your home is where what? The heart is. Paul felt at home in that church at Thessalonica. They were his people. I would guess the reason for that would be is they loved the Lord the way he loved the Lord They saw the things of God the way he did. They had things in common. You get to church at Corinth, he's frustrated. He's rebuking them. How many times do I have to tell you this? But he gets to Thessalonica and he says, ah These people love God. These people see things the way I do. He felt at home there. I found over the years that with some folks they get saved out of differing backgrounds and differing home situations And there have been folks I've come across that literally felt more at home with God's people, with the church folk, than they did with their families. Felt more at home around the members of the church than at a church fellowship, they feel more at ease and more at home than they do at a family reunion. I think that's the way Paul was. These are my people. This is my crowd. We have everything in common. And so he had a great love. I think in studying this, I've kind of come to the conclusion that Paul was somewhat of an emotional man. He speaks about the longings or Remember in Romans, it's in chapter 9, and then again in chapter 10, he says, the desire of my heart and prayer to God is that Israel might be saved? It's an emotional term he's saying there. My heart is stirred. Here he says, you know, my great desire, he says, I feel like a child that's been orphaned. He's making all these strong emotional statements. And you know, I think our Christianity, our independent Baptists, we can use a little bit of emotion sometimes I would like to think the truths of God's word don't just stir our head, but it stirs our heart and affects our emotions. Um, you know, and I'm not talking about going crazy. I don't I don't want you to swing from chandeliers or anything, but why is it folks get more excited about a little uh uh leather ball getting across a goal line than we are about a kid getting saved. Why does that stir our emotions? Why is it we can sing a song about the price Jesus Jesus paid for us and up from the grave he arose and it elicits no emotional reaction but boy some guy throws a round ball through a round hoop and we just come unglued I think we could use a little bit of that emotion. Paul was emotional. Now don't misunderstand. I don't think he got up and cried every time. Can I this has been bugging me ever since I started this message. Can I just say it and get it off my chest? You know what drives me nuts? Football players that cry when they do an interview. Am I the only one, or is it Here's a foot professional football player, uh, He-Man. Oh, I'm just so grateful. It's like, I'll choke him. And um You know, I saw I was watching a honey show and this guy shot a deer and he was so excited he started crying. I said, Man, grow up, you know. So anyway, I feel better after having said that Nevertheless, Paul was somewhat of an emotional man. His heart was stirred concerning the things of God. John O. Rice preached the message and he made the statement several times over the different times I've read his books and different things. And he would say, he would say, the problem with a lot of our soul winners and a lot of our Sunday school teachers is we have no more tears for those whom we're trying to reach Our emotions have dried up. We have no feeling towards those, the lost people and the people we're trying to teach and train for the things of the Lord. And he would make this statement. He would say, Ask God to give you tears again. Ask God to stir your heart and give you emotion for the things of God. So, Paul is an emotional man. So the first thing I see here in verse 17. I noticed that he experienced separation anxiety. This bothered him, obviously. This was very heavy on his heart that he could not be with these people. Then verse 18 he makes and he shares with us another issue involved with his separation from this church, and that was this. I wanted to get there, I was trying, but Satan hindered us. That's the second thought to my message. Paul experienced satanic opposition. Paul experienced satanic opposition. That word hinder is an interesting word. The literal definition of it means this. To cut a ditch cross across a road or a pathway. To dig a ditch across a pathway so that it becomes impassable. That's what the idea hinder is. In other words, it is to put something between you and the goal so that you cannot attain the goal It's describing an obstacle, whether it would be a ditch or a wall or something like that. Now, Paul, for whatever reason, under the inspiration of God, God's wisdom, Does not tell us how Satan hindered him. I wish he would have. It would have made preparing this message a whole lot easier for one thing. But second of all, I just would like to know, what methods, what tactics did Satan use to keep Paul from getting to the place he really wanted to be? to keep him from being with the people he really wanted to be with. What tactics did he use? We don't know. The best we can do is guess And I'm pretty good at guessing. So I took some guesses. I'm just throwing these out. Was it because of open persecution? Was it uh just maybe the um uh disciples around him or other uh folks, his uh his co laborers Maybe because of the intense persecution that was there and uh all of that, maybe that's what they said, you know, I really want to get back there, but man, uh, you know, we'll probably pay with our price, uh pay with our life, I should say. Uh maybe I speculate maybe it's some intense persecution that uh uh prompted him to stay away, that Satan used to keep him from going there. I put this down. Maybe it was uh and we read in the other portions of scripture, he's having to deal with false teachers in the church at Galatia. He's having to deal with all this disaster in the church at Corinth. And he's got all these churches that are having so many problems that are demanding his time and his attention that he can't get back to the church he really wants to be with. And it's just Satan stirring up problems in these other churches that's keeping them from going down there. We don't know. Perhaps I put this down, maybe it was the divisions among God's people. And uh he had to deal with that, but we don't know. I wish that God would have had Paul write down what the Hindrance, what they were that hindered him so much. How many folks here wish that Paul would have written that down too? Alright? But he did. So deal with it. I put these thoughts down. Whatever whatever the obstacles were, whatever the Hindrances were they made it impossible for Paul to do what he longed to do. Now, a few thoughts under this, real quick, and then we're done. Paul recognized the reality of Satan. Paul recognized the reality of Satan. Hey, we are foolish if we fail to recognize the reality of this being called Satan He is very real. He is very active. And we are doomed to defeat if we live our lives. Negligent of this truth. Now I'm not saying we got to run around and see a little devil behind every bush and all these types of things. I'm not saying that, but we do need to be aware that uh the that Satan is very real and very active. And he is the enemy of the gospel He's the enemy of the gospel. And by the way, he is the enemy. Paul was a preacher of the gospel. He makes that statement. And Satan is the enemy of the, I put it this way, the agents of the gospel. It doesn't just have to be a preacher that stands behind the pulpit. It's any person that is determined to take the gospel to someone else. Satan is that person's enemy. And he is out to fight it. I'm telling you, some of you folks that have ever been soul-winning and you've ever gone through the gospel with somebody, you're going to know exactly what I'm talking about I'm telling you, if I didn't believe the Bible, I would still believe there's a devil for this one fact. I can't tell you how many times I've been out, I've been able to go through the gospel with someone And it never fails, either right at the beginning, when I'm about to share the truth of the gospel with them, somebody drives up, the telephone rings, the dog throws up, something happens. Right then and there. Am I right or wrong? Maybe you get beyond that and your silent partner goes and greets the people I've come in the door and he answers the phone or he cleans the dog vomit up. And um good song silent partners do those types of things, you know But uh maybe you get through all of that. Then you get to Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You know, the Lord died on the cross for us just the way we are He loves us and he understands our sin. Would you be willing to call on him and trust him to be your own Savior? Bring baby screams, bruth collapses, all kinds of things happen. I'm telling you, Satan is the enemy of those who try to take the gospel to others. So Paul says right here, he says, Satan hindered us. So he recognizes the reality of Satan. Second thing I put down under this head was Paul recognized that this hindrance was the activity of Satan. Now, what I mean by this, he doesn't say it wasn't God's will for us to go there. He doesn't say the providence of God kept us from going. Now God allowed Satan to hinder them. So in an indirect way, God allowed this to happen. But But Paul does not attribute this obstacle of going to the church to the providence of God. He attributes it directly to the activity of Satan. In Acts chapter 16, and I wanted to turn there, but we're not going to for sake of time, in verses 6 through 10, he describes his attempt, and if I remember correctly, they were going to go to Troas And he says the Spirit of God suffered us not to go there. And then they were going to go somewhere else. I don't have it in the type of my tongue. And the Holy Spirit forbade them to go there. And then they heard, then they had the vision of the Macedonian. Come over and help us. And they determined that this was the will of God that we go to Macedonia. Now, in that situation, he was hindered. From going to these other places. But the hindrance was attributed to the Spirit of God leading and directing Paul. But here in Thessalonians chapter 2, he doesn't say it was the Lord keeping us from going there. He doesn't say the Holy Spirit forbade me from going there. He says Satan hindered me. And so he recognized that this was the activity of Satan. Now this is This is guessing, I guess. I don't like to use that. Doesn't sound very good. Supposition on my part. But I think the way it's worded here, we could almost come to the conclusion, I come to the conclusion That it wasn't God's will necessarily that Paul be hindered. He didn't say this is the will of God. He said this is Satan's obstacles. This is Satan's hindrance. So we could come to the conclusion this wasn't necessarily something that was against the will of God. This was something that was against the will of Satan This is something Satan did not want him to do. Not necessarily God. And there's more to this here than just human opposition. We tried to surmise a little bit why Paul uh how Satan used uh the uh uh the hindrance. What did he use? And we suggested persecution or division or false teaching and stuff going on But behind all of that, there was something. There was a spiritual force. And it was Satan. Satan hindering The advancement of the gospel, Satan hindering the fellowship of God's people. And so he attributes this directly To the activity of Satan. Listen, opposition to the gospel, opposition to God's people growing and being what God intends them to be, is any of that opposition ultimately comes from Satan. We've got to understand that. People are not our enemies. Satan is our enemies. That's where I would say amen. Jehovah's Witness, Jehovah's Witness come to our door. Those two guys standing there, that man and that lady, or those two ladies, they're not my enemy. It's Satan that inspired their doctrine that is my enemy. They're captives of the enemy. That's why I think when Jehovah's Witness or Mormons or whoever comes by, not the Baptists, when the Mormons or Jehovah's Witness come by, I think you ought to share that, maybe the Baptists too, you ought to share the gospel with them One form or another. Now be careful. Don't get sucked in and don't spend two hours arguing with them like I do. Give them a gospel tract, be polite and all that, but try and give them the gospel one way or another And so Satan is the enemy. And so whatever, whoever people Satan was using, whoever the people were that Satan was using to keep Paul from getting there, Paul recognized it was Satan behind that. It was the devil behind that. Number three, I put this down. Paul recognized the ministry of Satan. You say, what? Satan doesn't have a ministry. Oh, yes, he does. Satan's ministry is obstructing the gospel of Jesus Christ. Satan's ministry is hindering the growth of God's people. In Acts, you have Satan's Great Commission. I have a sermon put together, I never preached it, but Satan's Great Commission. Where the Pharisees tell the disciples, the apostles, he says, thou shalt not teach nor preach in the name of Jesus. That's Satan's great commission. Don't you preach Jesus Christ. Don't you share the gospel. In Revelation chapter, I want to say chapter 5, or maybe it's chapter 12, we have Satan's ministry there. He's called the accuser of the brethren. Would you agree with me that demonic accusations could be a hindrance to spiritual growth? Do you agree with me? Sure. Satan just bringing that up and bringing that up. You're no good. Look what you did. You're an idiot. You're a failure. You're just, man, look how sinful you are. You can't do anything for God. What are you doing giving out gospel tracts? You're no better than that person is. Blah, blah, blah, blah. And so Satan's ministry is to hinder the advancement of the gospel. Is the hinder the growth and fellowship of a church to be what God wants it to be? Question And at least from our perspective, would Paul being at Thessalonican Church, First Baptist of Thessalonica, would that have been good for the church? I would have from my perspective, yeah. Man, I'd love to have Paul come spend six months here and teach and preach to us. Amen? I'd take him on staff. But Satan didn't want to happen. I do not believe it was his position as a pastor that Satan hated. But it was their passion to preach the gospel that he hated. I'll suggest this to you. There are some preachers that I don't think Satan hates them at all. Stand behind pulpits and Satan's the biggest amen or in the church. I'm not calling anybody. But you follow what I'm saying? They're preaching false doctrine. They're preaching work salvation. Satan's back in the Amen corner. Yeah, go for it. Preach it, brother. You know what would be a good sermon? When Satan says amen. Write that down, Chip. That's a good one. It wasn't their position so much as pastor that Satan hated. It was their passion to preach the gospel, their love for God's people. From Genesis to Revelation. Satan has hindered God's kingdom and God's people from Abel, Noah, Abraham. All the way into Revelation, where he's called the accuser of the brethren, Satan has sought to hinder the advancement of the gospel and the spiritual unity and growth of God's people. Put this down. I must not allow myself to be used of Satan to hinder the gospel. Amen? I must not let that happen. I must not let my testimony be so poor that Satan can use it to hinder the gospel. I cannot allow my natural fears and intimidity be allowed to be used of Satan to keep people from hearing the gospel. People say, and I've gil I've said this myself, but people say, preacher, I'm just too shy, I'm too timid to share the gospel. Well by not giving the gospel, by using that as a reason not to give the gospel I am allowing Satan to make that a hindrance from people hearing the gospel. Say, but I'm afraid. Join the club. I must not allow myself to hinder the gospel. And I came across this quote, and I think it fits here I must live, and this isn't original with me, this quote, but I must live for the mission, not for the moment. And by that I mean this. Paul never lost sight of the fact that God had called him to preach to the Gentiles. And though he could not go back down to Thessalonica, Satan hindered him. He tried time and time again. And Satan kept hindering him. But you know what? Paul didn't say, well, though it. I'm just gonna I'm getting there and now you know what he did? He said, Nope, God's called me to take the gospel. And so he just kept right on preaching the gospel. If he couldn't do it where he wanted to, he just kept on going and kept on going. And when you get a little opposition and when you deal with that, don't get hung up on that. Just stay focused on what Christ has called us to do. If we're going to reach our community of the gospel, we're going to face obstacles. We're going to face hindrances. Don't get hung up on them. Just stay focused, stay at it, stay plugging away. Now let me ask you these two questions and I end. Are we the kind of church, is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church at 1005 Broadford Road right here us? Are we the kind of church that Paul would want to be with? Are we the kind of church where God would say, where Paul would say, man? I've got to get back to Mountain Lake. I want to be with those people. They're my crowd. That's where my heart is. Are we that kind of church? And my other question is this. Are we the kind of church that Satan would try and keep people from coming to? He's already doing it. He's already doing it. Well that's a good sign then. But I want to be the kind of church that Paul would want to go to and the Satan would want to keep people away from. And it's not our personality, it's not our incredible intelligence. It's the presence and power of God as we obey God and submit to Him. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to grow. Help us, Lord, to stay at this thing. Give us a heart for others, Lord, and for the church that you've established. And God, we ask that. We could be a good church, a rapture-ready church. We need you to challenge us and convict us. Show us what changes we need to make. Show us where we need to shore up, where we're weak at, where we're strong. And God help us to make those a adjustments. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, this matter of sharing the gospel with others need to be more diligent about that. I can't let myself be a hindrance and others not hearing it. You say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. Be bold with the gospel. Be clear with it. My testimony and my life would be what God wants me to be, so that uh I would not be a hindrance. Does anybody feel that way like me? Sure we do. I don't want to be a hindrance. I need God to help me. What about this matter of loving God's people? It's something I believe God has to put in our heart. Just a love for the people of God. And sh and uh just being one with them. And maybe s maybe we need to ask God, God, give me a greater love for you and for your church. And for your people. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed. Just a few verses of invitation. Maybe you want to slip out and hell to an old-fashioned altar Just say, Lord, help me, God, to be bold with the gospel. Don't let me be timid or my testimony be such. Maybe there's some changes we need to make Maybe as I'm speaking, there's somebody coming to your mind and you're thinking, you know, I really haven't been very effective in sharing the gospel. Maybe my testimony with that person is not what it ought to be. Maybe you need to come and say, God, help me heal that up. Help me to make that right. Family member, a co-worker, a neighbor, friend. Maybe just our diligence at being faithful to church Faithful in our Bible reading, faithful in fellowshipping with God's people. Oh, yeah.