So if you would take your Bibles and turn to John chapter fourteen, it's good to see Gary Hardesty out. God bless you, Gary. We've been praying for you. And uh we keep Gary in our prayers. He's uh looking pretty good. I tell you he cleans up all right. That's pretty good. And uh what a blessing to see Gary here and and many others. It's good to have my son Sam's in for a few days and enjoyed spending some time with Sam and um We're glad you're here. John chapter 14, just a little note while you're finding your place there. My wife and I actually met in the bus ministry down at the Highland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee. In 1985, uh we were both working uh there in the bus ministry and we uh met each other and one thing led to another and here we are all these years later. I thank God for. John chapter fourteen, verse number one. I'm gonna begin reading in verse number one. I need to get wired up here. And uh we're gonna going to come down, read down through verse number six. When we get to verse six, what I'd like for us to do is to uh read verse six together in unison. John chapter fourteen. I'm going to turn this on, Jamie. So there we go. Alright, you follow along until we get to verse 6, then we'll read that together. Verse 1 says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And receive you unto myself that where I am there ye may be also, and whither I go ye know, in the way ye know Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Now verse 6, all together. Would you read it with me? Here we go. Ready? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I want to preach this morning. A simple subject, one way. One way. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you for good service this morning, the folks that are out, visitors with us. We thank you for the blue beautiful day. We're so grateful for your blessings on us. And now, Lord, as we take a moment and we look into your word, I pray you'd open our hearts and minds that we would be receptive, God, that we would understand what you're trying to tell us here, and that we would be willing to trust you and follow your instructions and do what you're instructing us to do here and claim these promises. Lord, I and of myself readily admit I have nothing to offer of any spiritual or lasting value. So with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me. To our hearts and minds. Now we leave here. Our understanding would be clear, our faith would be stronger, and our love for you would be greater. So please bless now our time in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. On May 7, 1979, it's a Monday night, I bowed beside my bed. Many of you heard me tell this many, many times, I bowed beside my bed, and I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I made a horrendous mess of my life in the 19 years I was on the planet. I was looking to God. I did not want to be the man I was becoming. The only way I could find that would change that and give me a new life was by accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That night changed everything. That was thirty-seven years ago this May, just a few days and a few weeks. Thirty-seven years ago I'm fifty-five years old now, and I still have not gotten over what Jesus Christ did for me on that night when He saved my soul. Changed everything. It was the beginning of a new light I began reading my Bible and nobody was twisting my arm, nobody was beating me over the head. I had a good, godly Christian daddy who loved me and witnessed to me, prayed for me dearly. It was just him and I living together. But uh I began going to church and I began reading my Bible. God had put a new desire in my heart. As I read my Bible and was growing spiritually and and getting to know the Lord and what the Christian life was all about I desired to go off to Bible college. There wasn't any voice calling me. It was just a desire in my heart to study the Bible and learn more. I went to a little Bible college in Philadelphia. It was not far from where I lived. I could commute back and forth, went there for one year. I went to school that year. That summer I was home. That was the last summer I lived at home. And uh I was home and one sunny summer afternoon. I was washing my car. We lived in town. There was a little alleyway in the back. I was washing my car, and the fellow was walking up the alleyway. As he approached me, I quick reached in the car and grabbed the gospel track. He came by, I said, sir, said my name's Dennis. I'd like to, as you're walking by here, I'd just like to leave a little gospel track with you. It tells how you can know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. I said something along those lines He chuckled a little bit. He was an older man. He chuckled a little bit and he said, uh, no, thank you. He says, uh, I'm Jewish. I said, well, Jesus was Jewish and we talked a little bit. And I stressed upon him the importance of trusting Christ and knowing that his sins were forgiven, that he go to heaven and not to hell when he dies. And finally made this statement. Now, this is the first time I heard that, this statement. Since then, I've heard it many, many times, various versions of it. He made this statement. He says, Listen, there are many ways to God. There are many roads to heaven. He said, I'm Jewish. I am traveling the Jewish way to heaven. He says, you're Baptist. You are traveling the Baptist way to heaven. He says, there are many roads to heaven, but they all end up in heaven. He said, let me illustrate. Now we were living about 30 miles outside of Philadelphia, between Philadelphia and Allentown. He says, for instance, he says to go down to Philadelphia. If you want to go down to Philadelphia You could go down route uh instead of few routes, I don't remember what they are anymore. Says you could take this route down to Center City, Philly. Says you can take the School Kill Expressway, you go down that way to Center City, Philadelphia, you could take this other route, uh I forget two nineteen or something like that, uh route down to Philadelphia. I don't think two nineteen goes to Philadelphia. But um Anyway, he listed these various routes and he says you can take various routes and still end up in Philadelphia. And he says that's the way it is to heaven. I said, something to this effect. I said, you know, that sounds pretty good. But Jesus said in John chapter 14 and verse number 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. We didn't get too far and he m we walked on and it was we left kindly and graciously. That is a fairly common thinking. There are many ways to heaven. September 11, 2001, of course, the Twin Towers were attacked, the Pentagon, the plane crashed up here in Pennsylvania just north of us. The following day in New York City, the mayor of New York City, Rudolf Giuliani, gave a speech, a motivational speech, and he made this statement. In his speech, he made the statement. He says, On Fridays, I go to the Muslim mosque and worship God He said, on Sundays, I go to the Christian church. Of course, he's Catholic. He said, I go to the Christian church and worship God. He said, in both services, we are worshiping the same God. That is a very common thinking. Now, when I was talking to this Jewish fella in the house uh behind the house there that summer Uh I don't know how you are, but I always think of great comebacks about twelve hours later. Later that day I was sitting there thinking about what the guy said, and I thought, man, I wish I'd have thought of this. And uh and I've used it since then. He said there are many roads to Philadelphia. I can go down this route, that route, this route, we all end up in Philadelphia. I wish I'd have said this. That's wonderful, and that's true. But we don't go to Philadelphia when we die. Right? There are one of two places a person goes to when they die. The Bible's very, very clear on this. There ought to be no reason for confusion about the two destinies after death. It's either heaven or it's hell. There's nothing else. There is no re there is no reincarnation. You're not gonna come back as a horse or anything else. And you were not did you ever notice people that believe that? I'm not trying well a little bit, I'm trying to be funny. But um Uh people that that believe in re in reincarnation, there were always something amazing in a previous light. Do you ever know it? Oh yeah, I was the queen of Egypt in a previous slide. None of them ever say nobody ever says, Yeah, I was a cockroach in a previous life, you know. There's always some amazing thing There is no such thing as reincarnation. That is a figment of man's imagination. And again, I'm not trying to be I'm not trying to be smart, I'm trying to be honest. There is no purgatory. There is no in-between between heaven and hell. It's either heaven or hell. The Bible's abundantly clear on that. Now, the question is: how do I get to heaven? Are there a lot of ways to heaven? How do I escape hell? How can I be sure? That when the day comes I die, and that day will come, how can I be sure that my sins are all forgiven and I do not spend eternity in hell and I spend eternity with the Lord in heaven? How can I be sure of that? Jesus put it this way: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Very very clear. Um Muslims say this is the way to heaven. Uh Hindu says this. Catholic says that, the Baptists say that. They cannot all be right. There's the possibility we're all wrong. I don't think we are. I'm confident the Bible's God's word, there's no doubt in my mind. But they cannot all be right. There's one way to heaven. And Jesus makes that very, very clear. In our text here in John chapter 14, the Lord is approaching his time to be crucified. Um things are starting to fall apart as far as the Israel's understanding of who Jesus is and how they're going to respond to his claims to be their Messiah. And they're turning against him. And he's approaching the disciples and he is preparing them for the inevitable day when Israel is going to totally reject Jesus and nail him to a cross and crucify him. So he's preparing the disciples for that day. He along with that, he throws into them, he says, listen, y'all, when that when this thing starts coming down. He says, you understand what's going to happen to me. I'm going to be crucified. I'm going to be rejected. I'm going to die. And don't worry, I'll rise again. He says, by the way, and of course I'm putting this in my own words here. He says, by the way, when this is all going down All y'all are going to forsake me. Every single one of you are going to abandon your loyalty and you're going to fail in that. And so he's preparing them for what's about to take place. He's telling them, particularly in the first two verses here of chapter 14, he's announcing the purpose for his ultimate departure. After his crucifixion, burial, and resurrection, a short time after that, he's going to ascend to heaven. He's going to go to be with the Father. He's explaining to them the purpose for his departure. He's going to go and he's going to prepare a place for them in heaven. And then in verse number 3, he announces the promise. He says, Don't worry, I'm going to return. I'm going to come back again, and that where I am, there ye may be also. So he's going through this process. He's saying, listen, I'm going to be crucified. I'm going to die. Don't worry. Let not your heart be troubled. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. It's going to be okay. I'm going to rise again. I'm going to go to the Father. I'm going to prepare his place for you in this process. You're going to deny me. It's alright. You're going to be restored. You're going to have a tremendous ministry. You're going to be filled with the Spirit of God. I'm going to send the Holy Spirit of God. He's going to fill you. He's going to use you in a great way. And the gospel will go into all the ends of the world. That's basically what he's telling them. Now, in the midst of all of this information. That these disciples are being loaded with. And their response to it. And we'll see here in a minute. You know, it's almost overload on their part. And they're trying to sort this out in their minds. What exactly is Jesus saying to us? In the midst of all that, he makes a tremendously important statement. And that's verse number six. I am the way, the truth, and the life No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Every person needs to understand the truth of that verse. Every person around the whole world, North, South America, Europe, Asia, Central Asia, South Pacific Every person on every part of this planet needs to understand that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man, without exception, no man cometh unto the Father but by him. Now that's just a short little verse. There's really not a lot to it. How many people would say, preacher, if my life depended on it, I could quote that verse. How many folks there? Familiar enough? Say, yeah, I could quote that verse somewhat. Yeah, it's probably the majority of the people here. I'm the way, the truth, and light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Short verse. Big insignificance. Now I want us to notice three things of John chapter 14 and verse 6 in this passage. First thing I'd like for us to notice is the anxiety of the disciples. The anxiety of the disciples. I'm going to show you a few verses here that indicate, at least in my mind, the fact that the disciples were confused. They were anxious. They, as I said a moment ago, they were really trying to sort through in their mind what exactly is the Lord saying, what exactly is happening? What is he trying to tell us? Notice with me, if you would, in chapter 13 and verse number 36. Simon Peter, verse 36, the previous chapter, Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? He said, I'm going to go away. He says, where are you going? Whither goes that? Look at chapter 14 and verse number 5. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. Come down with me to verse number eight. Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it suffices us. Would you agree with me that the disciples were filled with questions? Lord, where are you going? We don't know where you're going. Lord, show us the Father. What are you talking about? What are you saying to us? They're incredibly anxious. And by the way, in verse number 8, where Philip says, Show us the Father, the word show there has this idea. Lord, introduce us to the Father. Lord help us, uh show us, bring us to Him, help us to know the Father. There was an anxious hunger In the heart of these disciples, to understand the way to God and who God is They wanted to know God and they wanted to know how to approach him. How do we get to him? How am I accepted by him? That is a tremendous concern. Would to God every single person on planet Earth was concerned About how to get to God. Unconcerned. Unconcerned For a person's spiritual well-being has sent as many people to hell as any other sin that man has ever dealt with. Simply not caring. Whether I go to heaven or hell, I see it all the time. I try to get out every week. I try very hard to get out every week, at least one day, sometimes several days a week. I knock on doors, try and talk one-on-one with people about the Lord Jesus Christ. And more and more I find people saying something like this to me. I'll ask 'em. I do my little spiel, Pastor Letterman, Mount Lake and Paper, I'd like to invite you. Come visit our church. Going to church is important. But more important than that is known for sure that when we die, our sins are forgiven, going to heaven. Do you ever give that any thought? And more and more, I'm getting this response. You know, I really don't think about it. I really don't care. Isn't that a tragedy? Isn't that a tragedy? These disciples, their anxious their anxious inquiry Lord, show us the Father. How we don't know how to get to Him. We don't know the way That is a tremendous thing. I may be speaking to somebody this morning, even right now, in this auditorium, maybe through the uh uh electronics. I may be speaking to some of this morning. In the back of your mind, you're thinking, I'd sure like to know. I'd sure like to know. How I can have my sins forgiven. How I can go to heaven, not to hell when I die. I tell you what, that is the right thing to be concerned about. That's the right thing to be concerned about. Um that's n actually not an uncommon question. You go through the gospels in particular, but you find people over and over and over asking that same question, expressing that same concern in Bearing weights. Nicodemus, the Bible says, earlier in John, tame the Lord Jesus Christ by night He said, Lord, we know that thou art come from God, for no man can do the miracles thou doest except God be with him. And before he could even finish his concern, express his concern, Jesus interjected and said, Ye must be born again. Jesus cut right to the chase. He knew exactly what Nicodemus was concerned about. He knew exactly what Nicodemus was anxious about. Nicodemus was anxious about the salvation of his soul, he was anxious about his standing before God, he was anxious about where he was going to spend eternity, and Jesus cuts to the chase, he says, You need to be born again. Then he goes on and elaborates. Unless we get John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Not die and go to hell, but have what? Everlasting life. So Nicodemus approached the Lord with the same concern. The same anxious desire, I need to have this settled. You come through the gospels, you find a rich young ruler comes to Jesus. He says, What must I do to inherit eternal life? The Lord goes through a series of questions. That's another have to be another message. And the tragic conclusion to that event with the rich young ruler is he walks away from the Lord. And rejects the offer to have his sins forgiven, to go to heaven, not to hell. He walks away from it I don't want to be unkind, but what a fool. What a fool. How foolish would a person be to be offered the gift of God, which is eternal life? And simply accept Jesus Christ, my personal neighbor, have a new life, sins forgiven. And walk away from that You go through the Gospels and you find some Greeks coming and they're approaching the Lord Jesus. And the Bible doesn't expressly say this, but I'm convinced in my mind those Greeks were concerned about the salvation of their soul. They were coming to the one that claimed to be the Messiah, the Savior of the world. They wanted to talk to him, approach him. Pilate! At Jesus the the that illegal court, that unjust sentence, Pilate made a statement out He doesn't express it exactly maybe some of the way these others do, but in my mind, in the back of his mind, he's asking this question. But as they're going through, he asks this question, he says, what is truth? Jesus Christ was claiming to be the Son of God. Jesus Christ was claiming to be the Savior of the Messiah of Israel, the Savior of mankind. The Jews were rejecting that, and they were accusing him of rising up insurrection against Caesar. And so Pilate's in the middle of this, and as this is all going down, in fact, his wife had a dream and said, You be careful And he says, what is truth? I want to suggest to you, maybe in Pilate's mind, he may have been saying something like this, how in the world do I know? Whether this is of God or not, how do I know my standing before God? Um, Nicodemus These Greeks, the rich young ruler, Pilate, then the classic example of somebody who is very anxious about their spiritual well-being, somebody that is very anxious about the salvation of soul is found in Acts chapter 16, when Paul is in prison for preaching the gospel, and an earthquake hits and uh and uh the jail the the prison bars are knocked open the jail are thinking that everyone's escaped the the punishment for a Roman uh authority in the escape of the prisoners was was execution. He says, I'm gonna die anyway. So he's gonna kill himself. The Lord step uh Paul steps in and he says, Do thyself no harm, we're all here And he falls before Paul and he asks that classic question: What must I do to be saved? Paul, of course, gives them the classic answer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. What I'm saying is this, when a person gets to the point in their life when they are concerned About their spiritual well-being, when they are concerned about my standing before God, my relationship with God, when they are concerned about where they're going to spend eternity, when that person gets to that point They're on good ground. They're on good ground. I tell you what grieves my heart, and I know it grieves God's heart, is when people don't care. about their standing with God, when people don't care about where they spend eternity. You talk about being in darkness. Spiritual darkness is not caring. Not caring We spend big money, big money, on onshoring, on ensuring our houses and our properties. Our cars, our house, various things. We spend a lot of money, we put a lot of effort in, just in case something happens to that house and I'm covered. Just in case something happens to that vehicle, and I'm covered. Just in case something happens to this business or my health, and I'm covered. I'm covered. And then we turn around and we don't give five minutes thought to the well-being of our soul. Well-being of our soul. How blind are we to reality? If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure That your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. The most important issue in your life is settling that question. Amen is settling that. You say, preacher, I think I'm a pretty good person. Preacher I'm a member of the church. Preacher, I'm this, that, and the other. That may all be the case, but if you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't have salvation. He that hath the Son hath light. He that hath not the Son of God hath not light. And so I notice the anxiety of these disciples here. They're very, very concerned. And I commend the disciples for their concern. They are concerned about their destiny. They are concerned about their standing for God. I mentioned I knock on doors and more and more I'm finding people say I don't care about I've had people say to me uh on several occasions, mockingly say, Oh yeah, I'm going to hell and I'm having a time. And I think you have absolutely swallowed the lie of the devil. Hook, line, and singer. But on occasion I'll come across someone, I'll knock on their door, do my little spiel You know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven. They'll say, no, I don't know that. Does that concern you? And they'll say something like this. Yes, that concerns me very much. Ah, that's good ground there. That's good soil for the seed of the Word of God I'm able to sit down and say, let me show you from the Bible, not my theories, not my ideas, not our church's theories, but what God's Word says. About knowing for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven. I was thinking about how many people remember old brother Mike Stubler. I love that man. I miss him so bad. He's with the Lord now several years We were out visiting in Deer Park and we were going down long one Route 135. We're knocking doors and I'd just been teaching him how to share the gospel with people and he was kind of my understudy and I mean he was he was all out for this. And um so we kind of split up and I said, there were some people out working the yard. He says, I'll go get them. You know how he was. So I said, go for it, man. Stick on. Bing, he goes up there So I went to the next house and he's there, they're talking, sitting on the back they had a uh picnic table and they're just going away. He's got his Bible out and he's just uh he's flipping around and they're talking And I'm over here and I see that and say, So I went down a few houses about twenty minutes later I come back and they're still going at it. And uh and uh so finally uh I didn't want to interrupt, so finally C comes walking out and old Mike is beaming ear to ear. I said, well, how'd it go? What happened? He says, they both got saved. I said, Amen. Tell me about it. He says, here's the thing. He says, when I'm up and approached them, I introduce myself. And he said, I asked him, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven, not to hell? He said, they both looked at each other and said, I can't believe that. He said just this morning at breakfast, it was an older couple. They said, just this morning at breakfast we were talking to each other, and we ended up talking about wondering where we're going to go when we die. And we were concerned about knowing that we go to heaven and not to hell. And a few hours later you show up with an open Bible. And show us how to be saved. Isn't that something? Here's a couple that cared about. Whether they were going to heaven or hell. Here's a couple that was very concerned about their standing before God. And when somebody came along with the Bible, they were eager to accept Jesus Christ as their Savior. I was thinking about your folks, Billy, and I think you were in on this a little bit. We tried calling tomorrow in But um a number of years ago, and I think I have this correct, uh uh Lisa and Bill showed up. Were you with them the first Sunday you guys showed up here? Were they but this just them. They came in here, I didn't know them, they were just visitors first time And they came in and I preached my message and afterwards they'd come to the altar and prayed a little bit and I got talking to them and uh I said something about what brings you here and brought up the subject about salvation and they said something to this effect Pastor Leatherman, we came to church today to find out how to have our sins forgiven and be saved. I was able to, I think I sat back in here somewhere, take a Bible, and they trust the Lord Jesus our Savior. Got baptized, been faithful here all these many years. Want to know how to be saved. We've had on occasion over the years people show up at church here for the express purpose coming to church Because they got concerned about their soul salvation. They got concerned about whether they were going to heaven or hell, and they came to church for the express purpose of finding the answer to those concerns. Now I'll be the first to say the church does not have the answer. Jesus has the answer. So I commend the disciples here for their concern, their anxiety, so to speak, about their soul's salvation. Second thing I want us to point out very, very quickly here in this verse is the audacity of Jesus Christ. First, we have the anxiety of the disciples. They're very concerned about knowing God About finding the way to God, knowing for sure their sins are forgiven, they have eternal life. They're very, very concerned about that. And I commend them for it. Then Jesus speaks up, and the audacity of Jesus Christ, listen to what he says. I And the way, the truth, and the life. The word audacity means this unabashed boldness It means having a bold confidence that defies personal safety or popular acceptance. Audacity says this: I know what is true, I know what is right, I don't care if anybody else thinks what they think about me, I am going to stand and speak what is true. Jesus Christ had the audacity to say, I am the way you get to God. Then he tacks this on, and I am the only way that you get to God. How many people agree with me? If I made that claim, it would be ridiculous. Listen, you ever get under some religious teacher and he says he is the way to salvation, you walk away from that as fast as you can. That is not of God, that's of the devil. If somebody comes and tries to tell you or convince you or me or anybody, they try and convince someone that nobody can approach God except through them, they are lying. I don't care what they claim to be, I don't care how spectacular the titles they have given, there's only one way to God, and it's through the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the only one in all of history that met the qualifications to be the way to God. Nobody else has ever met that. Nobody else. Anybody else, he said in uh uh uh earlier in John, he says, listen. He says there's one door into the Lord's sheepfold. Anybody that comes over in another way, they're not of God. It's a false shepherd. Don't follow them. He says, I am the door. I am the only one qualified to bring to save your soul, to forgive your sin, bring you to heaven. What were his qualifications? One, he's the Son of God. Jesus Christ is God the Son. Man cannot save man. God saves man. So one of the qualifications he met, he is the divine son of God, God the Son. But he was also fully man. And as fully man, he is able to take my place before God and take my judgment upon himself. Not only was he fully man, but he was perfectly sinless man. He is the only one that could offer himself to God and say, I will take the sins of the whole world. I will be punished for man's sins. In their place, I will be their substitute. I'll suffer the judgment of their sin. I'll take responsibility for their sins. If he was not sinless, all he would be doing would be dying for his own sins. But as a sinless son of God, fully God, fully man, he is the only one. That can pay for our sins and be the way to God. Be the way to God. Uh we had a fellow I've told this recently, I've told it most of my illustrations I've told recently. But um uh old how how many people remember Dave Stork? Old brother Dave. I love telling the story. Dave, if you'll remember, he was about that tall. He was that tall standing up. He was about that tall laying down. He was round. Dave was a good guy. Dave got saved. He got baptized. And he had a little rough start there, but God got a hold of him and turned his life around. He was doing real good. He moved out to Arizona years ago. Dave started coming out soul winning on Thursday night. He's all stirred up. He says, I don't know. He goes, Preacher said uh I want to take you and uh visit a bunch of friends of mine that aren't saved. They need to get saved. That's all right, let's go. That's what we're looking for. So we load up, we went out there, we got to the first house down here in Mount Lake Park, and uh came in, he introduced me, he says, this is my preacher. And this is this was Dave's approach. He goes, this is my preacher, he saved me, he'll save you too I said they hey that's not exactly right. Now what Dave meant was that I had introduced him to Christ, Christ gave him. He had his his uh his wheeze and bubble w's mixed up a little bit there. I can't save anybody else. In fact, I can't even save myself. Jesus had the audacity to say, I'm the only way you're going to escape hell. I'm the only way you're going to have your sins forgiven. I'm the only way you're ever going to make it to heaven. If you don't have me, you're lost. You agree? That's pretty audacious to say something like that. But it's absolute truth. Absolute truth. All through the Old Testament pointed to the coming Savior, the coming Savior, the coming Savior. All the Old Testament saints that got saved, sins forgiven, ultimately ended up in heaven. Every single one of them put their faith in a coming Savior. A coming Savior. A coming Savior, a Messiah, they were trusting, had faith in, that God was one day going to send a Messiah. Jesus says, I am that Messiah. And he gave his life and took responsibility for your sin and my sin. He suffered hell for the sins these hands have committed. He suffered God's judgment for the un uh uh uh the unclean words that have come off my lips. He suffered God's judgment for the vile thoughts that have gone through my mind. Every single time I've broken God's law, Jesus Christ has taken responsibility. For that. And he says, I will suffer for them. I will bear their judgment for them so they don't have to. He's buried, and of course he rose again the third day. He ever lives to make intercession for us now. So we have the anxiety of the disciples. They're very concerned. Thank God for that. They care. About whether they're right with God or not. They care about whether they're going to heaven or hell or not. They care whether I'm doing right or not. It is so heartbreaking to see our nation not care about what is right and wrong anymore. A society that doesn't care what God says is right or wrong. A society that doesn't care about whether our children know God or not. Thank God for some disciples that cared. Thank God for some people, a remnant in our world that still care. Disciples were concerned. The audacity of the Savior, I'm the one. I'm the way, the truth, and life. No man comes to the Father but by me. No one else met the qualifications. And then last of all, I am with this. The agency of salvation. The anxiety of the disciples, the concern. I wonder how do we know how I'm concerned? Jesus says, I'm the way. Audacity, I'm the way, no one else. It's me. And he says, here's how it happens. This is the agency of salvation. No man cometh unto the Father but by Now I think that statement at the end of verse number six, he's explaining what he means when he says, I am the way. What do you mean you're the way? Well, this is what I mean. No man comes to the Father but by me. I am the way to to the Father. I am the way to heaven. I am the way to eternal life. I am the way. Jesus and Jesus alone is the agency of salvation. Jesus and Jesus alone is the means of salvation, of getting to heaven. I am the way. I'm the truth. I'm the light. No man comes to the Father but by me. That's the agency. My son's here a number of years ago, it's been quite a while now, he was living and working in Gypsum, Colorado, for the Outfitters for Christ. He was doing outfitting. And um I'd been out there a couple times and one, I don't know, I don't remember what the date was, October or something, but anyway, flew out there for, or drove out there for a week. He was going to take me elk hunting. So I I never grew up, I never was around horses a whole lot growing up. So I'm not real comfortable around horses and somewhat timid around horses. So anyway, we're going to go. He says, there's an area. I know there's a nice bull elk up there. He says we need to get, but he said, we've got to leave early in the morning. We've got to be up there on this mountain before the sun comes up. I said, alright, so we gotta ride these horses or whatever. So it was fine. He said, I got a good horse for you. So early in the morning, I don't know, 3 30, 4 o'clock in the morning, long before daylight Um got the horse together, we got on there, loaded up, and we headed out. We had to, if I remember correctly, we had to go down the road. Then we're going up this canyon. I mean it was a long way up there. The only way up there was by horse. So we're right along pitch black. Got her packs, guns and everything. He's the horse in front of me, I'm back here. It's a nice horse. As far as horses go, it's great. So we're riding along and it was nice and you know and you couldn't see very much. It was really dark and we're going up. We got through this area and I could tell we were on the side of a really steep hill. And going up to my right I could hear a river or something, water running, but it was like really far away down that way. Although that's odd. And on this side I can almost reach over and touch the side of the mountain off the side of the horse. But ignorance is bliss. So I was just happily riding along, praying, Lord help us to get a big elk. You know, just riding along, no thoughts, just happy as can be, horse doing its thing. We got up there and we got up to where we wanted to be and the sun came up, just amazing beauty out there. And sh lo and behold we got a bull bugling answering us and we're working away. The problem was it was above us and We we were below it and it's hard to get around and I was back then I was out of shape and now I'm tremendous. But uh Anyway, old Dad couldn't keep up with the elk. And we never even got a shot. But we had fun trying to, and I nearly died, couldn't breathe. So anyway, it was alright, it's over. We might as well go back. It's probably noon, somewhere around there. If you want to find the actual facts of this story, talk to Sam afterward. But this is my version. We're coming back. It's daylight now. We're walking along. And this time I hear the water, this time it's on my left, way off down that way. And I reach over here and here's the side of the mountain. I can almost touch it. Lo and behold, we're on this trail around the side of the mountain. It's about 18 inches wide. Maybe two foot. To the left is sheer drop-off. I mean And to the right is the cliff. There's no way you could walk up there. We have one little trail around the side of this mountain. If you fall off that edge, you are never coming back up out of there. Coyotes will have lunch. You're not you ain't coming out. Leave it down. I would have never been so terrified in my life. I was holding on to that horse. Oh god, look at this horse. I just oh that horse was gonna slip and go down there You know what the horse did? He had been up and down that thing a hundred times. That horse was the agency to get me back to the house. That was the means. That was the way I was getting back. The way I was getting back was that horse. All I needed to do was trust that horse and get on it. That horse would do what needs to be done to get me to my destination. What I'm saying to you is Jesus Christ is the means, the agency by which we get to heaven. If we don't go on Jesus Christ, we're down the cliff. We're lost for all eternity in hell. Say, what do I do? What you need to do is trust Jesus and let Him forgive your sin, give you a new life, and get you to heaven. It's he's the means. He's the agency. I simply trust him. How do I do that? Well first I need to recognize I need to be saved. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Not one of us are good enough to make it to heaven. We are all under God's judgments, God's wrath. You say, I take offense at that, then you're taking offense at God because God declares it. We've broken God's law. We're guilty. The wages of our sin is God's judgment for all eternity, and hell eventually a lake of fire. But Jesus Christ loved us enough to suffer that judgment in our place and take all our sins and pay that penalty for us so that we no longer own, owe God, the wages of our sin. Now just because Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. He leaves that option up to us. I can accept what He's done for me and receive Jesus Christ my personal Savior and let Him forgive me and give me new life and take me to heaven. Or I can say no thanks, I'll try and do it myself and be lost. But if you're here this morning, listen to me. If you're here this morning, and you don't know for sure that when you die That your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven and not to hell. The most important thing in your life, take it from this preacher, the most important thing in your life is getting that settled. You've got to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. He is the only way. Now here's what some people maybe are thinking right now. Preacher, I'm going to do that someday. That'd be the worst mistake you'll ever make. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I've done funerals for people who sat in these pews on a Sunday morning and the next weekend they were in eternity. Never dreamed that was their last time sitting in a church service here in the Word of God preached. Don't risk it. You say, Well, I'm young. You know how many funerals I've done for 13, 14, 15-year-olds? I got my whole life ahead of me, maybe. Maybe not. Are you willing to gamble your eternal soul? Or do you want to settle it and get it taken care of? Now for those of us who are saved who have trusted Christ, let's give ourselves to get others to come to Christ. Amen Let's give ourselves. Let's live for God. Let's be a testimony of what Christ does for a person when they trust Him. Let's let our lives shine. Let's have a clear cut, distinctive Christian testimony. And when people see us, their thoughts go to Christ. When we talk, we point them to Christ. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help us to understand the importance of this issue. God help us to settle this matter in our hearts. Then Lord, help us to share this message with others. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt in my mind. Christ has saved me. I've trusted my Savior. Biblically, I'm I'm sure that's settled. But I want to live for God like I should. My testimony isn't all it ought to be. There's some areas in my Christian life that really need attention, really need adjusting. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me, that I would have a clear-cut, distinctive Christian testimony in my community, in the world I live in. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Now for many of us that may mean making some adjustments. In our lifestyle. Some of us it may mean getting in line with the teaching of the Word of God, may mean adding some things to our Christian life, may mean removing some things to our Christian life. Whatever it is, God will lead you and direct you if we're sincere and we really want to do right and be that. Now, as there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. You say, I am concerned about that I don't want to play with my soul's destiny. I don't want to toy with this. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to settle this matter about where I go when I die. I really do care about that. And you'd like for me to pray for you also. That God would help you settle that in your heart and soul. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I'm very much concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know that Jesus is my Savior. I'm going to heaven. Any others? Several hands raised. God bless you and you. How about it? Some others Preacher, pray for me also. I am concerned about this. I don't want to put it off. I do care. Any others? Uplifted hand. How about it? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. God bless you. And God bless you I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. Now, I don't always do this, not kind of rarely. Just saying these words will never save a soul. In your heart, you say, Preacher, I know I'm a sinner. There's no doubt. I believe Jesus died for my sins and rose again. I want to turn to him. I want him to give me a new life. I want him to save me from hell and take me to heaven. I'm going to invite you to say a simple little prayer. Now just saying these words is meaningless, but in your heart, you're putting your trust in Christ, you're accepting it. This would just help express that. And here it is, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, here it is. Dear Lord Jesus, you can pray this to the Lord, meaning it in your heart. Dear Lord Jesus. I know I'm a sinner. I've broken your law. I believe you died for me and rose again. I'm turning to you this morning, trusting you as my personal Savior. From sin and hell. In Jesus' name. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, you say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you just now. I meant it. I didn't just say words. I meant from my heart. Call on the Lord and trust him as my Savior. If you meant that, you prayed that and you meant it. Would you slip your hand up? Is there any like that? Preacher, I meant that. God bless you. And God bless you. How about it, others? God bless you and you? Couple hands around. Now that's the beginning of new life. Like I said, just saying that prayer is no different than going to a Catholic church and going through a rosary or something. But if in your heart you meant that, God heard that. And God keeps his word. If you prayed that prayer, before you leave, I invite you to see me. I want to give you some literature, some things that would help you, I believe. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. We ask you to help us, dear Lord, to trust you and allow you to lead us and direct us in our lives. Help us be a witness, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand