L verse number nine. See, I'm horsing around here. I need to find my verse. Verse nine, the Bible says, Let love be without dissimulation Abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good, be kindly affection one to another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another, one another, one another. One another. I want to talk about one another this morning on I Love My Church Sunday. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Are grateful for the uh what's taken place here already this morning. The Sunday school hour was a blessing. I'm so grateful for our Sunday school And then the choir, the special music, the fellowship is just encouraged my heart. And I thank you for your blessings on our church And we recognize, Lord, as was taught in Sunday school, that you are here in our midst right now. Lord, we can't see you. We can't hear you. We can't feel you But we know you're here. And I pray that you would use your word now in the next moments and apply it to our hearts as you know we need, what our church needs. I yield my will and my mind to you, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking as I'm speaking and guide the words that come off my lips, that they would be exactly what you would have me to say. And uh then fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and speak through me your word and apply it to our hearts and lives. So we ask now you'd bless our preaching hour in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me ask you a question And this is hypothetical, I don't can't imagine what scenario you would find yourself in this situation. But if you were in a situation where you could only have one book of the Bible Of the 66 books that make up our Bible, and you could only have one of them. You had to forgo all the others and only keep one. I wonder what book of the Bible you would choose for yourself. That's the only one you could have. And by the way, there are millions of people, hundreds and hundreds of millions of people around the world that have no scriptures at all, whatsoever. It's a disturbing reality of the world we live in, that there are many, many people that do not have the Bible, and we're trying to do our part with our fingerprints ministry to get scriptures out in any way and every way we possibly can. But if you could only have one book of the Bible, I'm curious what book you would choose. If it was me I believe the Book of Romans would be definitely one that I believe I would want to have with me. I believe the Book of Romans Contains the message of the Bible, the whole Bible, the message of the Bible in a nutshell To me, the book of Romans, powerful book, and all scriptures given by inspiration of God, all scriptures uh equally important. And uh I believe at some point in your life every Christian ought to start reading the Bible through, Genesis to Revelation, all the Bibles Being given by inspiration of God, all the Bible is profitable for us for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. But If I had to, I lean towards Romans would be the book that I want to uh have for myself if I could only have one. The book of Romans, as we just read from here, Pastor Smith a little bit ago, us just a small portion. was penned by the Apostle Paul. Now I say this every time and I believe we understand the Bible was authored by God, the Holy Spirit. But God used men, he moved on the hearts and minds of men, the Spirit God did, and they penned down the very words that God intended for us to have in the scriptures. And so Paul was the penman used of God to give us the Book of Romans. In the book of Romans, uh, by the way, Paul is writing to these believers in Rome, although at this point in time he had never actually been to Rome. If you would, come to chapter 1. Now keep your place here in 12. We're going to come back. But go to the very beginning of the Bible. I want to point a few things out here. And I hope you brought your Bibles with you because we're going to use them a bit this morning And uh no use just sitting there on the pew. Might as well get them up and use them. And so we're going to look at several passages. Chapter 1 And verse number 10, Paul makes this statement. And this is how we c one of the ways we come to the conclusion that Paul never actually been to Rome at this point. Later on, he ends up there as a prisoner. But at this point he'd not been there yet. And so look what he says in verse ten. He says, making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you. He had not been there before. For I long to see you that my that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift to the end that ye may be established That is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith, both of you and me. He heard of the folks in in Rome. He knew about them. Some of the people there were that were there he had actually interacted with and previously and in other parts of the world, but he'd never been to Rome before. He longed To go and be with the believers there. He longed to interact with them. They believed the same thing. They had the same doctrine. They loved the same Savior. Uh they had the same convictions. Uh by the way, I want to remind you Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not the only church in the world that holds to the Word of God We have to be very, very careful we don't get the Elijah syndrome that we're the only ones that love the Lord. Oh no, no. Thank God for uh Galilean Baptist Church and uh and um uh uh uh somewhere and um uh Connecticut uh Stafford Springs, Connecticut, thank God, and many, many other churches around. Last Sunday I was down in Clinton, Maryland, at the Independent Baptist Church, great church. and thank God for it. So Paul had never actually been to Rome. He knew of them, he knew of their testimony, their witness for the Lord, and uh he's writing this letter to them under the inspiration of God. In fact, we won't take time. But at the end of the book, he actually lists by name twenty-six different believers That he knew of there some of them he had interacted with, many of them he had never met. He would not know them by appearance. He never met them, but he knew about them. They had a testimony And he writes to them, greeting them and honoring them and expressing his love for them as brothers and sisters in Christ. And so, the Book of Romans, pen by Paul, authored by God, it's the most thorough, I believe. It is the uh if not thee, one of the most thorough and systematic books on the doctrine of salvation in all of Scripture Paul expounds, particularly in the first three chapters, he lays out the doctrine, the teaching on salvation. If you would, look with me at chapter one and verse number eighteen. He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness, and the unrighteousness of men. who hold the truth in unrighteousness. And he goes on and he lays out the fall of man and where we ultimately end up in perversion and wickedness and ungodliness at the end of chapter one. Then in chapter two he goes on. And he builds on this fact that for all uh that we're all sinners, the universal uh sinal sinfulness of man. Look at chapter 2 verse 1 He says, therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judges. He says, You're judging other people for being sinners. Listen, you don't have any excuse. You know what a big problem in our uh society is? It's a bunch of sinners judging other sinners. A bunch of sinners condemning other sinners. He says, You listen, you can't stand in judgment On another, you're a sinner, uh just like there. Look what he says. Whosoever art thou art that judges, for wherein thou judgest another thou condemnest thyself For thou that judgest doest the same things. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things? And doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God. And uh he goes on and he and he expands on the fact that we are all sinners. And in chapter 3, he continues This theme, this teaching. Look at verse number 10 of chapter 3. For it is written, There is none righteous, no not one. How many people are righteous in the eyes of God according to that statement? None. In fact, he re-emphasizes it. No, not one. When it comes to you and I earning God's acceptance of us, we have absolutely nothing to offer to God to earn his acceptance of us. We have no merit There's none righteous. No, not one. And look look, he goes on, he gets very specific. There's none that understandeth, verse 11. There's none that seeketh after God. They are all going out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good, no, not one. He repeats that verse ten. None, not one. Verse eleven, none, none. Verse twelve. All none, not one He's emphasizing the fact that we're all sinners. We're all sinners. I hope this morning you recognize the fact that you and I have sinned against the Holy God. We've come short. He goes, look what he says here. He says, their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of asp is under their lips. He's saying, listen, we've said things we ought not to say. Can I get a witness? We said words that ought not to come off a person's lips. Hatred, bitterness, words have come off our lips towards others, sometimes family members. Sometimes a brother or sister in Christ, the poison of ass. We've said things that are appalling to a holy God He says their lips. He goes on, he says in verse 14, their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Then he says, their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. We've gone places we had no business going. We've chased things we have no business chasing. We've gone after stuff that is displeasing to God. And the way of peace, verse 17, they have not known There is no fear of God before their eyes. Then come down to that classic passage there in verse number 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Paul is laying some profound groundwork here. It's very important for us to understand. Man is not inherently good. We are inherently sinners. We're born. David said, In sin did my mother conceive me. What he meant by that is from the moment of conception, from the moment of birth, we were sinners. And so Paul takes three chapters and he lays this out very, very clearly. Then in chapters four through six, he talks about the doctrine of atonement. Chapters 1 through 3, the doctrine of sin, what the Bible teaches us about our sin. And then verses 4 through 6, the doctrine of atonement. That's Jesus Christ Giving himself, the sinless Son of God, giving himself to pay the price for our sin for us To die in our place, to take responsibility for these sins that we have committed, and taking responsibility and being judged of God for us. If you would, look at chapter 4, verse 3 and 5 He says, For what saith the scriptures? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now for him that worketh is a reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. We find the forgiveness of sins not in any work that we do, not in any law that we keep. We find forgiveness of sins when we place our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the grace of God. Listen, we're uh uh we're all for taking offerings around here. We take offerings at everything. Uh we have a birthday party, we'll take an offering. No, not quite that extreme. But I'll tell you, you can put all the money you have in the offering plate, and it won't buy you heaven It won't buy forgiveness of sins. You can sit down and confess your sins to some priest or quote-unquote father. All you want, you're not going to find forgiveness of sins in in any man, in any ordinance, in any ritual. I tell you, forgiveness of sins is found when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Let me make this clear: Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save your soul, only Jesus can do that. Faith in Jesus Christ. Look with me, if you would, over at chapter five. And look at verse number one. Therefore, being justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Faith. Verse 2, by whom we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope and the glory of God. Look with me at verse 8. One of great verses But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The atonement. The atonement. Chapter uh look at chapter six and verse twenty-three. He says, For the wages of sin is death, that's separation from God for all eternity in a very real place called hell That's the wages of our sin. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus paid the price, and forgiveness of sins, eternal life, a home in heaven is a gift that God offers to us. And that gift can be received or rejected, but it can never be bought by you and I Can never be earned. We simply by faith receive what Christ has done for us. Amen? What a great teaching. Profound doctrine given to us here. And then chapter 7 through 11, we have the purpose of God in salvation. Why he saves us, what his purpose is for us. We'll just look at one passage, chapter 8, if you would, and look with me at verse number 28. He says, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, God knew who would put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, them whom he did foreknow He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of his son. God knew who all would trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And he predestinated before the foundation of the world said, all right, that person believes on me. They're going to end up in the image of my son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And he goes on, explains it. He says uh uh that he might be the firstborn uh uh might be the firstborn and uh whom he did for predestinate then he also called in whom he called he also justified in whom he justified Then he also glorified. That glorified there, he's talking about that day we get to heaven and we get our new bodies. No more sinful nature in the perfect image of Christ. What a day that will be. Amen. Anybody getting stirred? I'm getting stirred up here as much. I tell you, you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, your destiny is sealed by God, and one day you will be in the presence of God. in the image of Christ with a glorified body and this old sinful nature gone. Woo! I tell you, I'm excited about the glorified body. No more arthritis, no more diabetes, no more heart disease, no more nothing. And it's going to be great. And uh and somebody said, Preacher, I'll bet you're excited. You get to heaven, you're going to have a head full of hair I've got a I don't know. I have a little theory about that. Anybody want to hear my theory about heavenly hair? Yeah, this is good stuff. I wonder if we get to heaven and all the men are going to be bald. Maybe a glorified body for a man is a bald head. And some of us are closer to perfection than others are. Huh? You can take that or leave it. But I don't know what these guys want a head full of hair for. Good grief So, anyway, the purpose of salvation is to get us to heaven and be like Jesus in the presence of God, fellowship with God. So he goes through here and he lays out these doctrines. Then you get to chapter twelve. And chapter twelve is a major Change, division in the book of Romans. Up chapter 1 through 11, he's been very doctrinal, and by that I mean teaching spiritual, scriptural truths And he goes into great depth, very explains it very systematically, this matter of our salvation. Then we hit chapter 12 and he shifts gears. And it becomes very practical in chapter 12. The first eleven chapters are very doctrinal. Chapter 12 becomes very practical. If you would come over to chapter 12 with me And he's teaching us, the last chapters of the book, he is teaching us, under the inspiration of God, how to live our lives in light Of the truths he just laid out in the first eleven chapters. I tell you, you're getting a good study on the book of Romans this morning. And so, how do we live this out? Look at the very first verse of chapter 12. I beseech you, what's that next word? Therefore, because of all that I've just said, because of all I've just taught you. Now, therefore, I'm beseeching you, I'm pleading with you to do this. And the rest of the chap the rest of the book is very, very practical. Very, very practical. I find it interesting. That the very first thing he says in light of these great doctrines, the very first response that God says we ought to have is to dedicate our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ, dedicate our lives to the will of God. If Jesus Christ has saved your soul, the very first response ought to be, Lord, I dedicate my life to you. I beseech therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies A living sacrifice because of all Christ did for you, then I'm begging you, I'm pleading you, I'm telling you, you need to dedicate your life, your body to the Lord Jesus Christ, prove what that which is acceptable. Look what he says That you be sent your bodies wholly acceptable, God. It's your reasonable service. In light of all that God has done. Lay aside your plans. Lay aside your will. Lay aside your life and say, Lord, my life is yours. I give it to you because of what you've done. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. God saved us, and our response is to say, Lord, I'm yours. I present my body, everything I am, I put in your hands, I give to you to be holy and acceptable and Lord, and that your will would be fulfilled in my life And from there on, he talks about us living for God. Verses 1 and 2 of chapter 12 are the introduction to the second half of the book. And we're to commit ourselves then to humbly serve the Lord and others. And again, I wish we had more time. But verses 3 through 8, he talks about the gifts that God gives to believers. And how we're to serve one another, humbly serving each other. Every person. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. By the grace of God, through faith in Jesus Christ I know this about you. There's a lot of things I might not know about you, but I know if you've trusted Christ the Savior, you've been born again, I know this. God has gifted you to serve Him in some capacity in the local church. That's what he says there. Everyone say, oh preacher, I don't have any. A gift is talents, abilities that God gives us. So he says, I've had people say so preacher, I don't have anything. Liar, liar, pants on fire. Either you're true or the Bible's true. God says he did give you a gift And you have an ability, something to offer in the service of God, and to be a blessing to help and encourage one another. All of us do. All y'all do. All of us And so that's what verses 3 through 8 are saying. Then we get to verse number 9 down through 21. Then he talks about the grace. That were to show towards one another. And I uh that was I was speeding through my introduction because I wanted to get to this On I Love My Church Sunday, the grace that we are to show to one another, how to interact as believers, as a part of the body of Christ. How do we interact with one? He tells us. He lays it out. This is the way you interact. There's nothing easy about the Christian life. Can I get a witness? It's not easy. Whoever told you, oh, it's easy to live the Christian life, they either were ignorant or they're lying. Because it's not easy. It's a warfare, it's a spiritual warfare. It's a battle. And so there's nothing easy about the Christian life. A couple of the particularly difficult aspects of living for the Lord. And by the way, don't misunderstand me, God helps us We have the Holy Spirit dwells within us, enables us to live as we should. We have the body of Christ, and our purpose is to exhort and help each other live for God. I I want to s I'll just say this. I think you'll it'll be easier for you to live for God if you're faithful to church than if you aren't. I mean it's just obeying God. But nevertheless, it's not easy. Two particularly difficult areas I've found to be true, for me at least, I think it's probably universal Number one is to be consistent in my Christian walk. Can I get a witness? Oh, we'll get we'll have a revival meeting. Oh, God stirs, I'm gonna live for God. A couple weeks go by and what happens? We fall back, we struggle. And maintaining that consistency over days and weeks and months and years and decades living for God, sometimes that's a challenge. Folks will start out at the beginning of the year. I'm going to read my Bible. I'm going to spend some time every day. I'm going to read, let God speak to my heart from his word. Let him instruct me every day. I'm going to pray and pour out my heart to God and just spend some time with God. And brother, they'll start out good for a few days, a few weeks, a month, and then what happens? Then we start struggling. And then we we get away from. Then we come back. And then we get away from them. Then we come back Ideally, if you were going to graph the Christian growth and Christian life, if you were going to graph it, it would be here, here's where I get saved. Here is glory and heaven with God. If we're going to graph it. Ideally, it would be, everybody with me, you follow on saying, here's where I got saved. This is glory when I'm glorified and everything. If we're going to grab it, ideally it would go like this. But that's not how it plays out. This is we're gonna graph, that's ideal. We're gonna graph reality. Right or wrong. You know why we're laughing at that? Because it's true. We've all done it. And uh so one of the difficult areas of living the Christian life and growing and maturing and developing a Christian life is maintaining that consistency And by the way, it involves getting up when you fall down. A just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. And so that's one area of difficulty in the Christian life. I'll tell you another area of difficulty, and this is right up there. And that is interacting with brothers and sisters in Christ. I found, I've been in this a good little while, and I found that which troubles churches the most is not necessarily false doctrine. It's inability to get along with each other. I'm gonna suggest to you more churches have been divided Over the inability of God's people to interact in a mature, Christian, Christ-like, spiritual way has caused more damage to the cause of Christ than any liberal professor in a seminary. One of the great challenges in the Christian life is for the body of believers to interact as God instructs us to interact. And that's what he talks about here in verses 9 down through verse 18, I believe. Getting along. Maintaining a Christ-like relationship with brothers and sisters in Christ. Now don't say this, don't respond to this. But I wonder how many of us have gotten offended because some other church member said or did something. Or I can't believe she did that. I would never do that. Nor my mom used to tell me, she'd say never, say never, you'll be doing it forever. Huh? And somebody undo this and somebody does that and man where our feelings get hurt. Next thing we know, uh, then we're not talking. I hope you tell me one time. Well I'm not on speaking terms with her I said, well that's what the altar's for. Maintaining a Christlike relationship with my brothers and sisters and greats. By the way, that's true in the home also That's a breakdown of the wholeness when we fail to treat each other in a Christ-like manner, filled with the Spirit, in the workplace, in society, in the church. I think sometimes they'll have a Christian that has a great desire to do something great for God. Oh, God save me, and I want to do something great for God. But they have a difficult time maintaining relationships with other people. And if I'm going to do something great for God, I have got to conquer this ability to interact with God's people in a mature, spiritual, Christ-like way. And that's what Paul is addressing here. One another. Working with one another. A large percentage of the Bible, of Scripture, addresses God's people getting along. Old and New Testament. How to get along, how to work with each other and function in a way that helps and builds up one another, and we become strong in the Lord because we're helping each other, getting along, getting along Brother Heimball mentioned this in the Sunday school hour. Over approximately 50 times the Bible mentions one another. telling us something we're to do to one another. Some way we're supposed to talk and interact with one another. Nearly 50 times in the New Testament. One another. Do this, one another. Say this one another. Um instructions how to interact one with another I jotted down a few of these and it'll be a great series I thought as I was studying this, but we're told to care for one another We're told to honor one another. We're told to prefer one another. The other ahead, but the other before me. Prefer. We're told to receive one another. We're told to salute one another. Now that word salute doesn't mean when they walk in, doesn't mean that. It's not military What it's talking about, and there's nothing wrong with that, you want to salute, have at it, God bless you. But what he's saying here is, greet each other with respect. Respect one another. And he goes on. He says, we're told to bear one another's burdens. If a brother or sister in Christ is under a burden, then you and I are to help bear that burden. They're having a struggle, they have a need, they have an issue they're going through. A trial, a storm, were to bear one another's burdens. And by the way, that's not just the preacher's responsibility. It's the body of Christ, the believers. Bear one another's birth. Forbear one another. That means put up with one another. For Ben, sometimes you just gotta put up with people. And come on now. And I say, hey, ladies, just put up with them, okay? Just put up with them. Man, you say, Oh, my wife. Uh just forbear. Just put up with her. Amen. Someday Jesus will come back and uh it's all gonna be wonderful. But uh forbear hey let me ask you this. Does God put up with us? Now Jesus is perfect. He's sinless, and he puts up. He forbears with us as sinners. Surely us as sinners One to another can put up. Be patient. Amen. Or not. And so we're told to forbear one another. Forgive one another. Don't you hold a grudge. Be kind one to another, tender-hearted towards one another. Comfort one another. And then he tells us thirteen times. Thirteen times in the New Testament, we're told to love one another. To love one another. I just got a couple minutes. Let me give you a few real quick thoughts here. Number one, I want us to consider the priority of our love one for another. Look at verse 9 Let love be without dissimulation. The highest priority in the Christian relationship is uncondition for one another. That is the foundation, that is the basis of my interaction with my brothers and sisters in Christ. This word love here, as many of you are familiar with, that comes from that Greek word agape. It is unconditional love. It is love without expectation. It is love without requirements. Well, I'll love him if. No, no, no, no ifs. Unconditional love. Love, unconditional, no requirements, no demands, no expectations, just love. Be without dissimulation. Relationships fail when love becomes conditional. Did you get that? In the home, in friendships, in church body, relationships fail when love becomes conditional. When I start thinking he's got to behave this way if he wants me to love him, then that marriage, that that relationship is in trouble. Huh? Unconditioned. Let me ask you a question. You got quiet on me there. Let me ask you a question. Does God have conditions on his love for us? Do I have to behave a certain way for God to love me? Yes or no? No. It's unconditional. God has no expectations, He has no requirements, He has no demands for Him to love me. Now he does instruct me, he has requirements for me as a believer, but his love for me is unconditional. You're here today and you're not right with God, you're here today and you've got sin in your heart and life and you know it. I'm here to tell you, God still loves you. And He wants you to come back. And He wants you to make that right. He wants you like the prodigal son. Come to yourself and come back and make it right. And you'll experience God's love. And so he says, let love, unconditional, undemanding love, be without dissimulation. Now that word dissimulation is interesting Uh and we'll look at that here in a minute. But um and I don't have time to go to all these verses. I want it to go to a lot I want it to be here till five o'clock, but we won't. Um Mark chapter 12, verse 29-31. And for many of us, we're familiar with this. The fellow comes to Jesus. What's the greatest commandment of God? What does God want above everything else? Jesus says the first commandment is this thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy body, and with all thy might. And uh how many people are familiar with that Yeah, that's the first. God wants us to love. By the way, there's nothing wrong with this with a church or with our country that God's people falling back in love with like we should, couldn't solve. But then he goes on, he makes this statement. The first commandment is this. And by the way, that word first means first in line and also first in rank In other words, it's to be the first thing I do, and it's to be the highest, most important thing I do, is to love one another, love one another, love one another. And then he goes in the next verse, 31 I think it is, he says this. He says, and the second is like unto it. That phrase, like unto, has this idea on the same level as, just as important. Equal in rank and order is to love my neighbor as myself. Now here's the thing. People I've had people say this. This gets my goat. Is that right, goat or goat? It gets under my skin, it bugs me, it irritates me, makes me not love somebody. No, I'm not that. Well I I've had people say I've had people say this to me. People in the ministry They say this, Brother Letterman, I love the ministry, but it's people I can't stand. Now we laugh at that, but I'm here to tell you that that person doesn't love the ministry. Because the ministry is people. What they like, this is what they're telling me. When somebody says that, this is what they're telling me. I like the position. I like the title of pastor. I like to have some authority or influence here I'm telling you what, uh like our brother Chester says, if you don't love your neighbor, you don't love God. Right? That's what he says, in like manner. The second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. And so the priority of loving one another, loving one another, the purity of loving one another, again verse 9, let love be without dissimulation. That word dissimulation means sincere without hypocrisy, not being phony about it. I mean from my heart I love God's people. I love my brother. I love my sister. From my heart. It's not just a show. It's not just putting something, oh hi, oh, it's so nice to see you. God bless you. Oh, I can't stand it. Huh? You know why we're laughing? Rather get behind 'em. You you meet him in the face. Oh hi boy, God bless ya. It's good to see you. Get behind him. Huh? God says You need to love one another without that phoniness. Without that, can I use a Greek word baloney? Just love them for real. Love them for real. You say, preacher, I I tried to, I I just there's some people I just can't love. You know what the Bible says early in Romans? If I'm a believer, I have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within me. And God loves that person as much as he loves me. He loves them worth enough that he would die and suffer hell for that person. The one that you and I had such a hard time loving, said, I can never love him, I could never love her. God loved her enough, him enough to die on the cross. And that Holy Spirit that loves them dwells within me And the Bible says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. That word shed abroad means this. It flows out, it gushes out. And what I need to do is kneel at an altar or my bedside or get along with God and say, God, my flesh does not like that person. I'm having a hard time loving that person. Lord, I need you to fill me with your spirit and let your love flow through me towards them. Huh? I read about a fellow, he's some sort of counselor, and a lady came to him and she says, I hate my husband. I hate him And I want to divorce him. And I want you to help me divorce him in a way that hurts him so bad that he never gets over it. The counselor said, Well, I'll tell you what to do. How you can hurt him so bad, I'll never get over it. He says, for the next three months, you act like you love him. And you treat him like, and you convince him in the next two, three months that you actually love him, then you divorce him and walk away, and it'll crush him. It'll destroy him. She goes, he great plan. And so she did. And she went and she acted like she I mean she gushed. Week went by, two weeks, and she and he's like, whoa. And I mean she's pouring on three weeks, month goes by, six weeks, two months go by. Three months go by, four months go by, five months go by, and the counselor's like, I never heard back from her. So he called her up and he says, Man, I thought we had an appointment. We were going to divorce him and crush him and destroy him. She goes, I know, I know. But I acted like I love him and I fell in love with him. And I found out I really do. I really do. Yes, somebody you have a hard time loving, ask God to fill you with the Holy Spirit, and then put on love It's what the Bible says, Colossians, I think, put on charity. Like you could you say, well, I don't really feel like it. Just put it on. And act like now don't don't be stabbing them in the back. We're working at getting without dissimulation. But just put on like you love them. And you know what I think you'll find out? The love of God. Will swell up in you and be shed abroad. God is able to put love in our hearts for people who are not lovely. And that's gospel truth. That's gospel truth. The priority of love, the purity of love, number three, and I gotta move on. The pattern of love Is the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said in John 13, 34, he says, as I have loved you. He says, You love one another the same way I've loved you. How does God love you? Well, then you emulate that. Plagiarize God's love for you to others. Generally, plagiarism is not a good thing, right or wrong. But when it comes to loving others, let's plagiarize God's love for me and then pour then love them in the same way. He set a pattern for us. Study Jesus' interaction with Judas. Was Judas good or bad? Terrible. He was of the devil. Betrayed the Lord. Peter denied the Lord. Judas betrayed him. But you look at how Jesus treated Judas. He called him friend. He loved him. There was no difference in his interaction with Judas than all the others. He knew who he was right from the beginning. He knew he had a devil. Bible says that. But he showed love to him. He treated him in a loving way. He's our pattern. He's our pattern. In fact, when he told the disciples, one of y'all is going to betray me. And um how did they respond? They all said, Oh, that's Judas. Obviously it's Judas, he's the one who's gonna be no They all said, what? Is it me? You know why? Because Jesus didn't treat him any differently than he treated all of them And so listen, don't misunderstand. This isn't saying we have to approve of everything a person does. It doesn't mean I have to join in with them. The Bible says there's some people that we should keep our distance from. There's some people we should not make friendships with. But we are to love. Be kind and loving to him. You follow what I'm saying? And the pattern we have of the Lord Jesus Christ, as I have loved you, be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Follow the pattern. And I am with this the purpose of our loved one for another. And again, John 13, 35. Says, by this, you're familiar with it, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. If you carry a big black King James Bible. No, and listen, I'm all for carrying big black King James Bibles. I'm all for it. Or maroon. If you get a pink one, it's Queen James Bible, but um but that's not what identifies us as disciples of Christ. It's not our convictions. It's not our hooping and hollering. He says, by this, show them and know you're my disciples, if you have love one toward another. Now, is the Bible important? Yes, absolutely. It's very important. It's the foundation of all we faith and practice. It's our sole authority. Is doctrine important? Yes, absolutely. Doctrine is so we know what's true, what's right, how to be saved. But he says the distinguishing identification of a disciple of Jesus Christ is their love one for another. This whole Oakland area, this whole world around us, society around us. They say, man, those people out at Mountain Lake, they're disciples of Christ. Oh yeah? How do you know? They love each other. They love each other. That's what Jesus said. That's what Jesus said. Now again, we're not dismissing convictions. We're not dismissing doctrine, all of that. But that is the identification that Jesus says. Our love for one another is the testimony to the world that God loves us. That God loves us. You're going to have a hard time convincing this world that God loves you and loves them if you don't love your spouse. Huh? If God if if you can't, as a sinner, you can't love another sinner, then how in the world is anybody going to believe that a sinless, pure, holy God can love you as a sinner? Follow what I'm saying? It's identification that God loves us. It's a testimony. It's a display of the love that God has shown us that we love for one another. You don't love your parents. You don't love a brother or sister in Christ. It's hard to convince this world that God loves us if we don't love one another. The priority of love. The purity of love, the pattern of love, and the purpose of love. A strong, healthy church, now get this. A strong, healthy church is unflinching in their doctrine and their convictions. Listen, I can we can love one another, that doesn't require us to change our convictions. If I have to change my convictions to love to get along with somebody, I can still love them, but I don't necessarily have to interact with them. I hope I'm communicating this correctly It's vitally important. Strong, healthy church is unflinching in our doctrine and our convictions, but we are also unconditional in our kindness and compassion. I tell you, what's damaged our moot our brothers, our churches, independent fundamental Baptist churches, is we've got the doctrines and convictions, but we've not had the kindness and compassion And we've been hard and harsh and mean and and hateful. And it's hurt us. It's hurt our testimony. One another. Thirteen times. Thirteen times. God says love one another. Love. One another. New commandment I give unto you that ye love one another. Read 1 John. Read the Gospel of John. Read Paul's teaching. Love one another. Love one another. Love one another. My wife has an immute autoimmune disease. And she's heartbroken that she couldn't be here today. She wanted so badly. She's listening online. She has an autoimmune disease. An autoimmune disease, what that does is our bodies have an immune system. Anybody It fights off germs, it fights off threats and dangers to my physical body. God designed We're fearfully and wonderfully made. He designed our bodies with a defensive mechanism to fight off germs and fight off disease, sickness, and illness. We have this immune system built into our bodies. An autoimmune system is when that immune system, an autoimmune disease, is when that immune system gets confused. I'm oversimplifying it, and some of the doctors in here could explain it better. But what happens is that immune system, rather than fighting off that what it's designed to fight It fights itself. It attacks itself. That mechanism to Defend and defeat and destroy threats to the body turns on itself and it begins to attack and destroy itself And it's manifest various ways. It's lupus is what Kathy has. There's other versions of it. Rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis would be forms of autoimmune disease. And it fights itself. Here's the definition I came across. Autoimmunity is the failure of the body to recognize its own constituent parts as members of itself. Which results in immune response against its own cells, its own tissues. In other words, the immune system bites and devours itself. Paul said, if you bite and devour one another, You'll destroy one another. Strong, healthy church, unflinching in doctrine, unflinching in convictions. But is compassionate one to another, helps one another, builds one another, lifts up one another, encourages one another Loves one another. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us. I'm grateful for our church. I believe we love one another, Lord. We've seen the love of God displayed here so prominently for 30 plus years. I pray you'd help us to maintain that and go forward with this. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder these some this morning. Say, preacher, I need God to help me love as I should. Maybe there's somebody gets under your crawl. Maybe there's some Somebody that you just have a hard time with. Maybe this morning you say, Preacher, I need God to help me follow this pattern. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. Probably if we were honest, about every one of us. This is a difficult part of the Christian life, interacting like we should. But God can, and he will help us. If we yield to him, let him fill us with his spirit. Act upon what he told us, and God will do it. God will do it. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know somebody that's unsaved. And they need the love of Christ. They need to understand the love of Christ that was shown on Calvary. And you'd say, preacher, help me be a good testimony. Doesn't mean we approve of their lifestyle, their sin at all. But it does mean we're compassionate And maybe say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be a good testimony to that unsaved loved one, that neighbor, that friend, that co-worker, somebody. That I could be a good witness. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning you say, preacher, I don't know. I'm saved. I talked to a couple yesterday. I said, I want to show you how to know for sure. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. They both almost broke out into tears. Said, we don't want to go to hell. We don't want to go to hell God doesn't want you to go to hell. And He loves you. He made it possible to be forgiven and go to heaven. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. But I can know for sure That my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Any at all. Any at all like that this morning. Any. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. Have your way in Jesus' name.