Luke chapter 19 is where I want us to be at. I just uh took the message out of my Bible and then lost my place. So, chapter 19, latter part of the chapter I love the sword of the Lord. Love Dr. Smith. We're so close, we're only about an hour and a half away from the Sword of the Lord. And so like when the mission, when the men's conference comes up We always take 25, 30 men to the men's conference, uh and sometimes more than that. We have a great time there. Just uh it's a great ministry for our men to get together like that Uh fantastic. And being friends with Dr. Smith, you know, you're known by your friends and your enemies. And I'm glad I think I got the right kind of friends. Amen. I appreciate it. Appreciate it to stand for the Word of God. Always love His preaching. I want you to notice, beginning in verse 47 of Luke chapter 19. Verse 47 says and he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. And could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. And it came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, And preached the gospel, the chief priest and the scribes came upon him with the elders. You ever have a time when you're just reading the scripture and suddenly Just something is said that you never really noticed before. And you kind of laser in on that. And I was reading this, it wasn't that long ago, and it came to pass that on One of those days. And I thought, what about that? One of those days. Days are very important in our lives. They're very important in our ministry. Now, just nine days ago, I turned 75. I still can't believe it. I know I don't look it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it Appreciate that. But I asked Siri today how many days that means that I've been alive. So I asked Siri, and here's what she told me. She said, I have now been alive 27,403 days. Now, I'll tell you what, that would have seemed like a lot if that was the goal. But now that I've had 27,403 days, that doesn't seem like all that many. I'm ready to go a few more, and I thank God for the privilege of still being able to preach. The sad part about that is I didn't get saved the last 22. Which means out of those 27,000 days that I've been alive, I wasted, I mean, good for completely nothing, over 8,100 days. That's a lot of wasted days. And I hate to say it, but there are days that I've wasted since I've been saved. And you would think I would have been smarter than that, than to have wasted those days. I think about the song, you know, the hours that I've wasted are so many The days that I've spent for Christ so few, because of all my lack of love for Jesus, I wonder of his heart. Is breaking too. Out of all those days, I've had days of fun and health and enjoyment, and I've had days of sickness and pain and trial. and trouble. Who hasn't? That's part of life. I find a lot of bitter people around feeling like God has robbed them because they've gone through some hard times. Everybody's gone through some hard times. That's part of life. We understand that. You won't get mad at anybody. Don't get mad at God. Get mad at Adam and Eve. Had they not disobeyed God, we wouldn't be in the mess we're in right now. That's where it all began. I've had weary days, but I've also had good days. I've had days that have accomplished nothing, just like everybody has. And I've had days where I've accomplished a lot, and I thank the Lord for that. The psalmist told us, teach us, told the Lord, teach us to number our days. Every day has value. Now Twenty-four hours a day, everybody gets it the same. President of the United States, no matter who he is or whether or not he even knows it's a day Still only gets twenty-four hours a day. Tomorrow I only get twenty-four hours a day if God lets me live through tomorrow. When you realize that the Lord Jesus Christ's public ministry was only three and a half years, and you remember that John said in John chapter 21 that if all that he had done had been written a book, the world could not contain the books that wouldn't be written. And there are a lot of books that had been written But he would fill up the world with just the things that he did. That's amazing stuff We get to this passage and it says that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, And he preached one of those days. Now that saying rang a bell. So I thought I'd look it up. And I look it up on the internet dictionary And the meaning of one of those days, according to the internet dictionaries, not what it means here, but according to them, was when everything goes wrong And in its definition of that, it said that first appeared in print in 1936. And I said, no, long time before then, forever, O Lord, thy word has been settled in heaven. And at this point, nothing had gone wrong. On one of those days, Jesus taught and Jesus preached. One of those days. So it was a day that counted for something. It was a day that was important. Our day today is almost over. And then tomorrow, a lot planned for tomorrow. And hopefully great things will be accomplished in the lives of people. You never know exactly what will happen. But it was one of those days when he taught and when he preached publicly. Remember back in Luke chapter 2 When Jesus was found in the temple, when his mom and dad had left town, each thinking perhaps that he was with the other And they came back and they looked for him and they looked for him and they couldn't find him and finally they found him there in the spiritual place in the synagogue and There he's talking to some of the divines that were around there, the really smart guys that were there. And Jesus said, Didn't you know I'd be about my father's business? Why were you looking all around? This is what he's always done. This is what he came to do. He came to seek and to save that which was lost Man, think about it. In Luke chapter 4, Jesus is in Nazareth. And the Bible says, as his custom was, he was in the synagogue. That's when he preached his first message. In Luke chapter 4. But before that, even before he preached his first message, it was his custom to be in the house of God. You know, I've never had my children ask me, are we going to church today, Dad? We got saved just before our first daughter was born. We raised her up, well, let's see. She started in church two months before she was born. Because we got saved just two months before she was born. And we, from the very first day she got saved on Thursday, on Sunday, she was in church. And she's still in church today. She's a missionary. That's my oldest daughter. My other daughter's been the same way for they've never asked, are we going to church today? Sunday, we're going to be in church. We're going to be in Sunday school. We're going to be in church. We're going to In whatever else the church has They used to have training unions. If they had a training union, we'd be in a training union. We'd be in the Sunday night service. Whenever the midweek service, we'd be there. They have revival. We're going to be there. Man, I think the church is important It's the body of Christ, it's the bride of Christ. How in the world can I say I love Christ and not give honor to his body? I'm going to be there, he says, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. In John chapter 4, Jesus was talking to the woman at the well. And you remember his disciples came back. In verse 27, they'd been in the city. They had been talking or buying bread in the city. Evidently, they didn't say much to the Samaritans that were in there. They brought nobody back with them. When they came back, they saw Jesus sitting at Jacob's well And he's talking to the Samaritan woman. And the Bible says they marveled that he talked with her. And when you read that, you think, why would they marvel at that? Jesus came to seek and save the lost. That's simply what he's doing Because after all, she leaves, goes back into the city, and says, Come see a man that told me all things that ever I did. Is not this the Christ? And she brought the entire city out to Christ Here these men had been walking with Jesus for days, months, who knows, and they brought nobody And they marveled that he's talking to the woman. And that's nuts. But that's what he came to do. It was one of those days It's one of those days when Jesus is giving the truth of the Word of God, like you've heard here, like you hear every service here at this church. The Word of God. You think it's one of those days. As a matter of fact, it would be really news if you came to church and you didn't hear the Word of God. In this place, there are a lot of so-called churches you could go to. They can't even find out what the Word of God is. They don't even know. But here you know it, you don't just know it, but you hear it. It's always one of those days at this church. And that's very important. He taught the truth, even though many hated him. He taught the truth, even though they wanted to kill him. He taught the truth, even though at this particular time Calvary was just a few days away. He still taught the truth. It was one of those days. He taught the truth, even though the doctors of law disagreed with him. He taught the truth, even though the religious leaders spoke evil against him. It was one of those days That's what Jesus did. After all, Jesus had said in John chapter 8, you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. He's all about truth. In John chapter 4 and verse 25, he said, God is the Spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. You see, if it's in spirit and not in truth, then you're just a cult. You gotta have truth Truth is the basis for the whole thing. Got to have truth. Jesus said, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. And it was one of those days. That's exactly what he was doing. It was one of those days. Hallelujah. Later in the garden, he would say, nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. It was one of those days. I thought about that passage and I thought about that statement within the passage, the things that were taking place. This is his Passion Week. But each one its own day had its own significance, all fulfilling the very reason that he came. And then there were those that he came to save, that they would try to trip him up, but he kept doing. It was one of those days what he came to do. Look at verse 2. It says, And spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things, or who is he that gave thee this authority? They're trying to trip him up. They're trying to get him off the subject. But he doesn't get off the subject. He stayed on it because it was one of those days. He had three and a half years of ministry and he continued with one of those days. Go down to verse 19. It says, and the chief priest and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him. And they feared the people, for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. And they watched him and sent forth spies. It was one of those days That wasn't uncommon. Man, it sounds like a politician, because the opposite opposition to the politician, whoever it is, always is going around trying to trip them off in something that they say And if they misspeak themselves, it's going to be all over the newscast. No matter what the enemies of God were trying to do, or his enemies were trying to accuse him of. It was one of those days Jesus just stayed consistent with the reason that he came. You go down to verse 27 and 28. Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection, and they asked him, saying, Master Moses wrote unto us, if a man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. See, they were coming to trip him up. Now that is one of the dumbest stories in the Bible. I mean really They didn't believe in a resurrection. Sadducees didn't believe in a resurrection. And they thought they had the perfect thing to trap Jesus. If if the this guy's gonna f or this gal's gonna follow the law, then since her first husband dies and they haven't had a child, then she's gonna marry the second brother and then the third brother and the fourth brother And the fifth brother, and this, whose wife will she be in the resurrection? And Jesus, since it was one of those days, said, You do err not knowing the scripture Now the power of God. And he taught them some truths. Because it was one of those Days. Listen, friend, don't get discouraged. Whether it be on the internet and all the heresy that is taught and bantered about and thrown out there, don't get discouraged It it's just one of those days. The enemies of God have done that for years and years. And what Jesus did, he just continued to preach and he continued to teach He continued to stand by the same old truths because they're still true. Thank God we've got a word that does not change. It is absolutely the truth. I think back during the Boxer Rebellion in China, back in the uh, well, the first half of the 20th century. Man, Christians were being put to death by the thousands. Many missionaries were killed in the box of rebellion. A lot was done. But what did those missionaries do? It was one of those days they just kept teaching and preaching. Even though many were taken out into eternity to go and meet their God. That didn't stop them from doing What God had called them to do. I love missionary stories like that. And there are multitudes of those. Matter of fact, one of my favorite books from the past, at least the first half of the book It was written by James and Marty Hefley called By Their Blood, Martyrs of the Twentieth Century. Now they wrote that book about 1975. And at that particular time, they make mention in the book that there were more martyrs for the Church of Jesus Christ from the year 1900 to 1975 than all the years up to 1975. People are still being killed for Jesus in different countries today. So what does the church do? Well, it's one of those days. We just keep on. We keep on standing by the same truth. We're not looking for anything new. We're just going to stand by God's word. So it was one of those days he taught the truth publicly It was one of those days that his enemies would try to trip him up and destroy him, but it didn't stop him from doing what he did on all the days the same thing. And that would be repeated over and over again. Look down to verses 37 and 38. Of chapter 20. He says, and that the dead arise, even Moses showed at the bush when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him. You see, it's just another one of those days. Seems kind of monotonous, doesn't it? Ah, you know one of the things that made America great? When we had generations of people that knew how to go to work day after day because it was one of those days? America at one time had a work ethic. They didn't go to work just to get a check. They went to work to do a good job. And they went even when they were sick. Because they had character. One of those days. I remember Dr. Hiles talking several years ago about uh Terry Bradshaw playing in the Super Bowl with dizzy spells and 103-degree temperature And yet we got people that have a little cough or a baby cough, and everybody at home stays home. Doesn't go to church. I mean I realize man if you've got COVID, yes, stay home. Don't come and infect everybody else. I get that. But it's amazing how we get just a little sniffle or a runny nose, and we're man, we're willing to miss church as soon as what we can I want to be in the house of God as much as I can be there. Now there are times, bless God, you can't make it. Understand that. I know that. But you know. Every Sunday. It's another one of those days for us. Sunday comes around. We have Sunday school at the same time. Starts at the same time. It always starts. Teachers are ready. They've studied their lessons. They've got lessons to teach. We have a bus ministry, so uh our bus workers get there an hour and a half early so they can go out and pick up young people and bringing in just another one of those days where we're doing the Lord's will Preaching is done. Preaching is done in junior churches. We have four different junior churches. We have uh uh preaching is done in the service, Sunday morning, Sunday night, or Spanish service. Matter of fact, now we even have a Brazilian Sunday school class. Uh and we've got some Brazilians coming in dealing with that. But it's just one of those days. That doesn't make anybody super Christians. It's just Christians do what they're supposed to do We go soul winning during the week. Why? Because those days are just another one of those days. We have prayer meetings. Why do we do that? It's one of those days Man, as long as we're here, we're going to keep doing those things that we're supposed to be doing. Telling people about Jesus, winning folks to Christ. That's what we do. We have people that will serve the Lord in children's church, any one of the four children's churches. People serve the Lord in the nursery, choir will get up and sing. Why? It's one of those days. It's one of those days. I see I don't understand. T today it seems like, and hopefully you don't have this problem here. I I don't understand choir members only coming to practice three out of four times in a month. I don't understand that. I don't get it. I don't get it. I I think they ought to be there every time there's practice so they can be there. That just makes sense to me. I want my nursery workers to be ever there every time they're supposed to be there We need people in there. I mean you end up shortchanging your amount of personnel in the nursery, and you can end up having a problem, get some parent mad that way And then they end up leaving the church or don't come back if they're a visitor. We need people to be there because it's one of those days when we serve the Lord. Make our life count for him. One of those days, I need my bus drivers to be there on Sunday. They've got to be there. I mean, after all, their laws, we're going to obey the law. Our CDL guys, they've got to be there. Because it's one of those days. It's one of those days that we do what we're supposed to do. Thing is, it's sad as many churches that get discouraged And so they stop doing the things they're supposed to do. They stop worrying about getting there on time. And by the way, for me, on time is not our Sunday school begins at 9. 30. But good night, they shouldn't be walking in the door at 9:30. How are they going to minister to other people? The Bible says exhorting one another daily while this call today, lest any of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sins. The Bible says, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together as a matter of summits, but so much the more as you see the day approaching. How in the world can they exhort one another if they're still in their car? Come early. I tell our Sunday school teachers, if you only have one show up, man, that's a great day for that one. We don't combine classes. No, you teach them. You'd make that a special day. You learn about that child. You get to know that child. If you think that your lesson is so high and mighty that you can't give it to one person. I don't want you teaching in our Sunday school It's one of those days. I mean, Jesus could end up having a great revival in Sikar, the city of Samaria, because when there was only one to witness to, he witnessed to the one. And she brought the city. How about that? Because it's one of those days. Here's the thing I want you to get The day is coming when those days will be no more. Do you understand that? Matter of fact, Jesus warned us about that over in John chapter 9. In verse 4, he said, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. Yeah, I just turned 75. I mean, you know, there's really only one thing you've got to do to reach 75. Actually, something you shouldn't do if you want to reach 75, you don't die. I mean if you die you're not going to make it there, you understand? Kind of a prerequisite to everything God saved me in 1971 in the fall of the year. I trusted Christ as my Savior. The last Sunday in January 1974, 50 years ago this year, God called me to preach. I surrendered to preach. I don't read a retirement date on that. I want to serve him till I die. That's my goal. That's what I want to do. If he takes me tomorrow, then I will have made it. But you know, I'm not finished yet. If God gives me another twenty years, they may have to roll me in on a stretcher, but I want to preach. I want to tell folks about Jesus. I want to preach God's eternal word. And every day that He gives me an opportunity to do that, it's one of those days. And while we have those days, then I want to be faithful to do it. Think about the rich man in hell. He's crying out for people to go to his brothers so that they don't come to that awful place. Well he obviously can't come back and tell them about it. All the people in hell are crying out for people, they don't want their loved ones to go there. But we're their only hope. We come across these folks, we're their only hope. My dad, as far as I know, I w I was brought up in Sturgis, Michigan. Now Sturgis, Michigan was a town, I think when we were growing up, probably about 8,000 people. It wasn't very big. My mom and dad were factory workers. The only people that ever knocked on our door were the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses. There was not one person from a Bible-believing evangelical church, yet alone Baptist. That ever knocked on our door to tell us about Jesus. Had we died in a car wreck, and that could have happened, my dad and Drank and drive a lot. And we'd be right there, matter of fact, as little kids, standing up in the front seat. And of course we never wore seat belts or anything like that and there was no such thing as airbags. Well No, I'm not even going to say that. I'm going to go on from there. Your pastor already saw where I was thinking. He saw where my mind was going. That that wasn't good. But had we died, I don't think there's a Christian there that would have shed a tear They didn't care enough about our soul to try to get us to heaven. When I did get saved Got burdened about winning others to Christ, and then God called me to preach. I wanted to make sure wherever I was at that we did our best to give everybody that we could an opportunity to go to heaven. I recognize we're not going to save everybody, but we can save some. A few years ago I haven't told this story hardly at all. It's um it was one of those very special times. Back in the 1990s, we got into a liquor fight. In our town. They were trying to bring in liquor by the drink so we could have better restaurants. You know how the story goes. That's what the liquor crowd does. So they had brought it before the city government, and it was pretty divided there among the council members. We called the mayor and we wrote the mayor. Now, the mayor was retired military. He was a Catholic. He didn't say anything wrong with the alcohol, but he told me He said, if the vote is tied, I'll vote against it. Well, the vote was tied. He voted for it. He got on the TV and he held up a bunch of letters and he said, This is the reason I voted for it. Now, first of all, I know people don't write that much And secondly, I knew that all of our people had written. And I'll almost guarantee you, he had raised up their letters. And so I called up his office the next day, and I said, I'd like to see the mayor, please. This is Brother Allison And she says, this is about the liquor vote? And I said, yes, it is. Well he's not seeing anybody about that today. I said, okay, I'll call channel 31 or channel 19 and I'll just talk to them She said, just a minute. So she came back on. She said, all right, he's got a few minutes. He'll see if you can come down now. And I said, okay, I went down. And I said, Mayor, I've just got one question to ask you. Did you really Get more letters for it than against it. And he said, No, I got more against it. I said, that's all I wanted to know. Thank you for being honest with me. And I left. Now, we invited him to our anniversary Sunday, that next one. He came out to that. We honored him for being the mayor. We didn't let him say anything, but we honored him for being the mayor. And about a year later, there was a news story that hit the area news networks that there was a lady that worked at City Hall that accused him and sued him for sexual harassment. Well I called him up and I said, Mayor, I I saw the news story I said, I just want you to know that I don't believe it. And unless you tell me you did it, I'm not going to believe it. And uh he said, Well, I'd never lied to a man of the cloth. And I thought, uh oh, you know he'd already done that once, you know. So But he said, I didn't do it. I said, well mayor, I'd like to have a word of prayer with you if that'd be all right. He said, yes, that'd be fine. And he said, would you do me a favor though and pray for my daughter? Because she's a at that time she was a senior in the local high school and she says she's hearing this stuff every day And I said, Mayor, I'll be glad to pray for your daughter. And so I had prayer with him on the phone. And he thanked me. Now I found this out later that as soon as I hung up That he went throughout all City Hall, said Chaplin Allison called, and Chaplin Allison said that he didn't believe it, and Chaplin Allison prayed for him. He went over to the police station He told the cops that were in the police station that I had called, and that's fine. He did that. The next time I had him out He came for another big day. He brought us a beautiful cup with the seal of Madison on it, presented it to us. He said, do you mind, chaplain, if I just said a couple of words? I crossed my fingers and said, okay. And so he told the church that story. And he said at the end of that, he said, even my own priest. Didn't call me up. And I was hoping I'd be able to win that guy as the Lord. I prayed. I wanted to see him get saved. But he got defeated In an election shortly after that, and he moved out of town. I didn't figure I'd ever see him again. Last March, I was at church on Sunday morning, or Monday morning, it was Monday morning, and uh normally I go in a little later on Monday morning, but for some reason I went real early that day. And I was walking, I was inside walking by the foyer, and I looked out the window, there was a man walking up, and it was the mayor. Now he's not mayor now, you understand. He's not been mayor for a few years. Matter of fact, it's at least 25 years from when we had that vote. And he had moved away and all that. Evidently he had moved back. And he said, Do you mind, chaplain, if if I could come into your office and see you for a minute? And I said, No, that'd be fine. He came in We just talked about some things that didn't matter first. And I thought, well, man, I better use this opportunity while I've got it. I I gave my testimony to him again, and he said, and I said, wouldn't you like to trust Christ as your Savior? And he said, Chaplain, that's why I can't. I came by this morning because I I wanted I listened. He said, Preacher, I know you didn't think I was listening, but all those times I came out, I was listening. He says, I want that. Well, we bowed our heads right there. And he prayed and asked the Lord Jesus Christ to save him. Then he looked up at me and he said, And chaplain, I want you to do my funeral when I die. I think he was eighty-four at the time. But I walked out of that meeting stunned. I mean, he was, like I said, he was a retired military, a cursor. You know, been a lifetime Catholic, all of that, trying to become in my office after our history Man, they're still out there, and I don't care how tough they are. God knows how to push their buttons. And if we treat each day as one of those days being what we're supposed to be Even with the crowd that doesn't like us. Matter of fact, they may even hate us. They may have said all kinds of evil evil things against us. And yet, we do like Jesus did on one of those days. They too can come to Christ. You've been here how many years? Thirty-one years. That's a lot of Sundays. That's a lot of midweek services. That's a lot of visitation programs. It's a lot of youth meetings. It's a lot You got more meetings scheduled in the future, no doubt. But understand we've only got the days while it's still day. The night cometh when no man can work Let's keep each day like one of those days that there's supposed to be, that this church would accomplish till he comes back. All that God wants us to accomplish for His glory. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. Dear God, deal with hearts. First, we need to be transformed. Begins at salvation. So many decisions to make. Lord, this meeting comes about because of a pastor with a vision, a desire to want the people to stay stirred up and Continue to do more and more for our Savior. He deserves our whole being. Lord, please, there may be some Christians who've gotten a little weary. Tonight ought to walk an aisle and say I'm going to re-enlist. I want to stay faithful. I want to be busy. I want to be found doing what I'm supposed to be doing on one of those days. Lord, stir up our lives tonight. Stir up our families. Stir up our young people to be what we're supposed to be on every one of those days. Father, we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed. How many can say tonight, Well, thank God, preacher, if I died right now I know I'd go to heaven. I have been born again. Praise the Lord. Would you slip your hand up? You're born again. You know it as a testimony to the Lord. God bless you. Thank you. Put them down Now if you couldn't raise your hand or you're sitting there thinking, well, I don't know that a person could really know it. Here's what the Bible says. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. God says you can have eternal life and know it. As if someone, young or old, makes no difference. You say, preacher, I don't really know. If I died right now, I'd go to heaven. Please pray for me. Would you slip your hand up where I can see it? I'd like to remember you in prayer and then put it back down. I'm not going to come to you or embarrass you. I just want to pray for you. Preacher, pray for me. I just don't know for sure Are there some believers tonight? Simply by raising your hand, you'd be saying to me, preacher, God's dealing with my heart. Today's gone, pretty much. But I want tomorrow to be one of those days where I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing for the Lord. And I realize I'm going to have to get my thinking back right on those things. You may have had it at one time and gotten careless. Not doing the things we should be doing on those days. You say, preacher, pray for me. I want to be busy for him. Please pray for me. Would you slip your hand up tonight, child of God? Would you do that? God bless you. Respond tonight. Let God have his way in your life. Father, bless each one that's here. May decisions be made that please you. We beg it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand to our feet.