Mentioned it this morning well again later on, but Elizabeth leaves Tuesday to go down. She's gonna be working at Bill Rice Ranch. And so we want to pray for her and that God will use her. It's a great, great opportunity We're preaching on the tongue. We're working our way through the book of James, and we have a fairly lengthy portion of scripture here. That deals with the subject of t of the tongue and our words and our speech. I don't know if I read this last week or not, but I think I might have. But it goes, on a windswept hill in an English country courtyard stands a drab gray slate tombstone. The quaint stone bears an epitaph not easily seen unless you stoop over and look closely. The faint etchings read, Beneath this stone, a lump of clay, lies Arabelle Young. who on the 24th of May began to hold her tongue. Did I read that last week? I think I read that before. But that's what we're talking about. The ability to control our tongue. And if we had time, I'd like to read this whole portion of Scripture, but for sake of time, I'm just going to begin reading in verse number nine. And the Bible says of James chapter 3, therefore bless we God, even the Father. And therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. Now look what he says. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. It ought not to be that way. That's something that should not, should never ever be. Then he goes on and gives a couple illustrations in verse eleven. He says, Does the fountain Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either of vine figs So can no fountain both yield salt, water, and flesh. If you notice in here, he references twice. He makes the statement, my brethren. My brethren. Who's he talking to, saved or unsaved? Saved people. He's talking And he's mentioning something, he's given something here that saved people, Christians, should never ever do. Something that should never happen. So let's pray, and we'll look at this portion of scripture here. Father, I ask you to bless now our study here in this passage. Lord, we're very grateful for a good day, just a beautiful day. What fellowship we had. What a joy it's been to be in the house of God, to be around God's people. As we finish out this day, Lord, and begin the week, the holiday tomorrow, and then the rest of the week, I ask you to stir our hearts And God, my prayer tonight for myself and for each of us is that this coming week, our words would be a little different. I pray that this coming week our words would be a little more gracious. That our words would be under the control of the Holy Spirit and not our flesh. And that they would build and they would bless, not curse and hurt. And so help us, I pray. Fill me, I ask, with all my heart, with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It is impossible to overemphasize the power of our tongue. Our words are powerful in their ability to bless people. Now think about this. You and I can say things that are a blessing to people. It's a blessing. They walk away happier, they walk away lighter, they walk away encouraged because of something I said. But on the other side, my words also are powerful in their ability to destroy people. We can say things that absolutely hurt people deeply. That can actually destroy things. How many people's reputation or testimony at work was hurt? Because somebody said things about them. Our words are powerful in their ability to build people up. One of the responsibilities we're given and one of the purposes we gather together, assemble together church is to edify one another. We understand to edify means to build up, to encourage, to help, to strengthen. And we actually, our words have the power. To build people up, to strengthen them, to encourage them, to lift them up, be stronger in their faith. So our builds, our words have the ability to build people up. Our art words also have the ability to discourage people Uh has anyone here ever come away from somebody and they said something or they said it in such a way and it just discouraged you. It just brought you down. Anyone get a witness? Now, I would venture to say it's equally true that we've said things that have discouraged people. Boy, they're excited and they're built up and they're going on and we say something and boom Just a couple words and just cuts them out under the cuts them out at the knees and discourages them. The power of our words We have the power words to bring joy to somebody's heart. Just a few words can bring joy to the heart of her. Or we can say something and it can defeat somebody and just really, really discourage them. Somebody put it this way, I don't know who the author of this little poem is, but it goes like this A careless word may kindle strife A cruel word may wreck a life. A bitter word may hate instill. A brutal word can smite or kill. But gracious words can smooth the way. Joyous words can light the day A timely word may a lessen stress. A loving word may heal and bless. Our words. God has entrusted you and I with the ability to communicate And the words that make up our communication are very, very powerful. And God's entrusted us with something extremely powerful. Uh you have to meet you have to uh reach a certain age and be able to pass a test before you can get driver's license. Do you know why that is? Because a car is a very, very powerful piece of machinery. And that car can be a tremendous blessing, or it can be a weapon on wheels. It can save someone's life by carrying them to the emergency room and save their life, or it can destroy lives by driving it through a crowd and just slaughtering people. And our government, I believe wisely so, requires that someone have a level of competence, a level of discipline, a level of maturity before they're allowed to get behind that wheel and be entrusted with the ability to operate that car because it is such a powerful piece of equipment I'll suggest to you, wouldn't be a bad idea if we had a license before you were allowed to use your tongue You had to have a certain level of competence, of maturity, of discipline to able to use our tongue, but that's not the way it is. And God trusts us. God has entrusted to you and I this power of words to speak and our words bless or discourage, build up or destroy. We have that. Take your Bible. Now I wanted you to, when you turn to James, stay here in James, mark it somehow, keep that place, but come back to Proverbs. And again, I keep saying this over and over, but I'm astounded How much the book of Proverbs addresses this matter of our words, our tongue, our speech, and how it is so tied in with wisdom Um Proverbs chapter 18. Would you come back there with me? I know we referenced this in previous messages. And I know sometimes as we're preaching through the book, uh Book of James, in this case, you get a section and God uh devotes a large portion of scripture to a particular subject And so as you're preaching down through there, it seems you get a little repetitious and you keep coming back to that. But I think God has a reason for that. And so we keep coming back to the subject of the tongues. And if you would notice with me, Proverbs chapter 18, and I want us to look at verse number 21, just to reiterate what we're saying here is the power of our tongue. This this uh uh this power that God has entrusted us with. Proverbs 18 and verse number 21. Notice what the Bible says here. Let me get there. Uh he says in verse 21, death and life Are in the power of the tongue. Wow. Um, because words can be so destructive And because our tongue is so difficult to control Can I get a witness there? How many folks here ever afterward you said something afterward you thought, man, I wished I hadn't said that How many people here ever said something and then he y you thought, that thing just came out. I didn't even think about it. It just came out. Anybody here gonna witness? I'm telling you, that tongue can no man tame, the Bible says. We can tame tigers and we can tame lions. And bears. Oh no. But um that's for you, Mark. That was for you. I don't think that was in Sound of Music, was it? Was it I don't even remember what I was talking about. Um we can tame these wild animals, tame all these things, but the Bible says you can't tame tongue. In fact, remember the message a week or so ago? If I can control my tongue, I can control other every other area of my life. That's what the Bible says. And so God has entrusted us with, and because it's so destructive, because of the potent, the latent power in our words. And because it's so difficult to control that tongue, that requires our diligent attention. We ought to give, and I I come to this conclusion studying this, we ought to give a lot of attention to the to what we say and how we say it. We ought to give a lot of thought to it. We ought to think things through. We ought not to be quick. Sometimes that thought comes to the mind and man it's out the mouth before I even realized what it was. Now you all look at me real pious. You've been there too. And my Bible is telling me, I'm seeing here, we need to give a lot of attention to our speech, uh our pa uh uh our words. We need to give a lot of attention to that and and and work very hard on our words being what they ought to be. Now, keep your place here in Proverbs. We're going to jump back and forth. We come to our text in James, and um James is really in this passage, as I study this, I come to this conclusion, he's giving us an ethics on speech. Now what do we mean by ethics? If somebody is operating ethical, what are they doing? If you're uh if you if somebody has high e if they have good ethics, they're doing something that's very ethical, what are what are they doing? Think with me. Okay, they're doing good. Legal. It's appropriate. Um this is what I put down for ethics. I put operating by ethics means I'm operating by principles of right and wrong Ethics, our principles of right or wrong, or uh moral rules for my conduct. We ought to be ethical in what we do. It ought to be right. It ought to be Uh and by the way, just because something's legal doesn't mean it's right. And what he's given us here in James are some ethics for our speech. Way our talk ought to be principles that would guide how we talk. The fact is, God is very much concerned about what we say God is very much concerned about our speech and how we say it and when we say it and the way we say it The Bible just addresses this over and over and over. Ethics of speech. Now, let's look at this. I just got two thoughts. I'm going to give them to you real quickly. Number one. Some things that oughtn't never be, especially in our speech, our speech should never be number one inconsistent In its expression. Now, are you back in James? Look at verse 11 and 12. I'm going to look at these the last two verses first. These are the illustrations he gives. He says, doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? The answer to that is what? No. Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? The answer is no. And a vine doesn't bear figs. So can no fountain both yield salt water and flesh and fresh. What's he saying? He's saying You ought uh our speech should never be inconsistent. Inconsistent that word fountain there he uses in verse number 11. Uh it has the idea of a spring coming up out of the water, artesian well. When I was in Bible college, I had a roommate that was nuts. And um Uh he all we had all he allowed in the apartment was goat's milk. That was all we weren't allowed to bring any kind of milk, so I drank goat's milk uh on everything. And one thing he was insisted you don't drink water out of the spigot Uh you don't buy it from the store because I don't know he had all these reasons, but you had to go find an artesian well and we only drank water out of artesian wells And so out of the city there in Chattanooga, there was uh side of the mountain, there was a little pipe came out, there was artesian well. So every week we went up there and filled all these jugs up with artesian well water. So that's the kind of idea this fountain is this water coming up out of a well or out of this artesian well or out of a spring. We might, in our case, it might be a water fountain Uh you go to uh uh you know a park and there's a little water fountain there. Now what he's saying here is this is this is the way it ought not to be. If we went to the artesian well and we filled it up one week and it was nice fresh water and we were able to use it. And we come back the next week and there's salt water coming out of it. How many people would say there'd be a problem there? Yeah. Uh you go to the water fountain back here in the lobby, you know, and you get a little cut and And boy, it's just nice fresh water. The next time you put it in there and it's just like And it'd be nasty. And he says that ought not to be. You anticipate the fountain being consistent. Either it's going to be good water coming out of it, or it's going to be bitter water. It's going to be fresh water, or it's going to be salt water. You don't have this back and forth, back and forth, never knowing what it is. What would happen if you never knew what you were getting out of that fountain, you would stop what? Going to that fountain. I'm gonna be there, you never know what you're gonna get. I'm not gonna use that. And what he's saying here is we ought to be consistent in our speech. One of the one of the marks of spiritual maturity is consistency If I can see a Christian growing when they first get saved or whatever, and sometimes they're a little on and off or whatever, but you see a Christian growing and getting stronger in the faith, you know what you're going to see happening They're become more and more consistent in their walk with God. And if you see a Christian becoming inconsistent in their Bible reading as we preached this morning, their prayer, their church attendance and um you know their separation or whatever it might be and they start becoming inconsistent I know that Christian is not very mature. They're not very developed. Their faith isn't very strong And he's saying that our speech as Christians, he says twice, My brethren, you ought not to be like a fountain that one minute is bringing fresh water out and the next it's bringing salt water. One time you go and it's Good water. Next time you come, it's bitter water. You ought not to be that way. You ought not to be inconsistent. It ought to be the same all the time. We expect consistency from creation, as he uses this illustration here in the fountain. Water is a blessing to mankind. Throughout history, cities have been built, villages have been built, towns around fresh water. It's vital to our survival. Water is life-giving. And in that same way, so are our words. Now, are you back in Proverbs? We're going to jump back and forth a bunch. I want to look at a few verses in Proverbs, chapter 10, a couple passages here in Proverbs. And by the way, I want to challenge you. We're finishing out the month of May, I guess, next week. Next Sunday's the last day May. I'm going to challenge you into June. Read a pro one chapter of Proverbs a day As you go through the month of June, just read that day's chapter of Proverbs. I'm telling you, it'll challenge you. I believe it'll help us in our speech. Proverbs chapter 10, and look with me at verse 11. The mouth of a righteous man, that's who James is talking to, saved. The mouth of a righteous man is a what? Well of life. I'm telling you, Christians ought to talk in such a way that it brings life and salvation to people. Now look at the contrast. The mouth of a righteous man is the well of life, but violence covereth the mouth of the wick of the what? Of the wicked. Now, something's wrong if one minute coming out of my mouth is a well of life, and the next minute is coming out of my mouth violence. Hatefulness. Something's not right. There's inconsistency there. Look with me if you would at chapter 13 and verse number 14 of Proverbs. The law of the wise is a fountain of life to depart from the snares of death. If you would come over to chapter eighteen, talking about this fountain. Chapter 18 and verse number four. This one's significant. The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters. And the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook. In other words, what he's saying here is, listen, you and I as a Christian, we can God can use our words if we're careful and if we'll discipline ourselves and we'll make sure our words are what they ought to be, they can be like a deep spring of water and just be such a blessing and such a refreshment. Did you do you ever do you ever know someone that whenever you leave their presence you're just refreshed? You know what I'm talking about? You walk away, it's just they are such a blessing, and I'm so encouraged, and I walk away. You know what that is? Their words are a deep well spring. And it's a blessing to us. He says that's the way it ought to be. Water is life-giving. But on the other hand, water can be very bitter Back in James, he talks about the bitter water. He says, does the fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter water? The bitter water references poisonous, noxious water. And words can be bitter. Words can bite, words can hurt, words can uh uh uh hurt and destroy. Now come back to James. I know we're jumping back and forth. Look at verse 12 now. He says, Does a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? The answer is no, it's one or the other. Verse 12, can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? No. Neither a vine figs? No. It's impossible. It's impossible for a fig tree to bear olive berries. It's impossible for a vine to bear figs. It's unnatural. It's absurd to think that. You know what I think God's saying here? It is absurd for a Christian to talk the way some Christians talk. There are some words that should never, ever come out of the mouth of a Christian. Right or wrong? This ought not so to be. This ought not to be that way. There are certain ways a Christian should never ever talk. No more than you would expect fig trees off a berry tree. You should not even expect some words to come out of the mouth of Christians. I'm telling you, we live in a day and age when Christianity has become so unbiblical. It amazes me. Now I don't do as much as I used to, but I used to kind of tap into these preachers, these big uh preachers on TV, and I just watch and just want to see what they're up to And there's one fellow, and I can say his name and and maybe many of you would know him. He's very, very popular, out of Texas, big, and uh uh and it's not who you think it is. Um uh I heard T. D. Jakes. Anybody hear T. D. Jakes? You ever hear him? And I'm telling you, there was a crowd of women he was speaking to. I'm talking 30,000, 40,000 women. I heard this with my own ears. And he said words that were absolutely filthy. He talked about the women's bodies in ways that was absolutely crude. I'm telling you, these things ought not so to be. A Christian, we ought to be above reproach in every area of our speech. And not just the preacher, the Christians. I've heard uh well he says that listen we ought not to be uh there ought not to be a contradiction. There we should be we should not be inconsistent in our expression Just like a water fountain. You go to that water fountain, you expect fresh water out of it, not salt water. You expect figs from a fig tree, not berries. And God says people ought to expect from you and I good words, pure words, right words, blessing words, encouraging words, true words. I'm telling you, our words are so powerful, and they destroy or they can build up. And they can make a marriage absolutely miserable or they can make it heaven on earth. And our words can be a blessing to people when they come in and encourage them and point them to Christ, or we can absolutely discourage people and drive them from Christ. And there needs to be a consistency there. And so He says our words should be there inconsistency in our speech, talking like the world, talking crude and nasty, and then trying to talk blessing and good and all. He says that ought not to be Don't get two different things out of the same fountain. And then he goes, and I want to come back up to verse number nine and ten. Then he says we ought not to be, not only should we not be inconsistent in our expression, And we ought not to be contrary in our expression. Now I explain what I mean by that. In other words, as a child of God, as a as a someone, as one of God's people My words should reflect the character of my God. They should reflect. They should not be contrary to God's character. Look what he says in verse 9. Therewith bless we God, even the Father. How many people agree with me? It's easy to bless God. Right? It's easy to say, boy, God's good. Amen? Oh boy, if Jesus say, Praise the Lord, God's been good to me. Praise the Lord, God sure is good. God knows what he's doing. Boy, God's got things in control. I have unsaved people say that. You know, God sure is in control. Yeah But look what he says. He says, on the one hand, we bless God, and therewith we bless bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men. Which are made after the similitude of God. To bless someone, to bless God means to praise them, to verbally exalt them. I like what one commentator said. He said to bless Is the highest, he said, he put it this way, is the highest function of speech to bless someone. The greatest thing I can do with my words is bless. Say things that lift up and exalt. Say things that verbally exalt and to praise. And we do that to God. But then he says, and therewith the same tongue, the same tongue, curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. The word curse means to call evil upon, to say judgmental things about that person. And he says, listen, that's inconsistent. That's contrary to the nature of God. If we're going to bless God, we ought not to curse man. You know what? I've never ever heard a Christian curse God. Never heard anybody get up and testimony and say, God's been so bad to me and He's so uh and God just isn't fair and God is this and God doesn't do that and you know, I just can't stand being around him and they just irritate me, be so stupid and you know, God is I never heard anybody say that about God. I've heard that said about God's people. Huh? Now, why do we talk about God's people that way? We wouldn't talk about God that way. That same tongue That blesses God turns around and curses God's people. I don't know any Christian that would say to God things that are said to and about other people. People that are made in God's image. We pray and we praise God, and then with the same tongue we curse and condemn man. Listen, if I'm a child of God, my speech ought to reflect the character of my God. Take your Bible if you would and turn with me to Matthew chapter five. He kind of expands on this Matthew chapter five and verse number forty three You say, yeah, but preacher, people don't treat me the way God treats me. God's nice to me. God's good to me. God blesses me. God's very patient with me. People aren't. People curse me and people do these hateful things to me at work and you know, and in the home my spouse is this and my parents are that and my kids are this and you know, it's just It's not the same. You're comparing apples and oranges. God is so good and perfect, and the people around me are just knuckleheads. You know it's hard to fly with the eagles when you live with turkeys. Can I get a witness? What movie's that from, Mark? Look what Jesus said. Look at chapter 5 of Matthew, verse number 43. You have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. Now look at this. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Look at this next phrase. Bless them that what? Sounds like they need to be a little consistent. Not blessing one time and I'll bless this person, I'm going to curse that one. Oh bless God, and I'm going to curse that one. He says, no, no, no. Even if they curse you, you still bless them. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Why? That you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. He's not saying that so you can be saved. He's saying that so you reflect the character of your heavenly father. For he maketh his son, God maketh his son to shine upon on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. How many folks hear God was good to you before you got saved? Sure, it's the goodness of God that leads us to repentance. How many people hear God provided for you before you got saved? Sure, God was kind to us and He was gracious to us and He blessed us before we got saved. He goes, What why are you doing anything different? Um For if ye love them, verse forty-six, that love you, what reward have ye? Do not either Do not even the publicans the saying if ye salute your brethren only, what more? What do ye more than others? Do not even the uh the publicans so Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father as is which is in heaven is perfect. In other words, reflect the character of your heavenly father. And God is good and God blesses and that ought to characterize our speech. So back in James, he says he's been talking this whole time and we preached a series of messages on the power of the tongue, the destructive power of the tongue. No man can control it. And he says our speech ought to be, there's one thing that ought never be so about our speech. It should not be inconsistent. And it should not violate the character of our Heavenly Father. It should reflect God's character. It should be consistently pure and right and good and uplifting. It shouldn't be a mixture of the two. Now with that in mind, I want to give us three things, and I end with this, that I think we need to focus in on our tongue. Thinking about all that's been said the last several Sunday nights, I want to encourage you to jot these down. Number one. Because of the power, the destructive power of the tongue, because of how difficult it is to control, because it needs to be consistent in being a blessing and a help and helping other people rather than hurting and cursing. Because those things are true, number one, I need to pay close attention to what I say. I wonder how many of us ever stop and just think about what we're saying with others I won't ask you to respond to this, but how many of us, in the heat of an argument, said things and afterwards we had to come back and say, I did not mean to say the things I said You know what? We weren't thinking about what we were saying. We weren't paying attention to what we were saying. What would happen well it's a big thing in the in the society now. What happens when people don't pay attention when they're driving a car? People are killed. Distracted driving. I'm telling you, distracted driving has killed a lot of people. I want to suggest to you, distracted talking has hurt a lot of people. Not thinking, not paying attention to what I'm saying, and just letting my emotions take over, just letting the flesh take over and anger and wrath and malice and say things and I'm not paying attention We need God to help us pay attention to what we're saying. I don't know, there may be some exceptions, but I would venture to say the overwhelming majority of the folks in our church, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Number one, I suggest this: we pay attention to what we say. Careless words are just as harmful as curse words. Number two, I put this down. I must, number one, pay close attention to what I say. Number two, remember I will be held accountable for my words. Now we won't turn there. We already preached on this at length a couple messages ago. But Matthew chapter 12, verse 37, the Bible says that you and I will give an account for the words we say, the idle words we say. And we'll have to answer to God for that. How many people Now be honest, all right. Come on. Yeah, it's just us tonight, so just be honest. I think people sometimes are a little more careful what you say when the preacher's around than when he's not around I do. Somebody told me it's been some time ago, they said, Man, at work my boss is always looking over my back. I said, try my position, my boss. If we would just stop and remember Every every word that comes out this mouth, I'm gonna have to give an account to, I'm gonna answer for. Dates How many folks here, when somebody's going to come over to your house, they call, hey, we'll be there in ten minutes. Zing! Stuff it underneath here. Can I get a witness? Why? Because somebody's gonna see what the house is. Hey, our words They're there. God sees it. He hears it. We're going to be held accountable. I'm telling you, that one truth right there, if we got a hold of that and kept it in the forefront of our mind, would change the way we talk I venture to say some of us talk differently in the house than we do at church. Some of us talk differently to our spouses in public than we do in private. Why is that? Because we know people will hear us. I got news for you. God hears us all the time. And we have to answer to him for those words. Number one, let's pay very close attention to what we say. Let's be more careful. I'm preaching myself. Number two, let's remember we'll be held accountable for our words. And here's the last one, and I like this one. Turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. I've come in as I'm growing and as preaching and growing as a Christian and longer I'm living the Christian life, the more I come back to Galatians chapter five That is a significant passage on living the Christian life. Galatians chapter 5 And of course, you have down, you get down to verse uh verse number 19, you have the works of the flesh, verse number 22, the fruit of the spirit, and I keep coming back to that more and more. The contrast of the two, am I operating in the flesh, we're operating in the spirit. But I want to back up to verse number fourteen for our subject tonight. Galatians chapter 5, for all the law is fulfilled in one word. Even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Now look at verse 15. But if ye bite and devour one another, Take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. Now when he says bite and devour one another, how many people think he means literally bite the person and eat them and chew them up and eat them? No, he obviously doesn't mean that. So when he says when you bite and devour one another, what is he referencing? Our words. Words that bite, words that cut down, words that eat up That person. He says, if you're doing that, you're going to consume each other. But then he goes on. This I say then If my words, if I'm not controlling my words and I'm biting and I'm devouring one another, and we're just tearing into each other, and there's a bloody mess, so to speak, and we're in shreds when it's all over Look what he says. This I say then, because of that, walk in the spirit, capital S. And ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. Now we think of the lusts of the flesh, we think of sensual things, but what he's talking about here is an uncontrolled tongue. Biting and devouring and rah. And he says, if you'll back up And you'll die to self and get out of that flesh and get filled with the Spirit, walk in the Spirit, you'll be able to control that tongue. Remember, he said back in James, the tongue can no man tame. He's exactly right. But do you know who can tame the tongue? The Holy Spirit of God that dwells within you and I. And if I'll walk in the spirit, I'll say, Lord, I cannot control this thing. God, it is more powerful than anything. I cannot control it. God, I need to die to self. I yield myself to you. Fill me with your spirit. Control me. I tell you, we can be a blessing. We can be encouragement. And I tell you, that home can be a little bit of heaven on earth. And that church and that Sunday school class and that fellowship together can absolutely change lives when the Spirit of God fills us and controls us. So will you do that with me? Number one, let's pay close attention to our words. Let's all do this together. I'm working on it. Pay close attention to our words. Number two, remember I'm going to be held accountable for our words. And number three, let's walk in the spirit, not in the flesh. Let's get in God's will. Die to self. Say, here I am. Yield my will to God. Present my body on a daily basis. Here I am, Lord, fill me. Speak through me. Do for me what I cannot do for myself. Control my tongue because I can't. And I believe God can turn things around. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now. We need your help on this, God. God, there's some things coming out of our mouth that just ought not to come out. It's not, it's absurd, it's unnatural. And we need your help and remind us of these truths, Lord. Help us pay close attention. Help us to care more about pleasing you than getting our way or winning an argument. Lord, help us to remember we're held accountable. Help us, Lord, to be yielded to your spirit on a continual basis. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm going to join with you in trying to apply and determining I'm going to apply Those three thoughts that you ended the message with, I'm going to join with you, I'm going to apply them to my life. And I want to try and practice those three suggestions there so that my tongue can be freshwater on a consistent basis. And not be a mixture and not be hurt. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. This is my suggestion as your pastor. We finish out today. Have the holiday weekend. It's a good day today Maybe just kneel at an altar and say, Lord, here's my tongue. Help me, Lord, in these three areas. Maybe we need to jot them down. Just ask the Lord to ingrain it in us. And I believe God could use us in a great, great way and turn things around. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Now, one other thing before I give it, is there someone here tonight say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that God has forgiven me and cleansed me of my sin? You say, preacher, I don't know that I'll go to heaven and not to hell when I die. I'm here to tell you the best way to start control your tongue is let God have your heart. And trust Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. Would there happen to be someone tonight and say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell? You'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. Pray for me also. Would you pray for the others that God would help me settle that? Is there any like that at all by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Now Father, bless her invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed