I'd like for us to read together verse number 15, if you would. Read in Eunison, Job chapter 13, and verse number 15, if you have it there in front of you. Let's read together. Ready? Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him, but I will maintain mine own ways before him. Though he slay me Yet will I trust in him. I've entitled a message, Only Trust Him. I have a subtitle or an alternate title for it: How to Endure Trials And if anybody knows anything about enduring a trial, it would be our brother Job. And so let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity We have to assemble together. Lord, this is your day. First day is the Lord's day. And so we want to honor you today in this service and this message. I pray your presence would be very evident. You'd reveal yourself to us, Lord. We could sense your presence here. That you would challenge us in our faith, that our faith would grow. I pray you'd convict us in our lives of sin or areas maybe of disobedience that need to be realigned. I pray your Holy Spirit would do that. That's what you do, Holy Spirit. Pray it encouraged those that need encouragement. There's no doubt many are going through trials. Many are in Spiritual battles in their lives, and we need a word from heaven, we need some instruction, we need some encouragement And so, Father, our Bibles are open and we're looking to you to speak to us and apply to our lives, the truths that are here in your word I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me. And that you would be the teacher and you would apply your word, these principles, these truths to our lives as we know we have need. So Lord, we open ourselves to you. We want your will to be done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The book of Job is one of my favorite books of the Bible, and I have a number of ones, and they kind of fluctuate sometimes. But Job Remember, I'm reading my devotions, I'm we're working my way through the Bible. Whenever I get to the book of Job, I'm always excited My father, this passage here, and I'll mention this again later on, but this passage, chapter 13 and verse 15, my father would clothe often He referenced that, particularly through different trials that he went through in his life. And he would quote to me, he said, he always appreciated, helped him when Job said, Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. How to endure a trial. Now the book of Job is a fascinating book. We're not told, a little background on the book itself, we're not told who the penman is. of the book of Job. There's no mention in the book at all about who penned this. Sometimes it's pretty clear and it's pretty obvious. Other times the Bible tells us directly and there's some books of the Bible we just don't know. Of course, the obvious guess as to who the penman is would be Job himself. He would be the the go-to guy to know what took place. And what happened here? Although there's some questions about that, legitimate reasons why he may not have been the penman. Others have suggested here. Others have suggested the fourth friend of Job's Elihu shows up towards the end of the book in this conversation Job has with his three friends. This fourth fellow shows up and he gives them his two cents and gives them his opinion about why Job's gone through these trials Some have suggested um Elihu may have been the penman. We don't know. Again, we're not told. Um whoever the penman is apparently and obviously was a Was an eyewitness to what Job went through. Now we don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us who the penman is, but the Bible does tell us who the author is. And the author of the book of Job is none other than God Himself and the person of the Holy Spirit. In 2 Timothy 3 and verse 16, the Bible says all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Whoever penned these words down back originally years, many, many years ago, whoever it was, they were moved by the Holy Spirit of God to write the very words that make up the book of Job. 2 Peter 1 and verse 21 says, Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. What I'm trying to say is this: the book of Job is part of the Word of God. And the Bible is the Word of God. And so we can be confident when we open the Bible and we read the book of Job, it is God speaking to us. Through the pages of the book of Job. So whoever penned it was moved by the Holy Spirit to pen it down. Now here's something interesting about the book of Job. It is the oldest book in the Bible. In other words, the book of Job was penned before any other books of the Bible were penned. We know for certain it was penned before Moses lived. There is no reference to Egypt. There's no reference to the plagues of in Egypt. There's no reference to the covenant God made with Israel on Sinai. No reference to any of that. The book of Job was penned before Moses ever lived, before he was ever born and placed in that little ark there in the River Nile. The book of Job was already in existence. The book of Job was penned before Abraham lived. There's no reference to Abraham. There's no reference to the people of Israel. The book of Job precedes the nation of Israel. In fact The book of Job was penned before the book of Genesis was penned. Genesis through pr uh through uh Deuteronomy, the Pentateuch. uh was um uh was penned uh by Moses, we believe, and uh the book of Job precedes that We have a first-time visitor in our service here this morning. Here is Lacey with the baby. Isn't that wonderful? Um what a grand entrance. We're so happy for Lacey and praise the Lord and for and Jed too. And um but wonderful. I'm sorry, I couldn't help but say that. So Job is a very, very old book. It's inspired by God, given by God. Whoever it was that wrote it, they saw firsthand what took place, were confident of that. We know for a fact it was he was inspired by God to record for us. And it was written very, very early on. What I considered my home church for years, shortly after I was saved The Faith Baptist Church in Sellersville, Pennsylvania, was pastored by Dr. David Auckland, a great man, a great Bible scholar. He taught in some Bible colleges, had a little Bible college there uh little institute, it was more of a Bible college than institute. And I heard him on numerous occasions, and he believed pretty strongly that the book of Job was m perhaps penned even before the great flood, before Noah. There's some references in the book of Job to creatures that we believe lived before the flood and died out after the flood became extinct. And so the book of Job is a fascinating book. We don't know who the penman is for sure. We know it's the oldest book in the Bible. What is the significance of the book of Job? Say, preacher, why should I even bother reading the book of Job? Why should I give it any attention at all? Fact of the matter is a lot of people don't give much attention to Job. We're not going to ask for a raise of hands or a response in any way. But I venture to say there's good number of people, maybe a significant percentage, uh folks here that have never read the book of Job Many, many Christians are unfamiliar. They know about it. They've heard of they've heard someone say, poor is Job's turkey. I don't know where they came up with that. But um we've heard about the patience of Job. We've heard about Job, but as far as the book itself is concerned, it's not uh not one of the most popular books, it's not read a whole lot The ancient Jews considered the book of Job to be what they called wisdom literature. In other words, along with the book of Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. They consider Job to contain tremendous wisdom for life. And I would have to say amen to that. I agree The book of Job has tremendous wisdom for us to learn about life and the trials of light. The book of Job is quoted in reference throughout Scripture, some But the basis of the book of Job, and this is what I want to get at, what is the premise? What is the basis? What is Job trying to teach? What is it all about? And I believe we find that back in chapter number one. If you would turn back there with me, you say, well, it's just some guy that had all these awful things happen to him, and uh his friends kind of Trying to accuse them of all kinds. Just a s tragic story about a a sad man. No, there's a whole lot more to it than that. In chapter 1, we find that Satan comes before God. He summons before God. And God asks Satan about his servant Job. Now notice in verse 1 How God describes Job. He says there was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. Now look at this. And that man was perfect and upright. One that feareth God and eschewed evil. In other words, he hated evil. He wanted nothing to do with sin. He wanted to please God with his life. When it says he's perfect, it doesn't mean he was sinless But he was mature. He was all that God wanted him to be. He was a good, strong man of faith. He lived right. He did right. He hated that which was evil. He loved his family. He prayed for his family. And Satan comes before Job, and God asks him to consider Job that there's none, look there in verse 8. God says, there's none like him on the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Would you agree with me? When God says that about a man, that's quite a man. What God says about Job is significant. And then Satan lifts his voice up And Satan says verse 9, then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? He's living for you just for nothing? You think he just loves you? Just for who you are? You think he's living for you just because you're you? Nah, he's getting something out of this. He's doing right and he's doing all these wonderful things because he's getting something out of it. He's in it for himself. Look what he says. Hast thou not made a hedge about him, about his house, and all that he hath on every side? Now it's blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. Now look what Satan says. But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath. And he will curse thee to thy face. What was Satan saying? He's saying, yeah, Job's doing right. Yeah, he's living this holy life. Yeah. But he's doing it for what he gets out of it. He's doing it so that you will do stuff for him. You take your blessings away, you take away all that good stuff you're doing, he'll curse you to faith. He doesn't love you. He doesn't trust you. He's in it for what he gets out of it. I was working a bus route down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. We're in this inner city projects there and rough We would go every Saturday and we'd witness and try and share the gospel with people. We'd try and sign up kids. Anybody really ride our bus. We'd send those buses in there on Sunday mornings and We'd fill it up. We had an 80 passenger bus. We filled that thing up with those kids. One day I was out going door to door and this lady came out and she says, uh, she goes, Why are you doing this? I said, what do you mean? She goes, I know why you're doing this. I know why you come in here and visit. I know why you come in here and run these buses. I said, why is that? She goes, you're getting money from the government The more people you bring in on the bus, the more money you guys get. And I know why you're doing that. Now, I thought that was a great idea, you know. But we weren't doing it because we'd get money from the government. In fact, we got no money. We were not we didn't get paid by the church or anybody for it. I think I can honestly and sincerely say we did it because we loved the Lord. We wanted people to be saved. And that's what Satan is saying to God about Job. I know why he's living for you. I know why he's doing all this. So he can get more stuff from you. You'll pay him for doing right. God says, okay. This is an interesting part, I think, in the book of Job. The book of Job is when God has faith in a man. God trusted Job to do right, even if he removed his blessings. Even if he removed the hedge. Of course, you get into chapter 2 there, and Satan does what he does best. Destroys. Destroyed his children. He destroyed his property. Destroyed everything. And look at the end of chapter number one, if you would. Verse 20. He lost his He lost his family, he lost his children, he lost his possession, he lost his cattle, everything he had was gone. Verse number 20: Then Job arose and rent his mantle, shaved his head, fell down upon the ground, and what? Worshiped. Wow! Verse 21, and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away. Look at his last statement. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. You know what Job just did? He just proved Satan wrong. Let me throw this out there. Satan is always wrong. So Satan comes back again in chapter 2. He goes, yay, look at look there. It's kind of interesting the way he words it. In verse number four, the Lord says, hey, if you consider my servant Job, he's still faithful, he's still doing right, even though you turned me against him. You did all this stuff to him. He's still doing right. Look what Satan says. And Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. But put forth now thine hand and touch his bone and his flesh and he'll curse he will curse thee to thy face The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he's in thy hand, but save his life. Don't you kill him? Do you agree with me? Satan would have killed him if God would have let him. God says, don't you kill him? God's trying to prove a point. Here's what God's trying to prove. It is possible. For a person to be faithful to God, to love the Lord, and trust Him, even when nothing makes sense. Even when it seems like everything has gone wrong, even when it seems like the whole world, God and everybody is against me, it is still possible to have faith in God and trust God. And live for God and please God. Job proved it once and for all. Satan sends them boil sickness like you and I can't imagine. Notice how Job responded. I think it's interesting, verse 9. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Yeah, he did. Job did retain his integrity. Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. She's telling him to do exactly what Satan was hoping he would do. Curse God. Now, before you get too hard on Job's wife, she just lost all her kids. She just lost everything. Now her husband is incapacitated. She's gone through it. She's struggling. She speaks foolishly. Job says that. So that was a foolish thing to say. But notice Job's response. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. Look at this. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips. The basis of the book of Job is this. It is possible to serve God even though I get zero material blessings out of it What I'm trying to say is this: God is worthy of our love and our worship, even if he does nothing for us at all. God allowed Satan to take everything from him. And yet Job maintained his integrity. He maintained his faith in God. Now he struggled. We read through the book, he struggles He asks repeatedly, God, why? God, I've been faithful to you. He's several times, he challenges God, God, let me Let me lay the evidence out here. Let me show you I've been faithful. I've been good. It is possible to be faithful to the Lord, to love the Lord, even when it seems like everything is against us. Now, you gotta keep reading to you to the end of the book. And when you get to the end of the story, God steps in. And he basically says to Job, Job, listen, you understand what just took place. But I'm telling you, I'm still in control. I still love you. And I'm going to bless you. And God restored to him and blessed him his end greater than what it was at the beginning. How do you endure a trial? Is it possible? Is it possible for a person to love the Lord even when things make no sense? Is it possible to live right, do right, and trust God, be faithful to God, even when we're overwhelmed with trials and grief? Is it possible to maintain my faith, to maintain my love and trust in God, even when God is silent? Job answers, yes. Yes, we can, and we must. So the premise of the book of Job is this: we can be faithful to God. Even when things don't make sense. If you come back to our text now in chapter 15, in chapter 13 and verse number 15, Job makes a bold statement. He's struggling. He's trying to figure out what in the world's going on. What in the world God God, where are you? Why is this happening to me? And by the way, let me just throw this out as an aside. There is nothing wrong with asking why. God never once rebukes Job for asking why. David, if you'll read the Psalms over and over, David would ask God, why? Why is Saul pursuing me? Why am I going through these trials? Never one time did God rebuke David for asking why he was going through his difficulties. In fact, even on the cross The Lord Jesus Christ himself said, My God, my God, what? Why hast thou forsaken me? There's nothing wrong with asking why. People come to me sometimes and they'll say, Preacher, why did God let this happen? And I'll be honest with you, that's the one question. And oh there's a lot. But that's one of questions people ask me, and I don't have an answer for. I don't know why. I can answer that many times. Now I do know why Jesus died on the cross, the Bible tells us very clearly, because he loves us. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We know why he died on the cross But we don't know why he allows these trials. We don't know why he allows things to happen. I don't know. But I do know this. We can trust him. I do know this. We can have faith in him. As I said, my daddy quoted this verse often: Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I will trust him. Job was tried like few, if any others have ever been tried. He did question God. He did challenge God in some places. But here's the thing, he never lost his faith. He never stopped trusting God. He said, God, I don't understand God, I don't know why. Lord, I can lay out a defense of myself. I don't know why. But Lord, even if you slay me, I'm still going to trust you. Still going to trust you. Job did question God. He did challenge God, but he never lost his faith in God. And when it was all said and done, When it was all said and done, Job's understanding of God as his creator was much clearer. When it was all said and done, Job's faith in God was stronger than it had ever been before. If you would, keep your place here and come back to the last chapter of the book of Job, chapter 42. And God steps in after all his friends are done throwing their accusations at him and making their speeches and giving their opinion. By the way, did you ever notice whenever you're going through a trial, everybody has an opinion. Everybody has advice. Be careful. Again, this is just this is extra. There's no charge on this. I just throw this in as a freebie. Be careful who you get advice from. Be careful who you get. Everybody's got advice. Opinions are like armpits. Everybody has one. Most of them stink. Right? So Job's going through it, and his friends show up and they start giving their opinion about why he's doing this and why this and why that and giving all their opinion God steps in at the end of the book and he never explains to Job why. God never explains to Job about the argument, so to speak, with Satan. He never explains that conversation. Never even As far as we know, he never even reveals that to Job. But he does say this, Job, I know what I'm doing. I'm just putting in my words. Job, I know what I'm doing. I'm in control. And you trust me. And you trust me. Anybody here ever say that to your kids? Daddy, why? Daddy, why that? Huh? I'm the one calling the shots. You just trust me. You know what I found? The boys grow up, they look back and they say stuff like this. Oh, now I know why you had that rule. Now I understand. You now I understand why you didn't let me drive the car when I was four. At the time, he hates me. I know he hates me. He would let me drive if he loved me. But you know what happened as they grow up and they get a different perspective, they realize Daddy loved me. That he cared about me. Why would he why would he discipline me if I play out in the road? He's so me He doesn't care about me. Why would he do that? Then they grow up and they say, Oh, now I understand. Daddy loved me. And he knew more about the situation than what I knew at the time. And now I understand. And God shows up to Job after all his friends have run their mouth, and they've exhausted their opinions and they've exhausted all their advice. And God steps in and God says, no, no, no. I created this world. I know what I'm doing. You trust me. And look how Job responds again there in verse number 40, chapter 42. Verse 1. Then Job answered the Lord and said, this is after God gave quite a speech here. He asked a lot of questions. And Job responds, verse 2: I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful for me which I knew not. He's saying, you know, I didn't know. I didn't know. It didn't make sense at the time. I didn't have all the information. Here I beseech thee and I will speak. I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. He says, I believed in you by faith. He says, but now mine eye see thee. Now I understand. Now I see that you have a plan and purpose. And even though we don't know, even though I don't understand God. Verse 6, therefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. He says, You are God. Job expressed his faith to God in three ways, I put down. Number one, if you would, come back to our text now. I give you three thoughts here that Job expresses here in verse 15 and 16. Number one Job had tremendous faith in God, and he expressed that faith, first of all, through total submission to the Lord. Complete submission to the Lord. Notice in verse 15: though he slay me, would you agree with me? That is a statement of submission. He said, Lord, I'm submitted to you. Even if you take my life, I'm submitted to you. I'm putting myself in your hands, even to the point of you slaying me, I'm submitted to you. Though he slay me, total submission. I believe trust involves submission. For instance, I take my money down and I put it in a bank that I trust. That they're going to hold my money, that they're going to and I submit my finances, I submit my financial well-being to an extent. I submit that to that institution, trusting them That they will take care of my finances, that they will protect it, right? Are you following my thinking? It's an act of submission. I put it in there. I invest money. I get a broker or somebody or a bank or somebody. I want to make an investment for the future And I looked and I find somebody I trust. You know what I've never done? It's find some guy sleeping under a bench downtown and say, here, I'm going to trust you with $10,000 I want you to invest this somehow for me. You know what? I don't submit my money to him because I don't what? I don't trust him. I find someone I trust and I can easily and gladly submit my financial well-being to them. You follow my thinking? Trust involves submission. I go to the doctor. I go to a doctor I trust, and I'll be very honest with you. I trust my family doctor. He says that I need to take these pills. I have no idea what those pills are. I can't even say the names of them. He says, you need to take these. You need to take one every morning and one every evening. And he says you need to take about 12 of these every morning and every evening. And I trust him, and guess what I do? Every morning and every evening. I take my medicine. I don't know what it is. I can't even say it. My wife looks it up on Google and my wife has a doctorate in Google And um she'll tell me, oh, this does that, and that does that. I said, don't tell me, I don't want to know. I trust my He says, all right Uh you need to uh uh alright, we need to cut your eyeball and pull the lens out and put a new lens in it I submit my body to the doctor because I trust him that that is best for me. You follow my thinking? Submission trust involves submission. I trust, I submit my body, I submit my health to the doctor, that I trust him. I submit my finances to an institution that I trust. I submit my safety to a car that I trust. I try to work very hard at keeping my cars in good shape. I want to know when I hit that brake that the stops. Amen? I want to know that that car is going to is trustworthy. I get in that thing and I submit myself to the safety of that car because I trust it. And Job says, I submit my life to you, Lord. Even if you, in your decision, in your wisdom, in your sovereignty, you choose the slavey. I trust you. I trust you. Trust involves submission. Let me ask you a question. Do you trust God with your life? Have you trusted Him with your soul? It's what salvation is. I am putting, I have, on May 7, 1979, I put my eternal destiny By a conscious decision I made on my knees before Almighty God, I made a conscious decision to put my eternal destiny into the hands of Jesus Christ And I am confident that when this old body dies, that I'll be in the very presence of God, not because of I'm good, not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm a Baptist. But because I've trusted Christ with my eternal destiny. It involves submission. I'm putting my I'm putting my and uh years later August 25th, 1985, at an altar, I said, Lord, I'm putting the rest of my life in your hands. You do with me whatever you want. Job said, Though he slay me, yet I will trust him. Let me ask you a question. Have you given your life to Christ? Have you trusted Christ as Savior? And if you have Have you trusted him with the rest of your life? Say, here I am, Lord. Use me, do with me, whatever you want. We like to hold on to things. F. B. Meyer, great preacher of years gone by, back in early nineteen hundreds, early eighteen late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, he He wrote, I like to read anything I can by F. B. Meyer. Tremendous. He said one night he had a dream, and he wasn't big on revelations and all that, but he said he had a dream one night. And in his dream, he dreamt that his life was a house. And all the different rooms of the house were the different parts of his life, areas of his life, his family, his work, his Hobbies, whatever. He had his whole stream, he envisioned this. And the Lord came and he said, I want you to trust me with the keys to all the rooms of your house. Nephbe Meyer said in his dream, he pulled out one key to one area of his life and he gave that to the Lord. And the key to another door of an area of his life, he gave that. And he ended up giving them all to the Lord except one. There was one area of his life he wanted to keep for himself. There was one area, and later he said it was a type of indulgence that he knew the Lord wasn't pleased with F. B. Meyer liked it. And he said, I'll give you every area of my life, but I want to hold on to this one. And he said in his dream, the Lord stood there. He said, I'm not satisfied till I have them all. And he said he struggled and struggled and struggled in his dream until finally said, okay, Lord, I will trust you with my whole life. And he placed that last key in the hands of the Lord. And he said, in his dream, peace flooded his soul, like he'd never known before. Job said, though he slay me my whole life, whatever he does with me, I put in his hands, I trust him completely. What a statement. Complete submission to the Lord. Job is a testimony to the ultimate trust and submission. Now, trusting and submitting to my life to the Lord doesn't mean everything's going to go the way I want it to. Some people have the idea, and some of these uh some of these preachers on TV They want to say, well, if you'll just trust the Lord, if you'll just give it to the Lord, God will give you everything you want. All your wildest dreams will be fulfilled. And God wants you to be prosperous, and God wants you to be healthy. You know what? Sometimes putting my life in the hands of God means the exact opposite of that. We trust the Lord. Doesn't mean I'm going to get oh okay, I'll give my life to the Lord and then He'll give me everything I want You know what I found out? There's things I've wanted, see if you'll agree with this. There's things I wanted years gone by that now I look back and say, Thank God I didn't get it. Huh? I'm glad I can trust God with my life. It doesn't mean I'm going to understand everything that God does. Do you think Joseph understood what God was doing when he's languishing in a prison? His brothers are plotting his murder, falsely accused by the treasurer's wife. Bruce marries this Jewish gal Her husband dies and she goes back to Israel, Naomi, and she gets back there and her life is turned upside down. Did she understand what God was doing? I don't think so. Not at the moment. Joseph, Ruth, the disciples, did you know that every one of the disciples, except for the Apostle John, were martyred for their faith? They committed themselves. They said, Lord, we'll follow you wherever you go. They ended up being martyred because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Trusting God in total submission to Him does not mean we're going to get everything we want. There's a lot of things I don't know. There's a lot of things I don't understand. But I'll tell you one thing that I am confident of, and that is this: God is reliable. I am confident of this. I can trust God. I am confident that God is true to His Word. I am confident that God is able to strengthen me, enable me to deal with whatever He allows into my life. For whatever reason He allows it, He is able to Help me deal with it and be what I ought to be. I'm confident that God is wise. He is all wise. God is so wise he cannot make a mistake. And there's nothing that comes into my life that is a mistake on God's part He's too wise to make a mistake. I am confident of that. I am confident that God is good. And I can't explain everything, and I don't understand everything, but I do know this. Our God is a good God And we can trust him even with our very lives. Job said, though he slay me, I'll still trust him. Submission. Submission. Missionaries around the world could testify, though, their lives, leave their home country, and many times leave their families. And live in tremendous poverty for no other reason than it's the will of God. They trust them and God takes care of them. A couple weeks ago, we spent ten days. Down in the Dominican Republic, and every day we spent time with Joy Wesson. Joy Wesson, if you know her story, she's been through it. Serious heart conditions, heart attacks, herself, son, leukemia, as a teenager. They treat him on the field. Her husband is uh is uh rescuing some boys drowning, and he ends up drowning himself She says, God's called us here. We're staying here. I'm telling you, you I wish I could have brought the whole church down there, and you sit down with joy five minutes and you'll realize you're in the presence of a woman. That has the joy of the Lord all over her. Used of God to reach deaf peoples in the poverty slums of Santo Domingo. She says, Though he slay me, I'm going to trust him. Ask Joy if God's good. I can answer for her. I'll tell you exactly what she said. God is good. Trust is submission, involves submission. My father quoted this over and over, though he's saying me, yet will I trust him? Dad didn't understand But he knew God was good. He knew he could trust him. And he did. And I'm a saved man today, humanly speaking, because my father Trusting God in submission to whatever you bring in my life, I'm going to trust you. And I saw what that did. And I said, I want that. Number two, Job displayed his faith by complete submission to God. He displayed his faith by consistent and steadfast, being consistent and steadfast in his faith. Steadfast. Notice what he says here. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Yet will I trust him. That phrase, yet will I trust him, it actually comes from one Hebrew word. I'm not a Hebrew scholar, but I looked how it's used and I come to this conclusion. When he says, yet will I trust him, he's talking about a fixed faith In other words, a faith that is unmoving. It's not going to waver. I'll trust them when things are going good, and I'm going to trust them when things are going bad. I'm going to trust him when the sun is shining, and I'm going to trust him in the midst of the storm. I'm going to trust him in the day, I'm going to trust him in the night. Unchanging, unwavering. Consistent faith. The idea I got, the word picture, as I was studying that phrase, the word picture I got was taking your feet and planting them in cement. and letting that cement harden and it's you're not moving. Now the mafia used to do that to dispose of people. It's not what he's talking about. In fact what I thought of was a couple winters ago, some of you all remember this, we had a fella, and it wasn't his fault, a fella, the snow was so high, we hired a fella to come in with a big snowblower in the back of his tractor And he was blowing out the snow so we would have room to plow more snow that was coming down. And he inadvertently caught our guy wire from our tower. How many people remember that adventure? And he had inadvertently caught that and pulled the anchor up for the guy wire that holds the tower in place. Now, if you ask me, do I believe in miracles? I'm telling you I saw a miracle with my very own eyeballs By all rules of physics, that tower should have fallen immediately. For half hour, that tower stood. With two guide wires pulling it this way, and it stayed there. I think I saw an angel up there holding it like that. No, not really. So we I quit took my pickup truck and anchored it to my pickup truck. And I called Dave Robinson, the technician that built the tower. I told him what happened. He says, uh it's laying on the ground, right? I said, no, it's still standing. Because that's a miracle. I said, I know. He goes, you better anchor it to something fast. So I put my truck out there and anchored it down. I don't know if my truck was heavy enough to hold that thing up or not, but it did I called Mark. I said, Mark, what do I do? So Mark got on it. I'm telling you, he dug a hole. He poured so much cement down it. He got an I-beam, poured cement down. I'm just telling you a space shuttle couldn't pull that thing out of there. I don't know about the other two anchors, but that one ain't coming up And that's what Job said. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. My faith ain't coming up. It's anchored. It's unmovable. If God spares my life, I'm going to trust him. If God takes my life, I'm going to trust him. If God gives good health, I'm going to trust him. If God gives poor health, I'm going to trust him. If God fulfills all my dreams, I'm going to trust him. If God shatters all my dreams, I'm going to trust him. I' Wanna trust him Job lost everything. And the Bible says he went and worshiped God. Said God, you're God, I'm not. You give and you take away. I came naked in this world, I'm leaving naked. Blessed be your name. You know what that was? That was unwavering faith. No matter what happened, no matter what life threw at him, I'm going to trust God. So number one. In complete submission to the Lord. Number two, he had a steadfast faith in the Lord. And last of all, look with me if you would at verse 16. He had assurance of his salvation. Now, this is important. Verse 16, he also shall be my salvation. For a hypocrite shall not come before him. Did you notice he didn't say he might be my salvation? He doesn't say, I hope he'll be my salvation. He doesn't say, I think he's my salvation. He says, what? He shall be That is a statement of confidence. That is a statement of assurance. He says, He is my salvation. He doesn't say, I'm my salvation. Job was not Job's confidence and assurance of his salvation was not based in anything of himself. Job was a man of tremendous integrity, but his confidence for his salvation was not based in his integrity Do you know you can be a man or a woman of tremendous integrity? You have the most integrity in Garrett County and still die and go to hell? You're trusting in your own integrity He doesn't say I'm trusting, my integrity is my salvation. He doesn't say my good works are my salvation. Church membership, my baptism. None of that. I thank God for a Christian daddy, but I'm not saved because my daddy's salvation. I'm saved as an individual person who trusts in Christ as Savior. And one wo one reason Job could go through these trials and through this confusion and through this horrific experience, one reason was He had assurance of his salvation that no matter what happened, God accepted him. When it was all said and done, he's going to be in the presence of Almighty God. I want to remind you, our life here on earth is temporal. Not here forever. We're just passing through. For some of us, that journey between birth and death, between the womb and the tomb, some of us that journey may be very difficult. Some have it a little easier than others. But eventually, this life on earth comes to an end. And then is eternity. If you're here this morning and you don't have your salvation settled, if there is a doubt or a question about whether your sins are forgiven, whether you're going to heaven or hell, I plead with you this morning, based on the truth of that old book. You need to settle your salvation. Eternity's too long and hell is too hot. To play games with salvation. Job said, He also shall be my salvation. It's settled. I'm going to remind you, our salvation is in the Lord Jesus and the Lord Jesus alone. I had a guy years ago, Dave Stork, you sit down here about where Ken is. He wanted me, got saved. He was so excited about being saved. He says, Preacher, showed up Thursday night. He said, I want you to go If you would go visiting with me, I got a bunch of friends of mine. I need you to go save them like you did me. I knew what he meant I said, Dave, I didn't save you, and I can't save them. I can't even save myself, but we can go tell them about the one that did save you, Jesus Christ. Jesus is the only way of salvation. Say, preacher, I know that. Good. I'm glad you know that. It needs to be repeated over and over and over. I am the way, the truth, and the light, Jesus said. No man cometh unto the Father but by me Acts 4:12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Only the name of Jesus For by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man shall boast. Job said, He is my salvation. He's the one I put my trust in. He's the one doing the saving, not me. I simply trusted him. I think it's interesting he tacks on there. A hypocrite shall not come before him. Listen, you can put on a show about being saved, but if you've never trusted Jesus Christ in your heart, you're as lost as the man on the street. There's no hypocrites in this matter of salvation. Either you is or you ain't. Either you've sincerely and genuinely trusted Jesus Christ to your Savior, or you're putting on a show. And nobody putting on a show is going to stand before God. Not in the matter of salvation. It has to be for real. It has to be for real God gives us a no-so salvation in the person of Jesus Christ. Back in chapter 19, and we won't take time, I want to wind down here. Back in chapter 19 Job says, I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that I will stand in his presence. After the worms have eaten my body, I will stand in his presence. Job knew he was saved. He knew he had acceptance by God. It wasn't a think-so, hope so, maybe so, might be. He knew. I'll tell you. You're going through storms like Job went through. You don't have assurance of your salvation. You don't have much of a basis to go through that Have to know the Lord as our Savior. I mentioned Joy Wesson. She is a powerful, powerful testimony down in the Dominican Republic. Everyone we talk to down there, Joy had a powerful testimony. Has. She has a powerful testimony back here in the States, people that know her. And you know why her testimony is so powerful? Not because she trusted God in a life of ease and pleasure and comfort Her testimony is powerful because she had faith in God when her heart was broken, and her body was broken, and her children were suffering, yet she still trusted God. That is where the power of testimony comes in. Anybody can trust God when the bills are paid. Anyone can praise God when the body's healthy. But when the heart is broken and the debts are high and you want to smile but you have to sigh, then you trust God That's where a powerful testimony comes in. My father, and I keep mentioning him, he had a powerful testimony, not because his dreams were all fulfilled. In unwavering, consistent faith, even when his dreams were shattered, and when his heart was broken. I saw my daddy. It wasn't his levity and his joyment of pleasure and ease and wealth That's not what touched my heart. He didn't have any of that. What touched my heart was a man whose heart was so broken. Yet he walked with God and he did what was right and he trusted the Lord and he loved his Lord and was faithful to him and that spoke to my heart and I said I need that I need that. How many people here like biscuits? Anybody here like biscuits? I I like honey. Anybody like honey on your biscuits? I mean homemade cathead biscuits. Gravy on them. I do too. I got some stuff here. Anybody here like to drink vegetable oil No. I yuck! You agree with me? Yuck. No thank you. Not interested. Now I know some people drink olive oil, but they're nuts. Anybody here like baking soda? I'll try it. Nah, I'm not doing it. I would never eat just baking, so that's awful. It tastes terrible. Uh let's see, what else do I got here? Flour. Anybody here want a spoonful of flour? You agree with me? Yuck. Say it with me. Yuck Vegetable oil or lard yuck. Baking soda yuck. Now this one's not too bad. Sugar. How many people would like to eat that whole bag? Yeah, I knew. There's a guy giving testimony. I I do all that to say this and I'll end. There's a guy in church one time in a in a big church was giving testimony. He got up and said I just want to testify that I hate Lord and Shorten and Yuck Luck. He said, I hate flowers. Ugh, gross yuck. He said, I hate baking soda. Blah! It's gross. He said, but I sure love biscuits. I sure love biscuits. And you know you can't get biscuits without flour. You can't get biscuits without baking soda. And you can't get biscuits without shortening. You know, God sure is good The best way that we can experience his goodness is by trusting him when he sends flour. When he sends a bunch of baking soda and he pours lard all over us. We say, ugh, yuck. But when it's all said and done, you know what we're gonna do in the glory? God, you've been good. You had a plan and a purpose. And we can trust him. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Help us to trust you. Lord, even if you slay us, Lord, we want to trust you. And I'm convinced, studying this old book and knowing you all these years, Lord, I'm convinced. And we don't understand what all you allow and why you do what you do, but I'm convinced, Lord, you're still good. You are worthy of our trust. And we need you. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, anybody would say, Preacher, man, I just have some struggles. I doubt any of us are in the same condition Job was, but some of us might be going through it. And tonight, this morning, maybe the Holy Spirit spoke to your heart, and you'd say, Preacher, I'm just going to trust God. Thick or thin? Sunshine or nighttime, I'm going to trust God. Is there any like that, preacher? I'm just going to trust Him through this I'm just going to trust them. God bless you. Some maybe say, preacher, I'm going through a specific trial. It is hard. I need the Lord. Say, I'm going to trust God through this. I'm going to trust him. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, there's some areas in my life that I know I'm bringing on some of these trials myself. I know my decisions, maybe a uh a way I'm living or things I'm doing I know are not right. Maybe this morning God spoke to your heart and you say, Preacher, there's some adjustments need to be made. There's some alterations need to be made in my life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'll make those adjustments. And get back in tune with the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know it. God bless you. Hands all around. There's something this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure. My sins are given on my way to heaven. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven someday. God's forgiven me. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. God will help settle that. Is there any like that, preacher? Pray for me, that I'll get that settled in my heart and soul, that I know I'm safe God accepts me any at all, Father, bless our imitation now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen