Ecclesiastes chapter eleven, I want to read two verses, verses five and verse six. If you follow along as I read. As thou knowest not, notice that phrase, thou knowest not, as thou knowest not what the way the way of the Spirit Nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child. Even so, look at this next statement, thou knowest not. There it is again Thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. Verse 6: In the morning, sow thy seed, and in the evening, withhold not thine hand, for what? Thou knowest not, there it is again, thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall alike be good. Thou knowest not. Thou knowest not. Thou knowest not. As I said, I want to speak about operating by faith or living by faith. Let's pray in just a few simple thoughts tonight. Father, I pray now, in the little bit of time we have, that you would use your word and really challenge us. To live by faith. I need that, Lord. God, that's the basis of our entire Christian life is trusting you, having faith in you. And uh I pray you'd help us. I know there's folks under the sound of my voice that are struggling. I know there's some maybe dealing with past decisions that have Negative consequences. Lord, things that we don't know, things that the unknown out there we're facing that are fearful. Lord, please help us. Holy Spirit, stir us to have faith in you. To put it in your hands and to trust you and let you lead us and direct us and guide us. Fill me with your spirit, I pray with all my heart. In Jesus' name, amen. So we keep saying over and over again this whole Book of Ecclesiastes is Solomon, particularly the first chapters, given record how he got to the point where he really thought he had life figured out. He really didn't need God. He didn't need to read his Bible. He didn't need to take time to pray. He had life figured out. He was going to live life under the sun. And he completely pushed pushed God and God's word and God's will and and anything God had to say about his life. That was completely pushed aside And he was going to live his life the way he decided it would be lived. And his conclusion that all it produced in his life was frustration and emptiness. And he records that, his thinking and how this all came about. Now in the end of the book I believe he's recording the later years of his life. He's in the final years of his life. We'll see that in chapter 12 pretty clearly. He's coming to the end of his life. And he's refocusing, he's thinking things through a little bit, and he sees things differently. And we mentioned this the last several Sunday nights. The older we get, the more we tend to see things differently than when younger, right? We we've we've established that. And that's what I believe is happening here. In the chapter, chapter eleven, uh, I believe he gives four suggestions. As he approaches the end of his life. We've looked at two of them already. We're going to look at the third one tonight. Lord will in the next uh couple of weeks we'll look at the fourth one The first suggestion he makes is in the first three verses, his suggestion is this. As he gets older, he's looking back over his life, he's giving this advice. He says, be generous Be generous. Be generous. I tell you what, it's a good thing to be generous. It's a good thing to be generous, not stingy and tight wad and what's another name for it. Stanji tightwad skin flint scrooge. It's better to be generous. He says, be generous. Then in verse 4 Uh we looked at this already. I believe he's s saying, listen, don't don't pay any attention to obstacles. Life is full of obstacles. If you're going to accomplish anything in life You've got to be able to deal and overcome obstacles. If you wait till everything is perfect before you do anything, you ain't never going to do nothing. Right? So he looks at that. Then in our passage here we're going to look at, we need to learn to live by faith, operate by faith. We'll see that in a minute. And then the end of the chapter, he says, uh he suggests this. Remember, we're all going to be held accountable someday. This it this life doesn't just end and then it's done and nothing. Get this. Life ends with accountability. You say, well, we're saved. There's no judgment. No, no, no. Saved person, we stand at the judgment seat of Christ. We give an account. What about the unsafe? Yeah, they stand the great white throne. And face judgment And so this life is uh it isn't just, well, I just do whatever, it doesn't matter, I'll live under the sun, and everything will be fine. No, no, no. It ends with accountability, and we'll look at that later on But tonight I want us to notice here in the verses 5 and 6 this idea of living by faith. All through Scripture, we have illustrations and we're taught that life is uncertain. How many folks have been around long enough to find out life is uncertain? About the time we think we know what's going to happen, God throws us a curveball. Anybody know what Proverbs 27. 1 says? Stu, you know what that says? Boast not, boast not thyself of tomorrow. Why? For thou knowest not. Didn't we just see that here? For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Life is filled with uncertainty. I thought about Noah. I like Noah. Imagine just now just use your imagination with me a little bit. Noah gets up one morning. Now I don't know how God communicated to him. I don't know if it's an audible voice or God impressed on his heart. Maybe God sent a little prophet. We're not told. Well he gets up one morning, puts his shoes on just another day. He's going to do his thing. He's trusting God. He's living for the Lord. He loves his family. He loves his God. He's walking with the Lord. And he finds out, and God says, Noah. I want you to build an ark. Huh? Would you agree with me? His life changed after that. It's just one day. God shows up. Something he there's no way in the world he anticipated. I would imagine Noah was grieved with his society. It was a wicked. I would imagine his heart was vexed by what was going on in his world. And uh and one day, out of the blue, God completely changed his life and does amazing things, has him build an ark. How about that? I thought about Abraham. God shows up, he's an Ur of the Chaldees. God says, Abraham, pack up your bags. All right, Lord, where are we going? The secret. Secret, yep. You'll find out. And his life has changed. And God calls him out there. Just one day. Um I thought about uh Joseph. What a good kid Joseph was. I think, this is my opinion, this is another study, I think Joseph was a little braggadocious. A little bit. Did you ever see that there when you read? He's telling his brothers. Now he doesn't the Bible doesn't say it this way, and I'm probably wrong. But I can hear him say, Nanny, nanny, boo, boo, you're gonna bow down to me. Now I don't know that he did. I don't think anybody agrees with me, but you kind of get this little bit, he's kind of bragging on him a little bit. I don't know. But Joseph's a good kid, and he's going around, he's doing what his dad says, and his dad says, Go out there and check on your brothers. I would imagine he has no idea, just another day, going to go out and check on his brothers. And uh he's heading out there. Next thing he knows, they're throwing him in a pit. I would imagine when he went to bed the night before, he didn't expect to be in a pit the next night. Now he's down there trying to figure out what in the world is going to happen to me. They're going to kill me. He had no idea. He never saw that coming. Next thing he knows, he's in a caravan as a slave heading down to Egypt. He gets down there and then he ends up in prison down there. You talk about uncertainties. It'd be no different than one of us. You going to go home, go to bed tonight Tomorrow night you're being held hostage by somebody. Next thing you know, you're being sent to Iran as a slave. That's basically what it ends up being The uncertainties of life. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. You think you got it all planned out. No, we don't have anything planned out. We have no idea where we're going to be tomorrow My dad said to me a number of times over the years, he says, when you put your shoes on in the morning, you have no idea who's going to take them off that night. The uncertainty. Thou knowest not. Thou knowest not. Life is filled with uncertainties. I thought about Peter. I'll never deny you. 24 hours later. I don't know him. You never saw that coming. I've had people sit in my office, I'm thinking of one couple in particular years ago, and they said, We are never going to sin again. I thought, oh brother. And now you I can't drag them. They haven't been to church for years and years and years. I can't drag them here We've got to be careful. Life's uncertain. We might think I'm never going to fail the Lord. I'm never going to do this. How many of us ever said that? I would never do that. You ever make that statement? Well, you better watch out. Better watch out. Some some great men far greater than I am have failed the Lord terribly So life is filled with uncertainties. We don't know. We don't know. I thought of Peter, thought of Joseph, others, all through the Bible. We have uh illustrations of the uncertainty of life. And there's another thing the Bible teaches us, and we know from experience. A lot about life we just don't know. There's a lot of mysteries in life that we just don't understand. About the time I think I've got God figured out, I realize I don't I don't have nothing figured out. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Well, this is the way God says this. This is what no, there's a whole lot of stuff. Listen, I'm telling you right now, there's a whole lot of truths about God we have no idea about God is so far above and beyond what we what we are, what we can comprehend. We've got to be careful. We don't bring God down to something that I can I think I've got a handle on, I can control. We can't There's a lot of mysteries of life. I thought about Mary when the angel showed up and said, You're going to have a child. What was her first response? You are with child the Messiah. What was her first response? How can this be? How can this be? This is a mystery. I understand this. And God tried to explain to her, but I'll tell you, the incarnation of Jesus Christ is something we can't hardly comprehend. How in the world does God become man? How in the world does God become an uh a little undeveloped baby in the womb of a teenage girl. How does that happen? I read that and I think, how can this be? There's a lot in life that we don't know, we don't understand. There's mysteries of life that we can't comprehend. I remember when Jesus, remember when Jesus spoke to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, he said, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. What was Nicodemus' first response? How can that be? What is I have to go back in the womb and be born He didn't understand, he didn't know. I tell you, and we're going to mention this here in a minute, but there's a lot about salvation we don't understand. How in the world can God change a life? How in the world can God take all my sin and be judged in my place? How could that even take place? So there's a lot about life that is uncertain. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We have no idea where you and I might be tomorrow night. We have no idea what might what might happen. There's a lot that goes on in life that I don't know how that can even be. And so Solomon addresses that here, I think, and he he he he notes three things that we don't know. Three things that we don't know. First one I see here is we don't know the way of the Spirit. Did you see that in verse 5? As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit. The way of the Spirit. The word way there means this: direction, course, or journey. I think this is what he's saying. Will you get this? How many folks here are say then you know it? Say amen. He's talking to us. I think this is what he's saying. We have no idea where the Holy Spirit might lead us. We have no idea how the Holy Spirit might lead you and I tomorrow. Maybe to speak to somebody or do something. We don't know the way of the Spirit. We don't understand. We have no idea where God's Spirit will lead us. I was able to, a month or so ago, to spend eight days with Dr. Pat Creed. I'm telling you, I love that man. And God's hand on him. And to me, he is such a spiritual mentor to me personally. And I got him scheduled. He'll be here in December. So you pray for him. But we got talking. We were down there sitting together. His son was there and June was with him and myself and we were just sitting around there. Another fellow that grew up in the church, Steve Siddler, was there, and we're just talking, and they got to reminiscing And Dr. Krieg got to talking about the early days, how he got saved. He's talked about it here. And then he said how he was saved for a while, and then he finally decided that he needed to take his Christian life seriously. And he needed to be serious about this living for God. And when he did, he said God began leading him God began directing him, and God led him to go off to Bible college. Married, four kids, good job, actually had two or three jobs at the time, making good money, just bought a house. Four kids, and God led them to go down to Bible college, Tennessee Temple, no job down there, no nothing, just go down and show up. He said, everybody said I was crazy. He said, but God was leading me. God was directing me. Got down there and Dr. Robertson hired him on staff a little bit to help with the different ministries. He just did whatever he could to get by. He said we lived hand to mouth for for years. I like what he always says. You ever hear him say it? Those kids wanted to eat every single day. And he told how God provided miraculously groceries would show up and different things And then God led them up to Clinton and the church there was just a small, struggling church. And what God did over the years, the missionaries that are out of that place, churches started the work that's being taken place there, the Bible college there And when it was all said and done, he said, people asked me, he goes, how did you do all of that? He said, people asked me, how'd you do all that? And he says, my answer is I don't know. He said, God just led me step by step by step. That's how God does. We don't know the way of the Spirit. We don't know where God's going to lead and direct. I love these little children up here, don't you? And if we can somehow help them, and if you parents will raise these kids and we as a church can help them live for God Where in the world is the God's Holy Spirit going to lead them? We don't know. We don't know the way of the Spirit. We don't know how God is going to lead. Living by faith is an adventure. Forty years ago, this May, I trusted Christ as Savior. Forty years! You'd have told me 40 years ago that one day I'd be sitting in and preaching every Sunday, I'd have hit you with a rock. You have no idea how God would lead. We have no idea what God would do, no idea where God would lead us. I remember uh May uh in uh September uh 19th nineteen seventy three our first Sunday here handful of people some of y'all were here handful of people church struggling I mean a cloud over this place I we had no idea. We showed up, Kathy and I and the boys. Um Marvin said to me, Preacher, I know you've got a plan to turn this thing around. I thought I don't got no plan. I have no idea what I'm doing But I say this, God led. Spirit of God. Who would ever have dreamed back then? How many folks that were here then, who would have ever dreamed we'd have a radio station, have night, have 80-some missionaries And all that God has done here, hundreds of thousands of tracts given out, and all that God has done. We never saw that. We don't know the way of the Spirit. We don't know how God leads and directs us. We just go step by step by step. I thought about Andy and Vicki. How long ago was it? You guys got saved? Fifteen years? Ninety nines of twenty years. And And that night, I tell this story often, but that night I was visiting next door, and I'm telling you, it was not an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice. The Spirit of God said, knock on that door The light was on, it was dark and cold and miserable, I was grouchy. I had no idea when I knocked on that door what God was going to do in their lives in 20 years. Would you agree with me? They have been a tremendous blessing to this church for 20 years. How God has used them. Never saw that. We don't know the way of the Spirit. God was leading. God had a plan. God had something in mind. But he doesn't tell us that. He just leads us step by step by step, directs us. And our responsibility is to just say, yes, Lord, okay, I'll follow you. Whatever you lead me, I'll trust you. I almost did that night. I wanted to go to McDonald's. But um all right, Lord. Well I'm are you I'm glad I'm glad God led me, huh? And what a blessing it is. God we don't know where the w the way got the Spirit of God leads us. I thought there's so many. I thought of um and I and any number of people in the church here, but I thought of Sandy, uh Brian and Sandy Schofield. They showed up one One Sunday, they're homesick tonight. I don't they weren't feeling well. But uh they showed up one Sunday morning, and here's this real sweet lady and this big gruff old guy. And he got talking to me, you know how he is. He got talking to me. I thought, what in the world has showed up here? And who knows what a blessing they've been to our church all these years. The missions they've invested in, the fingerprints, the baked blankets for babies. You have no idea what got how God is leading. Mark and Jackie, just show up, this young couple He's a giant, she's a midget, you know? Well not exactly that way, I'm sorry. I I think I just made a we may have just lost two members right there. But whoever thought when they come in and what a how God has used them here. And like I said, I could say any number of people all around You just never see it. We don't know. We do not know the way of the Spirit. We don't know how God's going to lead us and direct us. I call Dr. Smith. Dr. Smith, I need an assistant. Man, we've been through a couple here for a couple years. I need somebody Day later, hey, call Brother Belcher. He's got a guy. I hear Brother Matt talk about Goliath and uh Courtney. And they show up. What a blessing they've been. Had no idea, didn't know. So we don't know the way of the Spirit. This is what I want to take away from this. As God leads us, let's just go step by step. Let the Lord lead us. Let the Lord direct us. What does God tell me to do today? Because we have no idea what He's doing. We have no idea where that's leading The second thing, and I I want to be real brief, the second thing is we don't know the works of God. Look at verse six. Or the last part of verse five, I'm sorry. He says, um Thou knowest not what the way of the Spirit is, and then he says, Nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child. Even so, thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. We don't know how God is working. Somebody explained to me how a little egg and a little seed can begin to develop in the womb of a woman, and that brain, that unbelievably intricate, miraculous brain, just of its own accord develops. And body and bones form in that little that little embryotic body. And it develops and it grows and it develops. And then it's born and it's a human being. Explain that to me. How does that happen? Well, this chemical and everything, oh hogwash. That is a miracle of God. Turn with me if you would, real quickly, to Psalm 139. Psalm 139, we're in Ecclesiastes, so go back, you'll hit Proverbs, and you hit Psalms 139 David references this. How can we know how bones are formed in the womb? How does that happen? Psalm 139, look at verse 14. I will praise thee. Look at this. For I am what? Fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. He's talking about the womb. Thine eyes did see my substance, not yet being unperfect And in thy book all my members were written, which were in continuance, were fashion, when as yet there was none of them. Amen Sam, what a marvelous thing this is. What an amazing thing this is. A child by the hand of God, the design of God, just develops over time. And it's born and becomes a human being. What an amazing thing. We don't understand the works of God. I was reading this here and what Solomon was saying in Ecclesiastes And I thought of this. I don't know if you've ever thought it this way. I thought, how in the world can God use someone like me? How could God use someone like me? How can God use us, sinful creatures? Yet God, we don't understand his works, how he can take some sinner and change their life and then use them to impact souls for eternity. Isn't that an amazing thing? Do you ever think about soul winning? Our young people are being trained soul winning. Some of us go out during the week. I wish that more of y'all would join us. But we go out during the week and think about this. You and I just take a few Bible verses and we share it with somebody and we explain it the best we can And that person exercises faith and trusts God. And think about this. That soul is born again. That's an amazing work of God. How can that happen? How can some 19-year-old derelict punk read some Bible verses And man, God works in his heart and boom, changes his life. We don't understand the works of God. About the time you and I think we got God figured out, we come up short every time. I don't know how God saves a soul. I don't know how God transforms a life. I don't know how God takes some old drunkard and trusts Christ and dries them up like that. God takes some old uh mess and They trust Christ and God turns that life around and changes them. You agree with me? That's a miracle. A miracle of God We don't understand that. Then the last thing he says here, we don't know what the results of our service will be. Look at verse 6. In the morning Sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand. Why? For thou knowest not whether shall prosper either this or that, or whether they boast shall be alike good He says, you get out there and you sow that seed, you have no idea which of those seeds are going to germinate and produce. Maybe all of them will. We don't know what the results of our service are going to be. Years ago, Brother Fred Schindler was preach was pastoring up in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. Remember Fred Schindler, a good friend. I was able to see him a couple weeks ago. And um he had a little college there and a church and he'd have me come up there and preach all the time. I don't know why he liked my preaching for some reason. I think it's because I bought him pie and stuff. They had a little sword conference up there one time, little nothing, it was big. He said, I want you to come up and preach one morning. So I we Bill Varens was here. We drove all the way up there and preached in the morning, drove all the way back And I didn't think much of it. I just got up there and preached my heart out. And then we turned around, drove four hours back, got back in time for the evening service here. We were having a revival meeting. And uh I never thought much about it, Brother Humboldt. I just preached on Abraham had to separate from Lot. My point was sometimes Christians have to separate from disobedient Christians. If they're not living for God, we need a Stay away from them, avoid them. Just a simple message. I didn't think anything of it. About ten years later, I get a call from a fellow, Pastor Jason Myers, up in Hanover, Pennsylvania And he said, I'd like for you to come up and preach a men's meeting. I said, Okay. So I got up there and I think I think it was Lou Rossi and I went up and uh Preached amends me and I didn't really know this fellow. I think I I thought I had met him somewhere but we got up there and preached and spent the day. We got talking at lunch. He sat with me and he said, Pastor Leatherman, he says, You probably don't remember this. You probably don't even know this. He said, but I was pastoring a church in a liberal denomination. He said, I went to that sword conference at Brother Schindler's, and you preached about Abraham having to separate from Lot. And he says, God broke me. And I needed to get out of that liberal denomination And he says, we are now, Victory Baptist Church is now an independent fundamental Baptist church because God used that message to get me out of that liberal denomination. I had no idea God was doing that. When I read that verse 6 there, you know what I he says, sow your seed in the morning and then at night again, for thou knowest not whether some will prosper. Maybe all of it will turn out good You know what that made me think of? Tract month. We're sowing the seed, sowing the seed. Is any of it going to bear any fruit? Ah, most of those will get thrown away. Probably, but some won't. Some won't. Hey, it might be some gal from China studying in Morgantown, West Virginia Gets a little gospel track on her door. Ends up getting saved. Gets baptized in China You don't know what your service is going to be. So serve God. Serve God. It says, well, what good is it going to? I'll go out visiting. What good is it going to do? I don't know. You never know what God will do I've been working this bus route, ah, these kids. Hey, you never know what God might do. They may end up being a representative down. They might be a preacher. They may be a missionary Do a great work for God. We don't know, just sow it, sow, serve, serve, serve. Let God take care of the results. Let God do the work. Because we don't know. We don't know what God will do. We live by faith. God leads us God is working. I know God is working in our community, in people's hearts and lives. Just let God lead us. We don't know how He'll direct us. We don't know how He does what He does. We don't know what the results will be. But we live by faith. We operate by faith. We send the radio broadcast out by faith that God will use it and change lives. Change lives. We sang a hymn a little bit ago. I asked Mark to sing it, Living by Faith. If you noticed when we sang, and I didn't point it out, you have no reason to, but in the top right-hand corner of where that song is It has this name, J. L. Heath. Heath, eh? How about that? J. L. Heath. I read about J. Hell J. L. Heath. He worked at a steel mill out in the Midwest, Gary, Indiana. He had seven kids. His wife stayed home, took care of the kids. He was a single-income home. He just worked hard. Long days. He hardly got paid anything, the story is, back in the day. He says they barely had enough food to eat in their home. He couldn't buy clothes for his kids to go to school. They wore old worn-out shoes and things they could get from neighbors, hardly had anything. He said many times it was difficult to have enough money to pay the bills or even put food on the table. But he said, but but it is said of him that through all that, for years and years living that way. He trusted God. He had faith in God that God would meet his needs and take care of them. One day his heart was stirred About living by faith and trusting God. And he penned the words, I know not today what tomorrow may bring. I'm living by faith. I'm living by faith. And I want to challenge all of us. We have no idea where we'll be tomorrow. We have no idea what's going to happen. We have no idea where God may lead us and direct us. We don't know what the results of our efforts and service is going to be. But I'm saying this: let's just live by faith. Amen. Just by faith, God, I'm going to trust you. As you lead me and direct me, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to trust you. Let's pray. Father, I ask now that you would take these thoughts. And God, we don't have to be educated. We don't have to have great talents or abilities or great wealth or great education to live by faith. We can just live step by step, day by day. Let you lead us and direct us and trust that you will use us. Our hands are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm going to live by faith, with God's help? God's help. I'm just going to trust him day by day. Let him lead me and direct me. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to live by faith. How about the young people? Just commit your life. I'm going to let God lead me and direct me. You never know what God may do. Older folks, all of us. Let the Lord lead us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Make this real in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.