Back to the book of Ecclesiastes. What a kind of a dark book it is, isn't it? The message Life lived under the sun. And uh the vanity, the emptiness of a life lived under the sun. And Solomon is um Kind of giving a record, of course, is just a reminder, it's been a little while since we've been here in Ecclesiastes, but just a reminder, this is a sermon that he preached in Jerusalem as king of Israel. It's towards the end of his life. And uh he's kind of chronicling or explaining the thinking that led to his um not really his downfall, not politically, but spiritually his downfall. And how he ended up so far from God. And he kind of explains that thinking, that process that took place. Now uh in chapter five and here at the this part of the book He's kind of just giving um kind of a proverb type things, just observations he's making from under the sun. The interesting thing is he doesn't deny God's existence, he he doesn't deny that at all. He is simply trying to live independent of God And uh I see a lot of that in our world today, even among Christians. We claim to know Christ, we claim to believe the Bible, we claim to have been saved, but um we live our lives as if there is no God And of course that produces a vain, empty, frustrating life. And Solomon emphasizes that. So if you would notice in chapter 5, we're down to verse 8 and 9. I want to look at these two verses this evening. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 8, he says, If thou seeest the oppression of the poor and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter. Did you get what he said? Let me read that again. Thou seest oppression of the poor, violent perverting of just judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter. Now think about that. And then he says this. For he that is higher than the highest regardeth, and there be higher than they. Huh. Verse nine. Moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all. The king himself is served by the field. A little obscure here what he's saying, but uh we're going to try and get a message out of this and see what the Lord has for us. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless us. Father in heaven, we come back to the book of Ecclesiastes You've preserved this for us. You inspired Solomon as he recorded us. It's given by inspiration. It's preserved for us today, thus. You have something for us. We can learn doctrine, reproof, we can be instructed and corrected from this. So I pray that you would do that tonight. I can't do it, Lord. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this time for this message. I ask again with all my heart that you speak through me, that you be the preacher, you be the teacher, open our hearts and minds, we be receptive And that we would grow in our faith and be more like Christ and be wise in this old sinful world. So again, help us and bless us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. It really bothers me That Solomon had gotten into such a state. The more I think about that, the more I'm studying. That just bothers me. And here's the thing: if someone of the caliber of Solomon With the wisdom he has had, and the insight that he had, and the relationship that he had with God as he started off as King of Israel. If someone of that caliber Can get that far from God and get that, for lack of a better word, messed up in his thinking. Man, how much more at danger am I? How much more do I need to be cautious? And so as I think about Solomon and where he was at and the uh the position God put him in, and the the blessings he had of God and the wisdom he had of God for him to get so far as we're reading in Ecclesiastes that bothers me And I want to know how did that happen? How does a man in that standing, with that standing with God, get so far away? How does that happen? I think the Bible, the one place the Bible tells us very clearly, and this is a little aside, then we'll try and look at this text real quick, but come with me, if you would, back to 1 Kings chapter 11. I got thinking about this, and as I said, it was bothering me a little bit. How can this be? How can this happen? And I come back to 1 Kings chapter 11, and we're told here very clearly one factor. In Solomon's spiritual decline, one contributing factor. In 1 Kings chapter 11, I'll give everybody a chance to find it there. I want us to notice verse number three. First Kings chapter seven and verse number three. I mean 1 Kings chapter 11, I'm sorry. Don't go by what I say, go by what I mean. 1 Kings chapter 11, and actually I'm going to back up to verse 1. And we're going to read down through verse 4. But King Solomon, look at this, loved many strange women. King Some loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites. The Ammonites, the Edomites, the Zidonians, and the Hittites. Now what do we know about those different nations and their relationship with Israel? They were the enemies of Israel, for the most part. And Solomon is falling in love with the women who are the enemies of God. These are unsaved people. These are people outside the family of God. And Solomon is falling in love with them. And of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go in unto them. Neither shall they come in unto you. For surely, look at this, they will turn your heart after their gods Look at his statement. Solomon clave unto these in love. Verse 3. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and 300 concubines. Look at this. And his wives did what? Turn away his heart. And thus we have the book of Ecclesiastes. Verse 4. For it came to pass when Solomon was old. That his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. Isn't that tragic? Now, I thought, what this is, the factor here that's leading to his spiritual demise, his spiritual decline, you say, well, it's these wives and all this. Really, what it was is sin. He disobeyed God. God said, don't mess with these people. Don't get involved with these people. Stay away from these people. And he d and he directly disobeyed God. And when we deliberately and and And consistently on an ongoing basis disobey God, it is going to have a profound effect on our relationship with God It is going to hurt us. Our walk with God is going to deteriorate. And so Solomon and all his wisdom and all the opportunity and the tremendous position God had put him in. He wasn't careful. He allowed sin in. And it absolutely messed him up in his thinking, in his perspective on life. One of the things being in the ministry for an extended period of time, since 1985 for me, 32 years, is one of the unfortunate things, I guess, is you see this happen. You see people that are on fire for God and you know God, but they're not careful, and they allow sin to come in, and next thing you know, they are so messed up. In their thinking and in their living. And so that's how many people agree with me? That's sad. I love Solomon. Man, I just you know admire him so much and all this. And here we find this. But I came across What I believe could possibly be another factor in Solomon's demise. Come back, 1 Kings, but come back to chapter 6. Now, I may be reading a little bit into this, I'm not sure, but a number of years ago, when I was reading through my Bible and my daily devotions, and people ought to read their Bible every single day Amen. That's where you're supposed to say Amen. People are supposed to read their Bible every single day. Amen. And I think uh here's my little spiel. I think at some point in your Christian life, you ought to get to the point where you're reading the Bible through, cover to cover, reading all the Bible. So a number of years ago, as I was reading through my Bible, uh in my daily devotions, I came across some statements here that threw red flags up in my mind. And I marked them. And now as I'm studying Ecclesiastes, they came back to mind, and I'm just wondering if there isn't a second factor that contributed to Solomon's demise. Look at chapter 6, all the way at the end. Verse number 37. Now again, maybe I'm just putting more in this than what it really is, but I don't know. Verse 36, he built the inner court. This is talking about the temple of God. Solomon's building the temple. David prepared it and got everything ready. Solomon built it. In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of the Lord laid, verse 37, in the month of Zif. And the eleventh year in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, which was the house finished. Throughout all the parts thereof and according to all the fashion of it. So look at this statement. So he was what Seven years building it, building the temple of God. Seven years Solomon invested seven years of his life to build the temple of God. I mean people agree with me, that's a good thing. Yeah. Amen. Come up to verse 1 of chapter 7. But Solomon was building his own house. How many years? 13 years. I thought, well, that's interesting. I put in the margin of my Bible, again, I wrote this a number of years ago. Solomon spent more time on his own house than he did on the Lord's house. And I'm wondering, and again, maybe I'm reading too much into this, but I'm wondering if maybe he s his maybe self superseded the Lord. And he was more concerned on what he had, on the things he had and his possessions and his prosperity and his well-being. And God was second. I found that if I put the Lord first, everything else falls into place. If I keep Christ, center of my life, he is Lord of all. Everything else. I forget who it was. I want to say F. B. Meyer, but I don't think that's correct. But I I read uh I like to read there's old preachers and one of them was saying that he was engaged to his wife And his wife said to him, of course he was called a minister, his wife said to him, he says, who is most important in your life? His wife to be said it to him, who is most important in your life? And he said he answered without hesitation, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now some might think she would be offended at that, but she would be upset. But he said instead his wife responded, Praise the Lord, then I know everything's going to be okay. If you keep Christ first, you keep Christ center, you keep Christ supreme. Then everything else is going to be okay. And I'm just, in the back of my mind, I'm just wondering, I wonder if Solomon Early on, didn't really have the Lord as supreme in his life. That maybe, yeah, I'll serve the Lord, yeah, I'm gonna build him a temple, I'm gonna do, I'll do all this stuff for him But first and foremost is what I'm doing. Priority, 13 years for me, I'll give the Lord seven. Now, I don't know. I may be reading too much into that. But whatever the case is, we come to the book of Ecclesiastes, and he is struggling. He is out of tune. He is far from God And he's recording this here, and as we said, I got a little ahead of myself earlier, but in chapter 5 here in this portion of the book, he is giving these proverbs out. And in our text here, now let's get back to the text. I said all that to just reflect in my mind my concern about Solomon, but notice a few statements here, a few observations I want to make from these two verses. I believe that in this Passage of scripture. He is addressing corruption and government. Well, that's a great subject. I'm going to go to church tonight. We're going to talk about corruption and government. That's what he's talking about, I think, here. I'll show you why I believe that's true. Number one, I notice here, I'll quickly give my little outline. Number one, I notice the presence of corruption. Look again at verse 8. I tried to highlight this when we read it initially, this passage. If thou seest the oppression of the poor, all right, the poor are being oppressed. The violent perverting of judgment and justice, all right, judgment and justice are violently being perverted in a province Now that's a that's a part of the country. That would be maybe like we would have a state or a or a county. And so that word when he uses that term province there that indicates to me he's talking about a government type situation. And he says, if you see this, the poor are being oppressed, justice and judgment are being violently perverted. You're going to see that in the province. So there is a presence of corruption in government. In fact, I want to make this statement. Anything that involves human beings is going to be less than perfect. And people found that to be true. We like making the statement, if you find the perfect church, don't join it. You'll ruin it. And if you do find a perfect church, I'd venture to say there's probably no members. Right? It just been empty. Because anytime human beings are involved in something, anytime human beings are part of the equation, there's going to be less than perfection. In fact I can go ahead and say there's probably going to be some degree, we can be pretty certain, if humans are involved in it, there's going to be some degree of corruption. Now that's a strong word, but nevertheless it's true. And I found that the farther an organization or a government or a nation or any group of people the farther they get from God The greater the degree of corruption that takes place. The farther they get from biblical principles, the greater the degree of corruption you'll find But nevertheless, even in Israel, even among the people of God, we find in the Bible elements of corruption You say, well that New Testament church, early boy, they were sharp and they were there wasn't no corruption at early church. I mean what they said was so and nobody took money and Nobody lied about their offering and was struck dead by God. Oh, wait a minute. Yes, there was. Ananias and Sapphira, remember that event? A little bit of corruption there, you could say. Any organization, anything, government, church ministry, a company, anything like that that involves human beings, there's going to be an element of corruption. There's going to be imperfection. Corruption has destroyed some of the greatest companies in the world. How many people that this will date us a little bit here, and I don't know all the facts about it, but I remember reading in the newspaper, seeing the news a number of years ago. Enron. Anybody remember Enron? Uh was it was they was it a power company, a oil company, gas company, something like that. And the what was it? Natural gas. And uh the leadership, the the the the administration of that uh company was so corrupt And that thing just completely collapsed. And today it's kind of a joke, a byword. I went on the internet and I looked up companies destroyed by corruption. I Googled it. If you'd have told me 20 years ago I would be Googling in my Bible study sermon prep, I'd have said you're what are you told you're insane. But I Googled it. And you know what? It just came up list after list after list after list. I was going to read them off, but we'd be here till t two o'clock tomorrow morning. Corruption destroys companies. Corruption has destroyed nations. How many people recognize the name Brezhnev? Pres uh what do you call him, president or whatever? Uh Premier of Russia took his shoe off. We will crush you, he said the United States of America Khrushchev, I'm sorry, I said Brazil. Khrushchev said, we will trust you. What was it, 30 years later? Soviet Union no longer exists. I was reading a little history about it, and they pointed out that really the Soviet Union, there's other factors, but pretty much it was corruption from within. They're idealistic for the people, working for the people, all everybody owning everything, saying that was very idealistic. But humans were involved And it was corrupt and it collapsed. So there's a presence of corruption. Ministries Have been destroyed by corruption. Churches, ministries, corruption. And so Solomon points out here, he says, listen. You're going to see the oppression of the poor. You're going to see the perversion of judgment and justice. You're going to see corruption. It's going to be there It's very, very present. Then the second thing I notice, and this is a little startling statement, he says, marvel not at the matter. Saying, don't be surprised. You see corruption in Washington, D. C. , marvel not at the matter. You see corruption in Annapolis? Marvel not at the matter. You see corruption in any province, you see injustice, you see these things on it. Don't marvel about that. This is my second point. I put this: the pessimism of corruption. Marvel not at the matter. Human organizations are made up of flesh and blood, and in our flesh dwelleth no good thing. And so there's a I I like what one commentator said. He called it the uh uh the pessimism of realism And the idea is, don't be surprised if human institutions and human organizations have corruption in them. Don't marvel at that. Don't be shocked by that. Don't be stunned by that. It's reality. It's the way it is. Solomon ruled Israel for 40 years. I was reading a little bit about Israel's uh bureaucracy and apparently you go through there and it was a phenomenal bureaucracy. He had people responsible in all different areas. The Bible goes through and lists all these different areas And he oversaw all of this. Don't tell me for one minute Solomon didn't have to deal with the realism of corruption All these people and all that. He knew a little bit what he was talking about. But here's the thing. The pessimism of corruption, it's like, oh great, brother, what are you saying? That there's just, alright, it's all corrupt, there's nothing we can do, whatever. No I'm not saying that, but I w I am saying this, that in spite of man's failures and man's corruptions, we should never lose faith in God. Amen. Have there been ministries that have been messed up because people were corrupt? Yes. But we should never lose faith in God's ministries. God uses them, God blesses them, God uses imperfect people to accomplish his will. And realism is and we're not surprised, we understand it happens, there is failure, there is corruption, there is uh uh imperfection. But nevertheless, God is still good. God's still working. God's still using the church and the ministries of the church. And we see corruption in our government. And we the farther we get from God, the more we see it. We see corruption in our media. See corruption all through it. But we should never lose faith in God. We should never say, oh, it's hopeless. There's nothing good. Nothing good come out of this. No, no, no. Uh there's still a God in heaven. Do not let man's failure distract us from God's faithfulness. I have people all the time tell me, well, I used to go to church, but somebody did this And I used to go there, but uh the pastor did that, and the Sunday school teacher did this, and a deacon did that. I know pastors, oh I used to pastor, former pastors, I'm thinking of one guy in particular, I used to pastor, but those stinking deacons I said, my deacons smell pretty good, usually. And they get disillusioned And they get out of fellowship with God and they're no longer serving God and we have a world dying and going to hell And people don't want to serve God, don't want to be involved because there's corruption. And Solomon's saying, don't marvel at that. Don't let that throw you if somebody fails and there's something there. Don't let that distract you from God's faithfulness and the mission He has called us to. Not until the millennium will we have a government free of corruption. I said this often. The greatest, the best, purest form of government is dictatorship. But only if the dictator is sinlessly perfectly wise and all-knowing and all-powerful. There's only one being I know that qualifies for that. It's Jesus Christ. And until He rules on earth, don't marvel at the fact that there's going to be a degree of corruption. And so, uh by the way, that doesn't mean we approve of it. Oh well, that's just the way it is. No, we don't ignore it. We try to deal with it, we try to contain it, we try to eliminate as much as we possibly can. And uh I think the form of government we have is uh if it's up if they'll do it the way it's laid out as a very effective way of dealing with corruption. But when the people dealing with corruption are corrupt, then it's corrupt. And so he says, don't marvel at that. And I use the word pessimism. I don't mean that for us to go, oh, everything's terrible. Who was that guy in peanuts? The cloud was always over him. Who was it? Lioness. No, we just don't marvel at it. We understand. Alright, that's that's the world. That's humanity. My third observation I make from this passage is this, the permeation of corruption. Look at the last part of verse 8. Now, I'll be honest with you, I struggle with this. He says, marvel not at the matter. And he puts a cold and he says this, for he that is higher than the highest regardeth. And I thought my first thought was, well, that's probably the Lord, he that is higher than the highest. But then he makes this statement, and there be higher than they. Well, that can't be the Lord, because nobody's higher than the Lord. So I got thinking of this. I think what he's saying here, and I'm just I I can't say this dogmatically, but studying this, this is my thought. I think he's saying from top to the bottom, this whole organization is corrupt From the high, those that have authority, and the word high there has an implication of kind of authority. From those that have authority, and the people that have authority over them, and the people that have authority over them. Top to bottom, this thing, corruption, is present. In 1887, there was a Catholic historian, he made this statement: power tends to corrupt. And then he added this absolute power corrupts absolutely. Now I agree with that to some extent, but with this modification. I'm not convinced that power in itself corrupts a person. I think power reveals the corruption that's already there. I think power draws the corruption out of a person. I put it this way: power reveals corruption that is already present. It draws out the corruption that's in the heart. Power and authority do not produce corruption. They enable corruption. You follow what I'm trying to say? Power in and of itself, having authority doesn't make a person corrupt. But if a person is corrupt, and we all are, that power enables that corruption to be expressed. Follow what I'm saying? And so um and so this permeates throughout the whole thing, top to bottom. Now I want to get to verse number nine real quick. And again, these are kind of obscure verses and And we're trying to determine what he's saying. Then I get to verse 9. He says, moreover, so he's carrying this thought on. Moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all. The word profit there has kind of has the idea of what it's producing. So the profit of the earth, or what the earth produces, is for all. It's for everybody. The king himself is served by the field. So what's he saying here? I put this down. I tie it into verse number 8, and I put this down: the providence of God over corruption. God has created and designed societies of men to need each other. I appreciate a couple of folks said something about the testament, boy, I praise the Lord for this church. How people care about people do these things. The fact of the matter is God created us as Christians. He created the Christian life, designed the Christian life where we need one another. We need the prayers, we need the fellowship, we need the input. Was it you that prayed, Dave, and just the testimonies tonight was already an encouragement to hear what God is doing in each other's lives. And God has created what is true in the church, I believe, is true in a society to some extent. We need each other. Society needs organization. God created government. If there was not organization to society, if there was not some type of government authority over society, we would have what? The anarchy. It'd just be chaos. And so God knows that mankind needs that. And taking and what God has done is he has taken imperfect men, corrupt people who are very sinful. And he's given them authority over society, over mankind, and those things feed each other. You say, how in the world do you get that out of this? This is what I see. The earth, what he's saying is, God has designed us all to work in unity. In other words, the prophet of the earth is for all. That's the common people. They're working the earth. They're out growing corn and uh they're growing soybeans and what else? Carrots. Carrots, wheat, all that to provide food. Now we need the organization, the government, over top so that we can all do this in a in harmony in an organized way so it's not chaotic. But those in authority need the food that the people are producing. You follow what I think he's saying here? The earth profits all, right? We got all this food that's being produced, th uh items are being manufactured, all that, so that we can all function. We got uh authority, the government over top so that this can all be done in a decent and orderly manner. But these guys are things up so that those up here have food to eat. We all need something. Did anybody notice how high the corn grew in the last week? Good grief. Has nothing to do with the message. I just thought of it. It's incredible So in other words, I I I I took this from verse 9. God is still ruler over all. In spite of how man fails, in spite of injustice, in spite of uh uh oppression In spite of all these terrible things, and we do what we can to deal with it, and we do what we can to minimize it, but in spite of that, I'm glad to know God is in control. And these societies and these countries where they try and institutionalize atheism, and it's happening here in America, and we're trying to function as humans without God And that cannot function. That cannot work. And whether they realize it or not, God is still ruling over all. Bible says God sets up one and puts down another. God rules in the affairs of the nations of the earth. And our God is bigger than any human institution. Our God is bigger than any organization. And He is sovereign. And when it's all said and done, God's will is going to be accomplished. God will take care of it. So, corruption. It's all through society. It's all through. It's there. We know it is But we have a God in heaven that's greater than all of that and that rules over that. So I thought, all right, how do you wind that down? How do you apply that? I put this. With all that said, I think number one I think to some extent we ought to be active in our government. I think Christians should have as much influence as we possibly can in our government Amen. Well, thus we're bringing in Brother Harding. That guy's phenomenal. He has the most biblical perspective on Christian citizenship I've ever seen. And he has stirred my heart that we can, we have a say. In our country, we have a say. All through scripture, you find saints in Caesar's household. Find Daniel in the courts of Babylon. Find Joseph, high-up government in Egypt, having profound influences on what are inherently corrupt organizations. But they were there. And they were salt and they were light and they affected things. So I believe as Christians we ought to be present We ought to have that influence. Number two, I put this down. In light of all this corruption, I put this down. We ought to pray for our government leaders. We ought to pray for them. Here's the interesting, I read this recently. In America it's unique. They really aren't our leaders. The authority in the United States setup is the people. They're simply the representatives. So whatever you want to, however you want to refer to them, we ought to pray for them earnestly We're going to pray that corruption would be minimized, God would deal with it, so that you and I can live peaceable and quiet lives and serve God as the Bible instructs us to. Amen. So number one, we ought to be active in this corrupt thing. We ought to be active and try and be salt, minimize the corruption. We ought to pray. And then number three, I put this down. We ought to trust God's sovereignty. Now I'm not convinced every person that gets in office is necessarily God's will for them to be there. There are certain people that get in, I'm convinced it's not God's will, but the people's will, and so God said, all right, you want, you can have what you have. God permits it. But it's not necessarily what he wants. You follow what I'm saying? And so we need to stop and understand we when we see the news, or you read the news or whatever, you hear the news, you're looking at it. and you see all this corruption, you don't even know whether you can believe the news report or not, and it's just so saturated with corruption, and you just want to scream and smash the computer and tear the newspaper up and you want to go out and shoot something. Just stop and relax. Are you with me? Just stop and relax and say, wait a minute, God is still in control. And I'm trusting God, and God can take all this and work it out. Am I making any sense? So number one, be active, be involved. Number two, pray. And number three, just trust God. Have faith in God. Have faith in God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope this came across right. I ask you to challenge us. We're thinking in another week or so, Brother Harding be here. We'll be thinking about our country and our role as Christians. Lord, we think about your return, the establishment of the great millennial reign of Christ, and what that's going to be like I pray you'd help us to remain faithful. I pray you'd help us to be true and honest in this old sinful world. That you would fill us with your spirit and live your life through us. And we can be a salt and light in a very corrupt society. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, preacher, you know, my Christian walk with God, my walk with God needs attention. Maybe that daily spending time daily with the Lord. Maybe there's sin creeping in. Solomon allowed that. Maybe self has been so exalted and the Lord's just kind of compartmentalized. Maybe we need to just put it all on the altar and just say, Lord, I want to be off the throne. I want you to be on the throne of my life. I want to be that salt and that light in this old world till Jesus comes back. Is there anything like that by the uplift hand? My walk with God needs attention. My walk with God My surrender to the Lord. My devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ needs attention. I think we need revival. I know I do. I've been praying, Lord, revive me, please. As we go into Lord's Supper, maybe God's people, and we finish out Sunday, go into a work week, maybe God's people want to kneel at an altar. And say, Lord, help me in this old, sinful, corrupt world, to walk with you, be pure and humble, be godly, and be that salt and be that light. So someone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God would save me, that I could get that settled. I know for sure. That God has forgiven me and saved me. Anything like that? Now, Father, bless your invitation. I I hope you can use these thoughts to challenge us and help us in Jesus' name.