Delve into Jehovah's Witness doctrines, which are um wayward and uh and wrong. and uh heretical. And all manner of other words. We're not gonna devil in their doctrines, but just their origins. Just a little origin story, a little story to tell you who these people or what w how they found it, who founded them and why they are the way they are without really even touching on the cult itself. And uh I hope you guys uh enjoy this, I hope you learned something from it. It eight and okay, and I'm gonna be honest, some of this was, you know, directed towards teens, so uh none of you are who's the eighteen in here? Do we have any eighteen? Yeah, well I mean we got one. I mean uh that was obvious. But um at eighteen years old, Charles Taze Russell, the founder of Jehovah's Witnesses, right, decided he didn't like the idea of eternal torment for the damned. So he left his church and began his own Bible study group with others his own age. Now, he doesn't know this. Let me let me just say that again. Charles says Russell, he's eighteen years old. He doesn't like the idea of eternal torment for the damned. You know, I can actually kinda understand that. I'm like, you know what, eternal torment is terrible sounding. But if it's God, it's God. And if it's his word, it's his word. And we're not supposed to argue with that. But he didn't like it. And so instead of saying, I don't like this, so I'm going to find some scripture Uh to back up my point, which you also shouldn't do, you don't you don't find scripture to back up your point. You let the scripture tell you what your point is. And there's actually a very important uh decision to that because most cults, if you look, and we've been over Mormonism um uh already, but most cults start with, I don't like this doctrine, so I'm going to find one verse out of a hundred verses that disagree with it, but one verse that says what my point of view is, and they just kind of ignore the other verses. Now Mormonism actually does this quite well. And they do it well because Um see like I I I'm not going to say I like the Mormons, but most Mormons I know have always been very nice to me. So I try to be very nice to them. Now that I'm preaching, I'm gonna be honest. Mormons, while usually very intelligent people On the outside? Their religion is stupid. And they should know it's stupid if they look into the background of it, but they don't. But they're not quite as stupid as Jehovah's Witnesses. Because at least like at least Mormons like they they really, really try hard to cover up their origins and say, well, that's not all correct. But Jehovah's Witnesses No, we'll get into that in a second. But here's here's uh um all I'm saying is Charles Sayes Russell. We're gonna call him uh we're gonna call him probably Russell. Um he called himself a pastor, but um he was never ordained. Um So I mean, you know, you can still be a pastor, I guess, without being ordained, but I don't think that he deserves the name of pastor, so we're just gonna call him Russell. Russell decides, I don't like this doctrine, so I'm going to start a Bible study with five of my friends who are also 18 to 20 years old. So the six of them decide, all right, let's study this Bible. And they don't go to any other church. They they don't think anyone else has uh um had the truth. Two thousand years or eighteen hundred and uh eighteen hundred and I think seventy years of religion at this point, eighteen hundred of Christianity, and they're pretty sure no one has actually discovered what the Bible means yet. And they're pretty sure that those five at eighteen know better than every other church in America because they do. Because they're smarter than everybody else. This was Russell's idea. Now, of these five in the five, named Russell the pastor of the group. That was his only pastorship, with actually being named Pastor Russell by these five guys. He was their pastor. Alright. What I want to talk about first is a prideful beginning to the religion. You see, pride says that no one else has the answer but me. Pride says, um, church, uh I'm my my religion and I know I've heard this, and I'm not and I I don't want to be mean to anyone, I don't want to be condescending to anyone, but church it says or pride says, I don't need church. Religion is very personal between my between me and God, and we deal things out. Well, unfortunately, God tells you to go to church. He tells you to get together with other um other uh believers. And you know why he tells you to get together with other believers? Because you have the very, very, very very likely possibility of being wrong about something. And you need to be told what you're wrong on. Because you know what? This Bible is a big book. It really is. It's huge. I don't know any other book in the world that people are like, yeah, over this next year I'm gonna read that. Every other book's like, yeah, I'll read this in like a week or two But the Bible's like, I'd take a whole year to read this. Bible's a big book. Law of doctrines can get kind of confusing. That's why you have to study it. That's why people train for years to learn it. That's why even after years of training, you never quite stop learning and getting further along in the Bible and recognizing just all the just images and all the pictures and all the beauty and all the all of God's truth and his laws and his love. You don't realize that for a long time. But at eighteen years old, Russell knew what he was talking about more than anyone else in the world after eighteen hundred years of religion. The religion was founded on pride. See, pride does a lot of things to us. And it does a lot of things that um It it lies to us. Pride in itself is a lie. It's a lie from yourself to yourself, saying you are better than you are at something. Or you're just better than you are. Because truth is, we're all dirt balls and God is God. And in the presence of God, we're nothing. And if you guys don't believe that, um God is often uh talked about and is infinite. Well here's the thing. If we are if say our number is ten and God's infinite, then our number can still be zero and God will still be infinite. It's a little math thing, but it's kinda cool. God is so powerful that we mean nothing. We literally mean nothing. So, we are nothing. So, it's all about God. Let's just be honest. Here's what pride does: Pride says, I'm going to start my own church. period off of these I'm not gonna listen to anyone else in the world. You know, I'm gonna start my own church off of my own doctrines and I'm gonna study out the Bible for myself and get and do that And he's never decided to listen to other elders. He never decided to listen to other pastors. That's what pride does. Right says everybody else is wrong, and I'm right. I'm the smartest person in the room. Now, to be honest, I've been the smartest person in the room. I'm the smartest person in the room every day. I'm the only person in the room, so I'm just like, hey, smartest person in that room. Feels pretty good. Walk downstairs to the kitchen, wife's in there, darn second smartest person in the room. So But being the smartest person but but I mean it it's thinking you're the smartest person ever. And that's what Charles Tays Russell thought he was. He wrote six books called Studies and Scriptures. Now, I will give him this. Is prideful and ha as ignorant as he was of the Bible? He wrote six books, and that takes a long time. Now, why did he write those six books? Because he wanted money. Same reason he started the same reason he started a magazine uh with his wife. Because he wanted money. And you say, well, well, you don't know he wanted money. Maybe he thought these books were just an interpretation of what he thought of the Bible. Maybe they were. Perhaps. Alright? But I know that most of his preaching throughout his life were not actual sermons. They were actual advertisement campaigns for Jehovah's Witnesses. When he went to different countries, he didn't preach about Christ. He preached, this is what my religion can do for you. Uh it was most famous when he did it in Tokyo. He did a uh message and I I didn't write down for some reason or what it was called, but the message had nothing to do with Christ and all just about Jehovah's Witnesses in general. One of the reasons was is because he didn't necessarily believe in the deity of Christ. But we can get to but like I said, we're not going to get into their doctrines, because they're crazy. We're gonna get into uh we're gonna get into some Bible first. Uh Proverbs sixteen five. Proverbs sixteen five. If you'd turn there for me, I'd really appreciate that. But it was a prideful beginning to a religion. Now, I want you guys to think about this. Uh moment before you get there. I want you to think about this. A religion can um start out of many things. But pride shouldn't be it because if a religion is worshiping another being, then pride should kinda not be the thing it starts with. Does that make sense? If if your goal is to set something higher, you shouldn't set yourself higher to set something else higher. I think that makes sense. But I'll read Proverbs 16, 5 now. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord Though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished. God really doesn't like pride. And I'm gonna turn I'm going to turn over to uh first Peter five five. Don't worry about turning there unless you want to, and I just I implore you to Likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Pride started the Jehovah's Witnesses. The Jehovah's Jehovah's Witnesses have led millions of people into hell since. And it was all kind of on the idea of we're better than you, which is why we won't vote in your elections and you know, playing your sports or listening to your religion. But we'll again we'll get to that in a little bit. But it was pride. Anyway, so in charge of the magazine, which uh by the way, we're now when you got a divorce um later on, which I guess we might talk about later as well. When he got a divorce later on, they went through and had to pay find out what his wife he owed his wife an alimony and he's like, Listen, I'm I don't make any money. I am just this lowly pastor Um yes, I there's this magazine that someone owns, but I don't make any money. Well, she ended up getting uh quite a large sum because they found out that out of um out of the many accounts that it was spread in, the profits from the magazine w the watchtown magazine was spread in. He controlled ninety-nine percent of the money by himself solely. He controlled 99% of the profits. Why? Because he because he was the one He was the perfect one. He was the one who knew everything. He wanted to make the right decisions. But let me be honest, even in corporate America, one person does not make those kind of decisions. Not that I mean unless and if there is a person like that, you know, and I guess if it's a sole proprietorship and it's a huge one, fine. They might make those kind of decisions. But most companies have boards, at least. Because you wanna know why? Because there's wisdom among many. Because no one should have control over everything, especially in religion, because God's in control. But Prideful beginnings. Now um I'm gonna read uh Suzanne. Oh, 1 Timothy 3. These are the qualifications for a pastor. I told I know I know this isn't your standard message, but I just want to take you through this guy's life. In just the beginning of this. So um in first Timothy three, and I'll start in verse three, not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre, which we just kinda disproved considering he controlled on much money. Um not a brawler, which by the way he was in lawsuits. That's one of the ways he got money. Was he in lawsuits up to uh all over his life. He was always in a lawsuit and you don't get a great lawyer That's one of the reasons that it uh if it wasn't for that lawyer, um the book I'm reading on this, Jehovah's Witness, we probably wouldn't even know the name today because he was so good. Well let's keep going. Not covetous. You sound pretty covetous, you know. When you make someone subscribe to a magazine to be part of your religion, that's kind of covetous. Uh not a novice. Oh yes, not a novice. He began his religion with no experience in Bible teaching at age 18. That sounds like a novice. And teenagers that are in here because I'm speaking to you. You guys don't know how much you don't know until you know. And it's true. Because you're like, yeah, you know. And I I felt very comfortable at ages uh fourteen through eighteen that I knew a lot. And then sud suddenly, I either forgot a bunch or there was a lot more to know. And either way I was in a deficit. So But not a novice being lifted up with pride. Now listen to this: not a novice. So you need to be a professional. You need to know what you're doing. If you're going to teach people about God's word, you need to know what you're doing. I I love it when uh when um a new Christian tries uh wins someone to Christ. I think it's great. However, I also don't want that new Christian trying to explain something like the end times. Because I know it's pretty difficult and you've got to spend a lot of hours studying. Now winning someone to Christ? Man, I I I now I I also rather never have a pastor who doesn't win people to Christ. And explains it in t and times all the time. That makes sense. But you know what? You're a pastor, and obviously, um You know, most of y'all aren't pastors, so I mean but if you're a pastor, you better not be an novice. And if you guys ever have to leave this church, if you ever get moved away, and I hope you don't, but if you ever get moved away, because this is a great church, but if you ever get moved away Make sure your pastor knows what he's talking about. Make sure if he does have an odd listen, and I know pastors that have odd theories about things, that have different theories, and you know pastors, good pastors, good men of God can disagree on things. But all the ones I respect are like, well yeah I disagree about this, but this is why I disagree about that. And even if I don't agree with them like, well that's a pretty good point. But I still would disagree with you. But this guy was, you know what, I'm not say I I don't want the Bible to say this, so it's not going to say this. I want the Bible to say this, so it's going to say this. And it was just all about him. Anyways, not a novice, thus being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. And if that doesn't explain this man's life. What does? Pride is a dangerous thing. And it usually happens to those or sorry, and then um sorry. Yeah, sorry, pride usually happens to those who are unlearned. The only few like I and I tried and I said this earlier. When I was at fourteen, eighteen, I thought I knew everything until I got older and it was like, wow, I know nothing. Because pride comes from a lack of knowledge. It comes from lying to yourself, but usually that lie is kind of an ignorant lie because you don't know how much there is not to know. And that's how this man was. Now it had a prideful beginning. But it also had an unlearned leader. Let me apply this uh to you guys, or let me let me read you this story It is a great story. I really enjoyed it when I read it. Reverend J. J. Ross of the James Street Baptist Church in Hamilton, Ontario, wrote a pamphlet about Russell calling it calling his religion an anti-rational, anti-scientific, anti-biblical, anti-Christian, and deplorable perversion of God's dear son. I'm just gonna read that again because it was fun. Anti-rational. No rational. It doesn't make any sense. Anti-scientific. And I don't know if that's like literally like science, like uh like working on it. Or scientific as in he didn't follow the steps to say if this happens then this happens. But anyways, anti scientific, um anti biblical, which is funny Anti-Christian and the deplorable deplorable which is a great word, don't use that anymore, they should though, deplorable perversion of God's dear son. He went on to say that Russell never attended a higher school of learning. He knows comparatively nothing of philosophy, systematic, or historical theology, and is totally ignorant of the dead languages. So Russell did what he did best and he sued the guy for libel. And uh because I because I'm not I don't think the teens know what this is. Libel means that someone lies about you And you've decided that you're going to sue them because they hurt your reputation. Happens all the time. So he's sued and liable. And you know what the court came back and said? The course was thrown out because of evidence presented by Russell himself. Meaning that everything that Russell brought in to prove that his relation that his religion was biblical and was rational and was scientific. and was a Christian and wasn't a deplorable perversion of God's son. It proved the exact opposite. That's why he lost the case. Was because he talked. And let me read some transcripts from this because I think it's kinda fun. And if you guys don't think it's fun, I apologize. I thought it was real fun. Okay, so this is so attorney uh Staunton. Staunton is the uh the uh prosecu I guess he wouldn't be a prosecutor, Stunt. Uh but the uh I guess he's a defense attorney. So uh do you know the Greek alphabet? Russell says, oh yes. Can you tell me the correct letters if you see them? Russell says. Uh some of them I might make a mistake, uh or I m uh some of them. I might make a mistake on some of them. Sun. Would you tell me the names of those on the top of the page here? Page four forty seven I've got here? Russell Well, I don't I don't know that I would be able to. You can't tell me what those letters are. Look at the or you can't tell what those letters are. Look at them and see if you know. My way my way and he was interrupted at this point and not allowed to explain, so he's like, My way, and he's like, Are you familiar with the Greek language? And Russell says no. That's illegal to lie like that, by the way. I don't know if you guys know that. He lied in court. He lied in that's called perjury. He lied in court several times. Let's look at it another time because I like it when this guy looks stupid. Alright. Now Okay, wait, one sec. Um oh it's on this page. Okay. Is it true you were never ordained? And this is Russell. It is not true. And then uh the guy looks at him and he's like, Now you never were ordained by a bishop, clergyman, presbytery, counselor, or any other bod body of men living? And he says, No, I never was. Because when he said it is not true, even the judge was like, Alright, answer the question: yes or no? The man was a liar. First of all, he was prideful, but second of all, he was unlearned. He didn't know what he was talking about. And it's okay to not know what you're talking about. Listen, even the Bible says that. You know, some people are ignorant. That's why you come to church. That's why you come to church and listen and listen, we have a good pastor. He's awesome. He explains things. He explains things to stupid people. Bam. I'm one of them. I'm like, oh that's a good point. And then uh and he explains things and he gets into things and he actually uh covers the uh Bible very topically, which I really enjoy because uh because it actually helps me learn. Um and he he he does do a lot of expos exposition. I'm not saying he doesn't, but a lot of it is you're sitting there and you're like, you know, when when you see the title of the sermon in the Bolton you're like, Oh that's what we're gonna learn about today. And you're like, that's great. But you know why he does that? Because if you really get into conversation with the pastor, he's not here, science is. If you get into conversation with the pastor, he knows what he's talking about. And he could go very deep. Very, very deep, if he wanted to. And talk about things that we usually don't talk about because it goes over most people's heads. But you know why he doesn't? is because he wants to help the ignorant. He wants to help the unlearned. Because it's not wrong to be ignorant, but it's wrong to stay ignorant. And you stay ignorant by not listening to by not following 1 Peter 5-5 and not listening to the elders, not listening to the pastors, not listening to people who know more than you. You stay ignorant by not doing that. You stay ignorant by leaving the church, going out and starting your own religion. That's how you stay ignorant. He was an ignorant man. Now here's the thing. I and now now just to be fair to Russell, because I'm going to be fair to him because uh I think I can tear them apart without even not being fair. Um I I but I can be fair to him. I don't know the Greek alphabet. I know some of it. I know like I don't know how many characters I know because I don't know how many there are. But I know some of it. And I know some Greek words. But I didn't take Greek. And there's a reason I didn't take Greek. 'cause it's really hard. Actually that's not the reason. The reason is is because I believe this Bible was preserved. Perfectly, right? So I believe it was preserved perfectly. So I think that me learning Greek would almost Um me having to actually learn the entire language of Greek would almost hinder me because I'd be spending that that'd take a lot of work and I'd rather just learn what the Bible actually says And I also know there's some really smart men with some really smart commentaries who do know Greek and I can just learn from them. There's a reason I don't I don't go out and try to build a car by myself. Because I know some really smart guys build cars. There's a reason that I don't work on my car. Because some guys are a lot smarter than me that work on cars. And you know the difference between me and Russell is I let them work on my cars. I let them build my cars. I let them and tell me what the Bible says and then show me from the Greek what the Bible says. But Russell said, No I don't need them. I've built my own car with stuff. And there's a reason that he's never really ran Um he was unlearned. And thirdly, whoops, that's secondly again. But thirdly, another thing that was wrong with him is he had, and this is actually his religion, so not so much him, but circular reasoning. Now, circular reasoning is okay for a lot of things. It's okay if you're a parent. You see, he's like, kid, go clean your room now. Right. Right right Ethan. Okay, go clean your room now. And he's like, why? It's like 'cause I said so. And it's like then and he's like, but because he said so, that's not that's not like Like actually that doesn't make sense. But it kinda it will fit in a second. I use that to point at the wrong point. The fact is, is if the reason is the answer and they just keep switching back and forth If you say A equals B, and then they're like, why is A equals B? And they're like, because B equals A. Wait, what? Why do chickens lay eggs? Because eggs come from chickens. Or because chickens come from eggs. Yeah, but why? And and you just keep on going in circles. It's called circular reasoning. Now let me teach about something about Jehovah's Witnesses. Um like I said, he wrote six uh six volumes. Uh he actually and there was actually a seventh one published after he died. Six volumes of his commentary on the Bible. On the King James Bible And then, if you guys know what the uh New World Translation is, then, later on, they were like, Man, you know this Bible we have here. It doesn't like say what what our religion does. So they decided to retranslate the Bible with his notes. And somehow somehow blows my mind. This new translation agreed with all these notes. It was a miracle. And to be fair, they will not give the names of the translators. It's completely anonymous to this day. No one knows who did it. And Jehovah's Witnesses will tell you that is because we want to give all the glory to God. But it's probably because They didn't retranslate it. And if they did, they retranslate it with notes. They retranslate to say something. Is it weird that it says exactly what they wanted to do after they after they rewrote it? Alright, so I'm a nerd. I like Star Wars. I'm just being honest. I'm a nerd. And uh I I this And this is gonna work better with teams because Because I knew that like one of them at least had seen Star Wars. But um if I decided that I was going to do Uh that uh that I thought the movie meant something, like um something stupid from Star Wars. Nothing, Star Wars is awesome. That's the correct answer, so um I'm going to say that Darth Vader being Luke's f father, close your ears if you never heard that. That's a spoiler right there. I might have just ruined someone's life. Um with Luke's father is really um a picture of um, I don't know, the Easter bunny. And someone's like, no it's not. And then I go back and re-edit the film. And they say, and I am your father, and this is a picture of the Easter Bunny. And I'd be like, see, he told you. They're like, but you re-edited the film. And they're like, that's what it says, man. This is just a retranslation. That's what it says. And we laugh, and we're like, that's stupid. That's someone's entire religion. That is someone's entire religion. It's circular reasoning. You can't argue with them because what they you can't argue with them because what they're standing on is themselves. Which makes no sense. And I agree with you. You can't argue with them because they are the one because they wrote their own truth. And their truth is perfect, and of course it aligns with themselves. It's circular reasoning. It is because it is. Not because of something else. You know, there's a reason that we actually l I that I can I can't anymore, but at one time I could name uh I don't know twenty of the uh bazillion or thirty-seven, thirty-nine translators of the New King of the King not New Kings. Because they said this is us. Now instead of us taking their notes and being instead of them taking their notes and saying this is what it means, they translate it word for word Word for word. And the words that weren't there, but they had to make sense of the sentence, they're like, alright, we're gonna put that in Italian face, just because we don't want to mess with it. That's called honor. But a Bible that was taken and translated with someone else's notes in mind can't be pure. It can't be a pure translation. And it's not a miracle that it says the exact same thing that they want it to. Now, here's a funny thing. I'm just gonna give you this. You can actually disprove Jehovah's W some Jehovah's Witness beliefs with their own Bible because they missed a couple things. I'm not going to get into that because I'm going to teach you guys their religion. Now, there's one more thing, and uh just one more, and it's a protected doctrine. Now, if you're like, what do you mean it's protective doctrine? Well, did you know? Now, okay, uh has anyone ran into Jehovah's Witnesses before and tried to, you know Tell them, hey, how about I show you my religion and you show me yours? Most of the time, and you know what, you might have gotten a rogue Jehovah's Witness. But most of the time, guys, they'll say no. Do you know why? Because they'll get in trouble for it. And that's one of the reasons they fell in twos, is because they're all paddle tails. Or at least some of them are, that's what I'm assuming. Because they walk on door and they're like, alright, we can discuss this. But but they're not allowed to discuss it. Why aren't they allowed to discuss it? Because you might change their minds. They're not allowed to go to anyone else's church. Now, it's changed over the years where you won't be completely excommunicated for going to someone else's churches once. But You get a bad name. And and you're not really supposed to have a lot of friends outside of Jehovah's Witnesses. And if someone leaves the church, unless they live in your household. And they are immediate family. If someone leaves the church and excommunicates themselves, you are not allowed to talk to them Do you know why you're not allowed to talk to people who get out of a Jehovah or do you know why Jehovah's Witnesses aren't allowed to talk to people who've gotten out of Jehovah's Witnesses? Because they'll see the light. Because they'll understand, wow, this is stupid. But the thing is, it's such a protected religion because they're not allowed to talk about it. They're not allowed to disagree. They're not allowed to go out to any other church and hear what anyone else has to say I'm gonna be real honest and Pastor might kill me. And if Pastor killed me then I apologize. But if you go to another church right now to just see what it's like I know for a fact pastor's not going to kick you out of the church. I don't think you should. Because we do use the Bible, because we show you everything. But you know what? If you want to go see what someone else is believed, if you want to have a discussion with a Catholic If you want to have a discussion with a Jehovah's Witness, if you want to have a discussion with a Muslim. If you know your Bible, I don't care. Go for it. Now if you don't, now if you're ignorant, you can't you probably are in trouble. Because if someone knows their Bible just a little bit better than you, you could get in trouble. Which is why we have to study. But But you're allowed to. You're allowed to have friends who aren't. Jehovah's Witness. You're you're allowed to You're allowed to actually think. One of the cool things about being a Baptist. We're supposed to think. It's in our uh baptistinctus. It's like, hey, think, stupid. It doesn't say it like that. But we do have individual soul liberty. We had choice. We can choose to be stupid, we can choose to be smart, we can choose to be ignorant, we can choose to be learned, but you know what? We can choose to follow rabbit trails, and we can choose to f and we can choose to come up with our own crazy theories about what heaven is going to be like. And we can choose to discuss it with other people of other religions, and we can choose to be unprotected completely from other doctrines And if but if you're smart, if you study, that won't even affect you. In fact, it might affect the other person. You don't know why? Because we've nothing to hide. Baptists are actually very f very very very uh unique that way. We don't have anything to hide. It's like well it's uh you know, I what do you guys believe about uh salvation? How do you get to heaven? Well it's pretty simple, this is how you get to heaven. Alright? What's the secrets about it. No secrets. That's pretty much it. That's what the Bible says. What about your other books that you cling to? No, we pretty much just use the Bible. But everyone else, well we have doctrines, we have creeds, we have uh other books, we have explanations. And now I'm not saying every other religion is this way. Please don't misunderstand me. But I'm saying We have it all on the um right on the counter. Anyone can take it. Anyone can take a look at it. We're pretty open about it. This is our religion But Jehovah's Witness, they're not like that. They're kind of ashamed of their own doctrine because they know it's wrong. Because they know they'll lose all their friends. Because they know they'll lose their standing in their own society. if they question. If they decide to decide to uh read a little By the way, they're not allowed the other thing, they're not allowed to read the Bible without a watchtower or without some kind of watchtower point of view. I can't I don't know it completely and I apologize. That was just one that I learned a few weeks ago. But they're not allowed to um Study the Bible like outside of the Watchtower magazine, outside of its commentary, or outside of the church's commentary. That's so stupid. And they're so protected, and they circular reason themselves. And that's because their religion doesn't make sense. And the reason that their religion doesn't make sense is because it comes from an ignorant and prideful man Now there's not the the application tonight is pretty simple. First of all, if you're prideful, don't be. These prideful people do things that hurt other people, like start religions and send people to hell Secondly, don't be ignorant. Study your Bible. These you know, by the way, do you know who Jehovah's Witnesses look for? They look for stupid people. They won't tell you that, but their religion is actually designed for people of lower IQs. Mormons actually try to shoot higher. They try to go for more learned people. There was like, no way, man, we want the dumb ones. We can get them in masses. That's what they think. And you know how you become not dumb? You learn, you get knowledge, you read the Bible, you understand it, you go to church, you have people who are smarter than you tell you what is, and then you grow. That's how you become So one, be don't be prideful. Two, don't be ignorant. Three circular reasoning and uh I guess protect the doctrine Just I guess the only thing I'd say be thankful you we only use the King James and be thankful that we're Baptists because you know what, that's kinda awesome. We don't have that kind of club to deal with with. And lastly, don't be a Jehovah's Witness. That's my last one. Alright, I think that's pretty important. Now I'm gonna pray. Um it's not it's not I don't know if do you guys Uh we do do imitation? Um I'm not sure if this really calls for imitation. It's kind of a Bible study. Um I guess skip invitation a lot like and a bunch of people uh You know what? Yeah, I I just yeah I'm not gonna What I'm gonna pray. Is that okay? Dear Lord, we just uh pray for uh these people tonight, God. And we just uh pray that if they didn't get convicted by anything, Lord, they just they just learned to be able to help people. um that are struggling with their own doctrines. And Lord, we pray that we help the uh that we do uh help the ignorant to learn, Lord. We pray that we just keep our pride low, Lord, and realize that uh And realize, Lord, that you are uh you are over all Lord and above all God. And we just we just ask that um We just ask that you uh you help us, God, as we uh as we go through our day, Lord, and if we meet someone, Lord, we might be able to talk to them, and you might open up their hearts just for a moment to let them uh see the truth in your name. Amen