Psalms chapter 90, our text this morning is going to be primarily verse number two, but I want to read verse one and two again. Verse 1 says, Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting To everlasting, thou art God. From everlasting to everlasting Thou art God. I want to speak this morning on our eternal and unchanging God Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us and speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you for the tremendous blessing it is to assemble together as a body of Christ, as the body of believers, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Thank you, Father. For blessing us in this great joy. I pray now, as we've assembled together in your name, Lord, we're here to sing praise to you. We're here to serve you. We're here to hear from you And so with our Bibles open, I ask, Father, that you would please speak to our hearts from your word. Teach us of yourself this morning. I pray, Father, that you would reveal yourself to us from the pages of the Bible. I yield my will to you, as I always do, and preach in time and pray that you would take my thoughts You would direct my thoughts, and the things I say, the words I say, would be according to your will and not mine. I present my body anew, Lord, in this time, for this for this moment I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me and be the preacher this hour through my body, Lord, and preach your word. And help us to be open-minded, help us to be tender-hearted, however you speak to our hearts. Help us to trust you and to obey you and let you lead us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The message this morning is a theological message. Everybody said, oh boy Theological message. The word theology comes from a Greek word. It's actually two Greek words. The word theos means anybody want to take a shot? Theos is God. Theos is God, the Greek term for God. Ology comes from a Greek word that means the study of or the thinking of. So theology is simply studying or thinking about God. Studying God or thinking about God. How many people here, now be honest, how many people here you've ever thought about God? Anybody how many people have ever thought, well I wonder what God's like? I think well you know what what's this? Anybody know Yeah. Anybody here ever study a little bit, you know, about God, maybe in their Bible or you read a book about God or you Went to church and heard a sermon about God. Anybody here ever study God? You know what we got? We got a whole congregation full of theologians. That's what you are. And the study of or the thinking about God. A child can be a theologian. By the way, everybody thinks about God. You say, well, the atheist, yeah, he's thought that through and he's come to a conclusion. He's thought about God. He said, I don't believe it. And so young people are theologians We had a wonderful time this past week in Neighborhood Bible Time, got to talk to a lot of young people, little first graders, fifth, sixth, all through the whole gamut school age kids. And uh, you know, every one of them have some sort of thought about God. About the concept, something about God. So theologians come in all shapes and sizes, all ages, people who think or study about God. Now, too often, I'm afraid, in our thoughts about God, we think of God in strictly human terms Now we wouldn't say that necessarily, but our thoughts about God, I'm afraid, are often influenced uh by our under by our understanding of man. In other words, we think of God in human terms. For instance, God does something or God allows something to happen. And in our understanding, we say, I don't understand, why would he do that? Why would God allow that? What I'm doing is I'm bringing God down to my level of understanding. I'm saying, all right, I don't understand why God would allow that. Therefore, uh God is wrong in what he's allowing that to happen and allowing that to happen. No, no, no. You're bringing God down to your level of understanding. The fact of the matter is, God is infinite in his knowledge. God is infinite in his understanding. And there are a whole lot of factors behind God allowing something to happen that you and I are not privy to We don't have that knowledge. We don't have that level of understanding. So we bring God down to our level, and then we make judgment on God based upon our level of understanding. That's thinking of God in human terms. The fact of the matter is, God is so far beyond our ability to understand. He's God. Remember when the angel showed up to Mary and said, You're going to have a child. And um and uh it says uh uh you're gonna you're gonna you're gonna you're you're you're gonna have a child. And Mary responds and she says this. She says, how can that be? I've not known a man. What she was doing was, she was bringing God down to a human level A man, other's no way, humanly speaking, a woman can conceive a child without having known a man And it's impossible. How can this be? I'm not known a man. She was bringing God down to man's level. She was thinking of God in human terms. And the angel responds back and makes a profound statement: the things that are impossible with man are possible with God. God is infinite in his ability, God is infinite in his power, God is infinite in his wisdom, God is infinite in his understanding, and what we do is we bring him down to our level of understanding. our level of comprehension, and then uh we uh uh and uh we think of him in those terms. The fact of the matter is God is so far bigger and above our level of understanding So too often we think of God in human terms. We think of God his wisdom. We judge God's wisdom based upon our level of understanding Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here in Psalms, but go with me if you would to Isaiah. So if you keep going towards the back of your Bible, you'll end up in Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, Song of Psalm, and you'll hit Isaiah. When you get to Isaiah, go to chapter 55. I believe chapter 55 of Isaiah, verses 8 and 9, are some of the most profound verses in all of Scripture when I'm considering God. When I'm studying God, when I'm thinking about who God is and what he's like, Isaiah 55, look with me if you would at verse number 8. I have these highlighted in my Bible, I have it bracketed. I think these are profound passages, a profound statement. Isaiah 55, look at verse 8. For my, this is God speaking, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. God doesn't think the way you and I think. God doesn't operate the way you and I operate. In other words, God does not operate at the level of man's thinking and understanding. Now look at the next verse. For as the heavens are higher than the earth So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. God is so far above human reasoning, human understanding, human intellect. And he says, my thoughts are not your thoughts. As high as the heaven is above the earth. Now the Bible tells us, Scripture declares two things very clearly. Number one, though God is so far above anything we are, our ability to comprehend or think or reason, he's so far above that. Nevertheless, the Bible tells us very clearly that we can know God. We can know him. We can have a relationship with him. We can interact with God. Jesus said in John chapter 17 and verse 3, he said, this is life eternal. that they might know thee, the only true God. I'm here to tell you this morning, you can know God in a personal way. Can't see them, can't feel them, can't hear them, but you can know God, you can interact with God, you can have a relationship with the God that created this whole universe And that's an amazing thought. That I can know God. Now, I can know God through, it's only through the Lord Jesus Christ. Knowing Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Bible tells us that we can know God. We can have a relationship with Him. We can interact with the God that created us. There's some folks in this auditorium right here, right now. You talked with God this morning. Am I right or wrong? Yeah, I had devotions this morning. I spent time in prayer on my knees. I talked with the God. He spoke to me from his word. It is possible to have a real, vibrant, living relationship with this God that is so far above all that we are. Several years ago I was visiting uh down in Mount Lake Park, down just down the road here a little ways It was a s I think it was a Saturday afternoon, if I remember. And I was just going door to door and just talking to people inviting them out to church. And as I got opportunity, if it seemed like they were open, I tried to talk to them about the Lord And get to know the Lord. And this one fellow, I could take you to the house, uh, went by there, and Dr. Lorraine came out very polite, very civil. We talked, I introduced himself myself. He was glad to meet me. We chatted a little bit. I said, let me ask you this. I said, uh Um uh talked about the church. I said church is important, but more important than that is knowing for sure that our sins are forgiven, that when we die we go to heaven and not to hell. I said, do you ever give that any thought? He says, I am an agnostic. Now what is an agnostic? An agnostic is somebody that says there may be a God or there may not be a God, but we can't know. It's impossible to know if there is a God or not. And if there is a God, it's impossible to know him or have any interaction with him. And his statement to me was, he says, it's kind of like, and we went back and forth a little bit And uh it's kind of like God is this great watchmaker. And he created everything and he put everything in in motion, and then he just removed himself and he just lets it go, the uh just lets it run. We talked a little bit and I tried to show him some verses, but I'm here to tell you this morning, he's wrong. The agnostic is wrong. There is a God, and we can know him. We can interact with him. We can have a relationship with him. The songwriter put it this way: And he walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me I am his oak. I come to the garden alone. I tell you, you're here this morning, and you don't have a personal relationship with the God that created you. I'm here to tell you you can through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only can you, you really need to, because if you don't know the Lord as your Savior and you die in that condition, it is a terrible, terrible thing. And so the Bible makes it very, very clear from Genesis to Revelation, we can know God, we can have a relationship, we have testimonies We have examples and illustrations all through Scripture of people who knew the Lord God, who talked with Him and interacted with Him on a personal level, with the Creator of this universe He is not some God afar off. He is a God who is near. And through faith in Jesus Christ, we can know him in a personal way. So number one, we can know God, we can know God. Man can know God, and many do but only through the Lord Jesus Christ. So number one, one thing the Bible teaches is that we can know God. We can know Him in a personal way. Second thing that is very, very clearly taught in Scripture is this: God is incomprehensible. By that I mean this. It is impossible to fully comprehend or understand God. I can know him, I can have a relationship with him, but it is impossible for me to fully grasp Who and what God is. He's incomprehensible. He's so far above us. It is impossible for man to grasp all that God is and all that God is capable of. It's beyond our ability to comprehend. There are aspects of God that is impossible for us to understand. God is incomprehensible. Psalm chapter 90, if you would come back there. I said all that to get to this. In Psalm chapter 90 We have referenced two aspects of God that are very difficult for us to grasp, for our minds to comprehend. One is this: that God is eternal. It's hard for us to grasp what eternal is. And the other is that God is unchanging God never changes. Now, Psalm chapter 90 is perhaps the oldest psalm in all the book of Psalms. It's penned by Moses, if you notice there the little title above verse 1, A Prayer of Moses, the Man of God. When we think of Psalms, we usually, when we think of the pen then of Psalms, the writer in the book of Psalms, we think of who David, that's who comes to mind. David, the great psalmist of Israel. And David was used of God to pen many, many, many, many, many psalms. But God also used some others Moses being one of them, and Moses lived a long time before David ever showed up. And this is one of, and perhaps the oldest psalm in all the book of Psalms. Notice it says that this is a prayer of Moses, the man of God. Moses was a man of God in every sense of the word. And this was a prayer of his that he penned down. God, through inspiration, had him pen this down. and has preserved it for us all these many years of prayer. Moses knew how to pray. Telling you right now, Moses knew how to pray And uh a man of God, if somebody claims to be a man of God, I'll tell you one thing about them. They'll be a man of prayer. They'll be a man of prayer. And our churches need men of God. Our homes need men of God. Fathers, you ought to be the man of God in your home. Guys are quiet on me this morning. I'm going to use this here. You ought to be the man of God. The men in the church ought to be men of God. Not perfect, but we ought to be men of God. And to be a man of God, you have to be a man of prayer. I say this often, but I wouldn't give a plug-nickel for a daddy that doesn't pray for and with his family. You claim to be saved, you claim to be a Christian, and you don't pray with your family, you don't pray for your family. You're a sorry testimony of what a Christian daddy is. I'm just being awful I'm gonna wear this thing out today, I think. But I'm say I'm saying the truth. Uh anybody paying attention what's going on in our society, our country, I'm telling you we need men of God who know how to get a hold of God in prayer. Moses was a man of God, and this was a prayer. He knew how to pray. In the Exodus chapter 33, verse 11, it says this And God spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. God and Moses had a relationship. had a a relationship, was like two friends, and they could talk to each other and they could interact and share things. Moses knew God. And we need some men of God in 2024. Our country is desperate for some men of God. And quit looking to Washington to find somebody to save this country, only Jesus Christ can through men who give themselves to him. To Moses, this is penned by Moses. A man of God, a prayer of the man of God. A real man knows how to pray. I'm not impressed some of these guys get around and they'll use filthy language And just awful words come off their lips like they're some kind of tough real man, a real man. I'm telling you, a real man doesn't cuss. A sa a sorry, coward, carnal Christian cusses Right or wrong? Come on, you guys getting quiet on me now. A real man knows how to pray. Knows how to get a hold of God in prayer. A real man knows how to pray. A man of God knows how to pray. So notice what he says here. Psalms 90, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. And he makes two statements about God, is what I want to zero in on this morning. The first one, he says, that God, and I put it this way, God is eternal. Look at verse 2. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from now look at notice the wording here very carefully. From everlasting ever To everlasting. From is looking back in time Two is looking forward in time from everlasting past to everlasting future Thou art God. Thou art God. God is eternal. If something's everlasting, how long does it last? The word everlasting, as it's used here in the Bible, is a very strong Hebrew word, I understand. It has the idea, though here's the here's the word picture behind the meaning of this word everlasting in the Hebrew. It has this idea, beyond the vanishing point. Beyond the vanishing point. If you've ever been out on the ocean, some of you Navy guys, you ever been out on the ocean, you get out there And you can see, you have a point where there it's it it vanishes. Anything beyond it is unseen. Anybody know what's going on? Or you get up on the mountain on that horizon. There's a vanishing point where you cannot see beyond that. This word everlasting means this. It's a very, very I'm told it's a very, very strong Hebrew word. He's trying to emphasize the meaning of this. And it means beyond That vanishing point. In other words, we go back in time. We go back to 1776 when America is established. We go back to when the new world is discovered. We go back in time to when Jesus is born and lived. We go back beyond that to when Moses leads the nation uh Israel out of Egypt. We go back in time farther before that when Noah builds the ark and the great flood We go back in time before that, when God created Adam and Eve, and God created the heavens and the earth, and that is our vanishing point. We have no history beyond that. And the word everlasting means beyond that vanishing point. You with me? In other words, he's saying, from eternity past, God has been God. Without beginning. You say, well, you go back far enough, there has to be a place where God began. No, no, no. Beyond that, God is. And you can go infinite, go back in infinity, and God's beyond that. And then he turns around and he says, From everlasting to everlasting Thou art God. So you go forward. Now we don't have any record of what the future holds other than the prophecy given us in Scripture. So we go ahead, at some point, the rapture is going to take place, and every saved person is going to be caught up out of here, and the unsaved will be left behind for the seven-year tribulation period. By the way, that's a good reason for you to get saved today. You're not saved. I'm telling you, if you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you that is the most important issue in your life because that rapture could take place at any moment And then seven years of unbelievable wrath and judgment of God upon this world. So we look forward and we see the rapture, and we go beyond that, and then we're told the seven-year tribulation. Then we have the second coming of Christ. Then we look beyond that and we have the millennial reign where Christ rose from that. And we go beyond that into the future and we have the new heaven and new earth and that's where our vanishing point is We have no information about what's beyond that. And God says in Psalms 90, verse 2, he says, beyond that vanishing point, thou art God. Do you get the picture? God always has been, always will be. God is eternal. Genesis 21, verse 33, Abraham called on the name of the Lord, and this is the term he used: the everlasting God. God always was, and God will always continue to be There has never has been a time where God was not. And there never will be a time when God is not. He is eternal. Eternal. There is nothing Or any other being in existence like God. Nothing is like God. Nobody is like God. Nothing has existed. From beyond eternity past to beyond eternity future. God is unique And that characteristic, he's eternal. He's eternal. By the way, I don't mean to be unkind, but I do want to be honest, the Mormons are wrong. Their statement, their motto, and you they come by your house, ask them, they'll tell you. I've had them say this to me scores of times As man is now, God once was. As God is now, man can be. That's their statement. You get it? That one day there was a time in the past where God was a man just like you and I, was a human just like you and I. Was a man just like you and I. He was born, conceived, and born of two humans Just like you and I. And he attained Godhood through the Mormon teaching, through what they teach and keep in their arts, he attained Godhood, and now he is God. And there's gazillions and gazillions of gods out there that were one day humans just like you and I, and now they're out there and they attain godhood. I'm here to tell you they are dead wrong. God never was a man, he never will be a man. God has always been God, he always will be God. He had no beginning, he has no end. God is eternal. God is eternal. From everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. From the vanishing point of past history. You've been everlasting. From beyond that point. From the vanishing point in future time. Beyond that, you are God. You are God. So how many people agree with me? That's a little tough to comprehend. He's eternal. And along with that concept of God, that understanding of God, is the idea that he transcends time. He's not limited by time. You and I are prisoners of the moment We can't go back. How many people would go back if you could and change some things? Yeah, but we can't do that, can we? I'm a prisoner right now. I can't go forward. I can't jump ahead till tomorrow I'm a prisoner of now. But God transcends time. It's all present to him. Now that's that that's that's mind-boggling. That's hard to comprehend, right? Are you with me? Am I the only dummy here that has a hard time comprehending that? God transcends time. Tomorrow is today for him. It's all, and by the way, that was the song. Was it the choir sang that? No, we sang that. Because he lives, I can face tomorrow. He's already there He knows the end from the beginning. He's already in the future. He knows the future. By the way, if somebody knows the future, don't you think it's a good idea maybe pay attention to what they have to say? Somebody says, Oh, I know what the stock market's going to do this week. Huh? God knows everything. So number one, God is eternal. Number two He says here, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. In other words, he always has been God, he always will be God. And the second thing is God is, now here's a theological term for you. God is immutable. Immutable. How many people are impressed with your pastor? Use big words like that, yeah. Immutable. What does immutable mean? Unchanging. God does not change He was God, eternity past, he'll be God, eternity future. He does not change. He has been God, he always has been God, he always will be God Malachi 3:6, for I am the Lord thy God, I change not. Hebrews 13:8, Jesus Christ, the same, yesterday, today, and forever God is the same today as he was the day he created the heaven and earth. He's unchanging. He's unchanging. God is the same today as he will be when he creates the new heaven and earth. God is unchanging. Now we change, don't we? We change all the time. We look in the mirror. You know, I see changes taking place. This is one thing I I can't comprehend. Why in the world the hair stops growing on my head and starts growing in my nose? But what's that about, Wilbur? And our ears. I got this little little device. Clear the hair up. I should have brought and illustrated it for you. But we change, don't we? We change over time. And by the way, change isn't in and of itself always bad. If you have a little Gracie comes walking in here and she's just happy as can be. But if we come back in four years and she still hasn't changed, still that little thing, we'd say something's wrong, right? Well she's growing. She's growing. Change takes place. I'm not against change. I'm just highly resistant to it Right? We try not to change things here in the church too much. We use the same old book, same old Bible. We're not changing. We hold to the same old doctrines. We're not changing. We hold the same convictions, same standards. We're not changing. Not under not as long as I've got my right mind, we're not. So things change, we resist it, and things that are in the wrong type of change, but change is normal. Somebody said you can't ever walk in the same river twice You step down in that water, that water you walk through is now gone. It's not the same river. Sediment has taken place, the mo it's going on every time you walk through that river, it's a different river, it's a different river. It's changed, changed, changed, changed Everything in this world changes. This whole world changes. Our country's changed. See things all around us changing. Changing, changing, changing. But I'm here to tell you there's one constant in this whole world that never, ever changes. And that's God Almighty. He does not change. God's the same today as he was the day he created heaven and earth. He's the same today as he will be when he creates a new heaven and earth. God's power has not changed. God spoke this world to existence. This God that you and I prayed to a few moments ago as we open began this message That God that we spoke to, that heard my voice, that God that was paying attention when we joined our hearts together in prayer, that God is just as powerful now as he was when he spoke this universe into existence God hasn't changed in his power. He's able to help us. He is able to meet our needs. He is able to do the impossible. Don't ever, listen, don't ever lose faith in the power of God. The power of God God's power is the same today as it always has been. God's love for you and I is the same today as it always has been. God loves you. He loves you. And that love will never, ever change. He loves you as much today as he did the day he died on that old cross. You say, preacher, I I messed up pretty bad. I don't know if God still loves me. I you don't know what I've done. Listen, it doesn't matter what you've done. God's love is unchanging love. It's unconditional love. He says in Jeremiah 31:3, I think it is, he says, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. A love that goes beyond the vanishing point. There is nothing you and I can do to stop God from loving us. It's unchanging. It's unchanging. It's unchanging. Now, can we break his heart? Can we grieve him? Yes. Our actions, sometimes our words, will grieve this guy, but he loves us. Don't ever, listen, parents, don't ever, ever, ever say to your child, you better be good, or Jesus won't love you. That is a lie of the devil. Now God wants them to be good. God wants you to be good, Grace. But he will never stop loving her. Never stop loving you. His love is unchanging. His love is unchanging. His power is the same today as it ever has been or ever will be. God's holiness Is unchanging. Well, there's you don't hear much preaching about holiness anymore. But our God is a holy God. I'm here to tell you, God hates sin. God's holiness has never changed. Isaiah, in the year that King Uzziah died, saw the Lord high and lifted up, and his smoke and his train filled the temple. And uh the cherubim and seraphim cried out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. I'm here to tell you, he's just as holy today as he was the day Isaiah saw him high and lifted up. He is against sin. God hates sin. He condemns sin. And God judges sin just as much today as he ever did in the past. He ever will in the future. I think our church in America could use a good dose of teaching and preaching on the holiness of God. By the way, what's sin today, what was sin in 1920 is still sin in 2020. 24. God's right and wrong doesn't change. Well, preacher, we're in 2024. We have a different understanding of the family. We have a different understanding of sexuality. We have a different understanding of that. Listen, you can have whatever understanding you want, but there's a way that seems right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death And God's right and wrong, and God's holiness, and God's standards have not changed one bit. What was sin in the past is sin today, and will be sin tomorrow. God is unchanging from everlasting to everlasting. Thou art God. Doesn't change. He doesn't change. God's promises are unchanging. God's promises. What He promised us we can rest on. I think I mentioned this not too long ago in a message, but I've been thinking on this so much lately. When I went off to Bible college, my daddy would send me a letter every day. And I know I mentioned this recently, but please bear with me. And um at he would end the letter every week, every week of the year for 30 years or more. I got a letter from my daddy in the mail. And he would tell me what's going on, a few things, what he's doing. He'd sign off, and he always put this reference under his name. I mean every time, without fail. Philippians 1:6 Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. In other words, if you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, what God has started in your life, he will perform it till the day he comes back and we get raptured out of here. That promise doesn't change. He says in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That promise does not change. God's promises don't change. He says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You'll come in humility, acknowledge your sin before God, turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting what He did for you on that cross. It's buried, rose again, and you call on him in sincerity and faith, trusting him as your personal Savior. My Bible says God will save you, and that promise does not change. God is eternal. Always has been, always will be. We can't see him. We can't hear him. We can't feel him, but I'm telling you, he's right here with us right now, as real as you're sitting on that bench. And he always has been, he always will be. He's the same God that met with Moses up on Mount Sinai. He's the same God that spoke to Noah. He's the same God that formed the body of Adam and breathed into him the breath of life. It's the same God. Hasn't changed one bit. And he's here with us in our presence. He's unchanging. He's eternal. He always will be. You say, preacher, okay. So what does that mean for me? I put a few things down. I put number one, we ought to humble ourselves before this God. There is no room for pride standing before a God that is so infinitely beyond anything I am or understand, that always has been, always will be, never changes. I'm telling you we ought to humble ourselves before God. There's anything our churches and homes need, it's a good, a new dose of humility. Putting the Lord where he needs to be. On the throne of our lives, at the head of our homes. Number two, I put this down. Trust ourselves to this eternal, unchanging God. Just trust Him. I don't know what you're going through. I know what a few folks in the church are going through and praying. Pray together for different trials, things folks going through. I don't know what everybody's gone through, but I know this. We can trust an eternal and unchanging God with our troubles. We can bring him to him. He knows what tomorrow holds. He's created this world. He's the power. He hasn't changed. He can help us. He'll see us through. His promises haven't changed. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. These are promises of God. Promise. Number three, I put this down. Use our time wisely. Notice here, and I'm I'm going to end here in a moment, but notice here in Psalms 90. Look at verse 10. Look at verse 9. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three score years and ten. How many is that? Eighty years. Seventy years. If by reason of strength they be fourscore years, there's your 80. Yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. We are not eternal. God is. You and I are not from everlasting to everlasting. We have a certain amount of days here on this planet. We have a certain number of years to live our lives. And it is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. And it behooves us to be wise in our use of our time. And understand that I'm not going to live forever here on this planet, that I have a certain number of days, and I must use those days wisely. How awful it would be to waste my life and live for just pleasures and sensuality and for here and out. And then I die and stand before God and hear him say, Depart from me, I never knew you. As a Christian, to waste my life as a Christian, stand at the judgment seat of Christ, hear him say, uh uh hear him and not hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, and walk away ashamed. You follow what I'm trying to say? Let's invest our lives. Let's dedicate our lives to Christ. Let's invest our lives in that which is good and eternal. Moses said, teach us to number our days. And then I put this down. Let's seek biblical wisdom in the decisions we make and the actions we take. Let's seek God's will. Let the Lord lead us. Let the Lord direct us. Lloyd Douglas was the author of a best-selling book back in the 1940s. He wrote the book The Robe. It was made into a movie. It was a biblical fiction, historical fiction, of a Roman soldier involved in the crucifixion of Christ. It was a best-selling book. When he was in university, when he was a university student, he lived in a boarding house. Underneath him, in that boarding house, there were various rooms, different people lived in. On the room below him on the floor ground floor level was an elderly man. That man was a great musician in his day. Now he was bedridden and restricted to his apartment. He could never get up He was in a wheelchair. Every morning, Douglas, uh Lloyd Douglas would go down steps going out to classes. And they had a little ritual he and this elderly man would go through. Douglas would come down the steps and open the old man's door, and he would say this, Well, old man, what's the good news today? He said every day that old man would pick up a tuning fork. He was a musician. And he'd take that tuning fork and he'd tap it on the side of his wheelchair. Boom. It was middle C. And the old man would uh uh Douglas come down, what's the good news today? And he'd take out that tuning fork and he'd tap it on the side of his wheelchair, and he says, That's middle C It was Middle Sea yesterday. It'll be Middle Sea tomorrow. He said, now that lady that lives above me and across the hall, she is way off tune in her singing. And he said, the piano across the hall down here, the fellow playing piano, that piano's out of tune. But my tuning fork is Middle C. Was yesterday, it will be tomorrow. What that old man had discovered, that in a world that is constantly changing. In a world that is so unreliable, there is one constant in his life. There is something that does not change that little middle city. And I'm here to tell you, you and I have something better than a tuning fork that doesn't change. We have a God that doesn't change. And in a changing world, you and I have the reality of a constant, someone we can come to, who is always the same. Who always loves me just like he always did and always is able to help me, just like he always has been and always will be. God is unchanging and we can trust him With our lives, with our situations. The one unchanging constant in this old world Is the God that loves you and me and died for us is buried and rose again. Father, I ask you to help us. Help us to know you, the only true God. Help us to interact with you and develop that relationship with you, Lord. And Lord, we don't understand all you are, Lord. You're beyond our ability. But God, we rejoice in the fact that you are unchanging and you are eternal. We love you for that and we trust you. With heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I've trusted Christ as Savior. I have that relationship. But I need to develop that relationship with this unchanging God and walk with Him on a daily basis. Pray and read the Bible and interact with Him. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I really need to develop my relationship with the Lord like I should. God bless you. I tell you, that daily time alone with the Lord is so important. He helps us Maybe there's some here say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but I I know there's things in my life. I've drifted from when I got saved. I'm not where I should be spiritually. And I need to come back to this unchanging God, this rock that is stable, and come back to Him and get back in line with the Lord. Is there any like that, Preacher? I know. I drift spiritually. I need to come back. God bless you. Hands all around there. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven, and I don't want to go to hell. And you say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled I want to know that Jesus is my Savior, that my sins are forgiven, and I have a home in heaven. If there's any like that, say preacher, pray for me. I'd like to get that settled. Any at all, just slip your hand up. I'll pray. God will help you. How about it? Any at all? I need to get that settled. Now, Father in heaven, I ask you bless our invitation time. I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed