Luke chapter two. Nineteen sixty nine I was nine years old and uh an event took place in that year. I believe I could be wrong on this part of it. I believe if I remember correctly, it was in the summertime. But I'm not uh don't hold me to that. But in the year 1969, uh something took place that the whole world knew about, and the whole world was watching. Uh that was when uh for the first time in history man set foot on the moon. I remember um My parents waking me up, if I remember, it's ten, eleven o'clock at night. A nine-year-old boy, they woke us kids up, and they got us out and they had our old black and white TV. Anybody remember the old black and white TVs And a little fuzzy going across. And uh we watched on television uh man stay uh set foot on the moon and um people around the world watched that Every means of communication available to mankind at that time was used to announce this tremendous feat of mankind. And they have said, it's been said multiple times by many different people around the world that that was the greatest moment in the history of mankind is when man set foot on the moon I want to suggest to you tonight on this Christmas Eve there was a moment in the history of mankind that was far greater than man's putting his foot on the moon is when God became man and was born in Bethlehem. The birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. When God became man. That's what this is all about. The God, this infinite, this eternal, invisible, ever-present God, taking upon him the form of a man. Now think with me, when they looked at Jesus Christ, those shepherds, Mary held them, they were looking at this infinite God. That had chosen to become a person, a man. They were looking into the eyes of the creator of this Unbelievable universe. I suggest to you that's far greater than man putting his foot on the moon or any other planet. The interesting thing is, in many religions of the world, it's man trying to become God. The Mormons, they want to be God. Hindus, they want to obtain that deity. But biblical Christianity is unique from all other religions in that it's not us trying to become God, it's God becoming one of us. Amazing thing about it. Amazing thing. Now God could have announced the birth of Jesus Christ any number of ways. We can think of sensational ways that God could have announced the arrival of the Son of God in in human form. He could have had the stars of this night sky proclaim it He could have announced the birth of Jesus Christ in any number of ways to any number of people. I think it's interesting that night when Mary gave birth to this little infant God man 100% God, 100% man. When she gave birth to that little infant Jesus, Caesar. The ruler of the greatest empire at in the world at that time, perhaps the most powerful man, humanly speaking, in all the planet. He was sound asleep in his bed up in Rome. Not a peep. No angel showed up to tell him. He had no idea what was taking place in his empire that night. God completely bypassed Caesar. Never took time to stop and tell him about what was going on. Herod the Great, as he liked to be called, Six miles from the birth of Jesus Christ was his palace. God completely bypassed Herod The great Herod, sound asleep in his palace, not a word, had no idea that the Son of God had entered human existence. Right there almost under his shadow. Had no idea. God completely bypassed Herod, completely bypassed Caesar The great religious leaders, the Sanhedrin, the most influential religious people in that part of the world, completely bypassed. They had no clue That the God that they studied the scriptures of, those Hebrew, those Old Testament scriptures, they studied that. This God they claimed to know. He completely bypassed them Never mentioned to them at all what was taking place right there under their jurisdiction, the birth of Jesus Christ. Who did he show up to? He showed up To a handful of shepherds out in a field. Bypassed Caesar, bypassed Herod, bypassed the Sanhedrin, and went directly to a handful of shepherds. And told them what took place in a little lean to shelter on that first Christmas night. I think it's interesting. I don't know how Caesar would have responded If a bunch of angels would have showed up in his po in his palace there in Rome. I d I don't know how he would have responded I don't know how Herod would have responded. We know that later on, two years later, when he found out about Jesus Christ, he killed all the kids, two years and under. I don't know how the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the religious rulers, the Sanhedrin, I don't know how they would have responded if the angels had showed up in their synagogue or there at the temple and announced the arrival of Jesus Christ. We do know how they responded to Jesus later on when they got to know him. They tried killing him almost from day one But he showed up to a bunch of shepherds. And what I want to do is leave just for a few moments. I want us to consider how they responded. To the announcement that Jesus Christ was born. The first thing I noticed, if you have your Bible there, verse 17 and chapter 2 of Luke. The first thing I notice is they proclaimed this Savior. Look at verse 17. And when they had seen it Jesus laying in the manger, the babe in the manger, verse sixteen, when they had seen it, they made it known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child They proclaimed the fact that Jesus Christ had showed up. The Savior had arrived Now I want us to notice, and I'm just going to try and go through this quickly, I want us to notice when they proclaimed this message. When they had seen it right away, when they first got message about Jesus Christ, good heavens, they went out and told everybody right away. They wanted everybody to know, hey, the Savior has arrived. The Messiah is born. It's exciting to see a new believer when a new believer begins telling people about Jesus Christ right when they get saved. That's an exciting thing. I remember whack when I got saved, of course it was a Monday night. I remember Tuesday, I started telling these guys I worked with about Jesus Christ There's something down inside the heart of a believer when we get a hold of what Jesus Christ has done for us, when we get a hold of who Jesus is, something down inside us wants others to know about Jesus Christ. And these shepherds couldn't keep it to themselves. I mean the second they saw Jesus in that manger and they understood what these angels, this message was given to them, this is the Savior of the world. This is the only way to have sins forgiven. This is the only source of eternal life. This is the only hope of being and making it to heaven and escaping hell. This is the only way. They immediately want to go out and wanted everybody to know. They proclaimed the coming of the Savior. As soon as they found out about it, people have to know about this. It reminded me a little bit of the woman at the well. How many people are familiar with the woman at the well, John chapter 4? And she Jesus talks about the water of light And finally, she dawns on her what he's talking about, and she believes that he's the Christ, the coming Messiah And she gets saved, and the very first thing she does, I mean immediately, she puts down her water pots, and what's she do? She heads back into the city and tells everybody about Jesus Christ. It's what these shepherds did. They proclaimed the coming Messiah. They proclaimed that the Savior had arrived. They did it as soon as they uh got the message. Uh and then uh notice where they proclaimed it it says and when they had seen it they made known abroad made known abroad that word abroad has this idea everywhere Everywhere they could go, they told everyone about the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's exactly what the New Testament church did in the book of Acts. They went everywhere, preaching Christ. They went everywhere. And then I want us to notice what they proclaimed about Jesus Christ. It says they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. You know what they told everybody? They just told everybody what they knew to be true. They didn't have Bible college educations. They weren't uh in fact I was reading one um historian, he said these these shepherds probably could not even read. They probably wouldn't have even known the alphabet. These are just, you know, this is low level in society. But they have a message that all the world needed to hear. And they didn't know all about, no doubt they didn't know all the theology behind the the incarnation of Jesus Christ, but they knew something. They knew that the Son of God had arrived and he was the only hope of salvation. He was the Savior of the world. And everybody needed to know about that The message of Jesus Christ is so simple. The message of the gospel is so simple that an uneducated, illiterate shepherd can tell everybody about him. If they can do it, you and I can do it, yes or no? They didn't have gospel tracts, they didn't have video DVD presentations, all they had was what they knew to be true in their life, and they wanted others to know it. And every one of us can do that. I think the greatest gift we can give at Christmas is the gift of the gospel. Tell people how to be saved. Tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ. So the first thing they did when they saw the Savior is they responded to this message. They proclaimed what they know to be true. The second thing I notice very quickly is they pondered this matter of the Savior. Look at verse nineteen. Now this is Mary She gave birth to this child. She's remembering what all she was told when she conceived the child by the angel uh by uh Gabriel And she's here's the shepherds show up, they're telling them about the angels announcing this. This is overwhelming This is uh overload in the mind, what's happening. And look what it says in verse 19. But Mary kept all these things, and what's that next word? pondered them in their heart in her heart. I got looking up that word ponder. I don't know, what in the world does that mean? It simply means this. This is my definition. To put two and two together Anybody ever hear that little phrase? Put two and two together. In other words, figuring things out. The word itself means this. To mentally assemble my thoughts together. It means to dispute within my mind. In other words, this is what I think the Bible is telling us is going on in Mary's mind as she's sitting by this manger on this little lean-to shelter in this crowded city of Bethlehem outside, and she There thinking of what in the world, and she's gone through, can this be? And she has this discussion going on in her mind, and she's trying to sort out everything she's heard, and she's trying to put it all in place of what does this mean? What's the significance of this? And I want to suggest to you a good thing for you and I to do this Christmas is to stop and think about the significance of the Savior has come that we can be forgiven, that we can have a home in heaven. I suggest to you most people don't even think about Jesus Christ. He's just a name. He's just something we go to church and talk about. And they never stop and consider what does Jesus Christ mean to me personally? God becoming a man. God dying on a cross as man, dying on a cross, buried, rising up again, promising eternal life to all who just come and receive it. Stop and think about that. If Jesus is who the Bible says he is, and if Jesus did what the Bible says he did, then that must be taken seriously. If Jesus is the Son of God, if He's the only hope of eternal life, if heaven's real and hell's real, if those are true And Jesus is the only hope of escaping hell, going to heaven. If he's the only hope of having peace of heart and mind and forgiveness of sins, then we've got to take him seriously. Now, if he isn't what the Bible says, if this is just a fantasy story, then who cares Then who cares? But if it's true and I'm convinced it is, then that's the most important issue in life and it needs to be considered. This world is just out party crazy tonight. This whole world is taking a a Christian celebration to it in a sense. And they've taken it and run with it in their worldliness. But I'm saying to you, that name Jesus is the most precious name that has ever come off the lips of mankind, and he must be considered. Stop and think. Mary pondered these things in her heart. Nobody gets to heaven by dismissing Jesus Christ. No Christian has God's blessings on their life that does not take their relationship with Jesus Christ seriously. We've gotten so used to, we become so used to empty lives. We become so satisfied with just emptiness in hearts and souls. We fail to see what Jesus Christ can do for us and what is possible As far as purpose and meaning in life is. Mary pondered these things in her heart. She thought this through. What does this mean to me? What is this about? And then the last thing I noticed. Is they praised the Savior. Look at verse number 20. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. They returned. They went back to their fields. They went back to work, so to speak. They went back to their homes and back to their neighborhoods. They went back to their communities and wherever it was they lived and whatever associates they had and whatever friends they had, they went back to them and they started praising God. They lifted up the Lord. They went back and now they had a new purpose in life to glorify God. They had a new song in their heart to praise God. And tonight, and I know for us, we've heard this old, old story over and over a thousand times. But I'm here to tell you that old story that Jesus became man and gave himself for our sins to be a sacrifice in our place. buried and rose again and promises eternal life to whosoever will believe in him, it's still the greatest story ever told. And we must remember this is the beginning of all of it when Jesus Christ born in a manger. How did they respond? They responded by telling everybody needs to know about Jesus. Good heavens, everybody needs to know. We were down in Dominican and we give out some of the literature And uh in inevitably, every day I would say, almost without fail, we had people come back and say, can I get some more of those? I have some other people I want to give it to That's the attitude of the shepherds. Oh, other people need to know this. Other people. Listen, we're not the biggest congregation in Garrett County. We're not the richest church in Garrett County, and we don't have the fanciest facilities of uh in Garrett County, but I tell you what, nobody has a better message than we have. Jesus Christ And we need to proclaim that. We need to think about how does this affect my life? What about my values, my purpose in life? What's the significance of all this? We need to think all that through. Ponder that And then we need to start praising God. I think we shoot ourselves in the foot. We gripe and complain. We grouch and moan and groan. We act like God treats us terrible, and we act like uh we act like we don't have anything to praise God for. And I'm here to tell you Of all the people in this world, Christians ought to be the most praising, happy, rejoicing people of all. And maybe folks would be drawn to Christ You know what I found out? I'm not much of a gift wrapper. In fact, I hired Virginia to hire some gifts for me, to wrap some gifts for me. But you know what I found out Generally, people wrap their gifts in nice, pre uh beautiful wrapping and put a ribbon and they make that thing as attractive as it can be. It might be an old shoe in that box, but man, they wrap it up and make it look good Now, some ought just use newspaper. Everybody do that, wrap up with just old newspaper. I think we ought to wrap up our message with a praising heart and a rejoicing face. They proclaimed, they pondered, they praised. Let's do that this Christmas. Let's find someone to tell about Jesus. Let's stop and think about the significance of who Jesus is and his claim on my life when I trust him as Savior, and then let's just praise him. I want to offer this suggestion. And God's been doing this in my life the last several years. Just waking up in the morning with a song in my heart. Anyone know what I'm talking about? He said, I never had that. Why don't you ask the Lord, Lord, this coming year, put a song in my heart when I wake up in the morning. The other day I woke up with that old verse. Um, just I don't know, first thing in my mind I woke up, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. And I was singing that little chorus that goes with that And let's ask the Lord to put a song in our heart for Christmas. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now. That you would help us to ponder what this is all about. Thank God for family and we love the gifts and the food is wonderful. But Lord, you are the purpose. And you are our Lord, and you are our Savior. You are our God. And we want you to have our lives. We want you to have all of us. And use us and be glorified in our lives. I wonder on this Christmas Eve, maybe before we take part in Lord's Supper, maybe some Christians want to kneel at an old altar And just say, Lord, for Christmas, I give you my heart. I give you my life, my tongue, my hands. I want you to have me Maybe a maybe come and say, Lord, I need to make some things right on this Christmas Eve before I take part in Lord's Supper. But let's let the Lord have his way. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Just a