After this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. I want to look tonight, kind of began last week, but uh title message tonight is Our Pattern for Prayer. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Father, we look into your word We look at this particular passage, Father, and you're teaching us how to pray. And I ask that tonight, again, you would use your word and really teach us to pray. I pray that I would be uh I ask Lord that you would teach I pray you would help every person listening to me that they would be, that all of us would be praying Christians in the true biblical sense of prayer, from the teenagers and up through the senior citizens, all of us, would understand the importance and power of prayer and we would understand how to pray and that we would actually pray. So I yield myself to you, Lord, present my body anew and ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit And speak through me and teach us as you did the disciples so many years ago on the side of that mountain. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm going to do a little survey. What what uh actually I'll just ask some questions. What do you think is the most famous Bible verse in all the Bible? The most famous well-known verse in all the Bible. John 3. 16. Everybody agree with that? I think we all agree with that. How about let's set aside an individual verse. What passage of Scripture? Now think for a minute What passage of scripture, more than just one verse, passage, would you say is probably the most beloved, well-known passage of scripture in all the Bible? Psalm twenty-three. Is that what everybody said? Psalm twenty-three. There's no doubt, I believe, in anybody's mind. John three sixteen, I call it the golden verse of the Bible. Everywhere you go, anybody that's even remotely familiar with the Bible, they're familiar with John three sixteen. if they don't have it completely committed to memory. I'll I would guess a lot of us that was the first verse we memorized as a child, perhaps. Then Psalm 23, use it at funerals often It's one of the most beloved passages of scripture. For uh thousands of years, millions of people have found comfort and help from John uh from uh Psalm twenty three and uh Ben at Used of God in tremendous ways. Let's set that one aside. We got John 3. 16, we set that aside. Matthew 23, set that one aside. What other passage of scripture? What did I say? Matthew twenty-three, that one's pretty famous. Psalm twenty-three Uh, can you think of another passage of scripture that would be very well known, quoted by a lot of people uh often? Love the words of prayer. You guys looked at my notes. I think I was trying to think, I was looking at this, studying this, I thought, is this the most famous passage in Scripture? I thought, no, John 3. 16 is the most famous verse. Is this the most famous passage? I thought, nah, Psalm 23 has it beat out. But the Lord's Prayer is without a doubt extremely familiar uh to millions and millions of people. The Lord's Prayer is repeated millions of times all around the world. The Lord's Prayer is read and quoted at weddings I've seen it, I think I've done used it in weddings. It's quoted and read in at funerals. There's not necessarily connection between those two events But it's quoted at funerals. Sunday services. If you attend a particularly a formal type church, a lot of times they'll read and quote together the Lord's Prayer. On deathbeds. I've had people that had brief time to live and they wanted me to read or quote uh the Lord's Prayer before they die. And uh it's repeated millions of times. In fact, the Lord's Prayer is quoted so often by so many people, I think sometimes It gets to where we're just saying words. We're so familiar with it. We just read through it, and it almost becomes a sing-song type thing. How many people, as I was reading it, You can say, all right, I see that uh in my own mind as you're reading through there. It's just kind of something uh um uh uh our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Leave us not in temptation. Deliver us from evil. Forgive us our sins and go down here. I don't think I quoted it right. But in spite of the fact that it's so familiar, and a lot of times people, unsafe people, just rattle it off And it has little or no meaning. In spite of that fact, the Lord's Prayer is profound. Um, it contains some of the greatest Bible teaching. Of any passage of Scripture. In the Lord's Prayer, God is addressed, and he's addressed in such a way as who he is and what he's like. We learn a lot about God just from a few. statements in the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer deals with a subject of faith in God, trusting God. uh to meet my needs and help me. It has to deal with a huge part of life. A huge part of life. Forgiveness. By the way, if we don't understand the importance of forgiveness in life, we really don't understand a lot about life. is a huge part of life, particularly the Christian life. So it addresses forgiveness. It addresses God's holiness, God's fatherhood, God's power It addresses the subject of forgiveness. It addresses our purpose in life. And so the Lord's Prayer, even though it's very, very familiar and almost to the point that it is meaningless in some people's minds. Nevertheless, it is tremendously, tremendously significant. The Lord's Prayer contains 66 words. You can quote it in less than 60 seconds. And so it's not a large portion of scripture, but it is nevertheless very, very significant. The Lord in this passage, as we've been pointing out, particularly beginning in verse number five, And all the way down through verse 14 and 15 are actually tied in with this matter of prayer. He's teaching his disciples how to pray. He's teaching them how not to prayer. He's discipling his disciples. We have tried, we have made a deliberate effort in the last, I would say, ten years I have as a pastor, and I think we as a church, many of us, have made a deliberate effort to try and disciple new believers more thoroughly than we had in the past. We're trying very, very hard if somebody makes a profession of faith to try and get them in uh in some setting where we can go through a series of lessons on what Christianity is about, what it means to be saved, how to live the Christian life. And uh one of the subjects is prayer. And that's what the Lord is doing here. He's saying, Listen, you claim to be a follower of mine. You claim to be my disciple. Well, if that's the case, then when you pray. This is how you should pray. And he goes through and he talks about how we should pray and he addresses how we should not pray. Remember he pointed out that uh he pointed out that uh uh that we ought not to pray like the hypocrites. Just putting on a show. And then he goes through and he addresses how we should not pray like the heathen. And just rattling words off, repeating things. And so how to pray and how not to pray. We pointed out before that Jesus is the divine teacher on prayer. If anybody knows anything about how to pray and how not to pray, it'd be the Lord Jesus Christ. He is what I'm calling the final authority. When it comes to prayer. They'll have a huge section on prayer. You go on a sermon archive on one of the websites and different sermon archives, huge list of sermons on prayer And some of them are very helpful. And there's been great prayer warriors that have recorded things they've learned about prayer and their experiences. But I'm telling you, nobody holds a candle to the Lord Jesus Christ and authority of prayer. And so I'm glad the teens are up here. I really want the teens to sit up straight and listen carefully here. Don't don't sleep and uh at least not visibly and um kind of disguise it a little bit if you're going to to do that. So Jesus is the final authority on prayer. He's a perfect example of prayer. You can go and look at the Lord Jesus Christ and we can see how did he pray? And uh he's a great example. Now, the Jewish nation, he's talking to uh, you know, this is the book of Matthew, and so he's initially presenting himself as the Messiah to the Jews. They would eventually reject him for that But nevertheless, he's addressing the Jewish nation. And I'll tell you one thing about the Jewish nation. They had known at some point in time the power of prayer. They knew at some point in time, they knew what genuine prayer was. They had seen, as a nation, in years gone by before this point, they had seen God do some amazing things in answer to prayer. So when he's addressing prayer, they should have known what he was talking about and how this thing worked. They as a nation had seen God literally divide a sea in response to Moses' prayer. Now that's nothing to see that. That's a pretty powerful display of God's response to prayer. They had seen dead raised again In response to prophets' prayers. They knew what prayer was about. They knew, they should have, anyway, known the power of prayer. They had seen weather altered. A tremendous seven-year drought. And Elijah prays. And in direct response to his prayers, God sends rain. So, would you agree with me? Israel should have been familiar with what prayer could do. They should have been familiar with what prayer was all about. They had seen, and this especially appeals to me. They had seen God turn the hearts of hardened pagan kings and turn their hearts to be favorable to God's people. Nehemiah prayed. And uh Nehemiah built a wall and the Mexicans paid for it. I mean the Babylonians paid for it. They did, literally. I thought that was pretty good. That just came on the spot. But they knew They knew what God could do in answer to prayer. As a nation, they had seen it. But here's the sad thing. Oh, by the way, that idea of turning the hearts of the kings to be favorable to the people of God, that encourages me in praying for Kazakhstan. I there's no doubt in my mind, there is no doubt in my mind that God could turn the hearts of Nazarbih to be favorable to Christianity and open the doors for missionaries. to come in. I know it. You know there was a day in Japan where they said they thought there would never be Christian missionaries in Japan. After World War II, uh General MacArthur was crying out for mission Missionaries, send missionaries, the doors were wide open. So God, in answer to prayer, can turn a nation and open the door. So Israel knew all this. The nation of Israel knew what God could do in response to prayer. But here's the sad thing. It had so did their prayer life and their understanding of prayer had so deteriorated. That now for them prayer was just some formality they went through. It was just an empty religious ritual. And it had completely, in their experience and in their minds, and in their relationship with God, it had become so completely powerless that it was meaningless And so the Lord is addressing this. They had the Jews, they had, they could say a lot of prayers. They were good at saying prayers. They had some, no doubt, very beautiful oratorical prayers that they could say to God. In fact, they would do so, as we pointed out before, in order to impress people. With their tremendous prayers. I've had people say over the years, and uh they say something like this, oh Pastor, that was a beautiful prayer Now I appreciate that, but I'm not concerned about the beauty of my prayers. I'm more concerned about the effectiveness of my prayers And for the Jews, the prayer just become something of beautiful little speech that we say, but it was meaningless and it was powerless. They were very public in their prayers. But they did not pray. They said a lot of prayers. They said a lot of beautiful public prayers. But they were not praying. Alright, let's fast forward to 2016. It's a lot of prayers said in our world. A lot of people pray. In fact, given the right circumstances, even the most hardened unbeliever will pray in the right circumstances. We've heard them on the news. For the most part, the news mocks our faith. In fact, not for the most part, I don't know any news. anymore that doesn't mock our fate. Even some that have a even some news stations that have a reputation of being conservative, I was watching last evening, I was telling my wife, and they were absolutely mocking the idea that Christian Christians would be opposed to men going into ladies' bathrooms. And people who I thought were pretty much thought had the worldview I did on the news station, and here they were just ridiculing saying how ridiculous and how hateful we are because we're opposed to perversion. And I told Kathy, I said, you know what, we're kind of on our own. We have no allies in this world. But even folks like that, with that mindset, given the right circumstances, they will pray. You have a couple religious maniacs fly airplanes into towers and you have the most hardened unbelievers on public on national TV saying, we're praying for the victims Right? You've heard them. You get the most hardened unbeliever. You put him in a foxhole and bombs going off around him and bullets whizzing by his head. And you know what they're saying? Oh God, help me. And so there's a lot of prayers said even in our churches There are prayers said. In fact, one of the hallmarks of Chris of religion, one of the characteristics, chief characteristics of a religious person is that they pray. Every religion has prayer of some sort to some deity. I was in Boulder, I pulled this before, but we were living out in Boulder. I was, uh we didn't have track month then. We should have. But uh I was just going through there was a park there not far from the Bible time office and I was just I had a handful of tracts and I just was going to go over there and give out tracts to folks sitting in the park and it was going through there and everybody for the most part was nice. And uh there's a lady sitting on this rock in a kind of cross legged and sitting like this and facing the if you're in Boulder, there's big flat iron mountains where the the Rockies begin, just beautiful. She was facing that and kind of in a meditative type zone state I'm I'm just a knucklehead and I've got I say, Oh hey ma'am, can I leave a little gospel track with you? And she kind of came to and um I said a little gospel track and she goes, Oh, um, she goes, No, thank you. I said, Well, it just tells you from the Bible how you can know for sure you go to heaven, not to hell, get all your sins forgiven. And she says, No thanks, I'm a Wicca I I had no idea what a wicca was. I said, Oh, okay. Have a good day. And I walked off and I got thinking, when in the world's a wicca? I'd never heard of it before. So I come back. They make baskets. I didn't even think of that. Somebody's always stealing the show, you know? So anyway, I get down and I walked off a little bit and I got thinking, well, I'm gonna go ask her. So I went back and said, Excuse me, I don't mean to be rude, but I said I don't know what a Wicca is. What is a Wicca? She goes, you know, I'm a witch I said, really? And I don't know why I said this, it's just stupid. This that happens a lot. But uh I said, are you a good one or a bad one? You know, wizard of Oz and She goes, I'm neither. I'm just uh witch. I said, Well you're praying. I said, Well who do you pray to? And she says, Well, you know, the church Trees and the flat irons up there, these beautiful mountains, these ro and uh the mountains and the sky. I said, You pray to that? She goes, Yeah, that's part of my worship. And the point I'm trying to make here is every religion, no matter how far-fetched it may be, prays. There's a lot of prayers said But there's not much praying goes on. And if we look very carefully what the Lord teaches about prayer, I hate to say this, but I think sometimes even in our good, independent, fundamental, Bible-believing, independent Baptist churches. A lot of times we say prayers, but I wonder if we're really praying And so the Lord is discipling his disciples on this matter of prayer to sit down and say, listen, this is what prayer is. This is what prayer is all about. A lot of prayer said, but there's a little praying going on. Here's the question I want to ask us. As we looked at this, as we begin to look at this Lord's Prayer, here's the question I want to ask us. Are we saying prayers or are we praying? Am I just saying prayers in my prayer life or am I actually praying to God? And there is a difference Here we have the Lord says in verse 9. Now he told us the first previous four verses. He says four or five verses. He says, this is not, this is how you don't pray. And we already looked at them in depth. He goes, all right, here's how you should pray. After this manner, pray ye. Now I see three things in these three, four verses here. We're not going to look at all of them, we're just going to look at one. But I want to give you the my three thoughts from this passage, and it'll probably be a couple months till we get through here, because this is profound The first thing I notice here is the pattern for prayer given to us. Notice in verse 9, this is what we'll look at here in a minute. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. So he's given us a pattern. We'll look at that a little bit. Then we get down through here, and he gives us principles of prayer. And there's about, oh, one, two, three, four, five, six, six, maybe seven principles or ingredients In genuine prayer, according to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then the last point we're going to get to, and this will be down the road a little ways, is the perpetualness. This prayer is perennial. Now this is I'm going to show you how much I know about gardening. If you plant an annual, how long does it last? One year. If you plant something that's perennial, it what? Keeps coming. This prayer that the Lord and we'll look at this later on, but this prayer that the Lord is giving the disciples was not just made just for the disciples It's perennial. It's as applicable in 2016 as it was in 16. And so we'll look at that. It goes on. Alright, so I want to look tonight, and as quickly as we can, a little bit of time we have left, the pattern for prayer. He says, after this manner, therefore pray. Now it's interesting to notice, I'm getting a little ahead of myself on this, but it's interesting to notice, he doesn't say this: pray this prayer. He says, after this manner, pray ye. The word manner there has this idea after this pattern, after this fashion. This model. When uh when a car manufacturer is coming up with uh new cars, they'll have what they call concept cars. And they'll kind of work through them and they decide, all right, we're going to go with this. And then they'll make a model. And the rest of the cars are patterned after that model. They'll say, alright, this is how this is what the fender's going to be. That's what the Lord is saying. Saying, after this matter, here is a pattern for your prayer life. He doesn't say say these prayers He says this is a pattern. This is a uh if you work with um uh graphic layouts or anything on the computer, they'll have what's called a template. That's kind of just the framework, the skeleton of a letter or a layout, and then you come and you fill it in, but it's kind of a pattern, a model, a template, an example that you go by. So that's what he's saying the Lord's Prayer is here. By the way, he's giving this as an example. He says, here's an example of prayer. You after this way, the way I'm going to. That tells me something. This is just a little aside. Example is the best teacher. The Lord wants to teach something. He gives an example after this manner. I want to tell you: the best way to teach a new Christian how to live for Christ is to be an example of what that new Christian should do. Same thing with uh uh our young people. We want our young ladies to be good godly mothers. The best way to teach them to be a good godly mother is to be The example of what one is. How many folks the older you get you tend to look at your parents and kind of start patterning you see in your parents in you Yeah. Some of y'all that's scary. And so setting a pattern, that's what the Lord's doing here. He's giving a pattern. We ought to be, now listen, we're not in competition with anybody, but the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be example to other folks what Christians ought to be be like. It would be an example to one another. And so that's what the Lord is doing here. He's giving a sample. Now let me give you a few thoughts under this matter of the Lord's pattern for us praying. This Lord's Prayer is a pattern. Number one, I put this down. This is under that thought pattern. Number one, he gives a framework to prayer. a framework to prayer. In other words, you look at this Lord's prayer, you look at it carefully, there's clear structure here He obviously has, there's obviously some thought put into what he's going to say here. There's nothing wrong with spontaneous prayers I don't know about you, but I'm glad that I don't have to stop and think before I pray sometimes. Going through a stop sign there's an eighteen wheel or ninety miles an hour coming right at you, he's ran the red light. Uh Lord help me I'm glad I don't have to stop and say, all right, think about what you're going to say. All right. First point in prayer. No, I just say, Lord help me. If you're walking on water and you start sinking, you can cry out, Lord help me There wasn't much structure to Peter's prayer. There wasn't a lot of forethought in Peter's prayer. He just blurted it out, and God heard him and answered him. So thank God we can be very spontaneous in our prayers. But In our deliberate prayers, when we are going to, when prayer is a part of our life as the Lord expects it to be And prayer is part of my daily schedule. Prayer is part of my Christian life. Prayer is part of my daily living. I believe the Lord's suggesting here that our prayers should have some framework to them, some structure, some thought put into that And he goes down very clearly, he says, after this manner, after this pattern, and there's like I said, about six, seven different principles, clear areas here he touches on. And I believe the chronology of the prayer is significant. And we'll look at that. So there's some prayer here. So what am I saying? What I'm saying is this: as I study this, I find that genuine prayer is not just rambling on and on and on. Genuine prayer is not just saying prayers for the sake of saying stuff. Sometimes we hear people pray and it's like they don't know what to say, and they're just kind of saying stuff because they can't think of anything And they'll just kind of ramble on and they'll just kind of uh speak simply for the sake of speaking to God, and they're not really saying anything, and they're not really asking for anything I must give thought to my prayers. I must think about the fact that I am approaching God. Now I have what I feel is a tremendous little outline. To help us in prayers. We shared it down at the Men's Mountain Getaway. It's been such a tremendous help to me for thirty years almost now. And uh maybe we'll take a time sometime in this little series and go over that. And I think I tell you, if I was going to go in before the governor of Maryland and make some requests for the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church out here, I would want to think that through. All right, what exactly do I want to ask them? How do I want to go about that? And we're approaching the God of the universe And I think we need to give a little bit of thought to it. So I see here there's framework to this prayer. Give some thought to what I'm asking God. Give some thought to my approach to God. My wife and I pray in the evening before we go to bed together. And uh we pretty much know what we're going to say. We pretty much know what our requests are. We pretty much know what our reproach is to God. We don't just get on our knees and just start rambling on now God, you're just amazing, and God, uh, you know, thank you for everything and just bless everybody. That's meaningless And so there's real structure here. So framework is the first thought. Second thought, uh, under this idea that there's a pattern, he's given us a pattern. He shows us there's some framework involved. Now this one I'm going to have to explain my thought behind this statement, but I notice this is a fluid prayer. Has some framework to it, it's structure, but it's fluid. In other words, what I mean by that is this: this prayer is not designed to simply be repeated verbatim I mentioned this several times, but it's very clear. He doesn't say pray when you pray, pray this prayer. Because when you pray, after this manner. This prayer is not intended to simply be repeated verbatim. It's like the Lord is saying, this is kind of the way you pray. This is a type to pray. It doesn't say pray this prayer. Take your Bible, if you would. In Luke chapter 11, he gives the Lord's Prayer also again And in Luke chapter 11, it's a whole different setting. Luke chapter 11 is not Luke's account of the Sermon on the Mount. This is a whole different setting. And in Luke chapter eleven and verse number one, it says it came to pass that as he was praying, are you there, everybody there? Luke 11, 1 to find And it came to pass, as he was praying, the Lord Jesus, in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. As John also taught his disciples. Hey, that's a good request, huh? By the Lord Jesus Christ right there, one of the things I would ask him, the Lord, teach me to pray. Well, that's what he's doing Now notice very carefully what he tells them to do. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, our, now look at this, here's the Lord's Prayer, our Father which art in heaven Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Do you notice anything between that account and Matthew chapter 6? Yeah, he tells them to say that there, but there's something else I want us to notice. The words are different. It's basically the same prayer, but it's not a verbatim repeat of what he gave in Matthew chapter 6. There's variation in how it's worded. And that's just what I notice from that. He does not intend for the Lord's Prayer to be a prayer just repeated verbatim. This is not something that is simply get up and be quoted and considered a prayer. It's not intended to be a form of quote-unquote prayer. I look through the Bible very carefully. I never find Jesus reading a prayer anywhere. I don't ever find Jesus repeating a specific prayer over and over. I looked at the disciples. Nowhere do you ever find the disciples just repeating some prayer over and over and over. Through the New Testament, look at the book of Acts. Every one of their prayers is very personal, is very individual. Nowhere do you find them repeating a form prayer. I look back at the Old Testament prophets. There was no prayer that they had that, all right, at this time we say the Lord's Prayer. We all say it together. You don't find that anywhere. Now question, is that necessarily wrong? I don't think it's necessarily wrong any any more than it's wrong to quote Psalm 23 together sometimes. Or to quote another passage of scripture together. I don't think it's wrong in and of itself, but we must not think that because I'm quoting this passage of scripture Scripture that somehow makes it a prayer, that somehow makes it more acceptable to God. That is not the intention of the Lord's Prayer. In fact, I consider the Lord's Prayer a misnamed title for this. It should be the Lord's model prayer. So I uh what I mean by fluid is it's not intended to be a very strict verbatim, word for word, quoting this to God. That's not what's intended. It's a pattern, it's a skeleton, it's a framework, and I can add it and modify and add to or take away or change what I want within that framework. I believe that's what he's saying. So it's not necessarily wrong just to repeat it. But it's not a and by the way, this is my opinion, so for whatever it's worth, I'm afraid if we are just Repeating from memory the Lord's Prayer, I'm afraid most cases we're probably not really praying. We're probably just saying words. I I say this often, and I'm not trying to set this up, but you you know, you you you do what you feel like Lord have you do. But we never taught our children to say God is great and God is good and everything, or say some sort of poem prayer. Now I'm not against it. I'm not against if you did that or do that. But what I am saying is we need a teacher Teach people to pray and not quote poems and quote verses, but pray And so, number one, it's a framework here. There's a little thought put into this, obviously. I think this is interesting. It's overwhelmingly obvious, so I didn't say much about it, but uh he actually uses words to pray You know, he's saying things to God. It's not, and this is becoming more and more of an issue. Prayer is not some meditative state I'm in. What are you doing? What are you doing? Praying? No, you're not. You're humming with your eyes closed. Prayer is actually saying things to God using words. So there's framework to it. It's fluid. And the last one I want us to notice here is it's first hand. Look with me, come back to chapter six there, and look with me at verse nine. After this manner, therefore, pray ye He's putting it on an individual basis. Prayer is intensely personal. Every individual Christian has a direct line to God Almighty. He says, here's a pattern. After this manner, pray ye. You yourself. Go to God yourself. And you pray. Here's the model, here's the pattern follow, but you do it. Now, if you agree with me, it's good to pray for each other. Sure. In fact, the Bible teaches that. Paul asks churches to pray for him all the time. But I should never be dependent on the prayers of others. I need to get to the point in my Christian life where I can get a hold of God myself. I got news for you. Your preacher has no more access to God than you have. And the Pope certainly doesn't. And so the Lord says, pray ye, every single person listening to me, if you're saved, you ought to have your own established, effective prayer life. Every Christian that's been saved any length of time ought to be very, very comfortable coming to God and praying to God. It ought not to be awkward. It ought not to be uncomfortable. It ought not to be strange. A Christian praying to God should be as normal as breathing air. Pray ye. You, not the priest praying for you. Not somebody else praying for you, but you coming to God. Prayer is intensely personal. As a child of God. How many folks here tonight you're saved and you know it? Every single one of us had the exact same access to God as anyone else. Um the newest Christian, we had a young lady was baptized, was it last Sunday? Sunday before, two weeks ago. She has as much access to God to some of y'all folks been saved sixty years A little buskid comes in and gets saved, doesn't know five verses in the Bible, has as much access to God as a person that can quote the whole book of Revelation. Pray ye, ye yourself. Turn with me if you would, and we're going to end with this. Galatians chapter 3. Galatians chapter 3 makes a tremendous statement here, and it's important for us to understand this. So this prayer is not some form prayer to be repeated. Nothing wrong with that in and of itself, but don't the don't that's not what its intention is. That's not what it was given for. And it's intensely personal. It's firsthand, individual going directly to God, not somebody else saying this for me. Galatians chapter 3, look with me at verse 26. For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. How many people say, yep, I believe that? Amen. The moment I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born in the family of God, I'm a child of God. What a wonderful privilege. Now look what he says. For as many Jew as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. Now look at verse 28. Here's where we're getting to. Therefore, or there is neither Jew nor Greek There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. Now what does he say? Does he say is he saying we lose our nationality? Is therefore Jew nor Greek? No, he's not saying we don't lose our nationality There's neither bond nor free. See, Sam, we lose our economic standing when we're there, well everybody, you know, we vote for Bernie Sanders and we'll all share the wealth. We'll all be exactly the same wealth Is that what he's saying? No. Some people are going to be bound for the various things. Some are going to be free. Some are Jews. Some are Gentiles. He says there is neither male nor female. Does that mean when we're all transgender? God have mercy. I just did I I mentioned I can't believe this. If it wasn't so tragic, it would be hilarious. Is he saying that, oh well, you're not a male and you're not a female, we're all just some in-between something? No. God creates some male, God creates some female. He's not saying we don't have our roles. He doesn't say we don't have our identities. The only people that don't know their identity are people who don't know God. He's not saying we lose our identity or we lose our nationality or we lose our economic status. What he's saying here is this Yes is that every single one of us, whether I'm a Jew or a Greek, whether I'm rich or poor, whether I'm male or female, I have the exact same access to God as a child of God. And the poorest person in Garrett County that knows Jesus Christ has as much access to God as the richest person in Garrett County that knows Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Abraham was one of, if not the richest man in his time frame, in his area, and his servants had as much access to Jehovah as Abraham had. The little maid, Naaman's maid, had as much access to God as Elijah did. And so what I'm saying is this: the Lord says, Pray ye. You as an individual need to learn to pray. You as an individual need to establish a solid, effective, consistent, genuine prayer life. Now here's the pattern. Here's an example. This is something to go by. This is something to follow. And where Lord will, and I'm excited about this, but in the next few months, we're We're going to look at this pattern of prayer. And I'm asking God to revive and transform my prayer life that I can learn from this and incorporate into my walk with God and see God do some great things Things. Amen? I love this story. I wasn't going to say it, but I love this. I s I saw this firsthand. Jimmy uh Nina McRoby. What a precious lady she was. Old Jimmy, I think I told this recently, her husband Jim, I should say. Hated preachers, hated church She said, Preacher, I think I I told you this many times, but she said, Preacher we when I first came, will you go visit my husband Jim? I said sure I'd be glad to try and win him the Lord. I said sure, I'd love to. She goes, Yeah he hates you. I can't wait. She goes, well he'll probably cuss you out. So in so many words. She said he'll probably cuss you out. He won't invite you in, he'll get mad you came by. But would you at least try I said, all right, so I went by and guess what happened? Exactly the way she said. He got me out, got mad, and told me not to come around anymore Well Jimmy, make a long story short, Jimmy got cirrhosis of the liver. Jim got cirrhosis of the liver. They were going to do a transplant. They were doing some tests, putting a stint in They inadvertently punctured his liver and the cancer got out spread throughout his body. They said there's nothing we can do. They took him up to Pittsburgh during this process. At some point. In the meantime, before all that happened, when he found out he had psoriasis, he didn't have a long time to live, I think it was right after the puncture or whatever, old Jim got saved. I mean, he got saved. Our sound system, uh, cordless, he bought all that because he wanted to record the messages and hear my messages. I'd come by and read the Bible, he would cry and Thank me for coming by and read the Bible. Five years earlier he was cussing me out for coming to the door. Don Williams and him were friends years ago. Don went, I told him, I said, Jim got saved. He says no way I said, no, really, I think you really got saved. He goes, I'll see. You know, all right, go ahead. He came back and said, the old boy got it. Jim was up in Pittsburgh and um later on I found this out about two o'clock in the morning he w he got scared. And he said, I need Pastor to come by and visit me. And they said, Well who is he? Where is he at? Give us a number. And they they said, Good night. That's three hours away, two and a half, three hours away. It's two o'clock in the morning. It'd be daylight until he got up here. He goes I I need them they said, What do you need him for? He says, Well I need him to come and pray. I'm scared. I said, Well, we can't and they never did call me, I never heard from them. But Jim told me this later. He says, You know what? I was laying there so scared I want I need you to come and pray for me. He goes, then I realize something. I can pray myself. And he says, I prayed to God to help me Help me not be afraid. He learned a profound truth that you and I take for granted. That I can go directly to God. And that's what the Lord's saying. Pray ye, you. Go directly to God. You say, yeah, but I'm not much. But in Christ, you're a child of God. You can go directly to God. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray for a revival of prayer. Teach us to pray. Lord, transform our prayer life that it's effective and we see answers and we know that you hear us and you're responding. Lord, our hearts are heavy. We have some requests and burdens that we need you, God, to respond to. We have needs, God, we need you to meet them. We have friends and family who are lost, and we need you to save them, God, and I pray that you would teach us to pray as you instruct us so that our prayers can be effective. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many join with me in praying that God would transform our prayer life and make it what it needs to be so it's not so anemic and it's just saying words, but it's real and it's alive and it's It's powerful. How many people you're you join with me in praying for that? That's my request as we get into this portion of scripture.