Well, good evening. Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter sixteen. Luke chapter 16. Great to be at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church again. You uh you have some problems in the church, I know that. I had uh a number of people shake hands and say, boy, you just look the same you've always looked. Uh you got some blind people or some liars, one of the two, but you got There just ain't no way that that's true. I know it may surprise you, but June and I are two years older than we were two years ago when we were here. But it's uh you might you might as well have fun getting old. You're gonna go get there anyway, right? And it it is really entertaining. I tell you y the older you get, the dumber you get. And things you do. I'm not maybe some of you can relate to me, but don't don't you know that some of you have gray hair? Don't you just do some dumb things that you hope nobody finds out about and you sh you're not gonna share with anybody. But it's entertaining. June and I, we just entertain each other. We just we're always looking for something. One of us lost. Or um uh we were in a meeting up in Pennsylvania a while back and uh we got home from a service one night, got in a motel And June started taking her earrings off and putting them away and she said, Oh man, said I lost one of my earrings. I only have one on. And so we started looking, man, we looked every place and Of course, around the hotel. We didn't know if she'd lost it at church or what, but then we we just gave up. She started putting the one that she was wearing away and she said, Oh So there's the other one. Said I just wore one to church. That's just normal stuff now. I mean that's just In that same meeting, we were going to the church and eating at the church like we do here before the service each evening. And uh these cars today, they don't build them for older people. Huh? They have more, they have too many gadgets on them. I got a I get mixed up with those gadgets. Mine's a mine is a 2008, so it's what eight years old. But it's got more gadgets. I don't have to do anything but have the key in my pocket. I can get in it and start it and open the trunk and So we got we drove church one night and uh before the service going to the meal and we we both carry a set of keys for obvious reasons. We always make sure we have two sets of keys And June got out of the car and headed toward the place where we were going to eat. And uh I got out, closed the door, pushed the button, you know, you you get used to that sound. the when the door locks and I pushed it and I didn't get that sound. And I pushed it and pushed it and finally I hollered June. I said, Hey June, I said, do you did you leave your keys in the car? The door won't lock She walked back over there and said, Well no wonder the engine's still running. That is normal stuff. That's uh that is not and uh Uh some of you younger folks laugh at that, but you might as well listen and look forward to it because it's it is a coming. But uh it's great to be here. June and I enjoy Growing older together and serving the Lord together and traveling together. We will celebrate on June 28th this year, we'll celebrate 59 years. And uh we are looking forward to finishing well, God willing. Well, not his God's grace, I know he's willing. Luke chapter sixteen. Let's look at this for a few minutes tonight This is the portion of Scripture that talks about the unjust steward. And I want to, we're familiar with it, so I want us just to work our way through it and take a look at uh some thoughts from this section tonight. So let's pray. God, we thank you for the Bible. Thank you that we can meet together tonight and open the Bible. And know that you are going to speak to us. Holy Spirit, we thank you for your presence, for giving us understanding. Thank you for the fact that we can uh we can know your presence because you live within us. We thank you for this church. God, we ask that you would bless, bless the faithfulness of these folks. For these many years on this hill and just the way you have used these folks in a very special way. Now we ask you to give us a good time together tonight. We ask that you would honor the presence of each one. Give us something tonight that would benefit us greatly in our relationship with you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Look at verse one. The Bible says that he said also unto his disciples. Now get the picture. Jesus is discipling his apostles. That's what he spent three, three and a half years doing. He uh saw them come to Christ, brought some of them to Christ, and he began to prepare them For the time when he would ascend back to heaven and they would continue to do what he had begun to do. We see that in Acts chapter 1. And so I want you to picture him dealing with his disciples. And many times he dealt with them, of course, about specific themes. Teaching them, think about this, teaching them what he knew they needed And that's the same thing he does with you and me. Huh? He attempts to teach us what he knows we need. Right. And this is one of those times. He is zeroing in on these men with a specific theme in mind, something they need to understand at this point. At this place in their Christian life. So he said unto his disciples. There was a certain rich man which had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. Now, what's a steward? How many of you are saved? Okay, you are a steward You don't need to choose to become a steward, you are a steward. You don't need to decide if you're going to be a steward, you are a steward. The word steward is one description of a Christian. Every Christian is a steward. What is a steward? A steward is a manager of something that belongs to someone else. How many of you tonight know that everything you are and everything you have belongs to God? Huh? You and I are managers of something that belongs to someone else. belongs to God. Years ago, uh I worked before before ministry I worked as a in management and manufacturing and uh one place I worked uh for a company, General Cable Corporation I was a department manager. The department I worked in, we called the extrusion department. It was the last process on the cable before it went into testing and out the door And uh we did cable from single strand uh telephone cable all the way to 10,000 volt power cable, large stuff. And uh I would go into my department in the mornings, and when I went in, I did not go in and gather those men together around those machines and say, okay, fellas, let's decide what we're going to do today. We've got these machines, we've got this material, we've got this cable. Uh let's just uh do this or do that or do the other. No, when I went in each morning, I had a stack of papers. And they were lined up in order that they were to be run. And my responsibility was to look at that paper. Identify that cable, the dimensions, the covering that would go on it, vinyl, polyethylene, whatever. And my responsibility to us to run it and have a finished product according to the specs on that paper. I did not decide. I followed orders. The machines did not belong to me. The cable did not belong to me. The materials did not belong to me The time I spent in that department did not belong to me. All of it belonged to that company. My responsibility was to manage that department. For that company, the way they told me they wanted it managed. That's what a steward is. You and I, as a Christian, we are a steward. God owns it all. Amen. We just manage it. But boy, we like to manage it the way we want to manage it. Guilty? We're all made out of the same stuff. And one of the great lessons you and I need to learn Is that it belongs to God. I don't mean just up here. I mean here. We need to learn that everything we are and everything we have is God's And we have no right to make any decision on how we're going to use it The right we have is the right to go to an open door to God and to find out how he wants it managed. That's what a steward is. And he's taking these men, these men that are saved, these men he's preparing, these men that he's discipling. These men he's going to leave the total responsibility to. He is teaching them at this point about what it means to be a steward, and he's teaching them that by telling them a story. We all like to hear people tell stories. Some stories are just captivating. And can you see those men sitting there? Jesus, the master storyteller. the master parable teller. And so he's telling them a story to teach them the truth about being a good steward. And so he says there was a man, a rich man, and he had a steward. He had a man that he left the responsibility of all his goods to. A man that was to take care of everything he owned. But it says that this steward wasted His goods. He wasted his goods. That word wasted has the thought of that he was using them to benefit himself, not his master. That's simply what it means. Doesn't mean he just threw it away or something. He just made his own choices, did his own thing. He did what he did to benefit himself, not his master. So verse 2, and he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer steward. Now I'm going to tell you something. That is a rough time. Have you ever gotten a pink slip? Have you ever been laid off of a job? Boy, that is an empty feeling. I've been there. And he comes to this steward. He's been giving orders. He's been telling men what to do. He's been He's been doing what he wanted, and all of a sudden he's told, you're fired. You can no longer be steward Well, we'll start a turning. Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig. To beg, I am ashamed. So he says so Jesus says to these men, he said, this guy uh started thinking about what he could do and couldn't do and and how he was going to now make a living for himself and how how and and I'm sure also he's thinking, how am I going to cover this thing to keep my reputation Man, I'm going to be looked at as a crook and uh and how am I going to get through the uh cover this thing up? So he called every one of his Lord's debtors unto him And said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my Lord? And he said, An hundred measures of oil And he said unto him, take thy bill, sit down quickly, and write 50. Let's just cut that thing in half. You just give me half. And he said, then said he to another, and how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, take thy bill and write four score. That's just got twenty percent. Now he goes to these men that have been doing business uh with him and his lord's business and he starts making deals with them. Now what's he doing? A couple things here that he's probably doing. Number one, he's trying to obligate them to himself. He's trying to get them to to the place that they owe him something. But also, it's possible that he's trying to get them to make a deal so he can blackmail them. Because if they make this deal with him, then he's going to be able to tell them, hey, you do it my way or I'll spill the beans on you. You're as guilty in this thing as I am And so Jesus is telling this story. Can you see his disciples? His disciples are sitting there and he's telling them this story about this steward and About what he did and how he acted and the plan he put together. And then notice what he says in verse 8. And the Lord commended the unjust steward. Because he had done wisely. For the children of this world are in this generation wiser than the children of light. Now, here's what he's saying there, because it sounds a little strange. Notice the beginning. It says, and the Lord commended the unjust steward. You know, that's that's sort of like a paradox there. Commending the unjust steward, the wicked steward. So we know he's not commending him because he approves of him. So don't Don't don't wonder, well, why would he say that? Why would he commend this guy for doing what he did? No, he's commending him for what he did. In his situation. Business-wise, think about this. Business-wise, he did wisely. Business-wise, he did what he did to take care of himself. That's what he's commending him for. But then he says this look, for the children of this world are in their generation. Wiser than the children of light. Why is he commending it? Now he's talking to his disciples. He said, I want you guys to realize why this man was commended. He's commended because those in this generation, the lost people They are wiser in the way they use what they have than the child of God. You look at uh think about this election, and uh the millions and millions of dollars that that one candidate will raise Just to try to win the primary. Imagine the millions and millions and millions of dollars that will be spent Just through the primary, before we even get to the general election. But you know what he's saying? He's saying, listen, those people are wiser than Christians. Because what they do with what they have is what they believe is right, and they do what is right in their own eyes. Because they do not have God within them to tell them or to convict them or to lead them. But they are wise in what they do with what they have. And they're wiser than the Christian because the Christian does not use what we have the way we should use it. That's what he's saying. Now he does something here. Louis said, verse nine, and I say unto you He has told me stories. Got those apostles there, and he goes through this story and he gives them that explosion in verse 8, that matter of, you know, they had to be sitting there with their minds just rolling trying to figure this out, how in the world can he say that the world is wiser and what the way they use what they have than than we are and the way we use what we have. How can he say that? And then all of a sudden he goes from the story and he looks at him and he said, now let me tell you Let me show you. This is what I want you to see. And he takes it from the story and puts it right between their eyes. Because he's told the story. Jesus does not tell a story for a story's sake. He tells a story to get the point across. He tells a story to teach the lesson. And notice what he says to them And I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness. That when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations. Now here basically what he's saying. He's saying, listen, here's what I want you to see. Because you're a Christian, and you need to be wise in the way you use what you have. And here's one way I want you to use it. I want you to use what you have to make friends of others. Now right away that's sort of against our brain because we we think, well, you know I don't want to buy people's friendship, right? Isn't that the way we think? I don't want to buy people. But that's exactly what he's saying. He's saying you need to learn to use what I give you to make friends with other people. In other words, what he's saying here, you need to learn to use what I've given you to influence the lives of others. Man, what a missions thought. Huh? What a missions message. And and one principle, when you think of faith promise giving, you go you go to Second Corinthians eight and verse fourteen And in that verse you'll find that one principle that he gives us is this thought. Sometimes God gives us something that's not for us, it's for somebody else. And he's saying, as a steward, as a manager of what I give you. You need to recognize that sometimes I give you something that's not for you. I give it to you and it belongs to somebody else. And if you'll listen to me If you'll not be so selfish and greedy, if you'll not try to save, if you'll let me tell you what to do, I'll show you how to invest it in the lives of others. Do you know do you know what you do in this church and with your Faith Promise Missions program? You make friends all over the world. You have a reputation. Now you're here every Sunday and every Wednesday and you know each other and you sort of get used to each other and And you just get used to what goes on around here, but you have a reputation around the world. There are missionaries. That are friends of yours because of what you've let God do through you with them. And they talk about you to their people. And there are people that'll never see you until you get to heaven. Never come to the United States, but they hear about you and they know about you. And that's what he's saying. And he's saying it Based on what he's already said, the world's wiser in the way they use what they have than the Christian is the way they use what they have. Now the reason he's saying that is he's saying it because the Christian does not listen to God, for the most part. The Christian does not use, the Christian is not a good manager of God's business. And then he goes to a second thing. Look at verse 10. Verses 10 through 12. He that is faithful in that which is least. That word faithful there has the word uh uh has the thought of to be trustworthy, to be truthful. He that is faithful in that which is least. Are we trustworthy? Hey, let me ask you tonight. Can God trust you with what he gives you? Huh? Can he really trust you with what he gives you? Well, that's an awesome thought, isn't it? Huh? We want God to trust us, but the bottom line is what we do with what God gives us. Boy, thank God for grace, huh? Thank God for mercy. He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. You ever hear somebody say, uh boy, if I had a million dollars, I would. Hey, w if we'll not do it when we have five dollars, we're not gonna do it when we have a million. That's what he's saying there. We can fantasize all we want to about what we would do with big bucks. Uh we need to be faithful with what we have, what God's given us. And that's what he says. He says, you need to understand, if you're not faithful in the least, you're not going to be faithful in much. And he that is unjust, wicked, unrighteous, treacherous, that's what the word means there. He that is unjust in the least is unjust in much. Now think about that. What has God given you? What has God given me tonight? What do we have? Think about the life you have. Think about the family you have. Think about the time you have. 24 hours every day. Think about the eye gate. Think about the ears. Think about the material possessions. Home, land, job, the money, the food, the kind of all that God gives us Are we faithful? Are we unjust Are we trustworthy? In other words, God gives us everything we have for a purpose. Do you know why you have what you have? You have what you have from God to fulfill the plan that He has for you. That's why different people have different stuff, different amounts, because God has different plans, different purposes for life. And so he gives each one of us what we have, and he says, Listen, I'm giving you this. Now it's not yours, you're just a manager. It's mine. I won't tell you what to do with it. And he said, now if you're not going to be faithful in the little bit I give you, don't don't cry about not having more. Dr. Lee Robertson. Uh he used to fo people used to come in and sit down with him and if anybody came in to him And shared, I'm going through this financial difficulty. The first thing he's asked, do you tithe? If they did not tithe, it was over right there. He didn't he wouldn't even talk with them anymore. Come back when you start tithing, and we'll talk about it. Because see God says if you give, he'll take care of you. That's right. Uh huh. That's right. So now verse eleven, we need to get through this. Verse 11, he says, If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? Now we know what the unrighteous mammon is. We know that's just the money, it's just the things we have. Uh now I don't really know, maybe you know, I don't know what all's involved in those true riches. Now I know what would be true riches for me personally. I can uh I can know the things that I value. as true riches. You know, I I think I think having uh you know every day I thank God for his presence in my life. Boy, think about that, just having God. Huh? I mean just having God, just you remember when you didn't have God? You could just do all kinds of terrible things and never bothered you. Boy, now you can't even say a bad thing to somebody or a bad thing about somebody without God saying, Whoop We don't do that. And it's good to have God, isn't it? Just imagine being able to lay your head on your pill at night and not have to worry about going to hell if you don't wake up in the morning. Huh? Man, there's some true riches. It's one thing to have 'em, it's another thing to enjoy 'em. And he says, Listen, as a steward, as a manager, uh if you don't if you don't use the unrighteous mammoth, if you don't respect that, if you don't take care of that, how do you expect me to give you the true righteousness? How do you expect me to let you enjoy all that you have available to you as a Christian? How do you expect me to let you enjoy it? If you treat me like you treat me with the unrighteous mammon, huh? See, that's a that's I'm just trying to explain what he's saying to them about a manager. He's trying to tell them how to be a good manager, a good steward. Then he says And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? So he's saying to them, now he's talking to his apostles. He said, listen, fellas, you're a steward. None of this is yours. Gold belongs to me. You're just the manager. You need to wake up every morning and pick up the paper and look at what I have planned for you today and do it my way, not yours. I think it would benefit all of us if we learned that lesson in a greater way. Amen? That we really honestly woke up in the morning and built a relationship with God on the basis that God, I have no idea what you want me to do today, and the only way I'm gonna know is you tell me. You tell me how to use everything I have, you tell me how to live my life, you tell me how to act. And then when I don't do it the way you want to, help me to listen when you tell me I didn't. And help me to be the manager you want me to be. And then he tells them one last thing here, verse 13. That familiar verse. No steward can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and leave the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Now here here's what I I b I think he's basically saying there. I'm sure some other stuff, but here's here's what I get from that. You cannot separate the everyday activity and the spiritual As a Christian, you can't do it. Huh? As a Christian, every day and all of every day Is spiritual for the Christian. Amen. There's never a time that we punch out on God and say, okay, I'm going to take this next hour for myself. It all belongs to God. And he said it's either me or it's you. And all this stuff that I've given you. I've blessed you. I've taken care of you. I've provided for you. And you forget me and just make what I've given you your God. And you can't do that. There's not a person sitting here tonight that wants to serve the unrighteous mammen and not God. Every one of us What what we need to do tonight is determine I'm going to I'm going to try to learn this better. I'm going to try to become more familiar with this. I'm going to become more aware. Of my position as a steward and my responsibility, because all of us face the battle. All of us fall. But the thrilling thing about it, all of us as Christians have have the opportunity to learn. To be a good steward. Amen? We have the opportunity to learn to set aside that activity of an unjust steward And become active as a good steward. And this week is a great learning ground. Missions conferences are great. These are great principles for missions. Amen. God, show me how to manage what you've given me. As I look at the command you've given me to go into all the world. And help me through my church to become a great faithful manager in the matter of missions. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight will say, preacher, if I know my heart, that's what I want to be. That's really what I would like to learn. And I would like to be, would you pray with me or pray for me that God would use this week to help me ponder this thought and Grow in this thought. Would you sweep your hand up all over the building? Pray for me. God bless you, yes. Let's stand as we pray. Maybe you want to slip out of your place tonight. Get along with God. Say, God, that's what I want. Help me. Help me just to become a good manager. Teach me. Convict me. Make me. Father, I pray for these that raise their hands, others that desire to do so. I pray that you would bless this invitation tonight as we do business with you. God help us to be better stewards, better managers of your business. As a penis place, would you slip out of your place and come? Do business with God as He spoke into your heart. God, that's what I want. I want to grow in that. I want to learn. I want to be the manager you want me to be. Maybe some husbands and wives need to come. Young people need to come. Maybe this week God will reach down and touch your heart and say, I want your life. It's his. It's his. The most fulfilling life you can have is to give it to him. Here am I. Do what you want. Here's my life. You come as God speaks to your heart.