Well amen. It's a blessing to be here. And I I don't know if that's true about one of my daughters talking Europe. I think all of them will. You give them a chance. But uh we're excited about being here. Um and I am so thankful to you guys that ordered the warmer weather for us while we're here. Very considerate We appreciate that. And we are loving it up here. We love being a little bit out away from the city. We live in Santo Domingo. And the Lord has allowed us to be down there for about 13 and a half years and uh we love it down there, but every little bit getting away from the city is not a bad thing either. So we love being up here, enjoying the snow. My kids are going nuts with the snow. And so we are excited about that. Enjoy being here with you folks. And I I do want to thank you just your hospitality, your your friendliness and just um welcoming us here with you this morning and during this week we sure appreciate uh each thing and the brother scope and them allowing us to stay there. We're having a good time out there. I do want to say that we really appreciate you as a church allowing your pastor to come and to be a part of the ministries in the Dominican. He came down with uh with our church uh last year. and was uh teaching down in our church and some things that were just a tremendous help and a blessing. He was an encouragement. Uh we know Why you love Brother Leatherman and his wife. We haven't had the chance to meet Mrs. Leatherman, but we've heard many stories about her and just appreciate her and him. And we appreciate you allowing your pastor. I know that a lot of churches, you know, their their pastors there all the time and doesn't do a whole lot of traveling. I know that Brother Leatherman is able to go some to different countries And I just want to say thank you from the people on the other end. He was a blessing to our people. He was a help. He was an encouragement. I tell you, we could just sense his love for people and just his willingness to help. And uh I tell you what, you gotta thank the Lord for the man of God that you have. And he was a blessing to us, just a wonderful time to have him down there. And I look forward to maybe him coming down again. I shared a little bit of our testimony uh in the Sunday school hour, if you weren't able to be here for that, which That you could have. Sunday school is a good time. Sunday school is an important time. If you uh just are not in a Sunday school class or in that, I would encourage you Uh I tell our people in the Dominican Republic, if if you're not involved in all the different services of the church, maybe you think that, you know, it's not really uh necessary or maybe they repeat the services or whatever. Uh I would encourage you because going to church is not just uh like taking a vitamin. You know, it's not just, oh, okay, well I'll take it whenever I feel sick or I'll take it, you know, once it's good enough a day. Uh the more that you get, the more it'll help you. And you can't overdose on church. You know, it's a good thing. It'll help you, uh, and it helps us to grow. And you know a lot of people say, well, I'm okay, and I'm fine, and I don't need that, and I'm doing all right. Whiz as Christians, a lot of times our service for the Lord indicates how far we're going to develop and grow spiritually. Many people that aren't really involved in serving God think they're okay. And think they don't need to grow more and think that things are all right. But those that are serving God and involved say, man, I am lacking so much. I need to be in church all the time. Hear as much of God's word as I can so that I can help others. And this is what I told our people, and this is what I believe. I tell our people because I believe it in my heart. The Lord has given me so much, and He has been so good to me so that I can be a blessing to others. And that's what God wants to do in each and every person here this morning. God wants to give you a blessing. God wants to help you and strengthen you so that you can be a blessing to others. Amen? Husbands, you know, God wants to give you a blessing so that you can be a better husband. Amen. And all the women said, Amen. All the wives. Ladies, no, God wants you to get a blessing this morning so that you can be a better wife. Children, young people, God wants you to have a blessing. God wants to speak to your heart so that you can be a better son or daughter And you know, God wants to work in each of our lives to make our life here on earth a better place so that He can use us to be a help to others Don't get caught up in this today. I tell you, it just boggles my mind how that everybody's going their own way, everybody's doing their own thing. We need to get back to the Bible way of being families, being united. Why are we so weak in our churches a lot of times? And by all means, the Lord has given you a strong church and got a good group here. But why do we get weak When we start going our own separate ways and seeking our own things, instead of seeking the Lord's way, which brings us all together. As we get closer to God, the Lord brings us closer to each other, doesn't he? Because the Lord has one plan for all of us. And the Lord wants to do a special thing in our life. And I I want to encourage you this morning. I don't this is a message that I haven't preached before. It was a message that I had prepared back in the Dominican. I prepared in Spanish. So um uh but just a Lord laid it on my heart, so I hope you have brushed up on your Spanish this morning. Um Just kidding. But it's one that is more an evangelistic uh message. Maybe you're here and you've been saved for a long time, and I pray that this message would be a help to you. But if you're here then you don't know Christ is your Savior. Maybe you're visiting, maybe you're a family member that comes with your parents or comes with your friends or and you've come this morning and and really if you were to die today you don't know for sure that heaven's your home. I want to encourage you. God has a big plan. God has a big plan. God has a special plan because God is a big God. And he has a wonderful plan for each and every one of us. And he wants to do something special in our lives. I want to read just a few verses, and then we'll go ahead and pray and ask the Lord's blessing on this time. 2 Chronicles chapter number 2, verse number 5. Here we have the the story of when Solomon built the temple. We're not going to go into all of the details, but it was a beautiful, wonderful, incredible, incomparable building. That he built to honor God. And Solomon, I don't know that there's been a building that is compared to Solomon, Solomon's temple. It was a wonderful thing. I mean God was in that. God was in gifting the workers, those that constructed the temple in David and preparing all of the things. It was unbelievable. But we don't want to lose sight of what the purpose was for that building. In 2 Chronicles chapter number 2, we just read three verses here, verse number 4 through 6. As Solomon was getting ready to finish that building there, to finish the temple. It says in verse number 4 through 6, 2 Chronicles 2, 4, the Bible says, Behold, I build a house to the name of the Lord my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him sweet incense. For the continual showbread, and for the burning up burnt offerings morning and evening on the Sabbath And on the new moons and on the solemn feasts of the Lord our God. This is an ordinance forever to Israel. And the house which I build is great. For great is our God above all gods. But who is able to build him in house? Seeing the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him Who am I then that I should build him a house save only to burn sacrifice before him? Solomon, he said, this house is going to be great. This house is going to be awesome. This house is going to be one in a million. But he said, what is this house? What is this building in comparison with God? What is this? Can it contain God? Can this place, that beautiful place where you come and worship, can this contain our God? We have a big God this morning. We have a wonderful God this morning. And we need to seek Him. We need to look to Him This morning we're going to ask him to speak to our hearts. And as we go before him, this is not a ritual, this is not something that, oh, well, it's just our habit. But we have an opportunity to come before the presence of God. To listen with our hearts and our minds. And where Almighty God would speak to our hearts and guide us and direct us this morning. And I pray that your prayer with me this morning asks God to speak to our hearts. Let's pray Our Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for loving us. Lord, I don't deserve your mercy and your grace. Lord, I don't deserve. The privilege and the honor it is to preach your word. Lord, I beg you this morning, Lord, that you would cleanse me, that you would Hide me behind the cross. Lord, I want Jesus Christ to be uplifted. I want him to be glorified. Dear God, I want your name to be exalted above everything else in our lives today. Above our goals, above our desires, above everything, Lord. I want you to have first place in my life And each one here today. And Lord, if there is one here this morning that maybe has yet not accepted Christ as their Savior, Lord, I pray that this morning would be The time when they would truly trust you with all of their heart and ask you to save them. Lord, I pray that you would work in each of us, show us your plan, guide us, prepare us for this week. That we might serve you with all of our heart. Lord, we love you. Thank you for this time. Thank you for your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. When we think of big things. Anybody from Texas here? Nobody from Texas? Any Anybody? Anybody that's not embarrassed? No. Um I uh I grew up a few years, I originally I was born near Ill Illinois, but I for a few years we moved down right on the border of Texas and Oklahoma And uh it was during those formative years of my life. And as I was down in Texas, I became a Dallas Cowboys fan. Now I know that may not be real. up here. Have another one? Praise the Lord. I I sense that that spirit moving this morning. Uh but you know the saying as they go in Texas, all Texans believe that everything's bigger and better in Texas, right? They uh they kind of have this mentality. Texans are a special people. And I got a lot of good friends that are Texans. Um But big things often are impressive. We think of monster trucks. I can remember when I was a little kid and used to watch Whoa, these huge trucks rolling over cars. I mean that was that was awesome. We love seeing that. And when we think about different things, and you know, kids don't lose their toys, they just get bigger toys. And they want to get bigger things and as we as men want bigger toys and bigger things and uh as countries wanna be the biggest and the best and you know the tallest building in the world now over in Dubai. Uh and it I believe I was look looking at that this morning. It was Two thousand seven hundred and seventeen feet. I mean just unbelievably huge, tall, uh, and you know the the I was looking at another one that just kind of blew my mind. Uh that was according to the I don't know if they have this maybe uh uh not updated, but the biggest building in the world, the Boeing Everett factory in in near Seattle I was looking at that online and in and numbers, you know, maybe not may not impress us this morning, but it said that that building has 4. 3 million square feet. a building where they of course they have to have a big to build airplanes, but four point three million square feet, which that's you know just flat. It's not three dimensional, you don't see that. But those square feet it's pretty big. But when you think of how big and tall it is It's four point four hundred and seventy-two million cubic feet. You look at the height uh included with the the width in that and just It's an unbelievable thing, but maybe this morning you say, well, that doesn't really impress me. Well, have you ever been to Disneyland? Anybody have been to Disneyland? You know, if you can fit Disneyland inside of a building And have enough room for twelve acre parking, that would be all inside of the factory there in Seattle. Outside of Seattle. I mean that's it's pretty massive Pretty huge. So it's it's their own building. It's their own city, really. Okay. Brother Dave, you warned me about this. He said I'm gonna squeal you if you start getting going too long. So we're gonna cut the story short this morning. He warned me about that. All right. So it it's a massive, it's a big thing. It's it's something that is impressive when we think about how big it is. And you know, you can talk to different people. The bodybuilders, I want to have the biggest biceps, I want to be the strongest, I want to and massive in size. It's things that impress us as humans But when we think about these things, many times we we just don't compare to with who our God is. Solomon, by material wealth and by the cost of what the temple was worth You know, there there's not a building that that can compare to Solomon's temple. It was it was one of a kind. It was uh awesome in the cost, awesome in in the way it was constructed in the the heart and the soul that was poured into that building in honor of God And Solomon said there was so much that went into that. I mean it was generations all the way back from David that that was saving and and trying to do something that would uplift the wonderful God. And definitely David had a heart for God. He had an appreciation for how big God is. And he said, I need to save and save. And God didn't let him build it. But Solomon, as he built that, it was a a wonderful and an awesome thing that he built To honor and to glorify God. But as we look at that and consider that He said in verse number five, and this is just what really impacted my heart and really touched me as we looked at this as for the house which I build is great. You know, said this is a great building, this is impressive, this is awesome. It says, for great is our God. Above all gods, little G, realizing that there's only one true God, he said, This is a great building, but it's because we have a great God. That was the that was the best that that man could possibly do. This was the the richest, the most uh uh The one and only building that they could build for saving for years and years and years. And as you study the book of Chronicles and you look at what Solomon did, Solomon taxed his people hard. And you can see that as you go and le see the story of of Jeroboam and Rehoboam where the kingdom was divided because uh Rehoboam wanted to to continue taxing them hard and And they were counseled, the the wise men counseled him, hey, you need to take it easy on the people now, because Solomon, I mean, he drained them dry so that they could build the temple. Because they gave their very best. They invested everything so that they could build that temple because they truly loved God. And they saw that God deserved that. They saw that God was He was so great that they needed to do that. And when he did that, he said, this is great, but it's because our God is great. It's not for man, it's not for us. He said, it's a place where we're gonna do sacrifices. And you look at that verse number verse number six. He describes it, tells us, says, Who is able to build him in house? Seeing heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. Who am I then that I should build him in house save only to burn sacrifice before him? He said this is just the little building, this is kind of like the the little shack or the woodshed where we're going to build him an o an offering, where we're going to offer him an offering. Because this can't even begin to contain our great God. And you know, I believe with all my heart. I am thankful that I was born in the United States of America. I love my country. I'm glad I was born here. And we have a great country. But it's not great because it's the United States of America. It's great because it was founded upon principles that honored God. I believe that with all my heart. You can talk to all the liberal historians and say, oh no, it wasn't and and they didn't serve God and I don't believe all that. I don't believe that. I think that there is documented uh books and and through our Constitution and that we have enough proof to understand that our country was is great today because of being founded upon those principles of God's Word. And it is a great country, but it's only great because we have a great God. And we need to understand that in our life, once we lose focus That we have a great God, we begin to lose the blessing and we begin to be humbled or to lose the blessing that we've had. In our families. You know what? I want to have a family where my children are blessed, where my children are able to accomplish great things. But in order for them to reach that They need to understand that they have a great God. And they need to have parents that believe that we have a great God. If I'm going to have a great marriage, I have to understand there's two sinners involved in that, and the only way for me to have a great marriage is for God to be right in the middle of it. And I can have a great marriage because of the great God that I serve. And in each area of our life, when God has the preeminence, when he is first place in our life, we can then have God's blessing and God's direction. In our life and see God do wonderful things. God is a great God. Why is He a great God? Because He has a great love for us. He has a great love for us. You know, one of the to me one of the greatest verses in the Bible. is Romans 5. 8. And I love to share this whenever I have the opportunity to speak with people about salvation. It's one of the the the the first verses that I go to. We say, you know, it doesn't matter who we are or where we've come from or really what's going on in our life. When we realize but God Commendeth his love toward us. No matter what your background is, no matter where you come from, no matter uh whether you're from the north or from the south or from China or from Russia or from the United States, says, but God Commendeth his love toward us. So it really doesn't matter. Well, I'm a wicked sinner, or I'm I've been going to church my whole life, or no matter what your background is, but God commendeth, he showed, he proved. His love toward us, in that while ye were yet sinners That's the awesome part of it. That's what God and only God can do. If you read the book of that part of Romans, and I read that the other day in my Bible reading, is that, you know, it's It's good if we can love a just man or a good man. We're doing good if we can do that, but God loved sinners. The enemy, those that went against him. And God loved him. And he gave his only begotten son. But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He loved us and he proved it and he showed it. We have a great God. We have a great God this morning. We need to understand that this is not a fairy tale. This is not just a history story that that affected some other people This is something that directly ties into your and my life this morning, that Jesus died for you and me, sinners, when we didn't deserve it. Yeah, well, I'm saved now and I'm in church. Well, remember where you came from. Remember what God has done. Remember how good God has been and where He's brought you from. God is a great, He has a great love. He's great. Luke chapter number one, verse number thirty-two also tells us how that this great God Loves us. Luke chapter number one, verse number thirty-two, the Bible says, He shall be great And shall be called the Son of the Highest. The Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. When Jesus Christ uh was came uh as the incarnate son of god and became flesh and dwelt among us, it said that he shall be great He was already great, but that greatness just came and manifests itself in a physical body here on earth, and he was great. There was nobody, nothing that could compare to him. That when God allowed Jesus Christ to come to earth Give his life that he was great. Have you ever given up something for God? I don't know how much this is up here and my wife was from southwest Louisiana and she uh being down there this the big push for Mardi Gras. And I don't know if there's anyone that's uh kind of into the Mardi Gras thing or or up here if they celebrate any of that. Down there it's a very big thing And a lot of it actually has to has some roots, and I'm not here to to attack anyone or to say anything, but a lot of it has some roots to do with the Catholic religion. And some of that was they they they try to uh Kind of live it up and have a good time because they know that Lent is coming and they're going to have to give up those things so that God would be pleased with them. So they go live it up before they have to give it up And and in the Dominican they do the same thing. They do it's what they call it carnival down there, and they it's the same thing they celebrate down in Brazil. It's a huge, wicked, sensual, ungodly celebration And uh it has its roots there. Now they have some innocent things they kind of tie in with it, but but it has very wicked uh things that happen during that time. And you know there's people that think sometimes, well, you know, I gotta give something up and I'm gonna do good so I think I want God to be happy with me and I realize that God is big and and God's a good person and and for a little bit I'm gonna give up something for God. Now, I don't know if anyone has that background that you were involved with something like that, but I know that that all of us at times maybe you've given up something for God or for God's sake or for To do something, one of the things in the Bible that the Word of God talks about is fasting. Fasting is a good thing fasting would help some of us in in a good way. You know, uh the Lord's been good and we've seen a lot of food and and I I was talking to Brother Leatherman uh when he we were over at the conference and we as Baptists uh Food is involved in everything. Well, we're going to have a prayer meeting, let's eat. Okay, well, we're going to have an activity, so let's eat. All right, we're going to have this, we need to eat. We like to eat, and I'm not against that. I like eating But you know, as the Bible talks about a time of fasting coming away from those things To focus on God, to focus on what God wants, to focus on finding God's direction in our life is a good thing. The disciples Jesus told the disciples that they were unable to cast out a demon out of a young man because he said, This kind cometh not forth but by prayer and fasting. And as we think about that, that God has power to heal. God has power to cast out demons. God has power to do many things. But When we understand and we realize and we uh focus on the fact that God is big, sometimes we have to Get away from some things. We have to set some things to the side. We have to put those things away so that we might realize How great God is. And maybe this morning, there may be a young person or maybe an adult here this morning, and you're so consumed, maybe some plans that you have, some goals that you have in your life. Maybe some problems in your life that you've lost sight of how big God is. You've lost hope. You've lost faith. Because these things have become the monster, the thing that has become big in your life, and God has lost that place of being big in your life. God is big this morning. God has power to save. God has power to deliver. God has power to free us from the bondage of sin. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, If you are still under the bondage of sin this morning, let me tell you, the word of God is true. God's word does not change, and God has many promises that He's given us that we might have life, that we might have it more abundantly. God has come to give us life. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. The promises of God's word help us to realize that our God is big. He is big this morning. His love is big. But there's something else that we ought to realize this morning in Jeremiah chapter number 21. Verse number four and five, the Bible tells us that God is a great God. He is a big God. But not just that, the Bible tells us that his wrath is great. Jeremiah chapter 21, verse number 4 and 5 The Bible says, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands. wherewith ye fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans which besiege you without the walls, and I will assemble them into the midst of this city, and I myself will fight against you. With an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger and in fury and in great wrath. And I will smite the inhabitants of the city, both man and beast, and they shall die of a great pestilence. Time and again, we see in the Word of God when God's wrath was kindled, when His wrath was great, when His wrath to consume. destroys. God is a great God of love, but God does have great wrath. It says it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. He has great wrath What is God angry at this morning? What does God get angered at? You know what God hates above all? God hates sin. This is a simple message. I'm a simple preacher, not too profound. But these doctrines, these principles that we're talking about this morning. are very important for us to meditate and to think upon. If you're here this morning and you have, as a Christian, if we have a hidden sin in our heart, in our life, thinking, oh, the pastor doesn't know. Sunday school teachers don't know. My wife or my husband don't know. My parents don't know. Let me tell you, the Bible tells us that the eyes of God, the eyes of the Lord, are in every place beholding the evil and the good. And God hates sin. And God has great anger towards sin. And it's a righteous anger, righteous indignation. It is something that just is it's a consuming fire, the Bible tells us. We look at the examples. We look in the days of Noah. When the Bible says man did continually that which was wrong, and God's anger was kindled, and he consumed The whole world, except for Noah and his family. The days of Sodom and Gomorrah. The sin that that that just Putrefied that whole city. They did all of those things against God, knowing what was right, knowing that they were going against God, and God destroyed it. God was telling the children of Israel, his chosen people, those that were trying to fight against their enemies, what they thought, and they said, Hey, we need to fight, and we want God's help. And God said, I'm gonna fight against you. In wrath and in fury because of the sin that was in their life. God is a God that has great wrath. The Bible tells us that against Satan and his angels When they went against God and against God's plan and rejected God's plan and tried to overthrow God's plan, that the Bible tells us that He created hell. For them in his wrath. And hell is an awful, terrible place. But God has created it in his wrath in hatred of sin against God. And you know, the Bible is clear in that God does not send man to hell. Yet man chooses when he rejects God and rejects God's plan. That he condemns himself to an eternity without God and without Christ. When we die in our sin, we die under the wrath of God. You know, that's a horrible place to think about. That's a horrible thought. But let me tell you, the Bible also tells us that we can be free from the wrath of God. Amen. That's where I want to be. I want to be on the side where I am free from the wrath of God, that great, horrible wrath of God, and I want to see the good favor. You know, one of my favorite verses is the verse that says that God goeth to and fro throughout all the world seeking to show his power on behalf of those that love him. God wants to show his mighty hand in our favor. But he does that to those that are obedient, to those that love and obey his word His wrath, his anger is heavy against sin. In 1 Kings chapter number 16 and verse number 2, we see the wrath that God has towards sin. 1 Kings chapter 16 and verse number 2, we see God's wrath against Basha, the king of uh of Israel, during this time. It says verse number 2. For as much as I exalted thee out of the dust and made thee prince over my people over my people Israel, and thou hast walked in the way of Jeroboam and hast made my people Israel to sin To provoke me to anger with their sins. What was it that provoked God to anger? A sin. They're sins. They're rejecting God's way. They're choosing their own way. And let me tell you this morning, when we reject God's way, when we reject God's principles. When we reject God's commands and we go our own way, let me tell you, the Bible says, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. And it provokes God to wrath. And it is a great wrath. And Lord help us that we can come back. And realize that, hey, it's not God that needs to change. It's not God that needs to readjust and modernize. It's us that need to realize, hey, I need to get away from that sin. I need to get on the right side. I need to stand where I am I am able to be blessed by God and understand his blessing Because God is a great God. He's a great God of blessing, but he is also a great God of wrath against sin, against his enemies, in Psalms chapter number 7 and verse number 11. Psalm 7, verse number 11, the Bible says, God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. He is angry with the wicked every day. Those are that are the enemies of God. God's angered. He's angered at them, not because of who they are, not because of where they come from, not because of what race they may be, but because they harbor that sin in their heart and in their life. That sin. The Bible tells us that he that loveth the world becometh the enemy of God. Loving the world. God has anger against those, against his enemies, against sinners that reject God and reject his salvation. But I'm so thankful this morning that even though we may be found as the enemies of God, even though we may be found under the wrath of God. Even though we may uh stumble and fall and be under his wrath, God is also a great God of mercy. I'm so thankful that the mercies of God are new and fresh every day. Every day God shows mercy. 1 Peter chapter number 1 and verse number 3. uh tells us uh a little bit about this mercy that God has for us. 1 Peter 1. 3 the Bible says Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. His abundant mercy, his great Mercy that's new and fresh every day. In Psalms chapter number 86 and verse number 15, the Bible also tells us of God's mercy. It says, but thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous. In mercy and truth. Praise the Lord. He is a God plenteous in mercy and truth. He doesn't want any man to perish. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That's the God that we have. That's the God that is looking to show his mercy on behalf of his people. If we'll simply turn to him. God is a great God, a wonderful God. We need to recognize who God is. We need to recognize the invitation that we have to come to Him and to accept that great mercy that He has. Though we may have offended. He still is a God of great mercy. But those that would reject and those that would turn around turn away are those that need to understand that God is a great God of wrath. Turn with me to Daniel, please. Daniel chapter number nine, verse number four through six. Daniel, the young man taken in captivity, taken to a foreign country. Placed under the authority of a pagan God, a pagan government, yet a man truly blessed by God. Used of God, a man that that was able to make an impact on his generation, a man that was faithful, consistent You think, wow, how in the world, in those situations, in that hardship, and with the odds against him, how in the world was Daniel able to do what he was able to do? Was it because of how great Daniel was? Was it because that, well, you know, he was just one of those guys that did just have that? That he, you know, God made him that way No. Daniel was a normal young person that made a few good decisions, a good few good choices. We look in Daniel chapter number 9, verse number 4 through 6. I think we see a little bit. Of what helped Daniel in those situations. Daniel chapter number 9, verse number 4 through 6, it says, And I prayed unto the Lord my God. And made my confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments. We have sinned and have committed iniquity and have done wickedly and have rebelled even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. When we look at those verses, I think Daniel summed it up. And you know, I don't think Daniel was walking in sin personally at that time. The Bible really does endle he's one of the young men that we don't really don't see how that God said, hey, Daniel did this wrong Daniel was a bad example. Daniel sinned. We don't see that in the life of Daniel. We don't see how that God actually shows that in his life. Was he a sinner? I'm sure he was, just like every one of us. But the Bible doesn't bring that out, but we see that in his ministry, in his service for God, He realized, he said, God is a great and a dreadful God. A great and a dreadful God. What is God to you today? How do you see God this morning? How do you feel His presence today? Does God become a dreadful God in your life? Has he become? Oh, here we go. Again, I hear about oh God doesn't like this and God doesn't and and you know sometimes the way that we accept those things in our life We look at God as the oppressor, trying to control me, trying to make my life hard, trying to make my life miserable, and I don't understand, and we look at God as the dreadful God. Why is God dreadful? Why is his wrath against me? Daniel said. He said, We've sinned. We've committed iniquity. He is a great God of wrath. He is a great God of condemning the sin and the things that would destroy us. But he does that because that sin Is what consumes us. Not God. God's not looking to consume our life. God's not looking to destroy our life. Sin is doing that, and God is trying to get us away from that. And to call us to a life of holiness, a life of blessing, a life of joy. Because we have a great God. But how do you see God this morning? Do you have a big God? Is that God big in blessing? Is that God big in mercy? Is that God big in love for you this morning? He stands with open arms. His mercies are new and fresh and plenteous every day. But are we willing to come to an old-fashioned altar And as Daniel said, Daniel, a good man, said, we've sinned. We've committed iniquity. We've got a long way from where we ought to be. And God has become dreadful, fearful, because we know we've sinned. This morning, if you're here without Christ, you've not accepted Christ as your Savior, you know, being judged by God is a fearful thing. Being condemned for all of eternity in a devil's hell is a horrible thought. It's real. It's not a fairy tale. But it's because of our sin. And God has said, all those who come to me, I will in no wise cast out. Praise the Lord for that. His mercy is plenteous. And as we as Christians, though we may be saved, though we may have Christ as our Savior. The Bible tells us that as we fall in sin, that the Bible tells us in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sin He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Why? Because he's a merciful God. He understands that we're flesh, that we're weak, and that we need him, and he is willing to forgive those that come and repent. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. If you're here, lost without Christ, I'd like to encourage you this morning. Today is the day, the acceptable day. Today is the day of salvation. Christian, if today is a day of doubt and discouragement, when you fear in God, when you know that God sees those things in our heart, in our life, whether it be whether it be in our marriage, whether it be in our our relationship with our parents, whether it be in the work environment, whatever it may be That God is touching our heart. God says, if you will come to me and confess that, I will forgive you and cleanse you of that. That you might again see the wonderful blessing of how big a God that we have. He's so big that he can forgive and forget our sins. That's a great God. We have a big God this morning, and he gives us an opportunity to come to him. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed, every eye closed. This morning, as we're gathered here, God has given us an opportunity to hear his word. God has given us a place where we can come and we can lift his name high. A place where we can sing his praise. But he's also given us a place where we can do business with God. A place where we can find help in time of need. Counsel when we need help. If you're here this morning without Christ, we have people here this morning that can show you from God's word how you can be saved this morning We're going to have an invitation. We're going to play some music and we're going to give you an opportunity for you to come. You may be, oh no, I'm scared. I'm nervous. I'm embarrassed. Let me tell you, God's love is so big that it can cover all of those things and God can give you the strength to make those decisions. that you need to make. If you're here this morning as a Christian, the Lord's touched your heart about some things you need to get right. Some sin. That the wrath of God may be about to fall in your life if you don't get those things right with God. I would encourage you. Take God at His word. Confess that sin to Him, not to man, but to Him this morning. Make things right with God. I'm going to pray. The Lord has touched your heart. I'm going to encourage you to come and do business with God this morning. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for each one that's here this morning. God, I pray that if there is one here lost without Christ, Lord, that they would have the courage, be honest with you this morning about that need. For us as Christians, Lord, if we have things to deal with in our hearts, sin, we need to set on the altar this morning, Lord. I pray that you would do business with us, change us and mold us We ask these things in Jesus' precious name. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, would you stand your feet as a piano plays? We're going to