Psalm eighteen, if you would turn there. I want to read the first six verses of Psalm eighteen. I read this in my devotions here, oh, a week or so ago. I'm reading through Psalms. I read through it uh several times a year And I came across this passage and it just stirred my heart. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Sometimes you're reading through the Bible, and every now and then just some passage will just Get a hold of you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean sometimes it just grabs you by the throat and slams you up against the wall and says, pay attention And um I read through this and uh this passage uh really touched my heart and it's been on my mind and so this week I thought well I'm gonna let's talk about it on Sunday morning and see what the Lord will do. So Psalms 18, verse number 1, the Bible says, I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. Now look at verse 2. This is what got me. The Lord is my rock. My fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength in whom I will trust, my buckler and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower. And then he goes on. He says, I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from mine enemies. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid. The sorrows of hell compassed me about, the snares of death prevented me, and in my distress I called upon the Lord and cried unto my God And he heard my voice out of the temple, and my cry came before him, even unto his ears. What a great passage. Now, last phrase in verse number two is what I took note of. My high tower. David said that God is his high tower. And so I've entitled the message, Our High Tower. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, I thank you for this morning's service. Lord, it's been a special blessing to me. And the music and the fellowship has been so encouraging. Thank you for your marvelous grace, dear Lord, and your mercy. Lord, she's saying, I am forgiven. Oh God, thank you for forgiveness. And we come to you now and we ask that you would reveal yourself to us through the pages of your word. I pray we would understand who you are and what you're like and how you operate a little bit clearer than we did before we came in. Lord, I have nothing of myself to offer of any eternal value. I have nothing of myself that could help anyone spiritually. So we need to hear from you, Lord. So I yield my will to you. Father, I present my body anew, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear God, and you would speak through me and challenge, encourage, instruct us. Help us to be sensitive to your Holy Spirit speaking to our heart. Help us to trust you and obey you and follow your instructions. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I got looking here at this high tower that David mentions at the end of verse number two, and I found that David references God as his high tower actually three times in Scripture. Here in our text, he says he gives a list of characteristics of God, and he says, and my high tower. Back in 2 Samuel chapter 22, the Bible's accounting the life and experiences of David. Nearly the entire chapter of 22, and we won't take time to turn there, but nearly that entire chapter is a Psalm That David penned under the inspiration of God, very similar to the Psalm 18 here. And in that Psalm, he references God as his high tower. And then, if you would, go ahead and turn over. Now keep your place here in Psalm 18, but go with me to Psalm 144. We're right in the same book here We brought our Bibles with us. We might as well use them. Amen? And so let's go over to Psalm 144. Again, this is a Psalm of David, as many of the Psalms are. And uh verse number one begins Psalm 144 there. In verse number one it says, Blessed be the Lord my strength. Which teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight. Now look at this. My goodness. He's referencing God, what God is to him He said, God is my goodness and my fortress, and here it is, my high tower. My deliverer, my shield in whom I trust, who subdueth my people under me, my high tower, my high tower, my high tower, three times David references in his inspired writings that he's writing down under the inspiration of God, he references God as his high tower. Now I got thinking, what does he mean by a high tower? What is a high tower? I did a little research, and it's pretty clear in scripture and in the history books A high tower was a place that you would go to for safety. It was a place of safety. It's a place of security and stability. Back in the day when this is being penned, cities, as part of their defense from other attacking peoples. They would put up a wall around the city. How many people ever saw pictures of ancient cities with walls around? You know what I'm talking about. They'll put many times a very thick wall. And um very high. And that's their line of defense. If they come under attack, they close the gates. and they put uh uh soldiers and whatnot up on the wall to defend the city from attack. So they'd have this wall and what they would do is they would In very strategic locations around that city, depending on the size of the city, how many they would put up, but they would put up these high towers. at strategic points around the city and they would incorporate in to be part of that wall And these high towers were there for a purpose. They did several things in the defense of the city. One thing, they would be a bit of a watchtower. And the Bible will reference sometimes a watchtower. And they would keep people up there, and they would man these towers on a 24-7 basis, and they would just watch. for an advancement of an enemy, some movements or some potential threat or danger to that city, they would watch very, very carefully The watchmen in the high towers had a tremendous responsibility. In fact, God held the watchman responsible If they failed to warn the people of coming attack, they were held personally responsible for the danger they caused by not warning. And so these high towers were placed around there as a watchtower to see, a place of observation for any incoming threats. Uh the watchtowers were also used uh in the case of an actual attack, that city was under a an assault by a uh an enemy coming in and they're actually undertaped the high towers were used as a advantage they were shooting down upon the enemy They would have archers and spear throwers or whatever weapons they had. They would use these high towers as an advantage point to have what we call the high ground. They would have an advantage. Would you agree with me? Somebody shooting down on someone is has the advantage of those shooting up at them, right? And so that provided again a form of defense against danger, against threats, against enemies. It gave them an advantage. Sometimes they would um And you've seen this, you've read these in your history books and different things. Uh they would boil hot oil. And they would have these vats of boiling oil, and as the enemy would try and breach the wall and try and breach the uh uh um the uh gates. They would pour this hot oil down on them, just anything To ward off the attack. So these high towers were vitally important to the security and safety of a city. They provided observation to see if there was any danger coming in. In the event that they actually were under attack, it gave a bit of a uh advantage to defend and push back the enemy's assault. And then, in case where the walls actually came down, where the enemy actually breached the gates and were coming into the city. These high towers were the last place of refuge. When all else fell, when the city was overtaken, they would retreat into these high towers, and there they would make their final stand. It would make their last stand. So the high towers were vitally important to the well-being, the security, the safety of the city. Three times David says, the Lord, he's my high tower. He's my security. He's my safety. He's my refuge. When everything's falling apart, when the enemy comes in like a flood And it seems like I have nowhere to go. I have a God in heaven I can go to, and He's just like a high tower. I can run to Him and be saved. In Psalms, in Proverbs 18, brother Nathan read a little bit ago, he refers to Solomon here writing under the inspiration of God, refers to God's word as a strong tower. Same same type of reference, referring to the same thing. The Lord is our strong tower. The Lord is our high tower. David says it three times. Now, David had his share of enemies. Would you agree with me? Man, for a man after God's own heart, for a man that loved God so dearly, for a man so passionate and so committed to the Lord. He had he had enemies from day one just about. The Philistines hated David Now they disliked Israel very much, but there was something about David that they absolutely despised. It might have had something to do with him as a young teen boy taking out their champion, not with a spear, not with a sword, not with a bazooka, but with a little stone in a sling. I think that got under the Pharisees' skin And they hated David. And they despised him. He had physical enemies. You would think his own king would support him, but his own king turned against him, King Saul. And became a bitter enemy of David's. He had associates, men who worked with him, side by side with him, that turned against him. And I'll tell you, here's the heartbreaker. This is a heartbreaker. His own son, firstborn son, turned against him. Bitterly, out to kill him. Kill his daddy. Later on, he had his fourth son tried to usurp the throne. Old David knew what it was like to be hated David knew what it was like to be afraid. David knew what it was like to have to feel like you have nobody on planet Earth. That is for me, that cares about me. Oh, he had his enemies. He had physical enemies. Not only did he have physical enemies, David had spiritual enemies. I'm here to tell you there's a very real devil. Now listen, listen, this whole world can make fun of the idea of a devil, but I'm here to tell you the devil is just as real and just as alive as he ever has been. And he hates God's people. And he is out to take out God's people. He's out to take out God's church. And I'm telling you, the devil hated David. Despised him. Much of his struggles, his battles were spiritual. You find David through the Psalms, he shares his heart Under the inspiration of God in the Psalms, and you'll find David on many occasions in deep despair. You'll find this man of God after God's own heart, and he's and he and he feels totally alone. And I'm telling you, the devil jumped all over David, tried to convince him there was no hope and no chance. But David said, oh, but I've got a high tower I can run to. I got somebody I can go to that will help me and protect me and take care of me. Oh, David knew what it was like to have enemies. Towers were put up around the cities to help defend off the enemies, to help to ward off the enemies, to help uh uh uh protect the city from the attack of enemies David had his share of enemies, and he said, God, the Lord was my high tower that helped me when the enemies fought me. David knew David had his share of enemies. Oh, by the way, uh one of his biggest enemies was his own sinful nature. How many folks here this morning, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. Tell you it's a wonderful thing to be saved. It's a wonderful thing to know you're saved. But I tell you, when we get saved, a lot of things change. Anybody here, your life is different since you got saved? Anybody at all? Yeah. Goodness, we could testify all day long of that. But I'm here to tell you one thing that doesn't change is we still got that old sinful nature down deep inside of us. That old bent to do evil, to do wrong, and it's there. I got saved back in 1979. God changed my life overnight. And you know the story. And many of you experienced the same thing in your life. And God changed my life overnight, but I tell you, it didn't take me but a day or so to realize that old sinful nature was still alive in my body. That old temptation to do wrong and those old wicked thoughts would come through mine. Now, I had a whole different attitude about it now. I remember um ashamed of this. I remember on Monday, I got saved on a Monday night. That Monday we took off work. We were just my friend Denny and I, Denny Swartley and I We're just out partying, I mean wickedness, just shamefulness. Taking God's name in vain, saying stuff that was absolutely horrific Coming off my lips and his didn't think a thing about it. That Monday night I knelt by my bed and I called on Jesus Christ to be my Savior. God saved me and forgave me That next day I'm at work, I'm working in a meat packing going on, and not even thinking, just habit. A word comes off my mouth. Immediately pierced with conviction. I had to bow my head and say, oh God, forgive me. I didn't mean to say that. You know that old sinful nature was still there. I had a different attitude about it. I hated it now. Hated it. But it's still there. And these 44, almost next month to be 44 years later, that whole nature's still there. Just like you, I dealt with it this past week. Huh? Anybody here dealing with that old sinful nature? Yeah. David! And an enemy, not just the devil, but his own sinful nature. We sang about heaven at the beginning of the sermon. I led the psalm, but I can't remember what the song is now. What is it When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. You know, I was thinking while we were singing that. I thought, boy, get to heaven. Don't have this old sinful nature anymore Whoo! That old enemy, the old man, be taken away. David still had that old nature. And he sinned. We studied David's life on Wednesday nights here the last couple years. I tell you, he messed up pretty bad, didn't he? On more than one occasion. David hated that old sinful nature and what it did to him, how it hurt him. He said, but I've got a high tower I can go to. When I mess up. And I fail God. I can run to that high tower and God will take me in. He'll protect me from his wrath and judgment on my sin. I'm glad we have a God, a Savior, who's our high tower. And protect us from ourselves. Protect us from our own actions, our own words. Anybody here ever do or say something later on and say, what was I thinking? Why would I say that? Why would I do that? Oh, we got a high tower we can go to, and the Lord comes in, he'll help us and forgive us. David said, I've got a high tower. David knew what it was to have enemies. He had his share of battles Physical battles, spiritual battles. Do you know David struggled with lack of faith? There was times when Saul was chasing them. He said, the Bible says there in 1 Samuel, it says David said, David said in his heart, I shall perish one day at the hands of Saul. Now God told him he wasn't going to perish, that he would be king. But he got looking at circumstances and he got leaning on his own reasoning and he said, I'll never, I'm going to perish at the hands of Saul. And he ran off to the enemies of God and made an alliance with the enemies of God. I tell you what it was, it was lack of faith. We look back, it's easy for us to look back and say, David, why don't you trust God? He told you you'd be king. What are you doing doubting him? But we've done our share of doubting, haven't we? We've had our own struggles with faith, and we know what God says, and we know what God promised, and we know what God has assured us of. And yet we worry and make stupid decisions anyway. David had his share of battles, physical and spiritual battles, temptations and lack of faith, and we have it all. We have all that also. But in all his battles and in all of David's struggles and in all of David's distresses, he learns some things. He learned that when he failed God, he didn't have to run from God. He could run back to God. Find forgiveness and find restoration and find a strong tower that he could flee to. He learned that he could call on the Lord, he could trust God. Just like the prodigal son, come back to that daddy. You know what that daddy was to that prodigal son? You know the story. And that son that boy took the inheritance, daddy gave it to him, and he squandered it On riotous living, he ends up in feeding pigs and eating the husk that the pigs he's so impoverished. And he came to himself and he said, My father's and my father's servants have are, and I'm putting my own words, are better off than I am here. I know what I'll do. I'll go back to my father, and I'll say, I have sinned against heaven and against thee. He comes running back to his daddy. While he's still far off, daddy sees him. Daddy runs out there and embraces him. And he says, Father, I've sinned against heaven in thee. I'm not worthy to be your son. And this is my version of it. And Daddy says, oh hush now, you hush. Come on. Let's get you cleaned up, boy. Let's get some decent clothes on you. Look at you, your skin and bones. Let's get you some get some food in you. You know what that daddy was? He was a high tower. To that prodigal son. All his friends forsook him. The world could care less about him. And by the way, uh, you can go running after the world, you can enjoy all the pleasures of the world But when it comes to push, comes to shove, this old world's gonna abandon you every single time. That boy came back to his daddy, his high tower. His daddy took him in Forgave them and cleaned them up and restored them. I'm telling you, our Lord is a wonderful high tower. High tower. David knew he could call on the Lord. Everything went south when everything went against him. He knew he could trust God. If you have Proverbs 18 there still, if you have that marked in your Bible, let me just look at that. Verse number 10. It was funny as I was uh reading through there in Psalms, and later on I was looking through Proverbs, I come across this verse here, very similar It says the name of the Lord is a strong tower. Now look at the next statement. The righteous runneth into it and is what? Safe. We can come to God. And God will keep us safe. Our high tower, our strong tower. I want to come back to Psalm 18 here, if you would. Let me notice a few things here real quickly. We got a couple minutes left here. I want us to notice a few things. Number one, I put this down. David had a powerful God. David had a powerful God. Look at verse 1 and 2 of Psalm 18. I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. And then he gives a list of eight terms he uses to describe what God meant to him. What his Lord was to him. He uses eight terms. And by the way, hey, whenever David is telling us something about God, we ought to pay attention. Now I meet people out in the street all the time. I had some folks yesterday I was talking. Oh they want to tell you what God oh let me tell you about God. I'm not too interested in what some guy off the street has to say about God But when David starts talking about God under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, I'm going to pay attention. And he gives these eight statements about What God meant to him, what God was to him. Look at what he says here. He says, the Lord is my rock. I put this down. The Lord was David's stability. A rock, his reference implies toughness. A rock implies durability. Stability. David says, There's one thing in my life that is stable, unchanging, grounded, a rock And that is my God. Remember back in Matthew chapter 7, we won't turn there. But at the end of the chapter, Matthew 5, 6, and 7 is what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mound, the Lord's greatest sermon, I think, ever preached. And at the end of the sermon, he kind of gives an invitation of sorts, and he tells the people, he's just given three chapters of instruction on what it means to be a disciple of Jesus. And at the end of his sermon, he makes this statement, he says, he that he and I'm putting, I'm not quoting this exact, but he says, he that hears my word and does them You've heard what I just preached to you, and you go do it. He says he is like a man who builds his house upon a what? Rock. And he said, the winds blow and the storms come and the rain beats down. And that house stands. Because it's built on a rock. David said, The Lord is my rock. I'm building my life on the Lord, His instructions, His promises, heeding His warnings, following His instructions. And God says, Jesus said, you build yourself on that rock, you make the Lord the foundation of your life, and brother, your life will stand. David said, the Lord's my rock. I look around this old world, I see a world in turmoil, yes or no. I see a world doesn't know if it's coming or going I see a world that is like an ocean just smattering, changing every day. This whole world doesn't know what's right and wrong. This whole world doesn't know what's true and false. This whole world doesn't even know what they are. But I'm telling you what, we got a God that never changes. And we have a rock that we can come to and we can get answers and we can know the truth and we can build our lives on the Lord Jesus Christ. David said, the Lord's my rock. He's my rock. When all around is unstable and changing, God is unchanging and he is stable. We can plant our feet on the Lord. I'm here to tell you this morning, if you don't get anything else out of this message, get this. You can trust God. Trust Him. What he says, believe it, what he warns, heed his warnings, claim his promises, follow his instruction. He's a rock, stability. David goes on, he says, The Lord is my rock. And then he says, The Lord is my fortress. I think, first of all, he's talking about his stability. The Lord's his rock. Now he refers to God as a fortress, his safety. God protects us. God protects us. I figured in uh less than a month, get this, this is hard to believe. In less than a month, I'm going to turn 63. That's hard to believe, isn't it? James is 55. He doesn't look a day over 54, I didn't think, but uh And uh I thought I figured by the time I got to this age, now I know for some of you I'm just a kid, I know what some of you are thinking, oh 63, oh brother. But um Now I'll be honest with you, I figure by this time, fear would not be a factor in my life Looks like being a Christian, knowing the Lord for 44 years, you would learn not to be afraid of things. Huh? You know what I found out? I still struggle with fear. It's still there. Just different things come just come to mind. Man. I'm glad that when I'm afraid, I can come to my God. And I can trust him and he'll see me through that fear. Anyone with me on this? You know what David said in Psalm 53, verse 6? You know what he said? He didn't say, if I'm afraid He said, what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. You know he's saying, God's my fortress I'm talking to some folks this morning. I have no idea. God knows. I don't think it's a coincidence that I'm preaching on this subject with this crowd. I think the Lord's in, the sovereignty of God is in all of this I'm talking to some folks this morning. I've no doubt you have some things in your life that are scary. You're facing some things, maybe financial, maybe physical, emotional, family, I don't know. But I'm here to tell you, when we're afraid, we can come running to our fortress, our Lord, and we can trust Him when we're afraid, and He'll see us through Anybody here, sometime in your past you had something you were afraid of, and you trusted God and God got you through it? Anybody give witness to that? Sure. God's faithful. David said, He's my fortress, he's my safety. Nothing gets past God that he cannot use to strengthen us. Number three, he says, the Lord is my deliverer. That means he says he's my savior. A deliverer is one who rescues someone from destruction, delivers them from danger. David said, the Lord is my deliverer. He is my Savior. I'm here to tell you our only hope of salvation. From God's judgment on our sin and eternity in hell, the only hope of our salvation, from God's judgment on our sin and eternity in hell, our only hope Is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's our only hope of salvation. You say, preacher, I joined the Baptist church. I'm a member of a Baptist church. I'm sure. Listen, a Baptist church never got anybody to heaven. A Baptist church never removed any judgment from sin. Say, preacher, I got baptized. A baptistry never washed away one sin. Baptistry never saved a soul from hell. Baptistry that never did anything to alleviate a sinner from the judgment of God, getting money in the offering plate, taking last rites, you name it. There's only one deliverer. There's only one Savior from sin and God's judgment, and it's the person Jesus Christ. And David said, The Lord is my deliverer. He's my Savior. He's the one I'm trusting. He's the one doing the saving. He's the one doing the rescuing. David said he's my deliverer. Then notice he says, he says, the Lord is my deliverer and my God. I put it this way, David said that God was his sovereign, means all powerful one. There was no David had no need that God could not meet. David had no problem that God could not solve. He had no enemy that God could not defeat. He had no heartache that God could not heal. I'm telling you, our God is an awesome God. Our God is a powerful God. And there's no situation we face, there's no circumstance that we're dealing with. There's no need in our lives that God cannot meet and handle if we will just trust Him and do what He says. He said, He's my God. He's my sovereign. He's the all-powerful one. And he says, my strength. God was his strength. Our God is, our God, his God was stronger than any of his enemies. I don't know, I I don't follow the news much, a little bit. I'll see headlines, just kind of know whether our country still exists or not. Just try and know a little bit what's going on. And sometimes it seems sometimes it seems like the forces of evil are so powerful. And they've taken over the world. And we ask ourselves sometimes, where is that? Where are they taking this? Where does this lead to? How can something so perverse and so wicked gain such power in the world And I'm here to tell you, our God is greater. Our God is more powerful. There's not a devil in hell that God cannot easily handle. He's our strength. This world seems awfully strong, but I'm here to tell you our God is far stronger. We just walk with him. We trust him. And by the way, in his time, he'll make all things right. I believe that with all my heart. Would you agree with me? Sometimes it looks hopeless. Sometimes it looks helpless. We ask ourselves, well, you know, what in the world? I'm here to tell you what in the world. God is still on his throne. He hasn't lost control, and the time's coming when that which is wrong will be made right. And oh, what a day that will be When Jesus comes back and makes things right, David said, He's my strength. He's my strength. I tell you, this old sinful world seems so strong. This old sinful nature Folks have besetting sins. You think I can never beat this sin. I can never beat this thing. I'm here to tell you God is able to give us victory. God is greater than Satan and all his devils. Then notice he says, my strength in whom I will trust. My buckler. That's his shield. A buckler was a shield. Sometimes God allows trials in our lives. Sometimes God does allow difficulties to come in our lives If we're not careful, as we listen to some of these yard birds preachers on TV, I'm telling you, 99% of them are nuts. Alright? I don't think you got that. Ninety-nine percent of them are nuts. And they promise all these things uh that God never promised I'm here to tell you, God never promised the Christian life to be a life without trials. And he never promised that we would not have difficulties and adversaries and afflictions in life. He never promised any of that. In fact, just the opposite. He said, in this world you'll have tribulation. But I'm here to tell you, this is what I'm getting at. I'm here to tell you, our God is a buckler. He is a shield around us. And no trial, no difficulty, no adversary comes into our lives, but that God first allows it. And if God allows a difficulty to come in my life, if God allows a trial to come in my life, then I am very confident that God can use that To help me grow spiritually, to help me develop my faith, to have a stronger, more effective witness. We're praying for our dear brother Ed. I tell you he's been through it this week. Well, we thought he broke his hip, but it's not. It was a femur bone. They repaired it. He's having a rough time recovering from that And brother Ed needs our prayers. But you know, I was talking to him Thursday or Wednesday, whenever I was up there, and he said this: He said, Preacher, I'm trying to be a witness Carolyn said, you got any tracks, Pastor Leatherman, that we could give out to nurses and doctors and people here? I said, I sure do. I emptied my pocket out and gave it to him I don't know all the reasons why God allowed Ed to fall. I have to wait till we get to heaven, maybe till we understand. But I know this. God is using Brother Ed to be a witness. In that circumstance, God has a plan. God has a purpose. Our God is a shield. He protects us. And when he does allow something in, there's a reason for it that he can use it and help us. I tell you, we've got a good God. He doesn't spoil us. He doesn't baby us. He toughens us. He allows us to go through trials and difficulties. But he protects us. If there's something that would actually be harmful that he could not use for his good and his glory, then he keeps that out of our life. Anybody here ever um anybody here ever traveling and there's uh maybe some truck in front of you going very, very slow? And your patience is tried. Can I get a witness? Anybody? And he said, I mean not all of them, but um Do you ever stop and think this? Maybe. Just maybe. God's keeping you from something down the road that if you'd have kept going the way you were, God's saying, all right, all right, Dave Wagner, slow down a little bit, slow that guy down there a little bit. How many times have I, and you truckers will know, how many times you've been, you come up, and here was an accident right where you would have been if it had not been for that delay or that something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That flat tire or something, maybe something God's shielding and protecting us. I think we'll get to heaven, we'll find out that God was more active in our lives than we ever dreamed. David said, He's my shield. He's my shield. He's my buckler, my shield. Then he says, He's my horn, the horn of my salvation. That's his security. You know what a horn is to an animal? A big horn sheep, they have those big ram horns up there. What is the purpose of those horns? Protection Just to fight off those attacking. Those deer got those big antlers. Man, they would shred each other, poke their eyeballs out, and I mean they're rough What are the horn? It's a security measure for that animal. And David said, God is my security. It is God that keeps us. Say, preacher, do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Absolutely You say, well, you think you're somebody, don't you? You think you're pretty holy. Oh, you're so holy, you know for sure you're going to heaven. No, no, no. I'm not holy at all. I'm a wretched sinner, trust me. My assurance of my salvation is not based upon Dennis Leatherman. Please let me confirm that The assurance and security of my salvation is not based on me. It is based upon the horn of my salvation, Jesus Christ. He's the one that protects me. He's the one that keeps me safe. Peter says we are kept by the power of God, not by our own self-discipline, not by our own holiness. Only by God's love and grace and mercy and power he keeps us. David said he's the horn of my salvation. And then he Makes this final statement, and my high tower. And that means David was his sanctuary sanctuary. It's where David went when he had nowhere else to go. Have you ever been a point in your life? Ever been a point in your life where you felt like you had nobody you could go to for help? I've been there. I've been there. Now listen, and uh if you want to misunderstand what I'm gonna say here, you can very easily, so please don't. I tell you, sometimes being a pastor There's a very limited number of people you can go to and just pour your heart out. You follow what I'm saying? Different struggles. I learned early on in the ministry, and it's true for all of us to an extent, so please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not trying to get sympathy. Brother, I love what I am doing. But there's points in our lives where we deal with stuff and we struggle with things. And it's like, I can't go to anybody with this. David said, but I have a high tower. I can go to the Lord with this. No one else. In the Psalms it puts it this way: When my mother and father forsake me. The Lord will pick me up. The Lord will pick me up. Now that verse has special significance to me. Not long after I was saved, my daddy, you know my home situation and what I grew up in. My daddy came to me and he said, I read that in Psalms. When my mother and father forsake me, the Lord will pick me up. And he said, Son. I've claimed that verse for you. Excuse me for being personal, but Daddy said, son, we failed you. We forsook you. And I just asked God to pick you up and take you up. And I tell you, God answered Daddy's prayers. Now I don't think they for they failed me I love my parents. I thank God for them. But I'm here to tell you, when you're at that point in your life where you feel like everyone has failed me, I'm alone. I'm here to tell you there's a high tower you can go to, and that's God, and you can come to Him and pour your heart out on to Him. What a God we have. When David describes God, we better pay attention because he knew what he's talking about. Do you know this God? Have you trusted him? Now I am with this final thought. If you notice again, verse number two, look at it very, very carefully. There's a little word that David uses eight times. Same word. Eight times. Anybody pick it out? My, my, my, my, my. Our Lord, to David, our Lord was not some faraway deity, some great, awesome God that's a billion light years away has nothing to do with my life. That's not what the Lord was to David. The Lord was not some religious concept, deity concept, that has no interaction in my life. Oh no, no. David, get this, David had a personal, intimate, living relationship with his God. He said, he is my God. Let me ask you this. What is the Lord to you? Is he just some concept you go to church and talk about Just some deity out there that we read about and sing about? Or can you say, like the songwriter said, he walks with me? And he talks with me. And he tells me, I am his own. I tell you, when the God of this universe spoke this thing into existence, He looks down and says, there's Dennis Sleatherman. He's my own. I want to talk with him. I want to interact with him. I want to take care of him. What a God. And that relationship can only be established through trusting Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. And as we know Christ, we read our Bible, we live for Him, we claim His promises, and God does wonderful things for us. Yesterday we were down in Kaisers, ten of us. We were going through neighborhoods giving out gospel tracts. We got a bunch out, talk to people. I'm telling you, people were so positive. I'm telling you, that town is hungry. For the Lord. I believe that with all my heart. And everywhere we went, oh, thank you, thank you. As a fellow, we're going down one street. A guy, I gave, I reached up and said, Hey, I'm giving out my gospel tracts. Can I give you one? Sure, young man. And um I said, Pardon me He got that thing, he's sitting on the front porch. It was a beautiful later in the day got beautiful, and he was just intent reading that thing as I drove off. We're in these apartments. They're pretty shabby, to put it nicely. And a door was locked. I went by and the door's locked five stories And I rattled the door and nobody's there. Look, nobody's there. So we went and picked up and did some other areas. I came by and there's a couple folks standing out in front of the door. I went up and gave them tracks And um the one fella, I shouldn't say this, but um one fella kind of opened the door and was leaning there talking to me. So we got talking a little bit and I just kind of made my way through the door and uh got in the apartments Um don't tell anybody, okay? And we're just going through talking to people, giving out gospel. Everybody was tremendous. Dell was with me And uh we got came out, came out the elevator on the bottom floor. We're about done. Eddie and Rose were standing there. Eddie had a little puppy dog. Rose was blind in one eye, had a walker. We got to talk a little bit. I don't remember how it all came about, but Eddie started telling us his story. He's homeless up until recent. Somebody had ripped off all his possessions. Supposed to be able to stay somewhere and got Wasn't able to. I mean it was just a tragic, tragic story. He's probably s older, he's older than me, probably 70, I would guess He stood there with the little puppy doll, telling us all that he'd been through. And Rose is there and she's kind of telling her story sad. He made this statement. He said, I know through all that, he said, but I know this. I know God loves me. I know God loves me. I said, Eddie, he sure does love you. I said, in fact, he loves you enough to die and suffer hell for your buried rose again so you can have eternal life and have a home to live in. I said, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? Well, I don't know. I said, could I take two minutes, show you from the Bible? How you can know for sure your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. He said, I'd like that. Rose said, I would like that And there in the hallway I went through and showed him how we're all sinners. Every one of us have sinned against the holy God. And because of our sin, we're under the wrath and judgment of God. If we die unforgiven, we spend eternity in hell. Jesus Christ loved us enough, come down, suffered hell in our place, took responsibility for all our sins on that cross, and was judged of God for my sins. As my substitute died, was buried, and rose again. I showed him there in Romans where it says, if you believe in your heart. Confessory of the mount, and whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I said Eddie Rose You'd be willing to bow your heads and sincerely with all your heart call on the Lord to trust him, forgive you, and save you. They said, we sure would like that. And they bow their heads. And they call on the Lord right there in that shabby apartment on the first floor. And I'm here to tell you, God from his throne in heaven, I believe, heard that prayer. And save their souls, just like that old thief on the cross. God, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Today you'll be with me in paradise. What amazing God we have. We can trust them, we can run to Hom like a high tower and find salvation and find security and find safety In the Lord, not in this world, in the Lord. Father in heaven, please bless us and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are