Look at verse number eight. First Peter chapter five, verse eight. Be sober, be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may what? Then verse 9 goes on. He gives us some instructions. He says, whom whom resist steadfast in the faith? Knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. The first four words, he gives us our attitude that we need to have The frame of mind we need to have whenever we're approaching and dealing with the devil. And then the rest of verse number 8, he talks about our adversary itself, the devil. And then verse number nine, he tells us what our actions need to be when we're dealing with the devil. How do we respond? How do we act? And so our adversary, the devil, let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our continued study of this passage. Lord, help us to not obsess Over our enemy, the devil, our adversary. The Lord, on the other hand, help us not to be ignorant of him either, or ignore his existence. So I pray you give us a balance there. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I know as a preacher who is exposing the devil and his tactics from your word, I become a target. Of the devil. I'm aware of that. So I ask, dear Lord, that you would clothe me with your presence. I ask, Father in heaven, you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And Lord, nobody needs my opinion about the devil. We all need your truth about the devil. So I pray you would speak your word through me, that we would go out here equipped, or at least better equipped To deal with our adversary, face them, and have victory. So again, fill me with your spirit, I pray. Have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter is addressing the fact that we have an enemy. And if you remember, I just want to kind of bring thought uh bring uh back to mind things we said last week so we can have all of this in a unit in a context. But the fact of the matter is that those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, for those of us been born again, we've trusted Christ as our personal Savior, we have three very, very powerful enemies in the world. If we remember, we pointed out these three last week. One of the powerful enemies, spiritually speaking, is the world. And by that we don't mean the mountains and the trees, and we don't mean necessarily individual people in and of themselves. When the Bible says that the world hates us, the world is our enemy It's talking about society, the values of society, the the the the pressure that society can put upon us to conform to its image. In other words, to alter our values from God's values and adopt the world's values. Anybody you don't understand what I'm saying This world is an enemy of mine. It does not want me to have the priorities, scriptural priorities that were given in the Word of God. This world wants me to adopt its priorities, its values, live by its principles. rather than the principles given us in Scripture. So this world is not our friend. This world is not a friend of grace. This world is not a friend of uh the child of God that loves the Lord and wants to please God. This world is not our young people's friend. This world is not our senior citizen's friend. It is not our church's friend. It is our enemy. The world. Society is an enemy. And uh this would be another message, but it's tragic How many of us of Christians open the windows to the world in our homes and on our phones and in our computers and on our radios and we just open the floodgates of the world's values and the world's priorities and the world's influence and we just flood our homes with it. And we become uh numb to the fact that this is our very enemy we're bringing into the gates of our house. So we need to be very careful. We said the world is our enemy. Then we said that our flesh is our enemy. And by that we mean our sinful nature. By that we mean that what the Bible refers to as the old man. And again, you could preach, we probably should preach more sermons on the flesh than what we do. But this old sinful nature of Dennis Featherman is not my friend. Not as far as spiritually is concerned. I've said this many times. I think I mentioned it last week. The person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has caused me the most grief. has given me the most heartache, has made me uh uh stress more than anybody else in this church is my own sinful person, the old man. Is where my battle is. And so we have this enemy of the world. We have the enemy of the flesh. And now what Peter is talking about here is the enemy of the devil. And that's what we want to focus on. If you remember, we said last week, he says there, as I mentioned before prayer, be sober, be vigilant. He tells us, first of all, we need to have a correct attitude towards the devil. Spiritual victory and spiritual battles are in the mind, and I know I've already preached this, but I want to reiterate it here. To set us up what we want to look here in the next point, but spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. That's where the battle is. That's where the struggle is. Before I ever act upon a temptation, there is enticement there, whether through the eye gate or the ear gate. But there's an enticement that takes place in my mind, and my mind says, yes, I want that. I want to indulge in that. I desire that, even though it's forbidden of God. I know it's bad for me. I know it or But I long for that. It's in the mind where that battle takes place. And he tells us we have to develop a correct attitude. Notice he says there, we must be sober. Again, we mentioned that means to be serious. We need to be clear-minded. Don't play around with the devil. Don't fool around with spiritual powers and spiritual principalities. I was in a situation here earlier in the week and folks were talking about a game called Dungeons and Dragons. I don't know much about it, but that name itself bothers me. I tell you, there's a lot of stuff out there that isn't just innocent, it isn't just child's play, it's tools of the devil to get our mind broke down and get our mind numb and blinded to what the devil wants to do to our lives. So we gotta be sober. We cannot play around with this. We cannot toy with spiritual realities. The word sober, the opposite of sober, is reckless. To be loose in my thinking. Sometimes one definition was this. The opposite of sober is to be stupid. Stupid. I enjoy deer hunting. About the only deer I ever shoot are stupid deer. So smart ones figure out I'm there long before I ever know. And I tell you, Satan, a stupid Christian, is easy prey for the devil. Don't pay attention to what I'm doing. Don't give any thought to what I get involved with. No standards, no convictions, no no firewalls, spiritual firewalls put up. to protect me from Satan's attack, just go barging into stuff and uh and devil use it and destroy us. So it's an attitude, an attitude of sobriety in my mind. And we have to be careful. Then he says, be vigilant. Means be wide awake, full alert, red alert. We are an enemy territory. The God of this world is the devil. And we're in enemy territory, and brother, we got to be up on red alert. Does anybody remember we had a fellow would preach for us, he's with the Lord now. Bill Barons preached a lot with us. He was a buddy of Bill Barons, Brother Chuck Cofty Anybody remember Brother Chuck Hoffe? He had been a number of times, did the wild game dinner, preached some revival source. Military, highly decorated military, Vietnam War veteran. When he was in the war, combat veteran, I should say, when he was in in the war there, he actually spent three days and three nights behind enemy lines. He had gotten left behind. And uh one day we had he would preach Sunday morning for us and he and the boys were small at the time and so we took he we took the church van and we went up to I think who knows somewhere we went up to eat And uh by the lake and uh the boys were there. And so we're driving back and he's in the pastor's seat. We're driving, the boys are back there, Kathy's right behind us. I always make Kathy sit in the back there like that. And um no, I don't But anyway, we're driving along and um man all of a sudden he just starts telling us his experiences what took place behind enemy lines. And I mean in graphic detail. And the boys are sitting back there. I mean I was sitting there, whoa. And uh we got to the motel and let him out and said, brother coffee, you okay? He goes, Yeah, why? I just uh I said, okay, I just want to be sure But something he emphasized, he said when he was back behind Amy, he was surrounded by the enemy. He was in enemy territory. He could not sleep. He could not be careful. He could not marry. He was on red alert 24-7 for three days and three nights, or he'd have been dead. And I thought as I was studying this, be vigilant. That's exactly what Peter is telling these believers. You be on red alert You let your guard down, brother, our enemy is not stupid. We let our guard down, boom, he's on us And so it's an attitude we have to have. We need to take this very, very seriously. Again, I know I'm being a little repetitious here tonight, but I tell you, we ought to be very careful about joking about the devil. He is not a joke. This will date this some of the older folks will remember this, but there used to be a comedian and he used to joke around. The devil made me do it. I tell you what, that's a lie of the devil. And get us seeing him as some buffoon, as some joke. Someday I'd like to preach a sermon on what does the devil look like? The world presents him as uh as uh as uh forked horns and all of this. Uh So the devil is uh as uh we can't play around, we can't toy around. Now, let's get to look at verse number eight, the last the second part. He says, be sober, be vigilant. That's our attitude Now he addresses our adversary. He talks a little bit about the devil. He tells us a little bit what the devil is like. What we're dealing with here. He says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil. That word adversary means what you think it would mean, an enemy. One who is opposed to me. One who is an adversary to me, is an enemy to me. He's against Me growing in the Lord. He's against my spiritual well-being. He's my adversary. He's my enemy. And so notice, he says, he says, because your adversary And then he tells us who the adversary is. Who is our adversary? The devil. I want to remind you: your adversary is not your spouse. It's true. And I'm saying that half jokingly, but I'm saying that half seriously also. If some of us If some of us would if some if some would get the would have uh as as hard of feelings towards the devil as they do towards their spouse, you might start having some victory in your Christian life You're so worked up about how what a failure your spouse is. You're so worked up about what you don't like about your spouse, you don't even realize that's not the enemy. The devil is using that attitude to eat you alive The enemy is not my spouse. But I want to say this. The enemy is not the government. Now, I don't like the government any more than anybody else. It's a God-ordained institution. I know it's abuse, and I know there's a satanic aspect to this the government persecuting churches. I understand all that, but we've got to be able to look beyond that and see who's behind it. And the devil is our enemy The devil is. If some of us would fight the devil as hard as we fight the govern the Democrats, the Liberals, we might have victory in our Christian life. I didn't get married any man on that one. But if we would get as worked up about the devil as we are about the liberals And so the enemy, the adversary, our adversary is not our spouse, is not our government, the enemy is not our neighbor. That stinking neighbor of mine We get all worked up, we think these do this, and we can come up with all these people. I want to remind you: these people are not our enemies. They are not our adversary, not our spouse, not the government, not your boss. Not the uh that antagonist that's giving you a hard time. He tells us who the who our adversary is. Our adversary, and then he identifies him, the devil Do you know what the name devil means? It's very descriptive of our adversary. The word devil means slanderer. Accuser. His very name tells us what he's like. What the devil does, what he is a master at. is going around and slandering God's people. Now what does it mean if someone slanders someone? Help me out You talk them down, you make them look bad, you try and paint them as a as an awful person You say awful things about them, and a lot of times in slander there's an element of truth. Well, she's this. Well, he's that That's the devil's very name. Is to slander people, to accuse people of things. Would you take your Bible? Keep your place here. And go to Revelation chapter number 12. I love one thing I love about the Bible, it exposes our adversary. We're not in the dark as to who our spiritual adversary is. Look with me if you would at Revelation chapter 12 and verse number 10. I find this interesting Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10, he's referencing the devil up in verse 9. The great dragon was called cast out, that old serpent called the devil, and Satan that deceived the whole world. He was cast unto the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, now is come salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God. and the power of his Christ. Now look at this next statement. I have it underlined in my Bible. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down. Look at this, which accused them before our God day and night His very name means to accuse and to slander. Satan, I'll tell you, Satan is focused on your failures and my failures. Satan is focused when our shortcomings we say and do things that are wrong. And Brother Satan jumps all over that And notice where he is. Look at this. For the accuser of our brethren is cast out, which accuse them where? Before God, day and night. I don't know how well this all plays out, but what I'm told here is Satan will stand before God And he'll just throw up in God's face all the things that Dennis Leatherman says and does he ought not to say and do. And he throws up to God all the things that Dennis Leatherman doesn't say and doesn't do that I should He says, oh, look at your child, Leatherman, down there. He does this and he thinks that and he said that and he didn't do this and he didn't do that. And it's just a constant barrage. Of what a sorry sinner Dennis Leatherman is. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's ministry Accuser of the brethren. Accuser of the brethren. I tell you, he's got some serpents in the world today, and they're very good at going around accusing the brethren. Brother, they'll point out everything you do wrong, they'll point out everything you don't do right, and brother, they won't let you ever forget that mistake, and they won't ever let you forget that sin. And brother, their ministry is to make sure you know and everyone else knows what a sorry person and Christian you are. That's what the devil does. He's the accuser of the brethren. That's his name. His name means that. Hey, by the way, let me just throw this out there. Thank God, though I have an accuser before God, I also have an advocate before God. And I got Jesus Christ the righteous who stands on my behalf before Almighty God and Satan throws all this stuff up there and all I can say is God I know it's true. That's confessing our sin. It's true, it's right. He's right. And my advocate steps up and says, all right, that's true. But wait a minute, I paid with my blood so that those sins could be forgiven. That must not be held against them. Thank God God doesn't hold my failures against me. Satan may, people might, but the only one in the world that really matters is my God. He does not hold my failures against me. So who is this adversary? He's the devil. His very name means accuser, slanderer Alright, what's he like? Alright, there's the devil. That's who my adversary is, the devil. We got him identified. Now what's he like? Look what he says. Come back there to Peter with me. He says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, who's that? The devil. Look what he does. Walketh about, because your adversary devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He says he's like a roaring lion. Now he doesn't say he is a roaring lion. He says as a roaring lion. So I can look at a roaring lion and I can study a roaring lion. And that will give me insight into what the devil is like. When a lion roars His purpose is to instill fear into the hearts and minds of his prey. It's to intimidate His prey. The devil thrives on fear. Roaring like. He wants you and I afraid to lift our voice up for the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants you and I to be afraid of stepping out in faith. He wants you and I to be afraid to try something and obey God and just trust him and obey him. He wants us to be afraid to turn around. I tell you, if nothing else, we've learned in this last several years, fear is a powerful, powerful force. Fear can get people to do things they would never normally do. Fear can get people to not do things they know in their heart they should be doing. And Satan is a roaring lion. He tries to instill fear in the people of God, to intimidate us. I uh came across a book uh written by a missionary to South Africa. He'd been down there many years, he started a number of churches in South Africa. I don't know the fellow personally But he wrote a book entitled The Lion Never Sleeps. And he did a study on lions And he said this, he said, I have seen lions hunting. They are territorial And they will not follow the migrating herds, but rather they hunt a very specific area. And when that herd, that herd on migration is migrating, when they come into their territory, then the uh uh the lion approaches that prey, that herd of wildebeesties or whatever it may be. As they are migrating, they come into that lion's territory, and that lion is very smart, he's very wise. as far as a hunter is concerned. And he will always position himself, according to this book, he will always position himself downwind from the prey. What's he doing? Why would he do that? So he does not alert them to his presence. Let me stop there and say this. The devil loves it when we're not even aware that he's around. He is the master of camouflage. He'll convince us we are perfectly fine, everything, oh, there's nothing wrong with this. If I had a dollar for every time somebody said to me, well, preacher, what's wrong with this? I'd probably have 40 or 50 bucks. The devil is a master at concealing himself. He is a master at camouflage. And he'll convince us there there ain't nothing in the world wrong with this. And so he positions himself as that migrating herd of whatever the animal is is coming into his territory, he'll position himself downwind from them so they're not aware of his presence. And then at the opportune time, according to this guy, when they're in the most vulnerable position He says that lion will come out of the brush and not really attack any of them individual, but he'll just put on this front and he will roar What does that do to that herd of beasts? Scatters them. They freak out. They're scared. And he says, in the chaos that that produces, that lion is watching. And he's looking for one that's weak. And he's looking for one that's wounded. And he's looking for one that's older or one that is vulnerable. And they'll scatter them, and that keen eye of that lion, using that roar, To instill fear, then he'll pick out the one he wants. And boom, he'll get him. Peter says that the devil is like a roaring lion. He'll get us convinced we're just fine. He'll get us convinced we're in a position where there's no danger, and out of nowhere, he will hit us and hit us hard. And if I'm not sober, and if I'm not vigilant, And I don't have my head on straight and my thinking clear. I become one of those vulnerable animals to that The lions attack and he'll take us out. You know what Christians get eat up by the lion? The ones that drop their guard The ones that become careless. Hey, I gotta tell you, I've been there. I've been vulnerable. I've gotten careless. Come on now, y'all looking at me If if if we all knew you as well as I know me, you would have to admit the same thing. We gotta be careful. We're vulnerable. And so he says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, who is the devil, the accuser, he's like a roaring lion. His whole purpose is to get us messed up so he can run to God and say, see that? He'll get in our head. See that? You're a sorry Christian. What right do you have to do that? Who do you think you are? Man, he'll accuse us and beat us down and eat us alive. With guilt and shame. The devil is a roaring lion. We must not allow the devil to intimidate us. Into thinking we cannot live for God. Have you ever been there? We must not let Him intimidate us into thinking I could never be a witness. We must not let him intimidate us to think that I can't live a pure life, that I can't have victory in my sin. He'll convince us I'm such a sorry Christian, I can never have victory. I'm such a sorry Christian, I can never be a witness. I'm such a Sorry, Christian, who in the world do I think I am to stand behind a pulpit and preach the word of God? Who do you think you are? I know who I am. I'm a sinner saved by the grace of God Nobody's better than anyone else. Nobody's more holy than anyone else. He said, Preacher, if you knew me, you'd know what a sorry Christian I am. Oh yeah? Well, if you we knew anybody in here We'd say the same thing, right or wrong. Just because my sin isn't the same as your sin doesn't make me better than you. Doesn't make you worse than me. That's what the devil wants to convince us of. Now I'm not saying we consider sin lately if we If we fall and we sin, man, we need to deal with it, confess it, forsake it, get back up and go on. But don't let the devil devour you about it As a roaring lion, as a roaring lion. Who is our adversary? It's the devil. What is he like? He's like a roaring lion. What is he up to? Look what it says. He walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I looked up that phrase, walketh about. I looked, see how it's used in the Bible. It means what you think it would mean to go back and forth. Back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Did you ever go to a zoo? You see that line just going back and forth? Back and forth. He's looking for a way out. He's looking for something. The old devil's just going back and forth looking Looking for somebody that's weak, somebody that's not sober, somebody that's not being vigilant, just looking and looking and looking He is God. I tell you, I respect the devil in the sense he's one of the hardest working beings you're ever going to come across. I studied the Bible. I can't find anywhere where the devil takes a vacation. Now I'm not against vacations, but I'm telling you, let me put it this way. When we go on vacation, remember the devil's not on vacation Man alive. Every Christian that messed up when they're on vacation because they let their guard down. Well, we're on vacation Brother, you're crazy. The devil's not on vacation. He's walking about, walking about. That word walketh about means to go back and forth. It means to get in every corner. Just going every corner. We got a uh I meant think I mentioned this, but I I bought my wife a robot vacuum cleaner. I mean, we are the Jetsons Except it's not what was that robot's name? Uh what was it? Rosie. Uh we named our vacuum Rosie. But um it's a little round uh you you all know what they are. And But we set that thing and it's to map the house. And that thing goes out there. And I mean every square inch of that house, that thing's there. You know, I get out of the shower and the stinking vacuum cleaner's right there I'm the back under I'm working at my desk in the back room and next thing I know that vacuum cleaner's up. That thing has every square corner of the house. You know what that walketh about, that's what that's what the devil does. He's in every square corner. He is just here and there, here and there. I want to remind you, the devil's not omnipresent. He's only one place, somewhere The devil is right now, he is in a physical location somewhere in this world, this universe. I don't know where that is. So he's not omnipresent like God is. He's limited to a specific locale, but he can move around. By the way, he's got a heap of devils working with him. Say, preacher, do you think there's any in this room right now? I have no doubt. I have no doubt. No doubt in my mind. This devil's here right now. Now, please be careful because we get obsessed with that and we find a little devil behind everybody. Oh, I think there's one behind there. No, it's not like that But he's walking about, walking about every corner, back and forth, constant, persistent. There's no getting away. There's no letting up When I uh when I got saved, uh I was such a dramatic change in my life and I was just so ecstatic for what God had made me, the new life he gave me. I was like, this is a dream And uh but it wasn't long I realized I still had that old sinful nature. That devil worked me over, worked me over. Then God led me to go down to Bible college, down to Tennessee Temple I thought, oh, praise the Lord. I'll go to Bible college, good school. There there won't be no devil there. I'm not going to have any more struggles. I won't be tempted or anything. Uh I got down there. I found out that one of my roommates was the devil. And um He was down there waiting for me. Finally, after uh uh crammed a four-year degree in five years uh graduated and uh I thought oh I'm gonna and I became youth pastor in Indianapolis and I was called Pastor Dennis and I thought praise the Lord the devil's gonna lead me down the devil doesn't bother pastors Oh brother, he was in my office waiting for me when I got there. And he just stays at it and just stays at it. Sometimes we think, oh, I get older. When I get older, I won't have these spiritual struggles You talk to some of our senior citizens, those spiritual battles never go away. Amen, Harry. Amen. He does not give up. He doesn't give us a break. He doesn't give us, he doesn't cut us any slack. He walketh about, walketh about, walketh about. No getting away, no letting up. When we step out in faith Man, the devil hits us and hits us hard. When we have a victory, the devil will hit us and hit us hard. This is the way I've often pictured it. I say I go to church and man, God stirs my heart. And I make some decisions. You know, Lord, I'm going to trust you on this matter. I'm going to cast all this care on you. I'm going to step out and take a ministry. You know, I'm going to teach a Sunday school class or I'm going to take a bus route. And the devil sees that. And a believer steps out in faith. And I said, I'm going to serve God. And they take that step forward. Or they make a step forward in their Christian life. I'm going to start reading my Bible like I should. I'm going to start being faithful to church like I should. Any step of faith forward And that devil will hit boom, boom, boom, boom. I tell you, I'm not surprised when a Christian comes to me and says, preacher, since I started living for God, I've had more struggles and more battles than I ever did before I was living for God. Hello, it's called the devil. And you just go on and he'll beat you and beat you, but you stand your ground, you keep on doing what you're doing, you stay faithful to God. And his tacks tend to to taper off a little bit. Then you take another step forward. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Barrage. But you stand your ground and you hold on They tend to back off. You take another step. Bo, bo, bo, bo, bo, bo, bo. And he will fight us every step of the way. But we must not back down. We must not back up. We must hold our ground and press forward. He will fight us every step of the way. Notice it says he walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He's looking for those careless Christians. He's looking for those distracted Christians. The word devour means to swallow up, to tear apart and swallow up. I tell you, he wants nothing more than put you and I out of commission. If he could get you and I to cower in a back bedroom and suck our thumb and say, I'm never doing nothing for God again I'm never going to step out and trust God again. I just got, I failed too bad. I tell you exactly where the devil wants you to be Get back up and go on. Don't let him devour you. I love Proverbs 24, 16. The just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. Get up and go on. Get up and go on. He wants to devour us, destroy us, get us out of having any ministry, get us out of having any influence, get us out of having any kind of testimony. Devour, to make useless, to destroy the testimony. His tactics. How does he do that? And I'll end with this. I put down five tactics the devil uses to devour us. Number one, bring division. If Satan can get division in a household, that household is useless. We don't have time. I wish we had time. I wanted to go to Mark chapter 3, verse 22 to 26. A kingdom divided against itself cannot stand. From the lips of Jesus Christ. A house divided against itself cannot stand. Now Jesus didn't use this terminology, but can I inject it here? A ministry, a church divided against itself, cannot stand. And Satan knows that. Again, I wish we had time, but if you would look at verse 23 of that passage, Mark chapter uh Mark chapter 3, verse 26, I'm sorry, verse chapter 3, verse 26. Jesus said even Satan himself cannot stand if he's divided against himself. Satan is unified. Satan, man, he's focused. He wants to get us divided. He wants to divide your house up. He wants to divide your marriage up. He wants to divide your kids up. He wants to divide a church up. Ministries up. Churches up Division. Another tactic of his to devour us is pride. Pride is, in my mind, pride's my number one enemy. Think so highly of myself, I really think I'm something. You know what I found? This thought has gripped my mind this past week. And it's not originally, I've read it somewhere. But it's gripped my mind. The failure. Now get this. The failure that humbles me is better for me than the victory that puffs me up. Do you get it? The failure that humbles me before God and see how desperately I need our Lord. I thought I was something. I thought uh I thought uh uh uh I thought too highly of myself. I thought I could stand and hear, oh, I fell. And I need the Lord. And I need to stay close to God. And I need to hold on to Him. I tell you, that does more good for me than the victory. Oh, look what a great Christian I am. Look how great our church is. We're the best church in the county. Brother, we start thinking that way, we might as well hang it up. You start thinking that way, you just prepare for disaster. We start thinking I'm a better Christian than someone else. I'm exactly where the devil wants me to be. I'm the best Christian in this church. And we gotta watch out for that. Division, pride, I put this down, discouragement. Man, just get me so discouraged. I'm powerless. Fact of the matter is we are powerless, but we have the presence of Almighty God within us. Again, if we had time, we'd go to Joshua, where God over and over and over told Joshua, Be strong and of good courage Be not dismayed. The Lord thy God is with thee. Be strong and of good courage. Be not dismayed. The Lord thy God is with thee. He tells Joshua that over and over and over. Why? Because he knew The devil will be all over Joshua and convince him he couldn't do anything as it's about to do great things for God. You know what I found? Sometimes the devil will attack our church or attack me personally right before we're about to do something big for God. Or right after God uses us in a great way, boom, come crashing down. Discouragement. We've got to stay close to the Lord. And then self-centeredness kind of goes with pride. It'll steal our joy. And the joy of the Lord is our strength. And we lose that joy, we lose our strength. And then, last of all, impurity. In little things, just compromise our morals in small areas. He that is faithful in that which is little. Will be faithful in that which is much. And if the devil can get me to compromise what is right in just some small thing, oh just a little Little compromise here, just a little dishonesty there, just a little indulgence here. Brother, if he can get us in those little things to compromise what is right Before we know it, he'll have us land on our back in a cesspool of sin. Right or wrong? Peter writes and he says, you better be sober. You better be vigilant. Because your adversary, just like a roaring lion walking about, and he wants to eat you alive. Don't play with that. Now, next time we look at this, we're going to see what our actions say, what do I do, preacher? What do I do? Come back next time. And we'll look at verse 9. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us not to play games. Help us, Lord, not to be obsessed with our enemy, but Lord, help us not to be ignorant of them either. And I pray as we go into Lord's Supper, you'd search our hearts and help us to humble ourselves before you. Lord, get our minds on, get our minds cleared up and our heads on straight spiritually. Father, bless now, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads above, I