Malachi chapter 3 is where we're at. We're going to look at verse number 6. I want to read a verse of scripture before we get to Malachi. Now you just hold your place there at Malachi. I want to read From Hebrews chapter number 13 and verse number 8. So you just stay at Malachi there. Let me read this. Hebrews 13 and verse 8. It says this: Jesus Christ, the same yesterday Today and forever. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever. Unchanging. Now, look with me if you would in Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 6 God says this, for I am the Lord. I am Jehovah. That's that word Lord there. That name Lord, Jehovah. I am the Lord. Now read this with me, read it with me, would you? The next statement. Altogether. Ready? I change not. Our message this morning is our unchanging God. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless our message. Father in heaven, We come to you this morning with very grateful hearts. Father, you are you treat us better than we deserve. There's no doubt about it. Your mercy is new every morning. Your grace is incomprehensible Lord, your love for us is beyond our ability to understand. And we have so much to be grateful for. We have so much to rejoice in. And so now as we look at this passage, I ask you to help all of us at home and around. Help us to put aside the distractions. Help us, Lord, to open our hearts and minds. to the Word of God as to who you are and what you are and what you're like. And uh I pray you'd help us a little bit this morning to comprehend That which is really incomprehensible. Fill me with your spirit. I ask, Lord, with all my heart. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and pray that you would speak your word, your truth, through me Out into the whole world, we pray, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen. I think one of the greatest subjects a person can study is the subject of God. To study God. We were talking in our Bible Institute class here a month or so ago. We were starting off the new semester. And uh the word theology can be a little intimidating to people. Uh they hear about theology or a theologian When in reality all a theolog theologian is theology is simply the study of God. That's what it is. So if you've ever contemplated God, if you've ever given a thought and ask questions and give consideration to who and what God is, you're really a theologian to some extent. It's the study of God And I believe with all my heart that is the greatest subject that anybody could invest their time and effort in to study. To study his existence The question is, does God exist? And uh to give that some consideration, to give that thought Uh so many times I'll meet people and they'll just flippantly say, Well, I don't believe in God. Well I don't I don't believe in God. And um You know, I doubt seriously they've ever given very much consideration to that, given much thought to that, given much study of that. Does God exist? How about this? What is God's name? Uh who is he? Who is God? What's his name? Um the nature of God, what is God like? To stop and think about it. What is God like? Everybody has their ideas of what God is like. Study the person of God. What kind of person is God? These are tremendous thoughts, tremendous things to study and give consideration to, and I think tremendously important. If God does exist, and there's no doubt that he does. And if God has a name, we want to know what his name is, and we want to know what God is like. We want to know what kind of person God is. We want to know what His desire and His will is for us. What does God want from us? What is God's purpose for creating us? And so these are tremendous subjects. These are important issues that I believe we all need to deal with and need to face. And around the world, people worship all kinds of gods that are the the product of their imaginations and their own reasoning. And so my statement is this, the greatest subject a man can study, I believe, is the subject of God. We're introduced to God in the Bible in Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 1. We have the first introduction of God. In the beginning, God There's no attempt on God's part, there's no attempt on the Bible's part to prove God's existence The Bible begins just with a very clear statement: God is. In the beginning, God. The Bible never tries to prove that God exists. The Bible simply declares God is And so we're introduced to God in the book of Genesis. By the way, in every one of our hearts and souls, there is an intuition, if you want to put it that way, that God is We know in our hearts and souls. I don't believe for one minute there's any true atheists. I think down in the heart and soul, God has placed an awareness of his existence in the heart and every uh and heart and soul of every human being. And so God is. God is. And by the way, the same is true of the devil. Nowhere in the Bible does the Bible try and prove the devil's existence. The Bible just states, addresses the devil that he is. And so we know there is a God. We know there is a devil. There's no need to try and defend them or uh prove their existence. They are. They are. Jesus said, if you would, take your Bibles. Now stay here in Malachi. We're going to come back to this. But if you would turn to the New Testament, the Gospel of John. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And John chapter 4 and verse 24, Jesus is speaking to a woman. She would be what we might describe as a pretty loose woman Uh she had been around, been married five times. She's living with a fellow. Uh she's got a little bit of an attitude, I think, if you read down through that passage. And Jesus makes a statement to this dear woman that most people would just write off and never give her the time of day. But he stops and he spends time with this woman. She's a sinner, like all of us But uh she's a sinner, she's uh uh you know living a lifestyle that is contrary to God's will, obviously But the Lord takes time with her and he speaks to her and he makes a tremendous statement, perhaps one of the most significant statements, about who God is and what he is in verse number twenty-four. John Chapter 4 and uh verse number 24. I'm talking away here, let me get there. Uh John chapter 4, and he says to this woman at the well, in verse 24 He says this to her. He says, God is a spirit. God is a spirit. Jesus makes a significant statement here to this dear woman and Through the pages of Scripture to all of us about God. God is the Spirit. I note three observations about God here. Number one, God is a living being He says, God is a spirit. God is a living being. Hey, I've got news for you. God is not dead. God hasn't died. I like what Raymond Barber said. He said, if God is dead, who signed the death certificate and when was the funeral? Fact of the matter is God is not dead. God is very much alive. And I tell you, I hear some Christians, the way some Christians talk him because of different situations, world Talking and acting like God's dead. God ain't dead. God's still alive, very much alive, just as much now as he was a month ago this time. And God is a living being God is alive. He is active. He's aware. He's alert. And so Jesus said to this dear woman, God is, and then he went on. He says, God is a spirit. God is a spiritual being. There's no place we can go where we can physically put our hands on God. He is not flesh and blood. He is a spiritual being. He is an invisible being. And we'll talk about in a little bit. But Jesus said God is a spirit. And then he makes an interesting statement. Look at that verse there again. God is a spirit. And they that worship, what's that next word there? Say it with me. They that worship him. God is alive, God is a spirit, and God is a person. He's a person with uh with characteristics of a person. They that worship him, him, him And so, the subject of God, what a subject to preach on. My word. As I look at the Bible and I study what the Bible tells us and teaches us about God. I find one thing the Bible tells us over and over and over in various ways, and that is this, that God is infinite. That word infinite simply means this, without boundaries, unrestricted. God is without limits. Our God is an awesome God. And He's limitless. He's boundless. He says, you say, well, what ways is God limitless? What ways is God boundless? First of all, I put this down. This is not my message. This is just the introduction. We'll get to the message in about an hour or so. But my first thing I put down, God is infinite. God is unlimited. God is boundless First of all, in his immensity. The immensity of God. This boggles my mind. This just captures my imagination. How big is God? Now think about that with me. God, he's real, he's a spiritual being, he's a person, and he is immense Three times the Bible tells us that the heaven of heavens cannot contain God. And I'll give you the references if you want them. 1 Kings 8:27. 2 Chronicles 2 6 2 Chronicles 6 18 Theorin Chronicles uh Solomon is dedicating The very first temple ever built by Israel, he's dedicating that temple to God, the worship of Jehovah And in that prayer of dedication, it's like it's almost like it dawns on Solomon while he's making this prayer, while he's making this dedication. How in the world uh this building cannot contain God? As immense as the building was and as ornate and magnificent as that building was, Solomon in his prayer to God, I don't know, this may just be my imagination, but it's like it all suddenly dawns on him How in the world can this building made by the hands of man contain Almighty God? And then he says the heavens cannot contain God. And that first phrase heavens, I think he's referencing the atmosphere. This entire atmosphere that you and I can see, that can't, God's bigger than that. And then he goes beyond and he makes a statement that absolutely boggles my mind. He says this: the heaven of heavens. Cannot contain God. Now think about that. That's a reference to our universe. We s we with all our technology and with all our Hubble space telescopes and all our our super powerful telescopes, we still don't know the boundaries of our universe. We have no idea what's beyond. Is there an end to the universe? What's beyond that Last night, I I say this, y'all are getting tired of hearing me talk about the stars. But um uh my wife told me if I talk about stars anymore, I'm gonna start seeing stars. Um but uh anyway. Uh Last night, about 10 o'clock or so, a little before I was coming over, as Pastor Matt and I always do on Saturday nights, and we spend time in prayer. We had a wonderful prayer time last night And uh I was walking over last night. If you were out, it was just crystal clear. The air was still. And I just stopped, I guess I was going home. I just stopped and paused and looked up at the universe up there. thought about how these distant stars, millions of light years traveling at the speed of light, and it takes tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of years. to get to that star I see up there traveling at the speed of light, the immensity of and then I thought this, God is bigger than this universe. Can you imagine the day? Can you imagine the day when you and I stand before God? The immensity of this God, and given our account of ourselves to Him. What a humbling, what a fearful, overwhelming thought. Over and over, the Bible says that God is infinite. In his immensity. I put this down. God is, the Bible teaches God is infinite in his power. The way the Bible refers to it, almighty God. Almighty. Infinite in his power, no limits, no boundaries to the power of our God. You say, preacher, I got problems. I'm telling you, we got a God that is all-powerful. He is infinite in his power. He is infinite in his knowledge and his wisdom. Listen to me. God understands you and I far better than we understand ourselves. He is unlimited. We refer to it as omniscient, all-knowing. God knows the beginning from the end. He knows our downsetting and our uprising. He knows what tomorrow holds. He knows what the past has been. God is all-knowing. He knows our situation. He knows our needs. He knows our fears. He knows our struggles. He knows our love and our joy. He knows us. We have a God that knows us unlimitedly. A God is unlimited, infinite in his existence. And by that I simply mean this. God is eternal. There never has been a time when God did not exist. There never will be a time when God does not exist. So I've had people over the years say, well, where uh when did God start? God never started He always has been, always will be. He is infinite. He transcends time. An amazing, amazing thought. God is infinite, unlimited in his presence. He is everywhere all the time. Little boy was coming out of Sunday school one time and um so uh he's going down the road walking home and the neighbor was there And he says, uh, what'd you learn in Sunday school? He said, uh, little boy said, We learned about God. And the neighbor said, I got a question for you, Sonny. Tell me where God is A little boy thought for a moment and he says, Well, you tell me where God isn't. In fact, the matter is that little boy understood, God is everywhere. We go to the highest ends of heaven, God is there. We go to the depths of hell, God is there. There is no place God cannot be. We got message this morning one of our missionaries, Brother Florence, over in Papua New Guinea. It was in a wreck uh there a little ahead of us, so it's probably Sunday night over there or whatever. And they were in a wreck. Now he's fine. And there's just some damage to the car. There's no injuries. But I thought about it. God is there with Brother Florence. Doesn't matter how far the ends of the earth a person goes, God is there. It doesn't matter, you may think everybody's abandoned you. I'm here to tell you, God is there. God is there. He's unlimited. He's infinite in his presence. God is infinite in his holiness. Unlimited. Now this is hard for us to comprehend because we're such unholy beings. But God is perfect in holiness. I like to refer to it this way. God is blindingly holy. And you look in the Bible, every time somebody was in the presence of God and the holiness of God was manifest, they fell on their knees in humility and confession and repentance, in the holiness of our God. He's infinite in his holiness. And God is infinite in his love. God is unlimited, boundless in his love. God's love never grows cold God loves you and me today just as much as He did yesterday and He will tomorrow. There never was a time when God began to love us and love you and love me. There never will be a time when God does not love you and me. He says in Jeremiah, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. I to be loved by a God like that. That uh never began, never ended, always has been before we were even existed. What an uh what an awesome God We have that created us and rose this universe. Psalm 46, 10 says this: be still and know that I am God. What amazing, what an amazing being God is, just incomprehensible. Yet he is so simple. God, this immensity, his holiness, his power, his wisdom, and yet a little child. Little child. Can come and walk with God. And God, and regardless of who or what we are, uh, regardless of how humble we may be, regardless of how uh um uh little we may view ourselves This God says, I want to be your friend. I want to be your companion. I want to help you. I want to guide you in life. I want to take care of you. I'm telling you, we have an amazing and awesome God. I wish I had the tongues of angels to be able to describe who our God is and what our God is like. God is. God is infinite. Throughout the Bible, we're told over and over in various ways, God is unlimited. God is infinite. Now if you would take your Bibles, come back to Malachi chapter number three with me. And I want us to look at verse number six. In fact, I want to encourage you to, if you have a pen or pencil, somehow underscore that little phrase there at the beginning of verse six I am the Lord, I change not. For I am the Lord, I change not. I've got that underlined in red in my Bible. I got it circled. And I wrote in the margin of my Bible, well, a bit of a theological word, I wrote this. immutable. It means unchanging. This is a statement directly from the mouth of God. Look at it with me. For I am the Lord. Now talk to me. Who's speaking here? It's God speaking, it's the Lord speaking. I am the Lord. Now he has a truth he wants us all to understand. He has a statement he wants to make very, very clear, very, very simple, that nobody misunderstands. He says, For I am the Lord, I change not. Now we all know we're we're we're seeing tremendous changes in our world. Good heavens In the last ten months, the changes that have taken place in our world and in our personal lives. We've all been affected. The whole world has been affected. and been changed uh in these last several months. We're seeing uh changes, uh disturbing changes in our country Um in the last several hundred years we've seen changes in technology and industry and how our lifestyles have been affected. And uh we have tremendous changes, um, breathtaking changes, in some cases fearful changes. We don't know where this Change is going to lead to? How is these uh things taking place? How are they gonna affect our lives and our family, our future? Breathtaking changes. However God declares very boldly to you and I, he says, I change not. These changes taking place in your world, these changes taking place in your country. These changes taking place in your life, and maybe it seems like you're out of control and you're not sure where these lead to, but I'm here to tell you, our God does not change. I change not. Whatever God was five years ago, he still is today. Whatever God was 50 years ago, he still is today. Whatever God was 500 years ago, he still is today. Whatever God was 5,000 years ago, He still is today. Whatever God was 5 million years ago, He still is today. He is unchanging. I am the Lord. I change not. I put down a few uh areas here where God does not change, and no doubt there's many others that uh we wouldn't have time to look at, but uh I put a few thoughts down here. And uh number one, I put this down. God does not change in his particular essence Now you say, what in the world are you talking about? And uh what I mean by that is God never changes in what he is. What God is, that never changes his essence. Now it's hard for you and I, probably incomprehensible for you and I to fully understand. What God is. What is God? I tell you this, he's nothing like anything you and I have ever experienced. There's nothing uh in uh in our world that uh that we can comprehend that compares to God. He's completely above and beyond And unique to everything we see. I think that's one of the reasons, one of the commandments is thou shalt not make into the any graven image Because if we try to make some image of God and some of these different religions that try to make an image, they say, well, that just represents God. That's a discredit to God. That's an insult to God To have some sort of image to try and represent them. God is so far beyond all that. So what is God? I can't tell you what God is. I don't know what God's substance is But I know this, he's real. I know this, he is a being. Now what that is, I can't say. God is unlike anything that we could possibly comprehend with our limited minds. God is not a physical or material being. But whatever he is, it's unchanging. It's unchanging. God is perpetually the same for ever and ever and ever and ever I am the Lord. I change not in his essence. I put this down. God is unchanging in his personal attributes. Now again, you say, preacher, what in the world are you talking about? Personal attributes. Simply means this in his characteristics. Uh what is he like? Is the characteristics of God? Whatever God was ten million years ago, he still is that today. Whatever he was like. 10 million years ago, he still is today, and he will be tomorrow, and the next day, and the next year, and the next century, and the next millennium. God is the same. God always has been and always will be all-knowing. Now think about that. God knows everything. There is nothing that God does not know. That tells me God never learns anything. You say, what do you mean God never learns anything? If you already know everything, you don't have to learn anything And um uh God never learns anything. Uh God sees all. God hears uh the uh our cries, our groans, our weeping. He knows every aspect of our being, he knows our fears. He knows our worries. He knows our needs. He knows every aspect of us. God's knowledge never increases. God's knowledge never diminishes. He always has known everything, he always will know everything. Now I don't know about y'all, but um I get to the point where something comes up and I'll say, you know, I used to know that. I used to know the answer to that. And uh and uh I was uh the doctor was telling me this little formula to help your memory, but for the life of me I can't remember what it was. And uh but God never forgets. God never used to know something. God is all-knowing, he's unchanging He's unchanging. He always has been, always will be all-knowing. God always has been and always will be all-powerful. He's just as powerful today as he was the day he spoke this universe into existence. He's just as powerful today as he was the day He separated the land from the waters here on this earth and just spoke it just as powerful today as he was today he spoke the the vegetable vegetable life into existence on this planet And the animals and the fowls of the air and the bird and uh and the fishes of the sea spoke all that. God is just as powerful today. What are you doing being fearful of man? What are we doing being worried about what man can and cannot do? We have a God that is all-powerful and always will be. We have no need to fear man. Jesus says, why do you fear man who can kill your body? You ought to fear God who killed the body and send you into hell. God's all-powerful. He's the one that we should fear. He's the one that we should trust. He's the one that we should allow to lead and direct our lives. God is always has been and always will be all powerful. God never gets old. God never grows wheat. I was talking to somebody this week, and they said, you know, my body's reminding me I'm not as young as I used to be. And God never says that. God never gets weak. God never grows old. God always has been and always will be all powerful. Now a couple others here real quickly. God always has been and God always will be just. God never treats anybody unfairly. God never judges anybody unfairly. Now we have human judges, and many of them are unfair, perhaps, maybe through not deliberate uh just because of a finite limited man, some are unfair deliberately, some are corrupt But I'm here to tell you God is just. He always has been, he always will be, and someday God will make that which is wrong right. And justice will be served. You mark it down. God always has been, always will be just. God never corrupts. Money cannot corrupt God. His power does not corrupt him. He is a just God. Always has been, always will be. God always has been, always will be good. God is good. Mark it down. Write that down. God is good. As true today as it ever has been. He always has been good. He always will be good. And I put this one down, and this is a tremendous thought. God always has been. And God always will be love. God is love. He loves you. He loves me. I tell you one of the great verses in the Bible I was reading last night And it just struck me, Romans 5. 8. Just a simple verse. Many of us are very, very familiar, but I'm telling you, what a tremendous truth to consider. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ died for us. Every single one of us, we've sinned against God. Every one of us, we've broken God's law. We've sinned against his goodness. His love and mercy. We've said things that ought not to be said. We've done things we ought not to have done. There's things we should have done we didn't do. There's things that kindness and truth that should have been said and wasn't. Yet God still loves us while we were yet sinners. God loved us, and Christ died for us. Christ died for our sins. I'm telling you, what an awesome God we have. Unchanging. Our God is unchanging. So God is unchanging, first of all, in his particular essence, what he is. Now it's hard to comprehend what God is. We know he's alive. We know he's real. We know he's a spirit. We know he's personal being. He has intelligence. He has a will. But he's unchanging in his essence. He's unchanging in just a few of these attributes I share with you. Let me give you two more real quickly. God is unchanging in his eternal plans. And he's eternal plans. God has a plan for your life and my life. There's not a person that's ever been or ever will be conceived that God does not have a plan for their life. Don't ever say God has no place for me. That's not true. Don't ever say God has no plan for my life. My life has no purpose. That is not true. God has a plan for your life and my life, and it's unchanging his plans for mankind. I came across a quote by Charles Spurgeon, made hundreds some years ago. He said this, listen carefully. He said, things are not left to chance. No blind fate rules the world God hath purposes, and those purposes are fulfilled. God has plans, and those plans are wise. and can never be dislocated. Now what he means by that is they can never be annulled. They can never be altered. God is unchanging in His plans for you and I. I'll tell you what God's plan for you for each of us is that we be saved. God is not willing that any should perish. Now it's up to us. It's up to us whether we accept that offer of salvation or not. God has a plan for you and I to live by faith and trust him and let him lead us. Now we can follow that plan, but that plan doesn't change. God is unchanging. I am the Lord, thy God, I change not. He's unchanging, last of all, in his precious promises. What God has promised thousands of years ago, God's promises that He gave thousands of years ago are still true today. Thousands of years ago, Jeremiah, under the inspiration of God, said this: Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth That's a promise of God. Anybody anywhere on this planet, if they'll look to the Lord in faith, trusting Christ as their Savior, God will forgive and save them from sin and hell. That promise is just as true today as it was back thousands of years ago when it was said. Philippian Paul was in jail for preaching the gospel he was beaten and his stocks. At midnight, him and Silas were singing praises to God and praying, and an earthquake struck. And uh uh the prisoners, uh the the the the prison the jailer there thought the prisoners had escaped because of the earthquake and uh he was going to kill himself. He had failed and he's going to kill himself. And Paul said, Do thyself no harm. And that old sinful prisoner, that old sinful jailer And at the end of his rope, in a hopeless situation, what he thought, he said, what must I do to be saved? Paul, under the inspiration of God, gave a tremendous promise. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. That was true 2,000 years ago, that old Philippian jailer. That's true for you and I today. You're tuned in today, you're listening today, and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. I'm here to tell you God's love for you is unchanging Jesus Christ died for your sins, was buried, and rose again. If you'll turn to him and claim that unchanging promise that to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, you shall be saved. It's true yesterday, today, and forever. Romans 10, 13, another great verse. God used this verse so powerfully in my salvation. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Not might be not Hopefully will be, but a promise, unchanging promise of God, shall be saved. Somebody says to me, Preacher, you can't know whether you're saved or not. Don't you call God a liar God said, if you'll call me, you shall be saved. Preacher, nobody can be certain. Don't you call God a liar? God's promises are unchanging. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. These things have I written unto you, God says in John, that uh whosoever believeth in him should uh these things have I written unto you that uh That ye may know that you have eternal life. No, so God's promises are unchanging. Unchanging. Jeremiah chapter 14 and verse 3, Jesus made a promise to his disciples, Peter in particular, but all the disciples to you and I, he says, I will come again. I will come again. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ is coming again. It's coming again. Say, when's he coming? I wish I had a lady sent me a message this morning. Boy, I hope the Lord uh I wish the Lord would come back real soon before we get the new president. I said, well, the Lord the Lord's coming back again. Do you mark it down? He's coming. He's coming. He's coming. Whether he comes before the changes or whatever, we don't know. But I know this. He his promise has not changed. His promise will not fail Jesus Christ is coming again. I don't know about you, but I'm glad that our kingdom is not of this world. And we have a coming king, and it'll catch us up to be with him. And one day we'll rule and reign with him here on this very earth during a millennial reign. That promise will not, has not, and will not change. Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. Years ago, when we first came here, is probably about this time of year in 1993. We'd only been here uh might have been a little earlier, I've been here maybe a few weeks And uh before we even had our boxes unpacked, moving into what was the parsonage at the time. Uh I began going out into the neighborhood and I just started knocking on doors and had some literature here, some old literature that was in a cabinet I found in in the church office and I grabbed that and uh I just went out started knocking on doors and introducing myself. I'm Pastor Leatherman. I'm the new pastor here at the Mount Lake Baptist Church and Want to introduce myself and people are very gracious and uh talk, invite me in, and I'd get to try to share the gospel with folks and Oh, s a week or two, maybe a couple, few weeks went by. And I was out, uh some of you will know, I was out five sixty, going out towards Gourmania. I still I can take it to the very house. The building's not there now. They tore it down But uh I was just working my way out, house to house, driving out through there, and uh he came up to uh an old mobile home type thing, a trailer. And uh o overgrown, the yard was grown and a little messy, and um knocked on the door, and uh the door was partially open. I could still See it in my mind, so I knock there, doors partially open, a lady inside says, Uh, who is it? And I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman, I'm the new pastor at the Baptist Church. She said, Come on in So you gotta be careful about that, but I peeked in and here was an older lady and uh she was heavy and un unhealthy. She had a lot of health issues. I think if I remember right, she was on oxygen And um she says, You come on in here. And so I came in, I sat across the the the living room there in the little chair, sat with her, and I introduced myself and told her a little bit about where we were from, my family, and and uh I invited her out the church and then I said this and um I still I can s I could give you her name. I can still see her sitting there And I said, I said her name, and I said, let me ask you this. Do you know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? And she said, Preacher, I don't know. I hope I'd go to heaven. I said, could I take a moment, just show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that God's forgiven all your sins? And that he'll give you eternal life and you go to heaven. She said, Preacher, I'd like that. I was able to take my Bible and go to Romans, and I showed her step by step how we're all sinners. And the wages of our sin is to die and go to hell, separated from God. Wages of sin is death. But I showed her that the gift of God is eternal life. Jesus paid those wages for us. He suffered that hell, that judgment of hell for us. was buried and rose again. Nobody in the world has to go to hell. Nobody in the world has to be judged for their sins. Jesus was already judged for us. And I showed her Romans 10, 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. She was glued to me. I said, ma'am, I said, would you be willing to call on the Lord and trust Him as your personal Savior? And she said, I sure would. She bowed her head and I helped her pray and call on the Lord to be our Savior. I was the very first person as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I was able to win to Christ. And she was never healthy enough to be able to come out to services, but I would visit her weekly She eventually moved away and I lost touch with her. I got word a number of years ago, met a couple fifteen, twenty years ago she passed away. But it sure was nice to know that the promise of God, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, that that promise never changes. never changes regardless of circumstance, regardless of who the person is, regardless of what century we might live in, God's promise is never changed And if you and I that know the Lord Jesus Savior will simply trust him, he says, seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you. That's an unchanging promise of God. Let's just determine. Now we're going to live our lives around Jesus Christ. He's going to be the governor of our lives. And we're going to claim his promises, and we're going to follow his leadership, and we're going to trust his word, and we're going to heed his warnings. Because he's the Lord and he does not change. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you, I ask, Lord, that you would just instill this thought in our hearts and minds. That though our lives change, our world changes, God, you never do change. You're just as powerful as that day that Moses lifted that rod and That cease divided and they walked across in dry land. You're just as powerful today. So help us to trust you, Lord. Help us to submit ourselves to your leadership and your will for our lives, your plan. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for all you do in Jesus' name. Amen