1 Peter chap Peter chapter 1. I want to say a word about the young person that um was counseled this morning. You know it'd be very easy just to talk a child into saying a prayer You could do that. You can talk a child into doing just about anything. And so uh pre- we're not glad when they don't make a decision, but I really appreciate the fact that our counselors are careful. And that they want to make sure they understand and and that it's not just, oh quick here, pray this. Uh we try not to be sloppy with sharing the gospel with folks. So I really Appreciate that. I was looking at the decision card and it says um said the girl's name. She goes, she's almost there, but she doesn't understand enough. So I'm grateful for that. First Peter chapter number one, and I just want to read two verses. I want to encourage you to do something this evening. Would you take a pen And uh maybe in the fly leaf of your Bible, or at least on a sheet of paper, I'm going to make three statements. Those are my points tonight. But I really think they're encouraging. They are to me tremendously encouraging and tremendously helpful as we go through life. And so if we could jot these down, just keep these three statements we're going to see here in a little bit. Keep them in front of us. I think it might help us ward off discouragement. How many people here ever have to ward off discouragement sometimes? Sure. Uh it's it's a a real issue we face, fa discouragement. Or um uh we're not sure. Anybody here ever get in a situation and you just say, Where in the Lord where in the world is the Lord going with this Anybody ever get like that? I don't even know where what the what in the world. And so I think these will help. Uh at least as I was preparing it it it Encouraged my heart. First Peter chapter one, verse number twenty and twenty-one is our text for tonight. The Bible says, who well, let me back up. Verse 18 and 19, he talks about the precious blood of Christ that has redeemed us. We talked about that last week. We're not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold received from our main uh from our main conversation, received by tradition from our fathers. That's not what saves us gold and silver and stuff. And traditions, religion doesn't save us. But the precious blood of Christ, uh without uh uh as of a lamb, without blemish and without spot. Now he's speaking about Christ He's continuing the thought here, verse 20. Who, the Christ, who verily was forordained before the foundation of the world. But was manifest in these last times for you, who by him do believe in God, who by Christ, it's through Christ that we have a relationship with our Creator God. Who by him do believe in God, that raised him from the dead and gave him glory. Now he made all that, he said all that for this the for the reason given at the end of verse 21 That your faith and hope might be in God. Now he lists, I see three things Peter lists here, that he points out, and he says, the reason for these, the reason I'm highlighting these three things is so that your faith and your hope will be in God. And there's not one situation in all the world that you or I will ever face that having faith and hope in God will not see us through it. And so faith and hope in God. Our faith and hope is in God is my title. Let's pray, and I'll try and communicate what I think this is saying here. Father, we do thank you for a good day. The Lord's Day is such a wonderful thing And so I'm glad we could assemble together and know the weather's roads and stuff are a little messy, but uh Lord uh we're just glad we can get together. Thank you for the songs, the testimony, the report, and the kids And we're just grateful for your goodness to us, such a sweet spirit, and fun to be around your people. But now we ask you to help us We finish out this day. We start the new week. And I pray that you would stir our hearts and get our focus and heart in tune that we can be a good witness this week, that we can see your hand and bring glory to our Savior. And so fill me with your spirit is my earnest prayer. And speak through me. Lord, I give my body and my yield my will again. That you would be the teacher and preacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you study the writings of Paul in the New Testament, and I say that and I always feel obligated, I need to explain, I need to point out the fact that uh God is the author. Paul is writing under inspiration of God. But if you study the books of the Bible, the New Testament that God used Paul to record for us If you look at them carefully, you find a major theme that Paul constantly comes back to, and that is this. Faith in God. Faith in God. He says in Ephesians, for by grace are you saved through Faith, that not of yourselves, uh your gift is a gift of God. For by grace are you saved through faith. Um in Romans, uh faith, faith, Abraham believed God And so you study Paul's writings and you find this recurring theme, faith in God, faith in God, faith for salvation. Faith to grow in my Christian walk, faith to endure trials, faith, faith, faith, faith, faith. He goes all through there. Now the other parts of the Bible obviously deal with that also, but it's a theme in Paul's writings If you go to the John's ratings, the Gospel of John, this morning we looked at 1 John, you got 2nd, 3rd John, you got Revelation. If you look at his and study his, there's a recurring theme in John's also, and that is this: love, the love of God. The new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another And this is love. And he talks about love over and over and over. He touches on other subjects. But love is a recurring theme. Then we get to Peter. And Peter, of course, we have 1 and 2 Peter. And if you study them carefully, I believe there's a recurring theme in Peter's writings also. All this under the inspiration of God, the guidance of the Lord, as they're recording these But um, and that recurring theme, I believe, is hope. Hope. Our hope is in God. Have faith in God and hope in God. Hope in God. And uh it's interesting, and we did this a bit at the beginning of our study of this book, but to observe Peter's transition From when he first met Christ on the shores of Galilee there, old fisherman, cleaning his nets, uh just doing what he did. He f he feared God. He was a good Jew, I've no doubt. He loved Jehovah. And um uh and just do his and Jesus Christ comes along and their paths cross And Christ, Jesus Christ calls him to follow him and then to study Peter and watch this transition from an old, rough uh um fishermen to now we find him being used of God to record a portion of the eternal word of God. How many people agree with me? That's a phenomenal honor For God to use a man to record, to have a part in the eternal word of God for all eternity. 1 and 2 Peter will be there in the Bible. What an amazing thing. This an old fisherman, just uh probably one old, but uh just uh fisherman and um and God calls him and what a transition takes place. I jotted down some things that I noticed changed in Peter's life. And that builds up to a statement he makes here in our text tonight. I noticed when we first find Peter in the Gospels along the shore of Galilee, out in the boat, following the Lord Jesus around. Uh he was a very self-confident guy. Would you agree with me on that? Oh, I'll never deny him. Aye and you hear him referring to himself in very positive terms, very confident terms. I'll never deny. I'll die before. And uh I, I, very self-confident guy. Now we get here into the in Peter and 1 Peter, and we'll see it again maybe later in 2 Peter, his faith isn't in himself so much now, his faith is where? And the Lord. It's confidence in our as in Christ. It's changed over time. How many folks, when you were younger I know we got some young people here, but uh us older folks, how many folks when you were younger, uh you had a lot more confidence in yourself than you do now? Yeah, boy, it would come out. I could do anything. I had all the answers. I knew everything and all that. Uh now the older I get, I feel like I don't hardly know nothing And his transition from faith in himself, confidence in himself, to confidence in Christ, in God I noticed early on in his our uh introduction to Peter and our uh record of his uh transition here, early on, he's very self-focused. It's pretty much about Peter all the time. Peter all the time. Conversations about Peter and different things. Now you're getting over, and he's not so much self-focused. Now he's Christ-focused He's talking about Christ, talking about Christ, talking about Christ. There's an event that took place, I think, that was a key key tra a key event in Peter's transition. We'll see here in a little bit Uh I noticed um even after he was with the Lord for three and a half years and Jesus Christ was crucified, he's buried, he rose again, and they're reunited together. They're following the Lord here. Again, still he had a earthly perspective. Would you come with me? Now keep your place here, just real quickly. Come with me back to Acts chapter 1. Acts chapter 1. And uh there's an interesting statement here. It's actually all the disciples are in on this question they asked the Lord, but Peter's in on this, and it gives us a little insight. into his perspective on even at this point, his perspective on the Lord and his perspective on God's will and God's workings and God's plan. Look at Acts chapter 1 and verse number 6. Now remember the Lord's been crucified, buried, rose again. They couldn't believe it. They're shocked out of their mind. The Lord's alive. What? He's alive? Yes. Now they've been with them for a uh a little while, a few days. And um verse six says this, and when they when they therefore were come together All the disciples got together with the Lord Jesus. They're all gathered around and uh they have no idea what's about to take place, but um they're talking with the Lord and and And they got full of questions. Man, they realize who this Jesus is in a powerful way in this resurrection. And they say to him, look what they ask of him Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? What was their focus? Their focus was an earthly kingdom. They were still looking for a palace for Jesus to rule out of Israel's independence. He was still focused on an earthly kingdom. And it's interesting what the Lord says. And he said unto them, It's not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. Is there going to be an earthly kingdom someday? Yeah, yeah, millennium. Someday it's coming, but he says it's not for you to know the times or seasons. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that statement, it's none of your business. Mm-hmm. That's what the Lord tells them. It's none of your business when the kingdom is. I got a job for you. Go and uh be a witness in in all the world, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria. And so Peter's focus goes from being an earthly perspective. Now we get back to 1 Peter, and uh, boy, he's talking about heaven. He's talking about reserved seats in heaven. He's talking about a heavenly perspective. This old earth is temporary. How many people like that song? This world is not my home. I'm just a person. I like that song. It's true. And that's where Peter's head is at now. That's where his perspective is. So this tremendous transition from self-confidence, self-focus, earthly perspective Now it's my confidence is in the Lord. My focus is on Christ. My perspective is a spiritual, heavenly perspective from God's perspective, not all down here. Now we come to our text. And I see here, I see Peter gives three reasons why we can have faith in God, what he's learned, what God has shown him Three reasons we can have faith in God. We can trust God. Three reasons we can place our hope in the Lord. You see the end of verse 21? That your faith and hope must uh might be in God. Uh the word faith there means to trust or have confidence in Hope is a confident anticipation, an undoubting expectation, not a wish-so desire, wishful desire. But our hope is in God. Our confident anticipation, expectation is from God. God will come through. God will come through. I can trust them. And he says, here's, let me give you some reasons for this. Number one, here's the statement I'd like for you to write down. Number one, God knows what he's doing God knows what he's doing. Do you ever follow someone or you're in a car with someone and they're driving somewhere and you don't know where it's at and you don't know how to get there and they're driving along and it starts going through your mind, they have no idea where they're going. Anybody know I'm talking about your following say, what in the world? Uh I don't think they know where they're going. They don't know what they're doing. My wife's not here, so I can say this. Um We were uh when we first started dating, the first time I went home with her to Hinkle Mountain, West Virginia. And uh uh we're driving up through the hills to West Virginia. I mean you talk about backwoods uh uh redneck hillbilly um we were playing up there I rolled the window down and heard banjo music and um so So I I'm driving up there and I said now I said I don't know where you live. Do you you know how to get there? Yeah then we come to an intersection she'd say this. I hope she's not listening tonight. Um She'd say this. I think we go that way. Now you gotta understand, I'm in the middle of nowhere. These are hillbilly shotguns everywhere, you know And um she goes, I think we go this way. Think. That's all I heard. And uh after a while I started thinking she has no idea how to get to her house And so we went up this big mountain across this hill, across a little stream, and uh past a big oak tree, b past a couple cows, and lo and behold, there was her house. She knew exactly where she was going And uh uh some sometimes uh you get in, you just wonder, but if you're with someone and you know that they know what they're doing. There's a lot of confidence in that, isn't it? That helps a lot. How many people here would like to have confidence in your doctor? I want a doctor I can have confidence that he knows what he's doing. He gives me that little pill to take. I want to know that he knows what he's doing and I'm can safely put this thing in my body I'm here to tell you, Peter's going to point out to us here in a minute, God knows what he's doing. We can trust him. We can trust him. Notice here what he says in verse 20. Who, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, who verily was, what's that next big word there? forordained before the foundation of the world. Jesus Christ Giving his precious blood for our redemption, for our salvation, died on that cross, shedding his blood, buried, rose again. He says all of that, all of that was foreordained Before the foundation of the world. Now, I got looking at that word foreordained. It has this idea to and this is my putting it together. I believe this is what this word means. To foreordain, the word foreordain has this idea, to make a decision based upon foreknowledge. Now, what is foreknowledge? Let's just break it down. To know ahead of time. To know ahead of time what's going to transpire, what the circumstances are going to be what the situation is going to be, and then to make a decision, or I put this down, to determine a course of action based upon what I know ahead of time is going to happen down there Foreordain. Now here's a big Bible word, or it's actually a theological word. I don't believe it's the word itself is maybe it is in Revelation, but the word omniscient Omniscient. How many people heard that word? I can eye, some of you know it. Omniscient means omni means all-encompassing. Omniscient science means what? What's the word science mean? Knowledge. So the omniscience of God means that God knows everything. His knowledge encompasses every possible thing there is to know. God is all-knowing So if God is omniscient, if God is all-knowing, does that mean he knows what's already happened? Yeah, sure. That's obvious. If God is all-knowing, does that mean he knows what is going on in my life right now? Yeah, he knows everything. Let me just throw this little thing out there. We can't hide nothing from God Can't hide anything from God. God knows. However, the omniscience of God also means he not only knows what has happened, he knows what is happening now, but he knows what's going to happen. In fact, he knows for all eternity what is going to happen. And let me take it a step further: the omniscience of God, our God is such an awesome God. That he not only knows what has happened, what is going on now, fully comprehends, fully aware, fully understands what's going to happen, but he knows what could happen if we made other decisions. He knows every possible scenario. If I turn right here and turn he turned left, he knows everything that would transpire there. If I went left, he knows how that would play out Every possible scenario, God knows all of it. How many people like me? That's mind-boggling. That he would know that. He would know that. So God, before the foundation of the world, he, because of his omniscience, he had foreknowledge of what was going to happen, how this creation of man and how the history of the world and how this would all play out. He knew every decision that would be made. He knew every action that was going to be taken, he knew what the consequences are and were of every one of those actions, and knowing that ahead of time He put a course of action in place. He made some decisions. He put some things in place. And what he put in place was, he put in place the plan of salvation. That Jesus Christ would be the Savior of the world, that He would shed His blood for all of mankind so they can be forgiven, so mankind can be forgiven, He would be buried, rose again, and rise from the dead. It was foreordained before the foundation of the world. I put it this way: before God ever laid the foundation of the world, he knew exactly how Adam and Eve would respond to his instructions in the garden. Let me put it this way: when God said, Thou shalt not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, all the other trees thou mayest freely eat of, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat thereof. Now here's what God did not do, and I don't mean to be irreverent, but here's what God did not do. Huh. I wonder what they're going to do Well, not at all. He knew exactly. He knew exactly how they would respond to his instructions. Um it wasn't uh right, thou shalt thou thou mayest eat of all the trees of the of the garden of eating, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat thereof And they she listens to the serpent, and uh she eats of the forbidden fruit. She gives her husband, he eats of the forbidden fruit. God didn't do this. Oh my word. Now what? God didn't do any of that. He knew before the foundation of the world, he knew how Adam and Eve were going to respond to his instructions in the garden. He knew the course that humanity would take. He knew that every imagination of the thought of man would be evil. on evil continually and that uh he was going to flood he knew all of that he knew all of that ahead of time nothing caught him by surprise The foreordained, foreknowledge of God, he knew that. He knew the price that was going to be required to redeem mankind from sin. sin, the redeem man's soul from eternity in hell, from the judgment of his own holy wrath. God knew all that. He knew all of that. Nothing catches God by surprise. Here's the interesting thing. God provided a Savior before a sin was ever committed. God had a plan of salvation before man ever disobeyed God. He had it all in place, all laid out. He knew exactly. He foreordained, knowing ahead of time how the what the response would be, how this would play out, what the situation would be He put all of this in place. All of this in place. Take your Bible if you would. Turn to Revelation. A few pages, the last book of the Bible there, not too far away. Revelation chapter 13 And verse number eight, Revelation thirteen, eight Revelation 13:8, notice it says, and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him Whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb slain, look at this, written in the book of life, of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. What in the world does that mean? What do you mean? Was Jesus crucified before the world was made? Huh? No, huh? We can go back 2,000 years. We can narrow it down to pretty much the year almost, at least pretty close That's what he what do you mean before the foundation of the world? You know what God's saying here? He's saying he knew. He knew foreknowledge, knew exactly how man would respond. He knew exactly what man's situation would be. He knew exactly what was needed to be done for man to be saved from his own sin. From God's holy wrath, he knew exactly what had to take place, and uh before the foundation of the world God had already determined Jesus was going to be slain, he was going to die for man's sin. This is how I'm gonna save man from sin in hell And when God says, listen, when God knows that something is going to happen ahead of time, he refers to it often in a past tense type thing as if it already happened, because it's as sure of happening as if it did already happen. So before the foundation of the world this was going to take place. He was slain. It was already di already determined that Jesus Christ was going to die for man's sin before God ever made the first rock, before he spoke uh stars into existence before he formed man and uh put uh before that little pile of dust ever even became a pile of dust, God already had the plan laid out. He had it all in place. He had the need already met. He knew exactly uh how to how to do that. What an amazing God we have. Nothing catches God by surprise. He knows what he's doing. And this I tell you, I can- I my mind just goes on this. God's omniscience. He knows the past from the future, the end from the beginning. And there's this concept of God as this. that God transcends time. How many people feel like thinking tonight a little bit? Nobody. All right. Well you gotta think a little bit on this. God transcends time. You and I do not transcend time We are captives of here and now. I can't go back five minutes. I can't jump ahead five minutes. I am a captive of the moment. Right? You follow my what I'm saying? But God isn't. He transcends time. As the omniscient, eternal God, in fact, you know there's going to be a time when time will be no more? That's mind-boggling. How does that work? And God transcends time. It's an eternal now to God. My mind is starting to leak brain fluid trying to think about that. Our God is an amazing God. Our God is an incomprehensible God. It's mind-boggling. And so that means, if it's all eternal now, the etern uh let's put it this way. I think there's a song like this. I don't know. I think there's something about it. Um I don't know what tomorrow is, but God's already there. You ever hear a song like that? I think there's you ever hear that? God's already there. He transcends time. He's not limited today. Oh no, I'm scared. What's going to happen tomorrow? God's already there. He'll be there when you show up. You say, oh, I dread getting up tomorrow going to work. Well, God's already there. He's waiting on you It's already there. It's good. Um I know not what tomorrow may hold, but I know God's already there. He's already there. He transcends time. Nothing I like I wrote this down in my notes. This got me fired up. Nothing ever surprises God. Nothing ever catches them off guard I put this down and I like this. I don't know if anybody else is joining us. I'm enjoying this. I like this. God never reacts to anything. He doesn't react. He already knew what it was. He already has a plan in place, everything. We react to stuff. Anybody anybody here ever have somebody come by and say, you knucklehead, and react to it Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or react to something? You get a get a bill in the mail. WHAAA and we react. God never reacts. He doesn't get bills, but if he did, he'd open up and say, I already knew that I already got how it's going to take care of in place. Everything's all in place. Would you agree with me? If what I just said is true, and it is, it's Bible, if what I said is true, we can trust God. I can put my hope in him. Because he already knows. He already has a solution to every problem. Listen, if he can solve the problem of man's sin, then he can solve any other problem you and I come up with. He knows what he's doing. He knows what he's doing. The gospel is not God's reaction to man's sin. Oh no, they sinned. I've got to come up with a solution. Oh no. He already had the solution. He didn't react to man's sin. He knew, Forder knew that man would sin. He already had everything in place. Already had everything in place. God doesn't react to our actions. God doesn't react to our circumstances. He knows already what you and I are going to face on Thursday. He knows what we're going to deal with next Saturday. He knows what's going to pop up on Tuesday. And he already has everything in place all ready to deal with it. We just need to trust him. We just need to put our hope in him. I don't know about you, but that helps me. We can have faith in God. We can put our hope in him because he knows what he's doing. So I hope you wrote that down. Let me give you another one real quick right down. God, number two, I wrote this down. God cares deeply for us. God cares deeply for us. I tell you, sometimes we get, in institute, maybe this happens sometimes, but we get studying the doctrines of God. And the attributes of God and his foreknowledge and his predestination and his sovereignty of God. And you go down all through that. And if we're not careful, we'd make God into some kind of robot. Oh, everything's pre that and here and there and you punch this, that's gonna happen, put this state in, oh this is gonna happen, and everything's all dictated and everything's just robotic, but that's not the way God is Though God knows, is for knowledge, he puts things in place to deal with our free will decisions we make He's got everything in place. He knows what decision to make. He knows how to deal with it. He knows what the consequences are. He knows what all the options are to spend penny on our decisions. But he's not a robot. And we're not robots either. We're individuals created in the image of God. Get this, whom he loves dearly. He cares deeply for us. Our God is omniscient. He transcends time. It's mind-boggling. What kind of God is this that even the winds and the seas obey his voice? What kind of God is this? I'll tell you what kind of God he is. He's a God that knows what he's doing and loves you and I very, very dearly. You can't beat. You can't beat John 3. 16. For God, what so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Foreordained before he ever made us. I've got the problem solved. I have the solution to man's sin. I love them. I want to take care of them. I want to meet their needs. I want to solve their problem. Our God loves us. And I get that from the second part of verse 20. Let me read it for you here real quickly. He says, who verily was forordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times, I love those last two words, for you. He said, before I ever, before the foundation of the world was in place, I was making sure you got taken care of. Before I ever, before I ever made the core of the earth, before the sun ever existed, I made sure, Dennis Sletherman, way down there on human history, towards the end of human history, I'm making sure that That he his sins are taken care of. That I got him covered. I got Pastor Matt covered and Xander. And you put anybody's name that has ever lived in there. I've already, I love him. I did this for you You manifest in these last times. The word manifest there is referring, I believe, to his incarnation When Jesus Christ revealed God when he became man, when God revealed himself in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus said in John 14, 9, He that seeth me has seen the Father. And he was revealing to us, he was showing to us God the Father. And he said, when Jesus Christ was manifesting these last times, he's talking about the church age By the way, did you know the last how many people say, Preacher, we're living in the last days? How many people agree with that? Yeah, we've been in the last days since Jesus ascended uh up into heaven. This whole dispensation is the last days And he says, in that time frame, I had you in mind, manifesting these last times for you. Jesus became a man for me. He lived a sinless life for me. He died on the cross for me. He suffered hell for me. He rose from the dead for me and for you. For you. I'm glad God loves us. If God knows what he's doing And he cares deeply about me. Do you agree with me? I can trust him. I can have hope in him. I can put my faith in him. John 15, 13, greater love hath no man than this, and a man lay down his life for his friends. From before the foundation of the world, God had already determined Jesus was going to be slain for me. There's no greater love than that. We can put our faith in God. We can put our hope in God. He will not do us wrong because he loves us Last one, real quick. I said three statements I want to encourage you to write down. One, God knows what he's doing. I can trust him. I can put faith in him. I can hope in him. Number two, he cares for me deeply. I can put my faith in him. I can trust him. He's not going to do me wrong. Last of all, real quickly, God is all powerful. Look at verse 21 and the first part. Who by him do believe in God, Jesus, by him Uh that's Jesus. Do believe in God. Look at this. That raised him up from the dead. Wow, what a statement. Do you know any human being that has the power to raise someone from the dead? Uh-uh. No. You know who is the only being in existence that can bestow life on anything? There's only one being in existence that is powerful enough to give life. Who is that? It's God Almighty. That's God Almighty. There's only one being in existence that has the power to restore life. And that's God. Only God can raise the dead. Only God can breathe life into a a a clay, a d a body made out of dust. Only God can breathe into those nostrils. the breath of life and to become a living soul. No man has that power. You don't have that power. I don't have that power. Benny Hinn don't have that power. Nobody has that power. But God Almighty, God Himself. Here's my point I'm trying to make. Number one, God knows what he's doing. Number two, God cares deeply for me. And number three, God's all-powerful. If he can raise Jesus from the dead, if he has the power, the resurrection power to raise Jesus from the dead. There's no problem you and I face that God can't take care of. There's nothing that God is not powerful enough to deal with. He already knows what's going to happen tomorrow, next week, next year, next century. He already knows what he knows it. It's already in his mind. It's his experience, his perspective. It's all It's all done. He knows all that. He's got everything in place to deal with every possible scenario and knows exactly what it is. I just need to trust him. He loves me. Everything he's put in place is for me, for my benefit, for my well-being, spiritual well-being, for my relationship with him. He's got it all in place. How did Paul say it in Romans 8. 28? For all things work together for Good to them that love God at Cold and Court's work. He's already got it all laid out, got it all taken care of. He's got it there. And uh you say, Oh, but preacher, my problem's so big I don't think even God could solve it God couldn't even solve this problem. You're believing a lie of the devil. There's not a problem in the world God can't solve. There's not a need in existence. If God can raise the dead, then God can meet my need. And God can solve my problem. He's all powerful. So, number one, does God know what he's doing? Yes or no? Sure he does. He knew what he's doing from before the foundation of the world. Number two, does God care deeply about us? Yeah, absolutely. He gave his son for us. For us For you, for me. Is God all powerful? Absolutely. Absolutely. The resurrection of Jesus Christ, when God raised Jesus from the dead, it had a profound impact on the disciples. Their lives were changed forever. Holy Spirit came down and empowered them, and they without fear, preached the Word of God Every one of those disciples, but perhaps the exception of the Apostle John, every one of them gave their life for God in total confidence, total faith in Him, total hope in Him, knowing That God knew exactly what he was doing. So here's my final application. This is what I want to end with. The more we get to know God, The more we understand who God is and what he's like, what he thinks about me, and what he's capable of, the more I understand that, the more I can trust him The more I can have confidence in him. So let's pray tonight. Let's ask God to get our confidence off of ourselves, our focus off of ourselves, our perspective off of this world. And get it on the Lord and know that this coming week, God's in control. He knows what he's doing. Everything he allows into my life, like we testified, everything he allows into life, whether I understand it or not, God knows That's for me. He cares for me. And he's powerful enough to give me and help me and see me through whatever I come through And we need to testify to this whole world of the love and power of God throughout the week. Father, please bless now. I thank you, Lord, that you know what you're doing, that you've already, you're already there tomorrow, whatever happens. And you've got all planned out. You've got the solution already in place. We just trust you. Just have faith in you. Just put our hope in you. I wonder with headsbound, eyes closed, say, preacher, I need to get to know God a little better. I need to understand who he is, what he's like. What he thinks of me and and uh and his love for me. I need to I need to get closer to God and get to know him better. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? That's what I need. Paul said that I may know him and the power of his resurrection All wanted to know God. Want to know him better. I wonder if some say, preacher, I've got some things coming up. I see them. Um, but I just I just need to put my faith and my hope in God Quit letting that thing eat me up and worry me to death and just know that God's got it all in all in his hand. Is there any like that, preacher? Just some things that worry me and worry me and worry me. I'm going to put it in the Lord's hand. God knows what he's doing. God bless you. Hands all around. If there's someone here, say, preacher, someone's not saved. Someone I care deeply about. I want to be a good testimony. I want them to see God working in my life and see uh what faith in God can do and and so that they'll trust Christ. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I know someone. I want them to see Christ in me I want them to see God working. God bless you. Father, bless our invitation now as we finish up the Lord's day. Stir our hearts. Humble us, Lord. Just to trust you, have faith in you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. James playing the invitation hymn. How about we finish out this Lord's