Take your Bibles and go to Psalm 119. Psalm 119. I want to talk about our godly heritage today. If there's a godly heritage, I'll guarantee you it's all American. We have a heritage unlike any other nation on the face of this earth aside from the nation of Israel. We have a duality of citizenship, first to our heavenly home and our King, King Jesus, and secondly to the greatest nation on earth, the United States of a miracle. Because we are a miracle. There's no way that our nation should even be. There's no way that we should have ever won the war for independence. But the way that we won it is through God showing up battle after battle because people were praying and fasting and praying for God to do something unique here. And he did He gave us the victory over the greatest and most disciplined, trained Military in the world, Great Britain. Military colleges all over the United States and the world have tried to figure out how on earth Did we win the war for independence? Some call it the Revolutionary War. So there's only one way: God's intercession His divine intercession, battle after battle. And it was because God's people got on their face before him and prayed that he would do something. That same God is the God we serve today. And I'm so glad the songs that we just uh heard sing, because it is prayer Our nation was formed and shaped by prayer. And we need to be people praying for our country as well. And so I want you to take your Bibles and we're going to go to Psalm 119. I'm going to read Psalm 119. I just wanted to see if you're awake. Psalm 119 and 111. Okay? Psalm 119 and 111. Because God has told us something here that I think every one of us individually, collectively, and even nationally need to understand. and realize we cannot live below where God wants us to live in the privileges and the honor that He's given us as Christians. It says in Psalm 119 and verse 11 Thy testimonies have I taken. As an heritage forever. For they are the rejoicing of my heart. Now I want you to see this. This is the sweet psalmist of Israel. And what he is saying right here is I have taken something that's already mine. But I understand now what God's talking about when he says in other psalms Psalm 16, verse 6, where he says, The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. Right here, he's claiming it. He's taking it. And what we need to do is take that same heritage that God's given to us. What is the definition? of a heritage from God. That we, God's people, are called his heritage. And because of that We can claim by him, and we are the objects of his special care. Not just care, but special care. Amen? Look, I I like being special. Amen? Not special, but special Okay? Amen. Sometimes people say, word, you brought up in speciality. No, I wasn't. No, I wasn't. But to God, every single one of us are special. And we denote that he cares for us in a very unique way. We are the root of the heritage. We are his heirs. Get your mind around that for a minute. Get your heart around that. We are God's heritage. We need to claim that. Because today we share a sacred heritage from God. Let's pray, Heavenly Father. As we come now before you, we've already heard wonderful music that exalts you, that really shows us what our country is. It's a miracle. We woke up in a miracle. So Father, as we look to you now, coming out of a very busy society, we ask you to still our minds and our hearts That we might truly focus on some eternal truths. Dear God, help us to glean from thy word what you would have for us today. And once again, this thy servant is stepping back and surrendering every fiber of my being to you. Through and by the authority that's in the name of your Son, and to the leadership of your Holy Ghost, the comforter that you've left with us. Dear Holy Spirit, Come into this service through and by the unction of God the Father. And Lord be here with us in every way, shape, and form. That we might have our minds and hearts open unto you. And we, we sinners saved by grace, will be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do. But we ask this through invite the authority that's in the name of Jesus Christ, your Son and our Savior. Amen So I I like this in the fact that when I want you to look over to Psalm 33 that we just finished reading a minute ago and and uh listen to Brother Matt uh read for us, but I want to draw our attention to a few things here. In Psalm 33, first of all it says, the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. Aren't you glad about that Aren't you glad Joe Biden didn't get done what he wanted to do? To change this into a socialistic society. See, socialism disregards God. Any ideology that disregards God is out of hell. And that brings death. I'm glad we have a republic, not a democracy, but a republic that we fashioned from the nation of Israel In Exodus 18 and verse 21, a multi-layered representational government. Now we're not a theocracy, but we're definitely not a democracy either. But I'm glad that God has blessed us in an amazing way, nationally, locally, individually, and he wants to continue to bless us. And I want you to see this as well. He brought all the counsel of the Eden to naught. He made the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord, he says, my counsel standeth forever. The thoughts of His heart to all generations. Now look at this next verse here. It's very, very familiar, but it's something that I want you to see. Because it goes along with what I'm talking about. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And look at this. And the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. That's something. So he chooses us. Remember when uh we were picking sports teams yesteryear, all the kids would be there, you know, there'd be two captains. Be it, you know, baseball or football and and then one I I'll take him and and I'll take him and you know. Before I went through my growings for it, I was just a little guy, and I was always the last one Selected. Didn't make me feel too good. Okay? I went through my growing spurt and I was one of the first ones then. I was chosen. Okay? But it's good to be chosen. God's chosen us Can you get a hold of that? He has chosen us for his inheritance. What do you say about that, Brother Harding? Wow. I'll say it backwards. Wow. I'll say it upside down, Mom. I'll say it sideways, Bob. But wow, God's chosen us for his inheritance. I'm telling you, I can't get over that. It's amazing to me. In 1 Peter 5, it says this, the elders which are among you, I exhort. Who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and listen to this, and a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. I was down in North Carolina not long ago. In fact, even yesterday, when the guys were saying how old they were, for the Norris said he was about to turn 71 and there was a gentleman here and he said I'm already 71 okay and I was a group there was a group of the the gray hairs surrounding me okay and I thought I was the youngest among them So I was telling, so how old are you? Oh I'm 68, huh? How old are you? Oh I'm 64. Hmm. And how old are you? Oh I'm I'm 67. I went, wow. I said, I'm 71 I'm your elder, so you need to behave and obey me. Amen? Because I'm one of your elders, all right? I didn't believe it. I, you know, I'm getting to be an old guy But I'm so thankful that as elders, no matter what age you are, from young ones to the more seasoned of us, we're all partakers of His glory. Oh my. Don't get over that. Look, tell that to yourself. Meditate upon that. And what happens too many times, what people do is they look at their condition. And not at their position. Our position, if we're saved and we know the Lord, our position is that we are his heritage. There are those that just don't they don't see that. They don't get that. They they look so much inward instead of upward. If you look inward, woe is me, right? Because we all have aches and pains, we all have burdens and the cares of life, right? But if you look upward, you say, yeah, but you know what I am his heritage. Well that does something for you. That'll put a spring in your step That'll put a little gleam in your eye. It'll put a song in your heart that comes out here. What I'm saying is, look Make sure that you are doing what God wants you to do and meditating upon the fact that we need to claim something that's already ours. It will aid us in living now in the spirit and less in the flesh, and it will help us to challenge ourselves so that we may get to heaven, I'll guarantee you, it won't be that we're Answering to those things such as the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life, but that we've accomplished some things for Christ because we know that He's our shepherd. And we shall receive a crown of glory. Ephesians 1, it says, in whom we have obtained an inheritance I don't know about you. I'm glad for the inheritance that God's given me. In Exodus 6, it says, I will give you an heritage For in heritage, he's going to give the promised land to the people of Israel as a heritage forever, he says. I am the Lord. In Romans 8, it talks about if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ If so be that we suffer with him, that we be also glorified together. You know, until 1777, we were receiving our Bibles from Great Britain That stopped when the war began. We felt we needed the Bible so much that it was so critical. that the Continental Congress passed a law to try to get some Bibles from other countries. No other country would send us the Bible because they didn't believe that we would win the war for independence. And by man's estimation, we shouldn't have. But then something happened. They knew that they needed the Bible and at least 20,000 copies of the Bible. So in 1781, they passed a resolution to have the Bible printed here in the United States. And they gave it to a publisher by the name of Robert Aiken. And Robert Aiken took the Bible and published it. It was the 1782 edition of the King James Bible, and it was called the Bible of the Revolution. And they passed it out to all the people, to the men. Why? Because the Bible is the very thing that allowed us to believe as God delivered his people from the tyranny of Egypt. Perhaps if we got on God's side, he would deliver the people of America from the tyranny of Great Britain. And guess what? They were right. He did. Amen. I don't know about you. I'm glad we don't have to bow to any man. We're not subjects unto the king of England, especially Charles. That guy is man, I don't know where he is. I don't know what color the sky is in his world. I'm sorry that he even has the name Charles, because that's my name. Amen. Hey look, I know there's some probably some people that like tea in here, but I like coffee a lot more than tea, okay? So I was all for the tea parties, all that stuff overboard, okay? So get some coffee grown here in America, amen? Some good caffeinated coffee. And those people that, you know, I want decaffe, I would say, give me their caffeine, okay? I mean, you know, why do you drink coffee if it's not caffeinated? Let's get caffeinated. Amen? Then we can really get going in the right direction. Or at least get going. You know the Bible, what it has done? It guided our statesman. You understand that? Our statesman would have never had the truth that they put down the Declaration of Independence if it wasn't for the Bible. Because Thomas Jefferson said the Declaration of Independence was just gathering of truths that I heard from pulpits all over the United States at that time. Of course it was just just you know the uh the Eastern Seaboard The Bible was the very thing that allowed them to look to the God of the universe, to look to the governor, as James Madison said. When it came time to formulate the Constitution of the United States, no one had ever put down in writing the triform of government that we received from Isaiah 33 and verse 22. No one had ever put down the separation of powers because we knew that the heart of man was desperately wicked from Jeremiah 17 and verse 9. No one had ever even thought about putting in writing the multilayered representational government that we call the republic. Amen? And we need to call it the republic. Because it's to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God. And there's nowhere in the Constitution that democracy is even mentioned. These are things that we need to know. These are basic things that we need to know Early on, the Bible is so important that the whole world looks at the United States as the land The country of the Bible. Now if the whole world looks at us that way, then we need to be people of the Bible. Amen? We need to be people of the book. We need to, as your pastor said, be not just Christians, but Baptists. Say, what does Baptists do? Baptists, I mean, they say God's word says it and that settles it. Whether I believe it or not. If I don't believe what the what God says, guess what? I don't try to change this to meet my needs. No, no, no. I bring my imaginations under the guide of God's Word. Every action that I do Doesn't make a difference if I do agree with it or not. God says it, that settles it. Period. End of story. I like it. You know why? Because it's simple being a Baptist. Amen? You don't have to think about well what philosophy shall I follow? You don't have to follow philosophy. You have the Word of God. And that's what we need to be. Hey, wherever you go. Whatever you do, as you're walking into work, people should know, oh, careful what you say around him or her, because they're person of the Bible. I mean that's what it that's the way it was when I worked. I didn't make any bones about the fact that I was a Christian and that, I mean, that got out. But we were talking yesterday about uh the great heritage of being able to witness to people and I can remember there was a fella there and uh he was uh he was an evolutionist. Now he looked like an all-American guy Went to Oklahoma University, that's where I was working, and I was working with him uh at the Federal Aviation Administration, the Special Police Dep Department, and uh and so he came in and he was spouting about we start talking about evolution. I said evolution is a farce. Oh, that made him mad. And every argument that he gave me, I I cut it to pieces with with God's word and scientific To facts. Not just with God's word, but scientific facts. I cut every single leg from every one of the chairs he tried to sit on. He got mad, he cussed me He cussed me out. But while I was doing that, I was also witnessing to him about the gospel. Twenty-five years later I was told by my pastor in Oklahoma City to go down and take part in the International Day of Prayer. I did. And I was standing there and I was introduced and then I had a word of prayer. And this man came up to me And he had been providing the music. He was actually playing the bag pipes, and his wife was playing the harp. He came up to me, he said, You don't remember me, but I remember you. I said, what do you mean? He said we worked together at the Federal Aviation Administration. And I remember you were telling me that evolution was wrong. And when you did that you also witnessed to me, he said, I cursed you He said, I want you to know I could never get away from what you said. And God used that to bring me to a point in my life where I accepted Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior, and I want you to know how much I appreciate you. Amen? Now why? I'll tell you why. Because we need to be people of the book. The Bible. Because we are part of a nation. Part of a nation that the whole world looks at and oh yeah, I know part of our country has gone off track. But we still, as that very small remnant, need to stand strong and to realize that the world still looks at America, and we, as God's people, need to be the voice of our country Amen. And hold up the Word of God before the world and before other people. There is an early American historian, this is what he says, who will charge the government with indifference to religion Or even talk about separation between church and state when the first Congress of the United States assumed all the rights and performed all the duties of a Bible society long before such an institution had an existence in the world. That's an amazing statement. The Cunhill Congress was really the first Bible society. I don't know about you, that's a great heritage that our nation has. Our nation with all its uh attacks upon the freedom and frailties is still the land of the Bible. It's still preeminently the land of the world evangelism, of the Christian faith, and often repeated revivals over and over and over again. We're the most beneficent nation on earth. We're the first ones that land in any catastrophe whatsoever. We have a sacrificial heritage, sacrificing for the next generation. And understanding. Hey, the torch will be passed. It has to be clearly seen. Let me ask you a question. Where have our documents been for these last two hundred and forty nine years? The Declaration of Independence? Constitution of the United States? The Bill of Rights? Have we hidden them from the world? Where are they? They're in the National Archives building. Anyone can walk in and see. In fact, you don't even have to go to Washington D. C. You can look it up on the internet. And there they are. You can read it in their entirety. In fact, you really can't, you can hardly read the Declaration Because it was so bleached by the sun when they didn't understand how the sun bleaches out ink. But my question is, if our documents and the blueprint of what it is to be a free people and to exalt life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. How come more nations haven't followed America? And become a republic? Why is that? There's no other nation on earth that has followed us in the way, oh, the United Kingdom tried to somehow imitate us, but see they left God out. The reason why others have not done what we've done is because when you get to be wealthy Whether you get to be someone of uh prestige and power, you don't want to give that up for the normal citizen. And that's the big difference between America and all other nations. Our founding fathers, those 56 multi-billionaires. signed a document that they knew was going to do them and their family great harm. Many of them died from battle wounds or when the British caught them tortured to death Many of them lost everything that they had, vast wealth. So why did they sign that document? And why isn't anyone else signed the document? I'll tell you why. The reason is the Bible. The reason is men of God preached into them a sacred fire. That's why. That's our heritage. And folks, that should stir the very embers of our heart today. You young people. That are here today. Need to get a hold of this and realize the reason why you eat so well and you dress so well and you live in a nice home and you have a mom and dad is because of the men that paid the ultimate price for you. I ask this to teenagers all the time, okay? When I'm speaking to teenagers, if you had any car That you could get. You okay? I know the flesh is willing, but I mean the spirit's willing, but the flesh is weak. Amen. He's looking cross eyed right now. I'm paying I pay attention, Brother Hart. Hang in there, okay? But if you had any car you could buy, any car. I mean, forget about the just any car, what would it be? What? A Dodge Charger. See, there's a truck guy. Amen. That's America right there too. Amen. I I asked, if if if you could buy any car, what would it be? A Nova? Huh? It is awesome. What what what what would you buy? Any kind of car? A truck. A truck. A truck. Okay, I need to talk to him later, okay? You need to get specific. Okay. Are there any girls here that are That are kind of, you know, car enthusiasts. Oh. A Corvette. See? There's a mom talking right there. Now, that should be a good influence on her daughters. Amen? A Corvette I like Corvettes. You say why? Because they began the year of my birth. Amen? They're wonderful cars. 1953. Yeah. It was a wonderful year for classics. Amen. Myself and the Corvette. What I'm saying is, folks, we live in a nation that nothing is impossible for us to achieve because we have the liberty that God gave us. That's our heritage, you see, individually, collectively, nationally We need to grab a hold of that and to tell God we're going to start doing something with that, with that great heritage that we have. Amen. That's good. But it's sacrificial. Passing that torch. The reason I do what I do is for the next generation. So they can grow up in a country where they can think free. Our documents, you see, speak to that. Moses turned the leadership to the nation. To Joshua. Elijah cast his mantle on Elisha. David gave instructions to his son Solomon. And Paul imprisoned, handed the torch of liberty over to his adopted son in the ministry, Timothy. That's what America has been, a long heritage of living for the next generation. The inception of our country. I mean, look, the pilgrims came here to worship God. And many of them died before they could even kind of put roots down. But nothing dissuaded them because they were living for the next generation. They were living for us. Back February, about a year ago, I was officiating my niece's wedding in Florida, and I had a kidney stone attack. How many have you ever had a kidney stone attack? Yeah. They're no fun, aren't aren't they? No fun. I was sweating. I was in pain. You say your pain level from zero to ten? Mine was ten plus And I'm talking about that we were about to start the wedding. So I got up in front of everybody and and uh I I'm there and only people knew were my two sisters and and my wife And I mean I was in major pain. I was white as a sheep, but I said nothing's gonna keep me from officiating the wedding of my niece. I was looking for a palm tree to to kinda duck behind if I l lost my cookies, if it got that bad, but I was in some major pain. And so I stood there, and here came the bride. And uh I I performed the ceremony and and the moment that I had them turn and introduce them as husband and wife, that very moment My pain went from 10 plus to 0. Pretty interesting. So then I came back home and and uh went ahead and Went to the doctors and doctors said, well, that kidney stone's in your bladder now, so he said, but there's something in your liver that I don't like. And we're going to send you to get another type of scan. And I was pronounced with liver cancer. So I started praying before my God. Lord, what am I going to do? How am I going to get this done? I tried one procedure at a very well-known hospital. It didn't work. And I just said, Lord, I need your help on this. And so the second person I called was a doctor that I knew that uh practiced in Texas and he was a born-again believer And had helped me through the COVID, when the COVID hit, uh, and uh allowed me to do what was uh called a silver bullet protocol. So he's a he was an integrated doctor. He was a medical doctor, but he thought out of the box So I called him and I said, uh Richard, uh what can I do? Because this is what I have and this is what didn't work? This is what he said. You know how good God's timing is I'm in my car right now with my wife. We're headed back to Texas. from a place called InVita Clinic in Scottsdale, Arizona. I took her to the nation's number one traditional cancer research hospital and she had stage four breast cancer and they said, no hope for you. Go home, put your affairs in order. You're going to die soon. We're coming back from this place in Scottsdale after four weeks and she's completely cured He said, this is where you need to come. Gave me the phone number. I looked it up on the internet, did some research, called out there and uh talked to one of the uh people uh that basically kind of uh gave you an overview of what was going on and and uh Then she said, most of it's out of pocket. I almost swallowed my tongue when they said what it could cost me. And I told God, I can't afford this. I can't afford this But Lord, you're the God of the universe. If you want me to go here, you can provide. Well, guess what? My wife can attest to this. I never asked anyone for a cent But people started finding out and one person even actually said, uh I ha I had a windfall, financial windfall, and I don't really need it And so I prayed and asked asked Lord who's this for? And and they said, um, it's for you. I'm giving this to you. And I mean I could you know you could have knocked me over with a feather. And then other people started finding out. And they said, Brother Harden, we're praying for you. What else can we do? I said, just pray for me. We're already praying for you. We're gonna we're gonna send you a love offering. And you know We had to go out there for fifteen weeks. We had to move out there. I was looking at $5,000 a month rent. And my first cousin found out that we were going out there and she said, We have a winter home that we're not gonna be there because it's summer right now. You can go there and stay for free. Beautiful little uh, you know, bungalow is wonderful And and we have two golden doodles, okay? And so uh I didn't you know I said, Well I I don't know what we're gonna do with our dogs for all this time. She said, and she I didn't even ask her, she said, and if you have dogs, bring your dogs I went, what? It was like, you know, I was I was uh thinking this and God was hearing it and he was giving it to her, she was giving it back to me. So we took our two golden doodles out there, which were the uh support faculty, you know. So when I came home they were like on me or, you know, at my feet, you know, how you doing type of thing. But they did something out there called the GTFC, genetically targeted fractionated chemo Only place in the world that does this. And God showed me. See, God's still the God of the miracle. Amen? Genetic. So they mapped my genetic structure Sent the blood over to Europe and found out. Then uh genetically targeted, they took I don't know if you've ever seen the the list of chemo, it's this long, they took the top three that would be best for my body, worse for the cancer. And they said, this is your cocktail that we're going to ask, would you change that name? I don't name the n I don't like the name cocktail Okay. So well this is the three things we're going to uh insert in your body when once we drop the blood sugar way low. And so it's targeted that way. I said, what's the process? Well, you fast for four hours before you come in, then we drop your blood sugar even further, and then we put a tiny little syringe. You know, chemo normally, big bag. Makes you sick, lose your hair, damages other parts of your body. They gave me a little syringe every time I got eight of these, that big, and they inserted it, and It tricks the cancer into thinking that the chemo is sugar and eats it and dies. I eight of those. And every time I got through I got up, I wasn't sick, I got in my car and drove back to where my wife and I were staying. And of course the the doodles were always there ready to uh you know to give me the the the support Then at the end, the end of this, they they uh they said, Well, you have no cancer in your body at all except for this tumor. He said, Now if there's any good news, your tumor started and stayed in your liver. Okay? He said so it's about a five centimeter tumor and we can do it one of two ways. We can we can uh do something called the CIPI where we take the catheter of a human hair and inject that chemo right. into the tumor or you could go down about six miles down the street get what's called the Y90 where they go vascularly into your tumor and they put these radiated beads in your tumor And that could be a one-and-done for you, where the SIPI might take three times, and we have to go through your lung. Of course, your lung might collapse. And and uh and so I'm thinking, yeah, I think I probably would like to try that one and done, okay? And so the doctor was amazing, the top one of the top docs, and by the way, that was covered under insurance, which was a good thing as well, and he took those radiated bees and put them right to the tumor, and about a month later he called me And he was excited. You could tell he was excited. He said, Do you want the good news or the really good news? Now for a doctor to say that, you know, that's That's uh that's kind of a unique thing. I said, well starting with the good news, let's work up. He said, Well the good news is your kidney and your liver function was good, but they're even better. He said, but here's something that I want you to know. This isn't a double. This isn't a triple. This is a grand slam. You have no cancer. It's gone. Your tumor is clear of any cancer. And you know what I said to him when he told me that? I said, well, Doctor, I want you to know, I thank you for your spirit, for your expertise. I'm a recipient of that. And I'm going to be loyal. to the investment that you've made in my life. And that was kind of the might say the the thing that started me thinking about this message. Look at all the people that have invested in our life. Look at the founding fathers, what they did. Look at the veterans. Like I said, I was just at D-Day recently. First time I was there, I was with a D-Day veteran. And he said within a hundred and he said within 15 minutes, 190 men died at this very spot. He said by day's end, 2,000 People had fallen for the price of liberty. Most of them teenagers. Twenty-some-year-olds. A lot of them lying about their age. Sixteen, seventeen-year-olds. dying for for you and for me. You know what? That's an investment that they made in our life. I I walked through the cemetery over there in Normandy. It was almost like those tombstones spoke to me. He being dead yet speaketh. Those young voices, you might say, of those teenagers, I gave my life for liberty. What are you doing to hold on to it? I told that doctor, I'm gonna be faithful To your investment. And then I started thinking, Lord, you've invested in my life. You sent your only begotten son. And I thought, you know, I wonder when that it was the last time that I went to the Lord in prayer and didn't ask him for anything, but just thanked him. For the investment that he's put in my life. When was the last time that I called someone that I knew? I put time, effort, prayer, resources into my life. Can you think of someone? Is the Holy Spirit Bringing someone to memory right now that's done something for you? My wife and I, our first pastor, was in Gillette, Wyoming. Amen? I don't know if you've ever heard the story, but the first time I took my wife to that church. I was saved, but she was lost. And and she got under major conviction. Oh. And and we had just got married. She was 18, I was 21 And so she walked out. You know what she said? My blonde-haired, blue-eyed, sweet, newlywed wife looked at me and she said, I'm never going to that church again. I said, excuse me? She said, I'm never, I think the finger was up too. I'm never going to that church again. Now, look, I didn't have any social graces But my dad told me, son you get married, you're the head of the house. Okay? So I told my blonde-haired, blue-eyed, 18-year-old wife, I'll give you a choice. She said, okay. I said, if I decide to go back to that church, you can go with me as my wife on my arm. But if you say no, I will pick you up and throw you over my shoulder and carry you in fireman style and plop you down the pew next to me because you're my wife and I'm your husband and if I go to church You're gonna go with me one way or the other. Her baby blues got real big. She said, I think I'll go with you as your wife on your arm. I said, good choice. Good choice. Now now young men, don't try this. Leave this to the professionals, okay? Alright? She got saved about a month and a half later Amen. And and our pastor just turned eighty not long ago. And I call him every so often. We sang him Happy Birthday on his 80th. But I just call Mother Blue every once in a while and say thank you so much. For investing in us, for discipling us, for being kind and also cajoling us when we need some discipline. For bringing us along because if it wasn't for God putting you in our way, I don't know where we'd be. I don't know where we'd be. And all those people in my life. I can't thank my mom and dad anymore because they're in heaven But some of you still have mom and dads. Hey, you know what? I I thank my pastor for what he's put in me. When's the last time and I'm not trying and he didn't he doesn't know anything about what I'm about to say. But this man right here is invested in your life. And this young lady right here is invested in your life. And this young man right here is invested in your life. They pray for you. Put time into you? See, that's an amazing thing. When I think about these investments that God and through God's people he's put into our life. I think about people like John Adams and the amazing man that he was, and actually John Adams when he was over there in France. And remember now France was an ancient civilization. And there was John Adams in a rough garb. This ambassador, the new the new nation of America And all these French aristocrats around him and all the frilly types of uh garments that they used to wear and and uh I mean look They were dining on extravagant food, finest of porcelain, the ensemble music was playing, masterful paintings, tapestries adorning the walls of this beautiful mansion And his hostess said this, Mr. Ambassador, what do you think about our painting, poetry, uh, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry, and porcelain Everyone stopped. You could hear a a needle drop. They wanted to hear what Ambassador Adams, who would be our second president, was going to say And this is what he said. Madam, my dear madam, I must study politics and war. That my sons may have the liberty to study mathematics, philosophy. My sons ought to study mathematics, philosophy, navigation, commerce, agriculture, in order to give their children the right one day To study painting, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry, porcelain. But I I study politics and war His son, John Quincy Adams, was sitting just behind him. His son was eleven years old. His son already knew six languages, could read them. Write them, speak them. He was probably one of the most intelligent presidents we ever had, became the sixth president, but he was listening to everything that his dad said. And how he was investing in his son's life, and that did nothing but just encourage his son to go forward and to do what was right. Listen to what his son says later on. On July the 4th, 1837, some 61 years after the Declaration of Independence. This is what he said in the chain of human events. The birthday of the nation, which is July the 4th is indissolubly linked with the birthday of the Savior. It forms a leading event in the progress of the gospel dispensation. The Declaration of Independence First organized a social compact on the foundation of the Redeemer's mission on earth to see people saved and laid the cornerstone of human government on the first precepts of Christianity Amazing. Now why? I'll tell you why. Because his son was loyal to what his dad had invested in him. If I was to ask you, what comes to mind when I say Benedict Arnold? Traitor, yeah. But did you know before he was a traitor, he was one of our nation's greatest heroes? That everyone put him up on a pedestal as a tremendous patriot, that he was the best strategist even better than Washington? He was such a brave man He was an amazing, amazing warrior. He probably could have been the president of the United States. Probably would have been had he stayed true. But here's the thing. He was looking at his Condition, not as his position in fighting for a nation, unlike any other nation in the history of mankind, aside from the nation of Israel. He didn't get paid what he was promised. He didn't get the accolades of man as he was promised. And because of that, he turned his back. on his nation that he fought so valiantly for, and for the rest of his life, Great Britain didn't even accept him. He died in abject poverty, an unknown and a traitor to this day. See folks, what I'm saying is this. I'm not going to be a trader to those people that invested in my life. You know what that means? I'm not going to listen to the world's music, young people. I'm not going to watch what the world puts out on the idiot tube. That is so hellacious. I'm not going to look at the wrong things or think the wrong things or say the wrong things. Why? Because I don't want to be a benedict. Arnold to those people that have invested in you. Hey, you've invested in my life. You have. Your pastor, his wife, and you. You've supported our ministry You have prayed for me. I know many of you have already come up and said, Brother Hardy, we've been praying for you. And I know you have. I'm going to be true to that investment. You know what that means? I'm going to continue to go forward for God I'm continuing to persevere. I'm continuing to do what's right because I will not be a traitor to your investment in my life. Who's invested in your life? Are you being true? Are you being loyal to that investment? Let me ask you this. And who are you investing your life in? See, there's the next step. Being loyal to those investments that people have put into your life. Who are you? Investing your life in. Oh, parents invest their lives in children. Yeah. But sometimes we need to ask God, would you put someone across my path that I can invest my time in And folks, let me just say this any investment in someone else's life is a reward that you'll meet. in heaven. We have a very sacred heritage from God. We have a sacrificial heritage living for the next generation. And I've known Medal of Honor recipients that have said, I did it. For my country, for my family, and for countless people that I'll never know It is a heritage of service. Sacrificial, sacred, but also service. It'd be a good thing for us. To say, Lord, would you pass someone by my path that I could invest some time in? Some prayer in. I I have a long prayer list. Long. I get through it and it's not a burden. It's a blessing every day. And I realize this. When I pray my prayer list, you know what I'm doing? I'm investing time into the lives of other people So I don't mind if it's long. I tell my wife I I have uh my prayer list to complete. I'll start praying in the morning, I'll pray in the afternoon, and I'll pray in the evening. But you know it's a good thing to have a prayer list because we're forgetful people. Well a good thing to start jotting down things on on your prayer list, you see. Because that way you can invest in others. And that way you can have, you might say, God listening to you, inclining his ear unto you. So let me ask you a question. What was the last time you thanked someone who's invested in your life? Called them. Gave him the text. Just said, I just want to thank you for praying for me. I'm here to thank you. Because I know this, there are so many different side effects I could have had during 15 weeks of treatments out there. Monday through Friday. I could have experienced pain, sickness, flu-like symptoms, and the only thing I ever experienced was a low energy level. You know why? Because some of your prayers right here That your pastor led you in for my wife and I. I want to thank you for investing in us. And I want you to know I'm going to be faithful. That investment. I'm going to continue to do what only God allows me to do. See, we're all in full time ministry as I close. We are all examples through what God has given to us. Not with eye service, as men pleasers. But as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. No one forces me to do what I do. Amen. No one. Bill Hardy, how how do you keep on doing this? You go out on the weekend and we travel on the average fifty other fifty two weeks a year We have a lovely little home there in Maryland in the countryside. Right outside Washington DC can't tell that we live outside of Washington DC. We have deer. crossing our lawn and and uh too many squirrels out there will have to do that. Teach my wife how to make gr squirrel gravy, okay? But we leave that little home Fifty out of two fifty two weeks a year. You know why? Because I'm going to be true to the investment that you have made. So many other people have made in my life. And I saw I experience firsthand the power of God's people praying for us, investing in us. With good will, doing service, as unto the Lord and not unto man. When was the last time you went to God? Came to an old-fashioned altar. I can't even begin to express to you the magnitude Of the death and sacrifice that our veterans have given to us. So we can sit here today without any fear of someone breaking into this assembly. The even the unseen wounds, such as PTSD, that riddle these men's Lives and that plague their dreams and turn them into nightmares. But they did that for us. That's our heritage We are the heritage of God. Let's invest in others. And let's thank those that have invested in us. See I don't do as much as I need to do it. There's no one that does. But you know, when we have a chance in a setting like this, God to be pleased to come to an old-fashioned altar and say, Lord, I'm coming to an old-fashioned altar today. I don't care who sees me. But I'm coming because there are people that ran to certain death and I'm coming to an altar out of humility just to thank you for putting it in the hearts of other people to invest in me and the fact that I am your heritage. It was the last time. He just came to God. I'm not asking for anything. I just want to let you know how much I love you. And appreciate the fact that you loved me enough to save my soul and to give me a an amazing home like America, where others have sacrificed for me. Got me for me We are God's heritage. All eyes closed, all heads bowed I would say, Brother Harding, something that you said, Holy Spirit, touch my heart. Here's my hand. Let me see. Hands everywhere? Hands, hands, yes. Something that you said, God touched my heart. Here's my hand. Good, good. If God touched your heart in just a moment, I'm going to ask you to come and join me at this old-fashioned altar. But here's the most important question. Because this is why God gave us this country. How many of you would say, Brother Harding, I I hope I'm going to heaven? I hope I'm going to heaven. I I I think I'm going to heaven. I believe that Jesus Christ is My Savior, that uh He died on the cross, that uh there's a heaven to gain, hell to shun. But I so I hope I'm going there. If you've never accepted the gift of eternal life, You've never actually claimed Jesus as your Savior. You know, you believe Him as a Savior. But for you to say by the hearting, I I've I've never accepted the gift of eternal life. I've never one time in my life prayed and asked God to come into my life and give me that gift of eternal life. And and I want to make sure that I'm on my way to heaven today. Brother Hardy, here's my hand. Pray for me. Who are you? Put your hand up and write back down and I'll pray for you. No one looking around, but Pastor and I, yes. Yes, ma'am, thank you. Take some courage. Take some courage. Not sure that I'm going to heaven One lady raised her hand about you. Anyone else said, I'm not sure. I hope I am. Think I am, but I'm not positive I might say, Brother Harding, be honest now. Brother Harding, I've done exactly what the Bible says to do, to accept the gift of eternal life. Here's my hand as a testimony that I'm saved. Lift your hand up. Let me see. I know for sure. I know that I know that I know I'm going to heaven. Thank you. If you couldn't raise your hand then, would you raise your hand now? Let me pray for you We're not going to come to you, no one's going to embarrass you. Yes, thank you. Thank you for raising that hand. Don't know for sure. One young lady, good? Good. Anyone else? Don't know for sure. If you raise your hand and you want to know today, the past we're waiting right down here in the front. You can take his hand and he'll uh as as ladies, he'll he'll give you a lady to show you how you can know. It only takes a few minutes to change your eternal destination. But everyone else, I want you to look right up here at me and stand up. You say, God touch my heart. I want to take this opportunity right now. to come to an old-fashioned altar and just thank God for what He's done for me and my life. I raised my hand that God touched my heart. Now is your time that you can come and actually Do what God wants you to do. Get to an old-fashioned altar. Would you come? Would you come? And just thank God. I'm not coming to ask you for anything, Lord.