Chapter 5, I want to read verse 41. Then if you would, when we hit verse 42, I'd like for us to read that verse together in unison. Acts chapter 5, verse number 41. How many people would rather be in the church house than the jail house? Yeah, amen. That's good. And uh we trust the Lord will bless. Look at verse 41. And they departed from the presence of the council. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Boy, what an attitude Now read verse 42 together with me if you would. And daily in the temple and in every house they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. We're entering into night uh 2024. Today's last day, of course, of 2023. People say, uh someone says, preacher, what's our plan? For 2024, for the church, everything going on in the world. Everything, uncertainties, and all this. What's our plan for the next 12 months? So that's my subject this morning, our plan as a church for 2024. Let's pray together And ask the Lord to bless. Father, I ask you would bless now our time in your word. The music's been a blessing to my heart. Encourage me. And I thank you for it. The specials, the choir, and uh the congregation, Lord, I'm grateful for that. It's been a joy to fellowship with your people a little bit and talk and and uh this past week was a blessing. So Lord we're s we come to you this morning with grateful hearts And now with our Bibles open, we're asking you to please speak to our hearts, teach us, instruct us. I pray you challenge us in our faith for this coming year. I pray, Lord, you'd apply correction where we need correction. Maybe we're getting a little off course in some areas, or maybe we need some adjustments. So we pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would take your word and apply it to each of our lives as you know we have need. And Lord, with that in mind, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, dear Lord, to you, to take me and fill me with your Spirit, Father, and speak through me. And again, touch hearts, change lives, help us, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. All through the book of Acts, somebody asked me recently, preacher, what's your favorite book? And it's always hard to answer that. What's your favorite book of the Bible? Psalms is always one. Proverbs. I read Proverbs every day. But the book of Acts is a tremendous book in the Bible And if you'll notice, all through the book of Acts, uh the church faced intense persecution. I mean, right from the get-go. Uh uh just from its from its conception in the Gospels, the Church of Jesus Christ and uh Jesus and his disciples as they were uh as the church was being conceived there. They face opposition from the Jews. Then in Acts, the church is ignited with the with the presence of the Holy Spirit and the power of the Holy Spirit, and the church begins to grow and explodes on the scene. And opposition comes from all directions. Initially the persecution and opposition to the church came from the Jews They despise these Jews who had rejected Jesus Christ, despised Jesus Christ, now turned that hatred, turned that rejection on the believers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And they turned on that little young church, that infant church, and with all their force and with all their authority. human authority that they had. And with all the resources available to them, they poured the persecution on those New Testament believers for no other reason than the fact that they were disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. From the Jews, as the church began to expand out of Jerusalem and into more what we would call Gentile areas. It wasn't long until the pagans, the reeks turned on the those uh New Testament believers. People were getting saved Their lives were being changed. They were turning from the worship of pagan idols and the perverseness of their pagan religions and their lives were being changed. And now they're worshiping the true and living God and they're no longer living in this vile, wicked sin, and God's changed their life and cleaned their hearts and minds. And now they love the Lord and they want to live for God. And those old pagan Greeks and and Gentiles turned against them. They were losing money in their worship of Diana. And they turned on those New Testament believers The hatred of the world for God's people was poured out on that little New Testament church as they were growing Later on, the Roman government got in on it. They turned their machinery, their military machinery against the church. The church was born in persecution. The church was born in opposition to their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's the thing about it. You study the book of Acts, you study church history. And in the midst of that, the intensity of that persecution, the violence of it, the church thrived. The church prospered spiritually. They grew explosively. Those little New Testament believers, they were beaten They were imprisoned in Acts chapter 4, verse 1 and 3, and we don't have time to go to all of these, but in Acts chapter 4, verse 1 and 3, they're beaten and thrown in prison. Chapter 5, 17, and 18, Pastor Matt here read in the beginning of the passage we read this morning. They're beaten and imprisoned. In chapter 14, verse 19, Paul is stoned and left for dead. Chapter 16, 20 through 22 through 24, they're beaten again and imprisoned for no other reason than the fact that they're wanting to live for Jesus. No other reason than the fact that they are disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 7, verse 57 to 60, Stephen is brutally murdered. As they stone him to death, one of the most violent, painful ways to die, for no other reason than he stood as a witness for Jesus Christ. Later on in Acts chapter 12, verse 1 and 4, James is beheaded for being a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. They're driven from their homes. And yet with all this opposition, the violence of this persecution, the church grows and grows and grows. It thrives You read through Acts, you read through the epistles, Paul writing back, they're rejoicing in the Lord. They're thanking God for the privilege of being a child of God In fact, if you notice there in verse 41, they rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the Lord. The presence of God and the joy of the Lord upon these New Testament believers, in spite of opposition, in spite of persecution. I like the book of Acts, as I said, I've read it, studied it. We've preached through it here in years gone by. I notice two characteristics, and this is not the message. The introduction is the longest part of the message. I get to the outline. It's just an hour or two after that, so don't worry. Um no, the outline's very brief at the end. But I notice two characteristics as I study this church in the midst of its persecution. The first thing I notice the first characteristic I notice about these New Testament believers is the intensity of their prayers. Sixteen times the church in the book of Acts is referenced as praying. Several of those are praying through the night. A church assembling together, Peter's in prison, the church assembles together for no other reason. It's not to have, it's not to play board games, it's not to eat Christmas cookies The church assembles together for no other reason than to give themselves to earnest prayer for God to help Peter and to bless the word. Acts chapter 4, the church assembles together, is there being persecuted, and they begin to pray intensely Not so that they can have more money in their budget. They're not praying for more comfortable pews. They're not praying for nicer buildings. They're praying that in the midst of their persecution, God would empower them with the Holy Spirit, and they speak the word of God with boldness as they ought to. What a church! The intensity of their prayer life. Sixteen times we find the church in intense prayer. Their prayers were simple prayers. They weren't elaborate oratorical works of masterpiece. They were just simple prayers. Oh God. Bless us, God, fill us. God, give us boldness. They were earnest prayers. They were unified prayers as the church came together. And by the way, they were answered prayers. Now not every time they prayed did the answer come and what they were looking for. They prayed for James. James was beheaded. They prayed for Stephen. Stephen was stoned. But nevertheless, they prayed, and God heard, and God answered according to his will. They prayed in the temple. They prayed in homes. They prayed in prison. They prayed in the streets. The New Testament church was a praying church, and they prayed earnestly, and they prayed everywhere. They did not ask for relief from persecution, but they prayed for boldness in the midst of their persecution. In fact, we're right here in chapter 5. Would you just come back one chapter To chapter 4. I just want you to see this. This is such an inspiration to me, such a challenge to me. Verse number 29 of chapter 4, look what it says. They're praying. This is the New Testament church. They're being persecuted. Verse 29 says, And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants that with all Boldness they may speak thy word. You notice they didn't ask for relief from the persecution. Not one time. They didn't ask that the threatenings would be removed They said, Lord, in the midst of this threatenings, in the midst of this opposition, help us be faithful. Help us be bold. For the Lord. Intense prayers. Intense prayers. Look down verse 31. I like verse 31. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together. And they were all filled with the Holy Scott, oh Holy Ghost. And they spake the word of God with boldness. Boy, what a prayer life that New Testament church had. What a praying church it was. The world could not stop them from praying. Their own flesh didn't stop them from praying. The devil couldn't stop them from praying. A church, New Testament church was a praying church. So one characteristic I notice as I go through the book of Acts in this New Testament church, in the midst of the opposition, in the midst of their persecution, they are praying intensely. And by the way, you say, what's the big deal about studying the New Testament Church? This is 2023. I tell you, our pattern at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the New Testament Church in the book of Acts. We're not to follow some world's version of the church. We're not to follow some man's version of the church. We're to follow the pattern that's been given for us in the book of Acts and in the Word of God. So one thing I notice is the intensity of their prayer life. Second characteristic of this New Testament church as they faced opposition was the power of their preaching. Powerful preaching. Fifteen times the book of Acts mentions the church preaching in the power of God. They preached in the power of the Holy Spirit. They preached in the face of opposition. They preached in the temple, they preached in the synagogues, they preached in their houses, they preached in the prisons, they preached out in the streets. In chapter 8, verse 4, it says they went everywhere preaching the Word of God. That New Testament church was a preaching church. There's some ideas been flying around here in certain circles of Christianity that we need to downplay preaching. In this age and this generation, and they have all these names for the generation, Generation X, Y, Z, uh, uh, what else? Millennials and centennials and I mean they have all these names for people. They say, well preacher, this generation they are not up on preaching too much. I'm here to tell you The preaching of the Word of God is still powerful. We're not to follow what the pattern is, we're not to f what not to follow what the world says, we're not to follow what man says. I want to follow what the Bible says I'm declaring on the last day of 2023, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is going to stick to biblical methods. A New Testament church was a preaching church. They preached powerfully. They preached everywhere. Some places where they preached, they saw multitudes saved. I mean thousands got saved. Other places they preached, very few, if any, got saved. Some places where they preached, the people received them, and several occasions where they received them as if they were gods. They had to rebuke them and correct them. Other places they run them out of town for their preaching. But they preached on. They preached in the power of the Holy Spirit. They just kept on preaching. Regardless of how what kind of reaction the people gave them, they kept on preaching. Regardless of the results they saw, they just kept on preaching. That New Testament church was a praying and a preaching church. I'd like to see Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church hold to intense prayer and the preaching of the Word of God. And never turn from that. Listen, do not belittle our midweek prayer service. That is a vital part of the health and the well-being of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Our teacher prayer meeting on Sunday mornings, our men's prayer meeting Sunday afternoons, the men's prayer breakfast on the first Saturday of the month, the ladies' prayer luncheon each month, and those are vitally important to the well-being of our church. Praying and preaching, praying and preaching. Proverbs 27:1 says this: boast not thyself of tomorrow. Now listen to this last phrase. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now, this is what I'm getting at. Tomorrow we begin 2024. And I don't know. And you don't know. Nobody but God knows what these next twelve months will hold. We don't know what 2024 holds. Maybe 2024 will be a year of great blessings. And I pray it is for you and your home and your marriage and your children. I pray God's great blessings on every endeavor that you have this coming year. Maybe a year of great rejoicing, that one you've been praying for. To be saved for so many years, maybe this is the year they'll come to Christ. Maybe this is the year that prodigal son will come home And rejoice together as a family with faith in God. I don't know what this new year holds. It may be a year of great blessing and rejoicing, and maybe a year that prayers that we've prayed for years may be answered. It's possible this coming year may be a year of great trial. Maybe a year of great heartache. We don't want to think of that, but we don't know what a day holds. We don't know what this year holds. Maybe you're great victories. Maybe there's something in your life. Maybe there's a sin you've been battling. Maybe this year will be a year of victory. And get that behind you and go on for God. Maybe it'll be a degree of defeat. I hope not. I pray not. We don't know what the coming year holds. This past 12 months, and I know many of you have joined with me on this, I have prayed earnestly for revival. And my heart praying and continue to pray for revival in my home. Pray for revival in our church. I pray that churches across our nation would be revived and so our country can be restored back to which we once had. Praying for revival. Maybe this year will be a year of revival. Maybe God will move. Maybe this year will be a year of persecution. We don't know. Say, well, we're in America. We want to taste. I'm telling you, things can go south awfully quick I'll tell you, we look out on the horizon of tomorrow, and there's so many uncertainties. There's so many variables there. This could very well be a year of persecution coming to our land. I hope not. I pray not. We work against that, but it's a real possibility. 2024 may be a year that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church grows numerically and spiritually like we never did before, and that's what we want, and that's what we're working towards It's possible it may be a year of decline. We don't know. We don't know. Say, preacher, with all these variables, with all these uncertainties in the coming days. What's going to happen in the government? What's going to happen in society? What's going to happen in our church? What's going to happen in my home? And all these uncertainties, what's our plan going forward? How do we face a new year? I think it's very simple, if you would. Look at chapter 5, verse 42. This is, I'm speaking for our church now. It's pastor of our church. Here's our plan, with all the uncertainties, all the variables we live in, the world we live in. Here's our plan going forward for 2024. And daily in the temple and every house they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. What I'm saying is, in 2024, we're going to keep on preaching Jesus Christ. If everything falls down around us, we're going to keep on preaching Jesus Christ. If they throw us in prison, we're going to keep on preaching Jesus Christ. If the church grows and we have blessings like we've never experienced before, we're going to keep on preaching Jesus Christ. They ceased not. When it was popular, when it was unpopular, when they had great results, when they had no results, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. And that's our plan. Say, what's your church's plan for this new year? It's very simple. We're just going to keep on preaching Jesus. Preacher, what if the government turns against you? Well, keep on preaching Jesus Christ. And us fellas, they throw us in jail, we'll just form a jail quartet, seeing, and preach Jesus in jail. We'll just do it. Notice it says they cease and daily that was their program every day they preach and teach Jesus Christ. The place. It was a temple and house to house. They just everywhere. They just went everywhere preaching Jesus Christ. If it was in our age, they might have wrote the temple and every house in Walmart. They cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. They just went everywhere Their persistence, and this is what caught my attention and is the impetus for this message this morning. It says, in every house they ceased not I got looking up that little phrase, cease not, it means this. It means to continue without restraint. To continue without restraint. Now I'm not a big horse guy. Derek can tell you more about horses than I can. I've written a few. I don't not particularly fond of them, but um A horse, you get on that horse and that thing starts getting away from you, you've got your reins and you have the little bits in its mouth, right? Am I right so far And um got that little bit in that mouth. And that horse starts getting away from you, you pull back on those reins, and it restrains the horse, holds him back. Keeps them from getting ahead it'll hold them back. Hold them back. Whoa. That's the only thing I know about horses. You know what this says here? It says the church never held back on preaching Jesus Christ. The church never went, whoa, hold on there, cowboy, let's uh slow down on this preaching to you. They never did that. No restraint. Get at it, get out there and preach. Let that horse go. They cease not. Means to restrain, without restraint, without holding back. It has this idea without quitting. They just preached and preached them. When are you going to quit preaching Jesus? We're not. We're just going to keep on preaching Jesus. Just keep on preaching Jesus. We're just going to keep on Say, what if the whole what if your community turns against you? We just keep on preaching Jesus Christ. What if the government goes a communist goes, we're halfway there already, I'll tell you What uh what what do you're gonna keep on preaching Jesus? What if the economy crashes? Keep on preaching Jesus Don't hold back, don't restrain, don't quit. They just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. And their message was very simple. Jesus Christ. They had no other message. I'm here to tell you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has no other message than the gospel of Jesus Christ. Our message is not a political message. Our message is not a self-improvement message. Our message is not a social change message. Our message is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And may we never get away from that. By the way, I think the gospel of Jesus Christ will do more to change politics than anything else we can do. I think the preaching of Jesus Christ will do more to change society than anything else we can do I tell you, the Jesus Christ will do more to self-improve your life than anything else this whole world has to offer. Jesus Christ. We read uh folks read these self-improvement books by Okra Winfrey and uh uh and um uh a self-improvement by this millionaire and that billionaire and this successful person. I tell you what, you'll never get more successful than Jesus Christ And nobody in this world has more to offer us than Jesus Christ. That's our message. It's very simple. We're just going to keep on preaching Jesus. In Sunday school, We're going to preach Jesus. We're going to teach Jesus. On the buses, we're going to teach and preach Jesus. From the pulpit, we're going to teach and preach Jesus. From the choir law, we're going to sing Jesus. Across the board, Master Clubs, Kings, Kids, Teens Alive, on the radio, it's all going to be the message of Christ. Are you with me? That's where we're at. That's our plan. We don't have any other plan. We have no backup plan B, plan C. It's just keep on preaching Jesus. Cease not to preach and teach Jesus Christ. Preaching Jesus and the power of the Holy Ghost. I believe we'll do more to change politics, as I said, improve our self-life, change society. We're just going to keep on preaching Jesus. Now that's my introduction. Our plan is to keep on preaching Jesus Christ. Now let me say a few words about that, just real quickly. Number one, we're going to keep on preaching the deity of Jesus Christ. We're not preaching some long-haired, hippie, superstar Jesus. We're preaching Jesus Christ, the God of gods, the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings. John chapter 1, speaking of Jesus Christ, verse 1, says this, and the Word, Jesus, and the Word was God. We talk about Jesus Christ, the biblical Jesus Christ. We're talking about God in the flesh. We're talking about the God that spoke this infinite universe into existence in the taking on the form of a man. The deity of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is God the Son. Jesus Christ is co-equal with the Father. He's co-equal with the Spirit. He is the great three-in-one. Jesus Christ. John chapter 1 verse 1 says Jesus is God. John chapter 20 verse 28 declares Jesus is God. Acts 20 verse 28, Jesus is God. Romans 9. 5 teaches that Jesus is God. Philippians 2. 6 teaches us that Jesus is God. Titus 2. 13, Jesus is God. Hebrews 1. 8 Teaches that Jesus is God. 1 John 5. 20. Jesus is God. Our Savior from our sin is the sovereign God of the whole universe. That man who died on the cross for your sins and my sins is the God that created this world. And we're going to declare that. Jesus is God, the deity of Jesus Christ. You reject Jesus Christ, you're rejecting God. You receive Jesus Christ, you're receiving God. We're going to keep on preaching the deity of Jesus Christ. Our Sunday school teachers are going to teach these little children that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. We're going to teach our bus kids. We're going to teach our teenagers. We're going to teach the master clubs. We're going to teach our super seniors. We're going to you can only teach them so much. But um uh we're gonna teach uh We're going to teach the choir. We're going to teach everything around here. We're going to teach them. Jesus is not just a man. He wasn't just a good teacher. He wasn't just a miracle worker. He is God become man in the flesh. The deity of Jesus Christ. Number two, we're going to keep on preaching the deity of Jesus Christ. We're going to keep on preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the cornerstone of our faith. If we don't have a resurrected Savior, then we don't have Christianity. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the distinguishing point from all other religions in the world. Now, one other religion has a resurrected founder, has a resurrected Savior. The resurrection, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ is our only hope of sins forgiven. There is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. It's our only hope of forgiveness. You say, preacher, I don't see what the big deal is about being forgiven for sins. Well then you're just telling me you've never been convicted about sin. If you've ever felt the sting of conviction, you know the joy of forgiveness. You appreciate the joy of forgiveness I can't think of anything in my life. I'd rather that is more valuable to me than the fact that Jesus Christ has forgiven my sins. I'm forgiven. I stand before my holy God, forgiven, because of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. If you have not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm here to tell you, he is your only hope for forgiveness of sins. That's what we're going to preach. We're going to preach the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. He's the only hope of eternal life. Is the only hope of having a new life here on earth? I see so many people are so miserable. And these thinking movie stars and all these people on these social media become so popular. They want everybody to follow them, but if you look at them, they're miserable. They're angry, they can't get along with anybody, they're helpful on drugs and drinking Why in the world would I want to follow that? Why in the world would I want to take advice and listen to somebody that's bitter and angry and miserable? I'm telling you, we have a Savior that loved us and died for us, rose again, so that we can have a new life, a life of joy, a life of peace, a life for purpose, a life with confidence. That comes through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say this morning, if you haven't picked it up yet, we're just going to keep on preaching Jesus to this old world. We're going to preach the deity of Jesus Christ. He is God. We're going to preach the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, because it's the only hope of salvation. I tell you what, you reject Jesus Christ and you die in your sins, you are spending eternity in a horrific place called hell. We're going to keep on preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We must never cease preaching the gospel of Jesus. We must never hold back on preaching the gospel of Jesus. We must never quit. We're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Somebody told me not long ago I preached the gospel too much. They said, You preach salvation too much. Listen, I don't apologize for one minute preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're unashamed of the fact that Jesus died for every man, woman, and child that has ever lived or ever will live. He died and paid their sins, and every one of them can be saved if they'll come and trust Jesus as Savior. We don't apologize for that one bit. We're not changing that message. One iota. Our message is Jesus Christ died, buried, rose again for all mankind. Whosoever will can come and be saved. We don't apologize for that. We're not backing down from that We're not holding back on that. Say, oh, somebody said both, some of these young people are getting a little too aggressive there witnessing. I say, let loose Let them have at it. God bless them. Say they're going to get in trouble in school. Well, I'll tell you right now, schools are in trouble with God. Am I right or wrong? No holding back. Paul said we preach Christ crucified. I think the idea behind his statement there was we're gonna we keep on preaching Christ crucified. We just keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on. I was talking to somebody just the last week or so. Oh no, it was uh Brother Springer was here Wednesday night. They were here last Sunday. Ben and Elizabeth from Georgie's pastoring down there doing a good job He's up here and he said, Oh, we want to see the new building. So I gave him a little tour. We were talking about different things. I said, Brother Ben, can I tell you one of my prayers I pray all the time? He says, Yeah, I'd like to hear that. He said, I pray all the time that if this place ever stops preaching Jesus, ever stops holding to the King James Bible, ever stops preaching the Word of God, that this whole place would collapse in and burn to the ground. I don't want any liberal or Bible-denying, Christ-denying group to have this property that's been dedicated to Jesus Christ. Eventually we're going to pass off the scene, those of us here, if the Lord don't come back. And if we do, I want the the generation following us to stick this old book. And the same old gospel and just keep on preaching it. Keep on preaching it. And the last of all We're going to keep on preaching the deity of Christ. We're going to keep on preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and we're going to keep on preaching the dynamite of Christ. And this is what I mean by that. Romans 1:16, Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. That word power there in Romans 1. 16, that word power comes from the same word that our word dynamite comes from. Kabo! It's the power of God. I'm telling you, you can look around the auditorium here, you'll find people whose lives have been changed by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean, changed in ways there's no human explanation for it. Changed in ways there's no psychological explanation for it. The only explanation is The power of God in the gospel of Jesus Christ changed the life, saves a soul. We're going to keep on preaching that Jesus, that Jesus is the name above all names. And any man in Christ is a new creature, the dynamite. Paul said under the inspiration of God in 1 Corinthians 1:18, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. Some people, on their way to hell, they think, oh, that's foolish, the cross, Jesus died on the cross. That's foolish. But to us which are saved, it's the power of God. Matthew 28, 18, Jesus said, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. I'm here to tell you. How many folks here this morning are saved? You know it. Say amen. Your faith is in an all-powerful God. I love what the angel Gabriel told Mary when she uh questioned about how in the world could she give birth to a child she never knew a man. And the angel said, with man, this is impossible, get this. But with God, all things are possible We're preaching, we're going to keep on preaching that Jesus Christ can save souls and change lives and strengthen the weak and lift up the fallen. The dynamite of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ can meet your needs. I don't know what your needs are. Financial. I don't know what they are. I know this. If we seek first the kingdom God, his righteousness, all our needs will be added unto us God will take care of us. I don't know what burdens you might have this morning going into a new year, but I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ can carry those burdens. He says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. He says, cast your care upon me. I care about you. That thing that's driving you down, that thing that keeps you up at night, that thing that weighs so heavy on your heart, that thing that has stolen your joy from your Christian life, bring it to Jesus Christ. He can lift you out of that. And give you peace and carry that burden for you. We're going to keep on preaching the dynamite, the power of Christ. To meet our needs, to carry our burdens, to conquer our sins, to conquer our addictions. Tell you, we live in a world that's addicted to sin, secret sins, closet sins that control us. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ, there's not a sin the devil can come up with that Jesus Christ and the blood of Jesus Christ cannot cleanse and conquer. I believe that We're going to keep on preaching that. Somebody come may somebody comes in and say, Preacher, that guy's a drug addict. Good. We'll preach Jesus Oh, that guy's uh involved in this thing. Good, we'll preach Jesus to him. Well, that guy's an old drunkard. Good, we'll preach Jesus to him Can I give you a little secret from the pastor? I like it when you bring lost people in, it gives me a target to shoot at. Amen Jesus can conquer our sins, conquer our addictions. Jesus can conquer the devil. I'm afraid a lot of times we've opened our homes up. Just invite the devil to come walking in. I tell you, there's so many I don't want to go to seed on this, but I think there's so many things that we allow in our homes that are nothing more than a portal to hell. America has adopted the morals of Europe And Europe has adopted the morals of hell. We allow our homes to be, we allow our homes an open door to the presence of the devil. And there's a bitterness and there's a there's an unbelief and there's a darkness in so many homes, Christian homes And I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ can cleanse that. And he can conquer the devil's influence in our lives. Now, a believer cannot be possessed. But I'll tell you, the devil can sure oppress a believer in Jesus Christ. And what I would recommend as we go in a new year, you go through that home, and there's anything even remotely questionable Even remotely associated with the world and the devil, you get it out. Let God anoint your home with the presence of His Holy Spirit. Let the name of Jesus Christ be in your home. And the presence of God. I'm telling you, we're going to keep on preaching the power of Jesus Christ to transform a home, to heal a marriage, to revive a dead, dry Christianity. Jesus Christ can comfort our sorrows, and life has sorrows. God can help us. Jesus Christ can erase our worries and our fears and give us peace and confidence and hope. All in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ can revive our hearts. Can revive our homes. I'm not going to ask, but I wonder if I asked this morning how many homes here, homes that make up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I wonder how many of our homes we would say I need revival in my home I need the Spirit of God to move in my home and make things right. I tell you, in the name of Jesus Christ, that can happen. And we're going to keep on preaching the deity of Christ. We're going to keep on preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And we're going to keep on preaching the dynamite of Christ. He can change things if we just let him, if we just trust him. Just believe him. What God can do, what Jesus Christ can do for you and I. We have no other message. We have no other message. We have no other plan B. It's just keep on preaching Christ, keep on teaching Christ. Sunday school, Bible Institute, Radio, Children's Church, all across the board, preaching, teaching Jesus Christ. Corey Tenboom said, When a train goes through a tunnel and everything goes dark. You don't throw away your ticket and jump off the train. You sit tight and you trust the engineer Just sit tight and trust the engineer. That train comes out the other side. I don't know what kind of tunnels you and I might have to go through in 2024. I don't know what kind of darkness, dark tunnels we might go through in 2024, but I'm telling you this. We're not going to back up, we're not going to back down, we're not going to quit. We're going to sit tight and trust our engineer. Trust Jesus Christ. And we're going to keep on preaching Jesus. Keep on preaching Jesus. And the whole world can turn against us. The whole church can turn against me. I'm still preaching Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us to go into this new year with a real resolve of commitment to Jesus Christ, dedication to Jesus Christ, and the proclamation. Of who he is and what he's done and what he can do and will do if we'll trust him. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I need to renew my commitment to Jesus Christ this coming year. I need him in my home. I need him in my life to turn things and make things what they ought to be. You say, Preacher, I'm going to sit tight, I'm going to trust him. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. And maybe on this last Sunday morning of 2023, you'd want to kneel at an old altar with a bunch of Scriptures go on to the mission field, just kneel there by him and say, Lord, I give my life to you. I give you my heart. I dedicate myself to Jesus Christ, who he is, and what he's done and what he can do. I'm going to invite you to come. Is there some here this morning and say, Preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell I want to know my sins are forgiven. I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Maybe online, if you're listening, get a hold of us. We'll show you, tell you how to know Christ as Savior One last question. I wonder if there's some this morning who say, preacher, I have some friends. I have some family, maybe. Folks I know are important to me, and they're lost. I pray that maybe this year be the year they get saved. I want to be a good witness. I want to be a good testimony. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. God bless you. Let's finish this year out On our knees before God, say, God, have your way in my life. I'm commit- I want to commit myself to you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James