Getting to know your pastor better and spending some time with him and the other men that came uh today and and visited with us uh over lunch and uh the pastors. Uh some of them drove for over three hours to to get there, is that right? And that's a blessing. Uh, you know, uh anything that you're gonna do for God is gonna take time and money. Amen And uh so but the sacrifice is always worth it. It's always very worth it. And uh we need to get to a point where we just uh learn to do our duty. Ecclesiastes, if you would, please, chapter twelve. Ecclesiastes chapter twelve tonight and just by way of uh testimony, uh so you know a little bit more about my background is uh As the pastor just mentioned, I grew up uh uh right here in Maryland, uh in Bowie, right outside of Washington, D. C. I started going into Washington, D. C. at the age of uh twelve and just riding buses in and looking around, walking around and and back in those days of course you could go into the Capitol just about through any door you wanted to and the the uh Capitol Hill police at that time would just kind of pat me on the head and say Uh welcome Sonny, come on in, because it's the people's house. Uh I can remember uh listening to a particular story of George Washington, of course And George Washington was the one that wanted Washington, D. C. to be built where it where it is, the federal city, no other city in the United States, no other city in the world like the federal city. And uh so Maryland, Virginia uh gave up some of their land and of course that square, uh little uh area, that little uh parcel of land that we call the District of Columbia became the nation's capital and When they found the highest point in the city, they came to George Washington and they said, sir, we have found the place that we're going to Build your house. It's a hill that's just screaming for an edifice, for a building. So we're going to build your house there. And George Washington said It's the highest point in Capitol Hill? They said yes. And literally Capitol Hill. And everything else kind of recedes from there. He said, Well, that's not where you're going to build my house. They said, oh no. He said, no, no. That's where you will build the people's house. You can build my house anywhere. But this is going to be a government by the people For the people. In fact, it's very interesting to me when you look at our foundations, you look at our history going way, way back, you know, this nation was begun, you might say, in preparation for who we are and what we've been able to do many, many, many years ago In fact, the foundations that led to this country began, I believe, when Wycliffe copied out the Bible into the English language. And it wasn't relegated anymore to dead Latin. It wasn't relegated just to the priesthood, so to speak, but it was given to man so you could read in your own language. And why could copy that out You might say it's the dawn of liberty. And on the front of the Bible it said this is a Bible of the people, by the people, and for the people Pretty interesting, huh? You see where Lincoln got that? And so we see today our foundations, the you might say the groundbreaking of our foundations happened all the way back in the 1300s. And then of course once people started reading the Bible, and then of course that point in time where, you know, it took six months to copy out the Bible by hand. And then you had that little boy that was playing round in his daddy's shop and his dad was a scribe that would copy out very meticulously uh legal documents and such and little boy just you know killing time as a little boy would was carving his initials in blocks of wood and and one of them fell out of his hand and plunked into a a little can there of uh violet ink And he picked it up real quickly, fished it out, and put it on a piece of paper to dry. And he came back, and when he picked up that block from that paper, the perfect image of that initial that he had carved in that piece of wood was on that piece of paper. And the idea of the printing press with movable type started to germinate in your honest's mind. Johannes Gutenberg was his name. And years later the Gutenberg Press was developed and the first document that came off the Gutenberg Press was the Bible. People started reading the Bible and sharing very carefully with the generations to come, bringing them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And then finally, in the 1600s, under a great persecution of not being able to worship on the dictates of their own heart and through and by the leadership of the Holy Spirit. Uh those separatists left and they came here and they founded this nation for the propagation of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's just kind of exciting to me when you when you look at that and you go back and you see all that different all those different things that came to the the foundation of our country. And so what I think we need to do is simply this, do our duty uh to our country. Uh in doing our duty to our country, of course, the first and foremost is that we do our duty to our God. And our God is the reason why we have this country. And so it says in Ecclesiastes chapter 12 and verse 13, and And we'll we'll get there in just a second, uh, but I did promise you just a little bit of uh a background here. So I got saved at the age of twenty one And uh uh right before I left uh Maryland and went out to Wyoming to work in a coal mine, strip mine operation, get more money uh to finish college and marry my sweetheart. There she is right there And uh uh my sweetheart was 18 years old at the time and and uh I I never really proposed to her. I I didn't ask her to marry me, I told her. She was gonna marry me. And she jokes about that all the time. My husband never really asked me, he told me. And I don't know what she uh what I would have done if she had said no, but she said yes, so it was all good, okay And uh but in any case, uh uh we set up shop out there, so to speak, housekeeping, and uh and uh we had a great time and it's been a wonderful life and We look forward to many more years, hopefully, of serving the Lord together. But when when I came back here for a certain amount of time to take care of my parents, who were in their waning years. Uh I was working with the church and uh they couldn't really uh basically hire me so uh I said no problem uh I'll be glad to get a job and and uh I was filling the pulpit from time to time and leading the choir and teaching uh in in the uh church and I just wanted to be close to take care of my mom and dad. So I answered an ad in the newspaper and it said high-level security positions available. And so I went down and they interviewed me because I had a uh a college degree and even though it was a from the Baptist College, it was okay. And and uh and I I had worked for the Federal Aviation Administration out in Oklahoma when I uh went through Bible college and because I did that I trained and got qualified as an expert marks with a handgun and got a uh a secret clearance when I was out there and they said well we're we're interested in you And if uh and and so if you complete your training, we're gonna hire you. I said, well first of all, um hire me for what? And they said, well, this is diplomatic security service. and the Uniform Protective Branch of Diplomatic Security Service. I said, that's great. I have no idea what that is. What is that? And they said, well, it's synonymous with Secret Service. The Secret Service takes care of the President. Diplomatic Security Service takes care of the Secretary of State. At that time was George H. W. Bush and of course Jim Baker was the Secretary of State. And they said, and contingent upon your completion of training, we're going to hire you. I said, what does the training entail? Well, several weeks of weapons training and several weeks of hand-to-hand techniques and and several weeks of uh of uh uh counterterrorism and and uh you're gonna learn how to uh read body language and I said Do I get paid for the training? They said, oh yeah. I said, are you kidding me? I'd pay you for the training. Where do I sign? And so I graduated second in my class and and I was there in the State Department having a great time, mid-level management, and dealing with, you know, different things that came up and and uh but it just was really strange Uh well maybe not so strange, but you I could just see God's hand in it because whenever there is a bomb threat I was on duty and I followed the standard operating procedures and I would write it up and it seemed like wherever there is a problem, I just happened to be on duty, I would take care of it, and uh, you know, us guys we like to be problem solvers, right? And I would write it up and I would submit to my superiors. In about two and a half months, I was called into the office and and uh my boss was a tired full bird colonel from the strategic air command and he said, We have a problem. I said, What's the problem? He said, well we're going to promote you to be second in command. I said, uh problem? He said, yeah, because we're going to have to jump a large amount of men to get you there. I said, well, number one, I want to know why. Number two, I don't think it's going to be a problem because I know everyone and they know me, but he's I I said, why? He said, well, the current deputy is going over to the Department of Energy to head up their security program. And he says, you're the only one that can take his place and fill his shoes. See, folks, promotion comes from the North. Amen. And God, you know, just arranged that. And the next day I walked in and everyone was clicking, you know, two and saying, good morning, good morning. And uh and I was saying good morning, how you doing? Good to see you, hi, hi, how you doing? It was paramilitary rank structure in the in the Uniform Protective Branch at that time. This was, you know, back in the nineties And uh but on the on the inside I was saying, Lord, why have you done this? Because I never had the the privilege of serving in the military. I was at the at the end of Vietnam. And uh my number wasn't called. My dad said, look, if your number's not called, we've already lost the war. He worked for the Atomic Energy Commission and he said, I want you to just stay in college if you're not called, so I did. But I appreciate the military. I've worked for military and with military men for most of my life, but I was about the only one that wasn't in the military at that time. They're at the State Department. Former SEAL team members, former Delta Force, Force Recon, Marine Snipers, a Green Beret, and so and there I was, their their boss. And every one I mean one guy came up and said, So um uh tell me, what branch of service were you in, Major Harding? I said, Well I never had the privilege to serve. I told him that story that I just told you. He said, Well you have a master's degree in counterterrorism, right? I said, no. I I have a degree from uh from a Baptist college. He said, what are you doing here? I said, I'm working here, and you're working for me. So I should get back to work, okay? But we had a good time. And those guys knew they knew that I was going to take care of them And they knew that I was going to have their back, so to speak. I was going to give them the tools that they needed to do the job, you see. But I wondered the whole time I was there why Did you put me here? And God showed me years later when He called me to this ministry. See, because I was able to see the government from the inside, so to speak. And privy to things a lot of Americans, let alone Christians, are ever privy to, as far as the working of our government. And so the whole time I was there, and even now, I'm simply doing this. I'm doing my duty. to my God and to my country. And that is what every single Christian American should do. You can't be a good American unless you're a good Christian. You can't be a good Christian unless you're a good I didn't say that. George Washington did. But Ecclesiastes chapter 12 and verse 13, if you would please look there, just one verse, and we're going to use this to as a springboard tonight and uh and just go into the message. about our duty. Ecclesiastes chapter 12 and verse 13 says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. So this is the end. Okay? Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Heavenly Father, thank you so much now for loving us and dear God as we Come to the last night of this Constitutional Awareness Conference, we bow before you and we ask once again that you would do the miraculous here in our midst. And Father, we are a very needy people. A very dark hour in our history. But oh God, thank you for allowing us to live for such a time as this. And oh God it although it's very exciting, it's also very disconcerting, and some people are concerned, and some are scared and Some just are unsure of the future, but Father, we thank you that we can look to you and we know that you ultimately will win. And we are on the winning side. But O God help us as Luke 19. 13 says to occupy until you come. To do our part, Lord, to push back of these forces of evil and be able to stand as Americans united through and by the faith that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ as Christians. Oh dear of God, now we ask that once again you would create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly and bind off the wicked and the evil one. Help the carries and burdens of this life. Any differences, Lord, might just dissipate for a while that we might look at the eternal and take your word and apply to the world in which we live. Father, we ask now, Lord, that you would lead God and direct, and as I surrender my vessel to you, that your words and thoughts might be my words and thoughts, and that you would give me clarity of mind and articulation of speech, but most of all your Holy Spirit, that He would season every word with grace, and that you would be glorified and honored. And Father, we ask now, dear God, that you would move in our midst to action, help us to understand, to realize, and then be able to do our duty And for all of this, dear God, and through and by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we ask you to accomplish these things in our minds and hearts tonight. by the power, by the merit, by the authority. That is in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. So right here, here you might say it's a two-fold maxim in Ecclesiastes, true joy on earth and in heaven, okay, stresses the greatness in the Majesty of God and herein lies the conclusion of the the whole matter. Man's all, to give your all to God, to fear God to respond to him in awe and reverence and wonder. The young people a lot of times they say, oh, that's awesome. Ooh, he's awesome. Oh she's awesome. But there's only one person that's awesome. And that's God. And we need to stand in awe of Him as a little child does. We need to keep His commandments. Matthew 22 and verse 36 says, Master, which is the great commandment in the law. And Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law And the prophets. And so that's what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to love up and then we love out. Amen? We love God and then we love each other. And we, in doing that, we hope that we can generate and continue to maintain and retain civilization. A few years ago, a man by the name of Andrew Molec wrote this in a newspaper, civilizations come into being only when they strive for the kind of man who believes he has more duties than rights. A man that knows that for every right that we have, there's a duty to perform. Preachers of the founding era, what they did was they infused biblical patriotism into the men of the era who in turn were those as they who builded on the wall during Nehemiah's time, and they bear burdens with those that ladened And every one with one of his hands wrought the work and with the other hand held a weapon. That's what our founding fathers did. Now, there's a lot of revolutions that have toppled governments in the world, but there have been very few that have built a government from the ashes as we have here in America. And really we didn't topple a government. We just basically threw off a tyrannical government and continued with the government that we had already sustained all the way through the war. And I just appreciate the fact that the Founding Fathers, they had weapons in one hand, but they had trowels and they had building materials in the other. And they also challenged people that were wavering in their duties. I love what Samuel Adams said to the men that were vacillating a little bit on whether or not they were going to fight against the king. And I can understand why, because it was the greatest military might in the world at that time. But this is what he said because some of these men, they realized they were going to have to pay a huge price. Some of them weren't going to live through the battles. Some of them were going to suffer as some grievous loss. And he said this: if you love wealth greater than liberty, the tranquility of servitude greater than the animating contest for freedom, go home from us in peace. We seek not your counsel, nor your arms. Crouch down and lick the hand that feeds you, and may posterity forget that ye were our countrymen. See, that's what a lot of people are doing today. They're crouching down and they're licking the boots of the government, so to speak, because the government's promised them them free stuff Free this and free that and free this. You know, I really liked Winston Churchill. He was very outspoken. Amen? And Winston Churchill, he always spoke his mind. And he said this about socialism. The only thing problem with socialism, the big problem with socialism is you're going to run out of other people's money sooner or later And you know, he had nemesis as well. One of the ladies there, um, Lady Astor, she was part of the establishment, and of course Churchill, you know, was always speaking his mind and and one time at a dinner party sh she kind of got incensed about what he was saying, being so outspoken about what um England should do and what Great Britain should do and and the coming onslaught of the Nazis and she said, Sir Winston, if you were my husband, I should put poison in your teeth. He said, Lady asked her if you were my wife I should drink it. You can never outdo Winston. And we'll you know no now you know, he he was he wasn't us. I mean he he wasn't a teetotaler and Sometimes he would abide too much and and uh on on another occasion she said, Swinston, I believe you're snookered. He said, Lady Astor, you're ugly. But in the morning I shall be silver. But Winston Churchill he had a way of phrasing things, and he said, look, socialism is basically using other people's money. You're going to run out of other people's money. Our founding fathers stated, for every right there is a duty to perform. We have a right to be self-governing people, but we have a duty to continue to be self-governing people I like the fact that there were there were those men like Nathan Hale who said, I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country. And as a young, brilliant man, who was even offered a commission in the king's army if he had just given up the fight for liberty, said, no, I shall not. not. So what is our duty? What is this thing called duty? I think a lot of times people we forget what duty is. And we need to be performing what we e each each of us have as an American our duty. That is basically what a person owes another. I I owe every single person in this room a duty, and that is to be the best citizen, the best Christian that I can be. I owe that to my wife, and I owe that to you, I owe that to your pastor. That which a person is bound by. I'm bound by duty. We all are Natural, supernatural, moral, legal obligations to pay, to do, to perform. Duty is integrity, performing that which you have been designed to do I want you to look with me over to Psalm 15. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. Psalm 15 and verse 4. In Psalm 15 and verse 4, I think it kind of sums up what duty is. And this is, you might say, the first facet of this particular message here It says in Psalm 15, verse 4, in whose eyes a vile person is condemned, but he honoreth them, God honoreth them. That does what? Look, David said, Lord, who is going to go into thy holy temple? Who's going to be able to actually be the closest to you in heaven? And what am I going to have to do here to be able to get close to you there? That's how it begins in this song And God answers through the Holy Spirit's inspiration, and this is what he says. He, look at this, the second part of Psalm 15 and verse 4, that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. Very interesting. See, that's what duty is. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. He that sweareth, first of all, that's an oath. You see? And look we need to be living by oaths. Amen? I mean we pledge allegiance to the flag, that's an oath. That's why we put our hand over our hearts. When a military man or woman, when they join the military, what they do is they they raise their hand, and when they do that, that's signifying to heaven, uh I am performing an oath and I hope that God holds me accountable and what they say is that I am going to protect and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic Problem is there's a lot of domestic enemies to the Constitution, much more dangerous than foreign enemies because we can understand and see the foreigners as they come in, but those people that are within our own soil. That's very interesting. And so we need to understand some things that we must do as part of our duty is to live by an oath. I think every person in this room need to at one time or another say you know what I'm gonna defend I'm gonna uphold the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution is very unique in its design And the reason why, even today, legal scholars have marveled at this, marveled at the scope and the resilience and the timelessness, the strength of the Constitution is because In my humble opinion, its design goes far beyond human capacity. The American Founding Fathers were asking God's guidance, you see. and referring to its ultimate book of the law, the Holy Bible for its principles, as we've already seen, and I want to just repeat one more time The reason why we have a triumph form of government is Isaiah 33 and verse 22, separation of powers because of Jeremiah 17 and verse 9. And even the republic that this flag stands for in Exodus 18, verses 21 through 25, it all comes to the fact that our Founding Fathers Use the Bible as a map, as a benchmark, as a guidepost for establishing this government and this nation. It would serve the people of the United States well to learn these principles themselves and instill in them once again into the hearts of their leadership and the holes of government, as we saw last night, that we are supposed to from Ezra chapter 7 and verse 25, those things that are wisdom in our hand That's who we're supposed to set up as far as magistrates and judges that shall judge all the people and teach ye them that know them not. But some of the most simple things of the Constitution we don't know. Someone said, Well Brother Harding, what can we do? First thing we need to do is learn our Constitution. Amen? That's the very first thing we need to do. If you don't have a copy of the Constitution, get one. If you don't have a dollar, you're an adult and you don't have a dollar, I'll give you one. But we need to learn the owner's manual. Amen? Now uh I just I just got a truck. First truck I've ever owned. Amen? I like my truck. I call it Chuck's truck. First truck I've ever owned. I kind of like it. It's black. Someone looked at my truck and said, I'm naming it Black Beauty. I said, okay. I'd call it Chuck's truck. I just kind of enjoy a truck. I don't think it ever, I'm never going to be without a truck now. Once I once I got a truck, I I've been spoiled. My wife, she says, you know, when we go somewhere, 'cause we have a a vehicle also, she says, Can we take the truck? So well if you're a good girl Amen. But my truck started misfiring a little bit, and so what I did was I went to the owner's manual and went to the And I learned about uh what what was going on. The misfiring, the sputtering, the the stammering, the stuttering, uh basically was because of the sp this uh the smart plugs need to be be replaced and they didn't have the right spark plugs, they didn't develop the right spark plugs that would sustain the heat of the Echo Boost and the Ford F-150 you're getting a little mechanical. lesson here this evening. And because of that, I've got to exchange those. I've got to replace those. And so I already ordered some. They're going to be there with me uh uh when I get back and I'm going to put them in. It'll take about a half an hour. But then my truck is going to run good And I like my truck running good. Amen. But we need to learn this because this is the owner's manual. If we want to do something for our country, first and foremost, we need to know the processes of government. It only takes about half an hour to read the Constitution, but we need to read it. I think I did this last time, but it merits repetition. You know, there's three branches of government. Which branch of the government is closest to us? Out of all the branches, which government you think is which part of the government you think is closest to us? There's the legislative, there's the executive, and the judicial. So out of the three, who thinks is the closest? Which is the closest? Legislative, right, because that is the people that represent us. We're supposed to, our public servants The representatives, you know, as I said on Sunday, that's not where the government sits, not in Annapolis, nor in Washington, D. C. I'm looking at the government. It's we the people. But the reason why it we have that thought that it's them now is because we don't know this. Okay? And so the legislative government is the one closest to us because they represent us. And I just want to demonstrate something here because what we need to do is do our duty. And the first thing we need to do is take an oath. And that oath, I believe, is to hold up the Constitution. To defend it. Against how can we defend it though if we don't know it? See, we've it's been defenseless now for decades because we've not been there to defend it. Okay? Do I have a do I have a smart individual here tonight? Mark, is your son smart? He looks pretty smart. Come on up here. Come on up here. How old are you? Twelve years old, okay. Not a teenager yet. So he's still, you know, he's still a good guy. He's not cool yet, okay? All right. And and what's your name? Paul Paul what is it? Paul Austin. Austin. Austin. Okay, that's good. Austin, I'm gonna show everyone how smart you are. Okay? You smart? Okay, stand up straight, Austin. Stand up straight, Austin. You're not nervous, are you? Look at all those people who looking at you. Sure you're not nervous? Okay. I'm gonna show you something. I'm gonna help you here, okay? I'm gonna prove to everyone here that you're smarter than a lot of people in Washington DC Okay? It says this. Now follow me. This is the Constitution of the United States. This basically is the law of the land above and beyond any other law of the land. And this law is based upon the ultimate law, which is the Bible. Okay? So this is the ultimate law of the land. That's what this is, right? Got that, Austin? Okay. Now it says right here, Article I, Section I, of the Constitution of the United States, it says about our legislative branch of the government. We have three branches, right? Legislative Okay? Executive, which is the president, alright? And the last one is the judiciary, the judges. Okay? Now the legislative branch says this. All is that is this say all? All legislative powers, that means all law-giving powers, herein granted, shall be vested or put in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. Okay, so here's my question to you, Austin. Twelve years old? Okay, think. Get your thinking cap on. If all law-giving powers are given to one branch, how much is left over for the other two? None, thank you. Give him a hand. None. Do you hear that? Twelve years old, in a few seconds, I mean he didn't even hesitate All law-giving powers are given to the legislative branch. That means no power legislatively. Law-giving, law-negating is left over for the other two branches. Simple arithmetic, right? So let me ask you a question. Why then is the Supreme Court changing the laws? Why are they saying and deciding, oh well, um, it's constitutional for same sex couples to get married? How on earth in 1973 did they say, seven out of nine people, that life begins at birth and not at conception? When that is nowhere near in their scope of constitutional responsibility. And then when they did say that, why did everyone bow down to them? Aren't we supposed to have a separation of powers? And if one power goes away or awry, then the other two powers bring them back into check by ignoring them and saying you're wrong Okay? Remember yesterday I last night talked to you about the Dred Scott decision. You know what the Dred Scott decision was, right? That a slave or a descendant of a slave could never be a citizen of the United States. And President Lincoln said, that's just your opinion, and you're wrong I'm going to get with the legislative body, and I'm going to get them to pass some laws so that we can end this madness. You understand what I'm saying to you? Now, folks. Why is the president giving these executive orders? If there is only one branch of the government that can make any laws, how on earth is he giving these executive orders that basically And everyone's perception is law. You know why? Because we don't know the Constitution of the United States. That's why. We want to do something? We need to read the Constitution and then have a working knowledge of the Constitution. I mean, we need to start challenging these things. And uh and and again, you know, we have an office right across the street from the Supreme Court of the United States and and this little story represents uh It it it merits repetition. And right after we did the first capital connection, we moved into our office and and I can remember walking out and right across the street uh the the street there's the pre Supreme Court of the United States. And uh back years ago, what did they say? Can no longer view the Ten Commandments in public? And you have the Ten Commandments on the outside of the Supreme Court. Moses is holding the Ten Commandments at the apex of the building. All the inferior lawgivers are looking to him and he's holding up the Ten Commandments So I decided to go take a little tour through this Supreme Court. And I found something out. When you walk into where the judges sit, uh the w the The doors which are wooden, in the doors are carved the Ten Commandments. And so they shut the doors, and then when the judges are in judgment, they're looking at the doors. And around the banisters that separate the audience from the barristers, from the lawyers, is again the Ten Commandments on the barristers. And then when you look up in a relief on their left and your right is Moses with the lawgivers, but he's prominently displayed, bigger than life, and he's holding two tablets of stone written in Hebrew, the Ten Commandments. So I asked a question. Because he said, are there any questions? And there were hundreds of people there. I said, yes, I have a question. He said, all right. I said, didn't the Supreme Court say we can no longer view the Ten Commandments in public? He said, that's right. They took it out of schools, right? That's right. And we can no longer view it in public. That's right. Then what's Moses holding right there? And this is what he said in front of two hundred plus people. Oh, those aren't the Ten Commandments, those are the Bill of Rights. And it was like a tennis match because he said that and then everyone looked at me. And I was waiting for someone to challenge him. And so I raised my hand again. He said, yes. I said, I don't remember Moses being of the Constitutional Convention. And I don't remember the the Bill of Rights being written in Hebrew on two tablets of stone And everyone kind of looked back at him then, you know? Like a tennis match. And this is what he said in front of over two hundred people. I I know that's what we're supposed to say. See, that's what they expect. That we've been dumbed down. And the reason why they're getting away with all of these fallacious atrocities. in our country today is because we the people don't know the owner's manual. And our country, just like my truck is sputtering and stammering and and and it's it's going awry, it's going off the tracks And we're the only ones that can fix it. We the people, especially Christians, who know the ultimate law that this law was based upon. That's what we need to get back to realizing these things that the principle, the first principle, the 28 principles, and I can't go through all of them, the only reliable basis for sound human government is Natural law, which is God's law. That is Psalm 19, verse 1, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. We need to get back to understanding. Romans chapter 1 and verse 20, for the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Number two, a free people cannot survive under a Republican constitution unless they remain a virtuously, morally strong people. And again, remember last night I told you the republic is a representative government? I showed you that from Exodus 18? How many remember that? Okay? But I didn't really go into depth into showing you that. Democracy isn't anywhere in the Constitution of the United States. But democracy is mob acracy. It's basically whatever the will of the people say that's what we're going to do. And the pendulum swings back and forth underneath unbelievable public opinion. And now the Supreme Court is saying, well, we're viewing the the um the Constitution through and by the public opinion. No By the way, this isn't a living document. This is a document of law, not to be changed under any whim by the Supreme Court or their opinion. The Supreme Court interprets the law. The Congress, they make the law. The executive officer, he enforces the law, but democracy is one step away from socialism. And the problem with democracy and the problem with socialism and communism is it takes God out of the equation. And God says, all that hate me love death. And that's what it brings. It brings ultimate death to a society. You talked about democracy around our founding fathers. They would say, go wash your mouth out with soap. They said democracy lives a very violent life and experiences a quick and violent death. We don't have a democracy. We have a republic. And in fact, I think it was Ron, right? Ron? Where's Ron at? There there he is. I said I I I read through and he said I I've never not heard that before. But it does say and I want to show you because I don't want you to take my word for it Okay? I think you're you're a pastor, aren't you? So you're pretty reliable guy. Don't say that, some of your congregations here But it it says here, the United States shall and what's that next word? Guarantee. Guarantee. Guarantee to every state in this union. What kind of uh form of government? A republican form of government. So we're guaranteed a republican form of government. Folks, we need to understand that we as God's people, we need to maintain that republican form of government that actually is from the Bible. And so we need to, if we're going to do something for our country first and foremost, we need to know the Constitution of the United States. If you don't have a Constitution, get one Read it. It takes about a half an hour to read. Then start studying it. You say, well, what if I have a question? Call me. Call you, Brother Harding? Yeah Email me with your question. I'll answer you. You know, I have s I have given that that same offer all over the United States for about 15 years now. And you know how many emails and phone calls that I've received, Brother Leatherman? I I can count them on Those two hands right there. Because everyone's busy. I I look, I know we're busy, but he that sweareth, that's living by an oath. We need to take an oath to uphold the Constitution, to protect it against all enemies, foreign and domestic. That's an oath. The same way that we give an oath to this flag. The same way that we give an oath that we shall tell the truth and all the truth and nothing but the truth, so help us God. We need to live by an oath and realize some things about our country. It says, he that swear to his own hurt, second thing is sacrifice We need to understand it's going to involve some sacrifice on our point. I want to show you something because this is um Hope for our country. Okay? You want some hope? Amen. Everyone likes hope? Amen. I want to show you some this is this is fascinating to me. In fact I talked to your pastor about this, Brother Leatherman, and he said, you know, I was just reading that. I was just talking about that. And look with me over to 1 Kings in chapter 21. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. Okay, uh in 1 Kings chapter 21, this is talking about Ahab. Okay? 1 Kings 21, verse 25, and I'll start reading and catch up for sake of time. It says, but there was none like unto Ahab. Which did sell himself to work to wickedness in the sight of the Lord, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up. He did very abominably In following idols, according to all things, as did the Amorites, whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel. And it came to pass when Ahab heard those words, judgment. upon his country, upon him, that he rent his clothes, put and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted And lay in sackcloth, and went softly. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Seeest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? Because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but in his son's days I will bring the evil upon his house. Now, let me just ask you this. If wicked King Ahab can get a hold of God and see God's mercy upon his house, upon his kingdom What kind of praying ground do we have that are living before God and trying to live righteously? There's the hope for America. I mean you see it over and over again. Manasseh the same way. Josiah and Josiah basically because He did those things once they found the word of God in the house of God. And God said, I'm not going to bring it in his day. I don't know about you, but I I would like to see God postpone his judgment Huh? And you know what he says, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. You tell me another nation on earth that's more merciful than America. So I'm praying for mercy, for God to do something miraculous, and not to bring it in our lifetime. But there's some sacrifice here. You know why? Because he rent his clothes, and I'm not telling everyone, go tear your clothes up. But that meant humbling himself. And he says he fasted. When you talk about fasting, the flesh doesn't like it. Oh, don't go there, Brother Harding. Not fasting. What I'm saying is this, if we want God to really show up and do something for our country, it's going to take a little sacrifice. That means That perhaps you take a meal out of the week and you don't eat a one meal, and instead of eating that meal You pray and fast for our country. Use that booklet. Pray through that booklet and fast a meal. Skip a meal and I'm not saying okay well I'm gonna skip uh I'm gonna eat dinner and then I'm gonna fast all night long and then I'll eat breakfast and I'll pray through the night. No no I'm talking about fasting. And there may be someone in here that basically is healthy enough and you say, you know what, I I could fast a whole day and pray for my my country. Or just eat one meal and fast two meals a day and pray for my country. If we want to see God do something miraculous, we're going to need to start sacrificing a little bit. And maybe take some time with our family, read the Constitution of the United States. Look, you know You came here on Sunday to the old-fashioned altar and you committed that you're going to be praying five minutes for our country every day. For the little ones here. So that we could see God's promises fulfilled and see his principles in our nation. Five minutes every day. That's not very much time. But I want to ask you this. How many in here would be willing to give up a half an hour a week just to read the Constitution, study the Constitution a little bit? Even get together and and study it maybe and and say, okay, now we got some questions for Brother Harding. Put me on the speakerphone and and I can go through and answer some of your questions. I mean that'd be a good thing, wouldn't it? Amen? And so that's what I'm saying. Hey, look, our duty says, number one, that we sweareth to our own hurt. We have no idea though in America what duty is because we say, well, that might inconvenience me a little bit. Huh? I might suffer loss there in doing this or or that. Do you understand when I first started this ministry that no one really got what I was doing? And I mean I had to call for weeks at a time. Until finally I would get a meeting with with someone and they'd say, oh okay, you you can come. And it took some sacrifice. We had a little nest egg, didn't we, honey? We had a little nest egg, you know. And I told my wife, I said, we may have to spend that to get this ministry started. You know. You say, you have retirement? No, I don't have a retirement. I spent my retirement. You say, well, you don't have the time. No, my my retirement's out of this world, amen. I don't plan on ever retiring. That's nothing wrong with retiring, but I'm just not going to. Because I know that there's things that but my wife without hesitation she said you know what if we have to sacrifice and basically spin that little nest egg, that's fine. Because the founding fathers, look what they did. Look what the people did in the Bible for liberty, for soul liberty in in our country. Uh soul liberty in their country, I should say, in how we replicated it in our country. So when we look at what we can do for our nation, we need to first of all get educated. We need to basically wake up to some things. Proverbs chapter 14, verse 34 says, Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Americans with faith in God and the Holy Bible must be the conscience of this nation, because otherwise we're gonna fall and the free people cannot survive even under a Republican constitution unless they remain virtuous and morally strong So we as God's people must be the conscience of our nation and talking to other people and basically sharing with them the gospel. That's being blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom ye shine as lights in the world. Number three, the third principle, the most promising method of securing a virtuous people is to elect virtuous leaders. It says, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. Now than ever before. You say, well, we don't really have anyone righteous to uh to choose from. That's our fault, because we have not been engaged for such a long time. So right now we do have to choose the lesser of two evils so we don't get the greater of two evils. But we need to realize some things if we're going to do something For our country, uh, I just think this that we need to take some steps in doing our duty for our nation How can we basically halt the havoc loosed in the United States since the 1960s? There's got to be two reversals. First and most obvious, our national public stance towards God, the Supreme Court's current ban on the acknowledgement of God and the use of the principles of the public square has to be challenged. And we're the only ones that can do it. Second reversal must basically be centered on the restoration of personal beliefs derived from the living God and His principles. For example, when the courts ruled that students Cannot use the Ten Commandments or study the scriptures or learn about sexual abstinence and things like this. Look, we should have stood up and done something. We should have cried out. I want to show you something that I believe, and I want you to pray about that that I am trying to get um known once again on Capitol Hill. Because you understand, right, that the furthest portion of our government removed from us is the judiciary And honestly, I wonder what color of the sky is in their world sometimes. Huh? Really, I do. Because it's they're they're ignoring everything. But but here's something because what we think and what we've been told is the number one, all of the Supreme Court justices are lifetime tenured. They're not. They're not lifetime tenured Say, I th I I thought when they were appointed their lifetime. No, it says in Article III, now remember this is the Constitution, the highest law of the land, right? Based upon the highest law of the universe. And it says this that the judges of the Supreme Court and Inferior Courts shall hold their offices during good behavior. When they behave badly We can get rid of them. That's what the Constitution says. Now, you know what I think is bad behavior when they say when they infringe upon what God says that life begins a conception, not a birth. I think that's bad behavior. Amen. And we've impeached Supreme Court justices before. Oh, people don't uh you know people don't like some of this stuff But it's true. Well, we're gonna have a hard road trying to s to impeach some of those Supreme Court justices. Then there's something else I think that's very, very important, but most people don't even understand that it's here. And this is Article 3, Section 2, and Paragraph 2, and it says this In all of the cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions And under such regulations as the Congress shall make. You know what that means? The exceptions clause? That means we can accept, take from the Supreme Court anything we no longer want them to vote on. We can accept from the Supreme Court anything we no longer want them to judge on. We don't want them to judge on on prayer and and the Bible in schools anymore. We don't want them to judge on anything that has to do with morality. We can take that. We can accept that from it. Is that where it says the exceptions? Exceptions? Capital E? See he's a pastor too. That's why I asked him. Honest guy. Doesn't he look honest? He even looks honest. Amen. But the exceptions clause we've used 200 plus times in our nation's history. And I asked a very good congressman, I said, why don't we hobble the Supreme Court and put this exceptions clause back? to where it belongs and start using that through and by the Congress. And this is what he said. Exceptions clause? I said, yeah, the exceptions clause. Remember Ezra 7 verse 25, and teach ye them that know them not? So his chief of staff was there and I said, Could I make an appointment and come back after the recess and and help um the Congress understand what the exceptions clause is? He said You know the last time it was used, it was used by Jim DeMint to try to keep under God in our pledge. The exceptions clause was used. They attempted to use it, but they didn't have the majority in the House, the Senate. We have the majority now. It's time that we start giving them back their backbone. By calling them. That's something else we can do, by the way. That's another point that we can do. We can effectually make that personal contact with them either by email. Now when you email them, you know, do it politely, do it with all decorum, but let them know what you are displeased or pleased with. Amen. When you start either calling them, you say, well, I don't think calls make any difference whatsoever. I've already told you that it only takes ten calls. A lot more people than ten here tonight. You can move and and when a pastor calls They have no idea if that pastor pastors 50, 500, or 5,000. So a pastor has a huge amount of influence But the problem is people don't call. We want to do something. We need to call. Start calling. Start making personal contact with these people I'm making personal contact with them. You can pray about that. You would say, well, what should I pray about, Brother Harding? Pray that I can actually teach them about the exceptions clause. Wouldn't that be wonderful? If you saw in the news, Congress makes a law accepting from the Supreme Court That they can no longer vote on anything that concerns morality, because that is something that is God's Playground and not theirs. Wouldn't that be wonderful to see that happen? Now you won't see my name. You're not going to see my name because I'm not going to take credit for anything I'm just going to try to, you know, teach some people some wisdom about what we have here in the Constitution of the United States. This Johnson Amendment that I told you about the other night Where Johnson told the people in churches, 501c3, don't preach against this or that or do this because you might lose your 501 tax exempt status. Remember that? I've already met, along with for the Creed, a congressman who is going to spearhead getting that repealed. So that the perception of the handcuffs will be taken off because it's a bluff to begin with, but that'll be taken off and pastors will be able to uh enter into the fray that haven't been there before. And I met with the man that is heading it up, a congressman that is heading it up, and he wants us to get pastors from the United States to come and testify in Washington, D. C. as to why this is important to repeal this. You say, wow, that's something. Yeah, but we're not anything. We're not nothing, but we are walking through the doors and we are making personal contact and your pastors made personal contact and what this does is an amazing thing. How very Much this has affected and will affect people. In Florida, I don't know if I told you this. I know I told the pastors today, but a man went into the Florida State House and now they've passed a Pastors Protection Act So no pastors will not be prosecuted or persecuted if they don't want to marry same-sex couples down in Florida. I think that's pretty good, don't you? So if we want to do something, we need to once again get initiated and do our duty Third thing, it says, He that sweareth the oath, to his own hurt, sacrifice, and changeth not. You know what that is? That's resolution. That's basically saying that no matter what, I am going to do this or or do that. And what is wonderful to understand, if we want to know to do something, okay, in the political realm, formerly dominated by Christians at one time, is still available to Christians. Someone in here may want to run for public office. Huh? Because it says in Romans 13, three times that people in public service are ministers of God. My wife and I knew a pastor's wife out in Oklahoma, and she said, I just am sick and tired of what's going on. And she asked her husband, can I run for public office? He said, well let's pray about it. And they prayed. And he said, yes. And she's one of the more most foremost people in America that's standing for righteousness now. She's not just affected Oklahoma. She's affected the entire nation. Amazing. I met a young man. I was up in Maine preaching. Not too long ago. And and uh the pastor said, we have a young man that's gonna come. He's in his twenties. Uh he is a um state senator. And he went through our Christian school and went to college and he kept on saying, you know, my state senator will not give me the time of day. Someone needs to run against him. He kept on saying that over and over again. Finally he said to his cousin, who's a House representative, and his cousin said, Why don't you run against him? And he said, Well I can't I can't run against him. I'm not qualified. He said, Are you a resident of Maine? Said yes. He said, then you're qualified. He went, okay. And he prayed about it, ran on a financial shoestring, and unseated an 18-year incumbent He walked up to me afterwards. I had preached on Romans 13 that night. He walked up to me and shook my hand. And and he he was combing his hair like the like the young people used to do in the baby Huey look. Remember that? Twenty, you know Well look like a shark, you know. I know how they do that by the way. Because every morning I I sleep on this side of my face and I sleep on this side of my face and every morning I wake up and I got that going on. I tell my wife, Look, I'm just gonna go out, I'm all silent. She said, Go ho, go comb, go comb your hair. You're not going anywhere like that But this this young guy came up and he had his hair like this. I thought he was a teenager. He said, How he said, Hi, how you doing? I said, Yeah, doing good. Thanks for being here, young man. He said, No, no, no. He said, I'm Senator Garrett Mason. I went, what? He said, I'm Senator Garrett Mason. I said, You're a senator? I I'm thinking to myself, with that hairdo? He took me through the through the Capitol, the main the main capital. He introduced me to his Senate caucus. Said this this uh preacher is preaching on the Constitution at my church. God and country. They stood and gave me a standing ovation. All the senators. As I'm walking down the hall with this young man, people coming, uh, Senator, Senator Mason, can I have a moment of your time later? Sure, yeah. He's one of the youngest state senators in the United States. He's the youngest president of any state caucus in the United States. And he may be running for the governor And if he does that, he's going to be one of the youngest governors in the history of America. And he's saying you know why? Because he just said, I'm going to do something, because the political process and government that was once dominant By Christians, it's still open to Christians. But we haven't been there. You know why? Because we say, well, that would take a lot of my time. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. See we need to get some resolution about us. Some commitment to us. Amen? And you know what happens? This is great. I'm I'm glad that I worked for a pastor that didn't always thank me or very seldom ever acknowledged what I did. Because I don't need a pat on the back anymore. But most Christians do. Huh? I you know what pastors do these days? They burp Christians. Come here. Because too many Christians they if they don't get acknowledged for what they've done, huh? Or how many times have you heard? Well, the pastor didn't even shake my hand. The pastor didn't say hello to me. I don't think I'm coming to church tomorrow. Huh? It's time that we get some commitment to ourselves and to God without The Lord talks about those servants that worked all day long in the the field, back breaking work. And then when they came into the house, they didn't sit down and expect it to be waited on. They waited on the master. made sure that he had enough to drink and he had enough to eat. And then finally after he was taken care of, then they sat down and they ate themselves. And they said, we've just simply done our duty. We haven't done anything more than just our duty I remember Teddy Roosevelt. Where the teddy bear comes from? How many had a teddy bear here growing up? Teddy bear. Okay. Come on. Some some of you guys had teddy bears too, I think. The teddy bear from from Teddy Roosevelt. Hey, I like Teddy Roosevelt. You know why? Because he was a man's man. And yes, he took some liberties with the Constitution that I don't agree with, but I just like the spirit of the guy. And you know when he was running for the president under the Bulls Party, which didn't work out by the way, okay, if anyone could have ever got elected as a third party candidate for the presidency, it would have been Teddy insanely popular, already the president. I mean, I'm unbelievable. But he didn't, he just split the vote and Woodrow Wilson got in, who had a disdain for the Constitution. and start the League of Nations that now we have the United Nations from and how did that work out for us? Not very good, I don't think. But in any case, Teddy is walking through this particular venue and some guy comes up and shoots them at point blank range. I mean, boom, right in the chest. He had his glass case, which was made out of metal, and a large Speech folded in half, but the bullet went through both of those things into his muscular chest and lodged up against his lung. Didn't puncture his lung, but lodged up against it. Didn't even knock Teddy off of his feet. He just kind of went back like this and right side himself, took his handkerchief out, and plugged the hole in his chest, said, bring that guy over to me. Everyone jumped on the would-be assailant. They brought him over to Teddy. And Teddy dismissed him with a glare that would probably kill most people. They said, okay, Mr. President, we're going to get you to the hospital. He said, I'm not going to go to the hospital. He said, yes, sir, you've been shot. You understand? You're bleeding. He said, Yeah, I know. But uh I have four thousand people that are waiting for me to make a speech. I'm gonna go make that speech. So you can either help me get there or get out of my way They said, Mr. President, well they knew not to argue with Teddy for too long. So sure enough, they got him in the fastest vehicle possible, got him over to this auditorium, 4,000 plus people there waiting for him. The MC comes up and says, the president is here They still call him present even though he's not present anymore. And he's going to be speaking to us, but there was an attempt on his life tonight, and someone has shot him. But he's here all the same. Everyone, I mean so quiet here, pin drop. Teddy came up and said, yes, that's true. I have been shot, but it takes more than that to kill an old bull moose. He said, I'm having an A1 time in life, having it right now, and I'm going to make this speech or die, one of the two things. And so everyone gets quiet He said, I won't be able to talk for very long because I I I am losing some blood and and so uh I I will uh I will address you though. He spoke Start speaking and people started responding. They were standing to their feet and giving standing ovations. He'd quiet him back down and speak for a while longer. He spoke for an hour. So that's another reason why I like Teddy. Amen. Spoke for an hour. Did don't don't you get that joke? Okay. Then finally he filled up his cowboy boot with blood. By the time he got through speaking, the people were standing up cheering, Teddy, Teddy, Teddy, Teddy! He said, okay, you can take me now. And they took him to the hospital and the doctors worked on him. He said, I've never seen a man with a more muscular chest in my life. And they took the bullet out. And the author of the book that tells the story, that writes this and documents the story, says, this is the quintessential Roosevelt to cheat death and live to fight another day. I just kind of like the tenacity of the guy. Too many times. What we do is we don't have the result. Well, it just, you know, it just doesn't seem that things are changing. Do you understand how long we've been out of the process? We've been back in the process now, thanks to God's direction, pastors like your pastor coming to Washington, D. C. for only four years now. But we've made huge strides. And effective things are happening all the time. And we need to understand we're not going to regain all this ground immediately. When the people of God went to the promised land, God said he's going to give it to them little by little. So we need to have the tenacity to understand That we as God's people need to have the resolve, you see, to keep on going, because if we don't, we're just gonna say, well, I'm sorry, this doesn't work. And too many times what we do is we get all riled up And we get someone elected and then we take our bowl and we go home. Or we get all riled up and all excited. We get a candidate elected. Well he doesn't get elected, but whether he gets elected or not, too many times once he gets elected, we just take our ball and we go home. We don't stay engaged. We don't stay there talking to him and engaging them and keeping him accountable and cajoling him when he's wrong and congratulating him when he's right. Now, more than ever before, the people are responsible for the character of their Congress. It's up to us to find out people who know God, who understand the processes of government and get those people elected. We've got to vote if we like it or not in what's going on. I want to just give you very quickly my personal opinion about what's happening here. Because there are some things that one candidate is going to do that the other one's not. One candidate, and I this I I went over this a little bit last night, but I'm going to repeat it for the sake of the people that were here last night. One candidate says, I'm going to support Eleven different people for consideration that are all pro-life and pro-Second Amendment for the Supreme Court of the United States. One of ten is just the opposite One candidate is going to repeal the Johnson Amendment. One candidate actually picked a born-again Christian as his vice president. One candidate said he's going to strengthen the military. One candidate said he's going to close our borders. so that terrorists don't continue to come through. One candidate now say, well, i what if we have to pay for the wall and the southern border? Cost us five billion dollars. But the good thing is every year we spend $28 billion on goods and services for illegal aliens. So the first year it's going to save us $23 billion. You understand? He's going to establish a good vetting program for immigrants coming from Muslim nations, I kinda like that. He's going to put an end to unfair trade practices, returning jobs to America He's going to take the restraints off the coal and oil production and this will provide a cheaper fossil fuels for us, elevate our And alleviate, I I should say, elevate our dependent our independence and alleviate our dependence upon nations that are working for our demise. Amen? Now, now again, you understand that Lenin said, when it comes time for us to hang our enemies, they'll compete for the right to sell us the rope. And we're making China wealthy. And we're making many of the Muslim nations that hate us, that want to demise, wealthy by buying their oil. I'm kind of sick of that, aren't you? I would sure like to fill up my vehicle from oil right here in the United States. And by the way, we have more oil and one reserve called the Backen Reserve that extends from Wyoming to Colorado. In that one reserve we have more oil than all of the Middle Eastern nations put together. It's not even tapped. And what we need is a president that will say, uh, oil companies need to build some refineries, we're going to go back to work. And we're going to start tapping these things. Or even if the oil refineries don't want to, hey, turn it over to wildcats. Let's start that again. That would be wonderful to see. Don't you agree? So these things, what I'm talking to you about, what I'm trying to get across to you this evening, are things that we can do, things that are tangible, things that will really affect a change. A lot of times folks say, well, you know, there's so many people that are that are talking about different things, and it just doesn't seem like that we are are being heard. Well may I say this? And it's a biblical principle. The Song of Solomon says this in 8, chapter 8, verse 13, thou that dwellest in the gardens, The companions hearken to thy voice. Cause me to hear it. What that's talking about is people that know us will listen to us speak. We can affect a change. But we need to know first of all what we're talking about, and then we need to start voicing this to other people as to, look, you need to vote You this is why you need to vote. It's not your vote, etc. etc. You understand everyone with me tonight? Amen. You sure? Are you getting this? Are you understanding what I'm trying to get? Look, as you become more and more active, more involved, don't underestimate the effect of the experience that you are gaining And by willing to step up in leadership, perhaps stepping out to inform the community, important issues, consideration, perhaps the recruiting of others to run for office. I I told this up in a church in Ohio And there was a young man there and he ran for city council and won. Now he's considering running for mayor. I mean there may be someone here That could run unopposed. Didn't someone tell me the other night that they ran for a school board and got it? Well, was it here? Sometimes these meetings kind of all rent together, but they ran unopposed for a school board Even school boards are important. You know why? Because then you have a say of the type of books that are being given to the young people. And folks, we need to start teaching our young people again. And they're not allowed to pray in schools. We need to show them how to pray when they're not in school. We need to give them the right Christian heritage. And show them that these revisionist historians that are taking God out of history are all wrong and teach them before they go to school some things and counteract What the public schools are doing. Hey, public schools anymore are not educating, they're indoctrinating. And they give tests to see how they are dragging down the faith of our young people We need to be the ones that spend some time with our young people in family altars and show them and tell them the real story. So they can go in and at least know in the back of the mind evolution is all wrong. It's creation. Oh, no, no, no. George Washington was not a profane man. He was someone that wouldn't let anyone curse under his command. George Washington, look, if you cursed under George Washington's command, one time you got a warning, second time 25 lashes, third time you were drummed out of the military with a dishonorable discharge that would follow you for the rest of your life And over 50 documents with his original signature that over 50 times he did that. And this is why. He said, I don't care how good of a warrior you are I don't care how good of a soldier you are, if you take God's name in vain, you diminish his grace upon us, and we need God's grace in these battles more than we need you. I just kind of like that, amen. George Washington saw God's hand in the French and Indian War. Indians tried to kill him. They killed Braddock, his superior. They shot him four bullet holes in his coat. Two horses shot out from underneath him. And he came away unscathed? And later on, the Indian chief that was there directing his braves to kill George Washington because he said, if we get him, we get them all. Met him knowing that he was going to be a particular area and this Indian chieftain came over and said, I remember you. I came here to see you specifically. George Washington looked at this Indian chief and said, what are you talking about? He said, you were here at this place during the war between France and Great Britain. He said, yes. How do you know? He said, I was the chief and I told my braves, shoot him, kill him. He said, my braves don't miss with the long right. And neither do I. But we couldn't kill you because you had the great spirit resting on your shoulders. Even a Native American could see God's presence upon George Washington. George Washington knew, see, the battle was not decided simply by men and strategy. But there was a supernatural element in every battle. And folks, don't think that our country's gone. Because in the battle for our nation, there is a supernatural element. And if we garner God's attention, And gain his mercy upon our nation, we have great hope in what God can do because he's done it before and he can do it again. But we have to do our duty. I remember George Whitfield and the great preachers. They preached up and down the eastern coastline here and There were a lot of people that worked against them and tried to keep them from doing what they basically were tasked by God to do, but they had an unswervable duty and they said this along with our founding fathers, the duty is mine, the results belong to God. Can you imagine? The first capital connection and and look, I'm nothing. You understand? All the glory, all the honor goes to God. But I learned this lesson that the duties mine and the results belong to God. When I was approached with the opportunity of taking the Bible and giving it to every senator and every congressman on Capitol Hill. My wife remembers we won't even hear them. And and so I said, well this is a wonderful opportunity. The actual Bible that Robert Aiken was tasked with printing, and we're going to give that to all the senators and congressmen. Oh, that's great. How much is it going to cost? $98,000. Pastor Creed said, do you have $98,000? I said, I'm a missionary evangelist. I said, do you have $98,000? He said, I'm a Baptist pastor. He said, should we do this? Let's pray about it. By the time we got through praying, it swelled to be $130,000. The next year was $150,000. For three nights. And both years it was paid off on the beginning of the conference. It continued to grow. This last year Now we don't we don't take a cent of this with this last year $250,000 plus a quarter of a million dollars for three nights. You say we were honestly it wasn't Because I'd seen God do something before and I exp I was just anticipating out of faith that he was going to do it again. And he paid it off by Monday. Say that that's unheard of. Look, the duty is ours, the results belong to God. Amen. It's time that we start sacrificing for the next generation. Don't you think? For these young people here? Remember John Adams? John Adams was at a party. I'm almost done. Are you still with me? I'm almost done. You sure? There wasn't any amen there. Maybe I should stop right right now. But John Adams had a party and his the host, the French hostess, said, how do you like our statuary? How do you like all of our tapestry and our paintings and our porcelain? And John Adams said this, I study politics and war, so that my sons can study agriculture and architecture and So that their sons can study porcelain and tapestry and but I study politics and war. See what he was saying was I'm sacrificing for the next generation. A lot of people say, well, Bill Harding, it just seems like we are surrounded and there's no hope. Seems like We just don't have the uh the guns, so to speak, to win this war. And I'll end with this story. I remember a man that's his remains are buried not too far from here in the naval chapel there in the Annapolis Academy. John Paul Jones was in a fight, the fight of his life. And the Bohem Richard that he commanded was fighting against the therapists. They were outgunned and outmanned. His ship was taking on water and his rudder was inoperable so he couldn't really steer the ship that well and his masts were cut in two, some of them only hanging there and Men were laying dead and dying on the deck. And the captain from the serpus, through the foghorn, blew over and said, We're ready to accept your surrender. John Paul Jones gave that famous quote, we have not yet begun to fight. And when he said that, one of his men up top Where the mass was leaning over the other ship, that's how badly it was destroyed, was taking these little hand bombs and trying to drop them into the ship from the top. And he kept on lighting them and dropping them and lighting them and dropping wanted to get one of them into the hold of the shi of the British ship. And finally one rolled in, fell into the hold, and boom. It blew up. As John Paul Jones was saying his statement, that explosion occurred and grappling hooks went flying from his ship over to the bridge. British ship. And they climbed over to the British ship and they started fighting hand-to-hand combat. John Paul Jones won the day and sailed back on the Serapis. And folks, this old ship of state of ours may be taking on water. Our rudder might be a little bit disabled. And our flags may be torn. But we need to tell everyone that we know, as Christians, we have not yet begun to fight. And our weapon in this warfare is the truth. The truth of the Bible And the truth of our Constitution that the Bible is displayed in. And we as God's people must do our duty. We must Live by oaths. He that sweareth. We must be willing to sacrifice some to his own hurt. Let me ask you this. Are you willing to do a one-day fast to pray for our country? For these little ones in here? A meal? One meal a day? Are you willing to dedicate a half an hour a week to read the Constitution? You want to know what to do? These are things that we can do to effect a change. Someone here might want to run for public office. We need to start calling our senators and congressmen and giving them some direction when they get back from the recess. Start reading some bills. Go on to my website. You can get some of the bills coming. You won't have to you won't be able to call about all the bills because there's thousands of them. But go on our website, go to Family Research Council and some of these other websites and get one bill. Just call about one bill. And see how much effective results you can see. But God's people need to start doing something. First thing is, you need to read this. and get a working knowledge of this great, miraculous governmental document that we have been entrusted with. And then put what you learn into action. And if you don't know something or you want to know something about this book, call me. Email me. I'll make time. I'll answer you. Let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Duty, he that swears to his own hurt, And changeth not. May we be willing to do just that. So let me ask you. Willing to fast for a meal? Say, well, Bill Horning, what can we pray about? Why don't you pray that God's people will be stirred to vote in this next election? That forty million people that didn't vote last time will vote this time. That the 30 million right now that are still not even registered to vote will get registered to vote. Say, Brother Harding, what can we pray about? That'd be one thing right there. Because I sure would love to see this old ship of state just sail through some stormy waters, but at least continue to keep sailing. And not to sink. So what about it, folks? Are you willing to do your duty? For this is the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Would you stand and come and let's end this conference with a prayer around the altar?