First Peter chapter five, if you would. Look with me at verse eight and nine. We started this about a month ago. We've had so many uh special things going on. We're coming back to it now tonight. And verse number 8, the Bible says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. We're talking about our adversary the devil. I'll briefly review what we covered And then I want to give you a final thought from verse number nine. So let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless our message tonight. Father in heaven, we come again to you. We thank you for a good day you've given us I always enjoy being in God's house with God's people. What a blessing. And I pray now as we finish out the day with our Bibles open that you would speak to our hearts from your word. I ask Holy Spirit as always that you would fill me with your whole me and speak through me. I yield my will, and Lord, I just give my whole self over to you again. in this moment that you would take me and just I could be a tool in your hand to build our faith, prepare us for the week. And Lord, enable us to be victorious in our Christian lives. And so have your way. Help us to be open-minded. Help us to be submissive to your word, myself included, all of us. And I ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. I think there's two dangers anytime we're discussing or dealing with the devil, and one danger is becoming obsessed with the devil. And this happens sometimes. People just uh he gets in their head and and they become obsessed with things of the devil, and that's not a healthy thing to be obsessed with the devil That takes place, I think, with the second coming. People get obsessed with worrying about who the Antichrist is and they forget about the Christ. And so I don't want to be obsessed with the devil. On the other hand, we don't want to be ignorant of the devil either We want to know a little bit what he's like, what he's up to, and I want to know what his tactics are. I want to know what how does he operate? What are his devices And the Bible tells us, and God gives us enough information in the Bible about our enemy, the devil, that uh we can deal with them. And we can be victorious. Now we noted here in this passage, this is one of the key passages in Scripture on Satan, the devil. And we noted, first of all, our attitude towards the devil. If you remember several weeks ago, we looked at the first couple words, the first four words of verse number eight: be sober, be vigilant. And what we need to do when we approach the d uh this matter of the devil considering our enemy, uh we need to take it very, very seriously. The victory or defeat in the spiritual life, and I say this often, I say it again, it's so important. Victory and defeat in the Christian life is won or lost in the mind. How I think, my attitude about things. And God tells us right off the bat, as He begins to address this matter of Satan, we need to be very, very serious about our spiritual enemy, the devil And we ought to be serious about the world and we ought to be serious about the flesh. But we need to be sober and we need to be vigilant. We ought not to joke about the devil. My opinion. We ought not to laugh. We ought um uh I I don't watch any shows outside of like I said, maybe a little historical thing or a fishing show every now and then. Um or uh sometimes I watch BattleBots. That's pretty good. But anyway, uh I don't want to watch anything that the world says about the devil. Any shows about the devil, any jokes, any cartoons. I don't want nothing to do with that We need to be sober. We need to be vigilant. So the first thing we noted was our attitude concerning the devil. And then we noted the second part of verse number eight, our adversary, the devil. If you remember, we pointed out that his the term devil means to slander. It means to make accusations, accuser. And we talked about Satan accusing us. He describes them, he says, they're because your adversary, and then he identifies them, the devil, and then he describes them, he says, as a roaring lion And we talked about how a lion's tactics are to roar and intimidate its prey and terrorize its prey and Get it to make foolish decisions and get it to react and and um and scatter it and then he devours it And so we saw his tactics there, how he operates, what he's described as, and then what he's up to, we notice that he wants to devour us. And I just want to remind you: this devil that the world laughs about This devil that the musicians sing about. This devil wants to destroy Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. He wants to devour it. He'd love for this thing to shut down And I appreciate all our facilities here. I'm so grateful for the new building, but I'll be honest with you, and I pray this seriously. If ever dev devil ever gets a hold of this church and we go liberal and start preaching wrong doctrine, if this church ever does that I pray this ceiling collapses in on the church and the new building burns down and a flood wipes the thing off. It's unlikely we'll have a flood up here, but I don't want this thing to go on under the control of the devil. And uh he would he would he would his goal is to devour this church. I want to remind you, the devil's goal, desire, is to devour your family. Destroy it. Eat it up. That's his whole thing. We must never forget the end game of the devil is to devour us. Tear us apart. The devil wants to devour these young people. And I'll tell you, let me just throw this out there. This is why we invest a pretty significant amount of money and time and effort in having a youth pastor. And having youth conferences and having buses and all that is so we can try and salvage some young people from the jaws of the devil I thank God for our young people. I thank God we have some young people that are willing to stand up for God and walk with God and love the Lord. I thought when Virginia was playing, I'm grateful for a number of our young people are willing to use their abilities for the glory of God, not for the indulgement of the flesh. I'm so grateful. But one thing I want to emphasize here as we go on is we must never ever forget what the devil wants to do. He wants to devour us. He wants to destroy us. He wants to eat us up. And so we looked at our attitude, be sober, be vigilant. We looked at our adversary, the devil, and what he's like and what he's up to I want to finish this subject out here as we work our way through the book of 1 Peter with this last thought, our actions towards the devil. What do we do? We're sober, we're vigilant, all right, we're taking it serious. We're not horsing around about this. He's a slanderer, he's the devil, he's uh like a roaring lion, he wants to destroy us. What do we do? Well, look with me if you would at verse number nine. He walked about seeking whom he devour. Verse 9, whom resist steadfast in the faith. Then he tacks on this little statement, knowing that the same afflictions, the same, you could say, and I'm not correcting the Bible, don't misunderstand, but the same conflicts These same difficulties the devil is causing, you're dealing with, these same afflictions, are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. So, what are our actions concerning the devil? Well, let me just say this. I got good news. The devil can be resisted. Thank God for that. The devil can be conquered. I was in Indianapolis, uh youth pastor, for four years there in the inner city. Most of our ministry was in the inner city. our buses and whatnot and I was going through big apartments there and uh just go through it you know it would take a month just to knock on all the doors in some of the big apartments there And a lady answered the door. My wife was with me. And we got introduced ourselves a bit, and she broke down and started sobbing. And um we said, what's wrong? Can we pray? And she had a son that had just died not too long before. And uh she says, My life is a mess. And she says, I feel like everything's falling apart. And she goes, I went and I talked to my pastor, and it was a different denomination. She wasn't in our church. I was just out knocking on doors. And my pastor said, it's just the devil. The devil's just running amok, just destroying everybody. And there was a sense of despair in her voice. And there was real fear in her eyes. And she had been given the impression that there's nothing, the devil is out there, there's nothing we can do. And we're just hopeless victims of the devil. I'm here to tell you, we are not just hopeless victims of the devil. And there is something we can do to keep him from devouring our churches and our ministries and our homes and our personal lives. We can have victory. He can be conquered. And God tells us here how we can respond to our enemy the devil, our adversary, the devil. Now it's not easy It's not easy to have victory over the devil. By the way, it's not easy to have victory over the world. The world's a powerful force out there. Never underestimate The spiritual power behind this world's influences on our church and on our lives. It's on every hand, and sometimes we play the fool and we allow the world to influence us in ways we ought not to. So it's not easy to have victory over the world. Hey, it's not easy to have victory over the flesh, amen or not. My biggest struggle, I think, is with my old sinful nature. It's not easy. Lester Roloff said the hardest funeral he ever does is the one he does every morning when he gets up, dying to self. And we can't play games if we're going to have victory over if we're going to have victory over the world, if we're going to have victory over our own sinful flesh, we it's not easy. It takes time, it takes effort, it takes attention We got to work at it. And I'm here to tell you, it's not easy to have victory over the devil. We can, but it doesn't just happen. It isn't some flippant little thing. We don't have to be conformed to this world. We don't have to be controlled by our flesh, and we don't have to be consumed by the devil. We do have recourse. Say, preacher, what can I do to keep the devil from getting my kids? What can I do to keep the devil from getting my ministry and from getting me and my testimony? Well, the Bible tells us here. Notice what he says. Whom, what's that second word in verse 9? Resist. Resistance. The word resist, I got looking that up as I always do, and it means set myself against It means to withstand. In fact, that word that we get our word resist from is translated other places in our Bible to withstand. It means to act in opposition to. It's the exact, maybe this will help. It's the exact opposite of cooperation. He's telling us, don't you dare cooperate with the devil. You resist. You withstand. You act in opposition to, refuse to cooperate, to strive against. My idea, I'd like to I try to get word pictures in my mind so I can understand a little bit. You get these academic definitions. And I want to get a picture in my mind what it is. I put this down to firmly and unyieldingly say no. The picture I get is uh you have a football player, he gets the ball, he tucks that ball in, he hunches over a little bit, and he puts that forearm out and he just stiff arms Everybody in front of him and says, No, you are not getting this ball. He's resisting those who are trying to take the ball from him And what God is telling us here, I believe, He's saying to every Christian and to every church and every home, you need to duck your shoulder down, you need to put that stiff arm out, and you say no to the devil. No. We're not going down that road. We're not going that way. We're not allowing that in our home. We're not going to that place. No. Whom resist steadfast in the faith. We are not to have any discussion with the devil. Don't sit down and talk with them. Well, let's talk this out. We don't have any debating with the devil. It's nothing to debate. We have nothing to do with them. We had a lady who came to our church a number of years ago and attended for a while. She's with the Lord now. She's going to another church, very liberal church in town here And she said what the straw that broke the camel's back for her was they started bringing in folks that were involved in the occult. They were going to sit down and talk with the quote-unquote Christians of that church, the members of the church, and just have discussion with those that were in the cult. I'm here to tell you, we don't have any discussion with the devil. We don't debate with them. It's no resistance. Resistance. If you wouldn't keep your place here and turn just a few pages over to the book of James, just before 1 Peter. And James chapter 4, James says almost the exact same wording. He adds a little information to his statement. That I think is very helpful. James chapter 4. Look with me at verse number 7. James 4, 7. Verse 6. Let me give you verse 6 to get the context. But he giveth more grace, speaking of the Lord. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Good statement. Now look at verse 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Now, here's the next same thing Peter said. Resist the devil, and what'll happen? He'll flee from you. We can have victory. We can conquer the devil. We don't have to be devoured by the devil. But he says we resist them, we say, no, no conversation, no compromise, no debate. No! But he said something before we do that. What was that in the first part of the verse? What do we do? Submit ourselves to God. I'm saying this. If you and I are out of the will of God and I'm trying to fight the devil, I'm going to lose every single time. If I'm not right with God, you say, Well, I'm not letting the devil in, but there's some area in my life I'm not right with God, I'm not submitted to the Lord, I'm a sitting duck. I'm shooting with an empty gun Some of these guys in our church shoot bears with guns. Oh yeah, you ought to catch one alive with your bare hands sometime. That's a real man right there. That's what I'm saying I don't know what that has to do with anything, but I just thought of it. But if I'm not right with God, if I'm not submitting to the Lord, my resistance to the devil is meaningless. If I'm not doing what God tells me to do, I can say no to the devil all day long. I'm powerless. Resisting the devil, saying no to the devil, having victory over the devil. Get this? Having victory over the devil begins by submitting to God. I say, Lord, I submit myself to you. My will is your will. Whatever you instruct me to do, I'll trust you. I'm going to follow your instructions. And then I say no to the devil. No. So James says, resist the devil, but he says, before you do that, you better submit to God. Some of us here tonight, if there's some area of our life that's not right with God. If there's some area of life, God Holy Spirit speaking with you right now, there's something in your life that you know isn't what it ought to be I'm telling you, you can resist all you want, but it's powerless. And we'll talk about what the devil's will for us is here in a little bit. But I've got to submit to God if I'm ever going to be able to resist the devil. Come over, if you would, to Ephesians, back a little earlier in the New Testament. Come to Ephesians chapter 6. Now we're familiar, most of us I'm sure are familiar with Ephesians 6 and the putting on the whole armor of God. You would come to Ephesians chapter 6 and I just want to highlight verse 11. And I'd love to take time, but we won't to go down through what the pieces of armor are that are listed here They're spiritual, they're mental, a lot of them. They're moral. They're not literal physical pieces of armor. There's They're how we live our lives. But notice he says in verse number 11, Ephesians chapter 6, he says, put on the whole armor of God. And he just listed that in the previous verses. You ought to study it sometime. That ye may be able to what? Stand against the wiles of the devil. Anybody want to guess at what word that phrase stand against, what word that comes from? Resist. Comes from the exact same word. That we may be able to stand against, we may be able to be to resist. So resisting the devil means that it's very basic meaning is say no to the devil. No compromise, no debate, no argument, no no negotiating. No. But before I do that I need to get back, make sure I'm submitted to the Lord. A heart yielded to the Lord's will for my life. And I need to make sure I'm armored up. Because I'm here to tell you, you say no to the devil, he doesn't take that laying down. He is going to fight, he is going to fight, he is going to fight And I better have that spiritual armor on. I better have the blessed breastplate of righteousness. I better have my uh uh belt uh uh the uh with the girt with around with the truth. I better have that armor on. Or I'm picking with a fight with someone I don't want to fight unarmored. Are you under you with me? So I submit to God, I get this spiritual armor on, and again, I wish we had time, and then I'm able to resist the devil. I'm able to say no. The Christian who wants his life to count for God. I believe I'm talking to the majority of the people here tonight. I don't think you'd be here if you didn't want your life to count for God. The Christian who wants their life to count for God must take seriously their walk with God. We have got to spend time on a daily basis with the Lord, in the Word of God, in prayer. We have got to live our lives. We have got to live our lives at home as holy as we put on at church. Amen or not? We ought to be as honest on the workplace as we are in the church house. We ought to be as righteous and pure and godly in the community as we are in the church body. And we if if our life is going to count for God, and if we're going to make any difference in this world, and if we're going to have victory over the devil, we must take seriously our walk with God. We cannot play And if we're one thing at church and something else at home, we're powerless against the devil. Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. So Peter says, whom resist steadfast in the faith. James says, submit yourself to God and resist the devil. Paul says in Ephesians, he says, put on the whole armor of God so you can withstand the devil. Like I said, it's not easy. It doesn't just happen. It's not something I just walk out of here and say, oh no, devil, I better be, I better be armored up. I better be on my knees in submission to God if I'm going to successfully and effectively say no to the devil. The devil can be resisted. The devil can be conquered. He doesn't have to get our kids. He doesn't have to get our home. He doesn't have to get our ministries. But we've got to work at that. We've got to humble ourselves, submit to God. We've got to be armored up and walk with God if we're going to be able to successfully and effectively Resist the devil. Now just a little note here, a little aside, hear this, if you I don't recommend it, but if you watch these yard these um these yardbirds, I mean these preachers on TV. Some of them. You're going to hear them talking about rebuking the devil. Anyone ever hear that? Oh, we're going to rebuke the devil. I rebuke you, devil. Do you know the Bible, nowhere, not one time, does it instruct us to rebuke the devil? Doesn't. We are not to rebuke the devil, we are to resist the devil. There's a difference. The Bible does not give us authority to rebuke the devil. The Bible tells us to resist him If you would, if you're back here in Peter, keep going back to just before Revelation, the second last book of your Bible, little book Jude. It's only one chapter in Jude, that's 25 verses. And there's something interesting, and to be honest with you, I don't fully understand all that's taking place. In verse number 9 of Jude, He mentions Michael the archangel. Now, Michael, if you study your Bible, Michael is a warrior angel. He's a fighter. And notice what it says. Yet Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil, So here's a spiritual warfare. And I want to remind you, there is a spiritual warfare going on, I believe, even as I'm preaching. Between heaven and hell, between the sa the angels of God and the devils of the devil. So spiritual warfare. I know doubt going on even right now, as some of us are struggling in our minds with God's dealing with your heart about whatever. And so Michael contended with the devil and disputed. Now, here's what I don't fully understand about the body of Moses. Now, I don't know what that was all about, I'll just be honest with you. But notice what it says. He disputed about the body of Moses, Michael the Archangel. The warrior angel of God durst not bring against him the devil a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. The Lord's the one that rebukes the devil. We resist them. You have some of these guys, you'll hear about them sometimes, thank God, not on our radio station. But you'll hear them in the media sometimes. They're going about rebuking the devil of drink. And I rebuke the devil of this. And I rebuke the devil there. You won't find that in the Bible anywhere God rebukes the devil. We resist them. We say, no, no, no. Nope. Nope. We resist them, but we don't rebuke them. Now, come back to Peter here real quick. I'll give you two final thoughts and we quit. He says, whom resist, and then he tells us how. And this is the two things I want to leave you with. First of all, we're to resist him with a confident resistance. A confident resistance. He says, whom resist steadfast in the faith. That's confidence. The word steadfast means to be firm, to be firm, to be immovable, to be stubborn. He's saying we're to resist the devil, say no to the devil. Nope. No negotiating, no debating, no uh uh arguing, no conversations, nope, and do that stubbornly. This morning we preached about being strong and we said it's digging the heels in. And uh That's the idea here, to resist steadfastly. I dig my feet in. I am not giving the devil a vinch. I am not going to cooperate in any way, shape, or form, not one I owe to I'm going to stand on what the Bible says. I'm going to stick to it steadfastly in the faith. It's interesting, we get our word steroids Comes from the same word as the word steadfast. How about that? What do steroids do? A guy's uh you know working out and stuff and he takes steroids. What does it do? We got a pharmacist here. She looks like to me she'd know what it does of all people or anything. I'm teasing. Steroid makes your muscles hard, makes them strong, makes them firm. It's an artificial for way of Making your muscles what they ought to be. That's what the idea is, is be firm. Be strong. Don't play around with this. Whom resist steadfast in the faith. The idea is this, we need to be hard-hearted against the devil. Lee Bowman preached last Saturday of the teens on being hard-hearted. How damaging it is. We ought not to be hard-hearted to the Lord, but I'm saying we ought to be hard-hearted towards the devil. My heart and mine needs to be fixed. No, I'm not giving them an inch. I hate to even mention this, but I think it illustrates what I'm trying to say. Rolling Stones back years ago, before I was saved, had a song very, very popular, made millions off of it. It was called Sympathy for the Devil. They are fools. And I say that with every as earnestly as I can. How foolish To even suggest that we would have sympathy or cooperation or any type of anything but absolute resistance. With the devil. I'm telling you, they're fools. I'll tell you this: they are tools in the hands of the devil. And anybody that goes along with that. There's so many things you could cover. I think we ought to be careful what games we bring into our house. I think we ought to be careful what games we play on this stupid thing. But shows we watch. If there is anything even remotely devilish about it, stay away. Harden your heart against it. Oh, but it's so powerful, it's so entertaining. My heart is hard against that. No! That's the idea of steadfastly. So we are to be very confident in our resistance. We don't have to be timid about saying no to the devil. We don't have to be uh uh tiptoe around when we say no to the devil. We're to be steadfast. Then he says this, be ye steadfast in the faith Whenever you see the term in the faith, the faith, generally it's speaking about the body of biblical doctrine. In other words, he says, resist the devil steadfastly, very strongly, with sound biblical truth. You say, well, how do I resist the devil? Do I punch him in the nose? No, you use the faith, the teachings of Scripture. Whom resist steadfastly in the faith, the biblical teachings of Scripture, is how we resist the devil. Take your Bible, if you would, quickly, and go to Matthew chapter number four. And I love this event in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's so instructive. Matthew chapter number four And uh we're going to come back to Peter one more time and then we'll finish. But I want you to notice Matthew chapter 4, and I want you to see this. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be what? Tempted of the devil. Okay, here's a good example for us. Here's a pattern to follow. We're being taught something here. And when he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he was afterward and hungered. I don't know about you, I'm hungry after 45 minutes. And when the tempter came to him, he, the tempter, the devil, said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. So he's being attacked by the devil. It's a spiritual attack. But he, Jesus, answered and said, What's those next three words? It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. You know what Jesus was doing? He was resisting him steadfastly in the faith. He was throwing biblical teaching right back at the devil. You don't live by bread. Spook here is what it is. Now read on. Then the devil taketh him up to a high s to the into the holy city and set them on a pinnacle in the temple. And saith unto him, if thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down. Now look at this. For what? It is written, who's talking here? Satan, the devil, is quoting scripture. I'm telling you, the devil knows this book just as well, if not better, than you and I do. And he throws scripture back at Jesus Christ. There's a spiritual warfare going on here. He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. Now Satan's taking it out of context. He's twisting it, just what cults do. Look what Jesus says, verse number two. Verse 7. Look what Jesus says. Jesus said unto them, here it is It is written, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. He threw the faith right back at him. He threw Bible teaching right back at him. Jesus is resisting the devil steadfastly, unmovingly, in the faith with the Word of God. And again, do you notice the devil don't quit? Keeps coming, keeps coming, keeps coming. Do you ever get victory in your Christian life? And you thought, praise the Lord, that's settled. The next day, boom, you get hit again. That's what's happening. Again the devil take them up into exceeding high mountain and showeth them all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them And saith to them, All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. He is the God of this world, by the way. Then Jesus saith unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for It is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou worship. Jesus stood steadfastly, He resisted him steadfastly in the faith. I'm telling you, we better get to know this book. This is how we resist in the faith. We better be reading this. We better be learning this. We better know something about this. The devil knows it. We better be memorizing this book. We do a memory verse every month, and I joke about round about getting a treat and all that. But I'm telling you, memorizing that scripture is very important. We're doing it for a reason. Because it's the faith, it's the scriptures, it's the word of God, is how we resist the devil Whom resist steadfastly in the faith. And then number two, we're to be confident in our resistance. And I am with this. Come back here one more time with me. We're to be confident in our resistance, and we are accompanied in our resistance. Look at the last part of verse 9, and I'll quit. Knowing that the same afflictions, the same conflict, the same spiritual attacks going on, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren, other believers that are in the world. In other words, all believers around the world are engaged in the same conflict. The believers down in Sunshine Baptist Church in New Zealand. Face the same adversary you and I face here. Brother Muscott that goes on these ships. In the ports that comes in, he deals with the same adversary you and I deal with. Same principles, same process, same everything. Our brothers and sisters over in Ukraine. Brother Nathan Ring, down in southern Brazil, all the way at the bottom of the country of Brazil, he deals with the same. Same conflict, same adversary you and I face. Our dear brother Gary May out in the Dakotas with the American Indians. Same thing. Same thing. Our believers around the world, churches around the world, are in the same conflict. And I believe what Peter is telling us here, I think he's telling us this. When he adds that last part on there, he said, the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren around the world. I think what he's saying is we need one another in this conflict. We're all in it. We're all in it. All the ladies in this auditorium here right now, you're in the same conflict all the men are. All the young people, all the seniors, same conflict, and we need each other. It's an old saying, but I think it's true. I think it's biblical. There's strength in numbers. Remember when we talked about the roaring lion? He'll come in and roar, and he'll just scatter that herd, and then he looks for one off by itself. He looks for one draggling behind. He looks for that one that gets separated from the herd. And that's who he zeroes in on. I think Peter's telling us under the inspiration of God, we need each other. We're in this battle. We need to pray for each other. Can I make a suggestion? You ought to get the name of every church member, have a prayer list and pray for them. I have on my phone every morning, I go down, name every name in the in our church. I pray, God, give them victory today. God help them Keep them close. Protect them. Imagine if every church member prayed for every church member every day How effective that would be. We need to encourage each other. Listen, uh don't come, don't come in here. Don't come to church tearing other people down. Listen, devil's got that taken care of. You don't need no help. Say, yeah, but you don't know. I uh uh got I don't know, I don't know. Doesn't matter. Devil knows he'll work them over. God knows. The Bible tells us we're to assemble ourselves together for the purpose of exhortation. That's to build up. That's to strengthen. That's to encourage. Why? Because our adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Don't go home and tear your family down. Trash your spouse, trash your parents, trash your brother, trash your sister well sisters maybe, but um no I'm kidding. Don't don't be doing that. Devil, that's his that's his department. Why don't you build them up? Say positive, encouraging things. Well, you you don't know. No, I don't know, but God knows, and God tells me that we need each other. We need to encourage each other. Here's my thought I want to leave you with. What is the devil's will for your life? What is the devil's will for my life? You know what I think? Is my opinion. I don't think the devil has a will for any of our lives. All he wants me is not to do God's will. He could care less what I do as long as I don't do God's will. Say, well, the devil wants everybody on meth. No, he doesn't. If you being a successful businessman or woman in the city and that keeps you out of the will of God, you're just as bad off as the guy in Meth. Follow my thinking? So what is the devil's will? The devil's will is keep me from submitting to God, putting on that armor, and accomplishing God's will for my life. Because if I do that, then I did the devil's will. He's an adversary. Let's take it seriously. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd help us not to play games. We don't want to obsess over this, Lord. But we don't want to be stupid either. I ask you to help us as we finish out this Lord's Day, go into a new week. Help us take very, very seriously our walk with you. Holy Spirit, I pray you're deal with our hearts right here and now. You'd convict us where we need conviction. You'd encourage us where we need encouragement. And help us to get close to you and to stay close to you and fulfill that which you've called us to do. Father, bless the imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing