Chapter number two. Titus chapter number two. I've got a one-verse text I'm going to use this morning. And uh just thankful that the Lord uh directed us up here and got us where we need to be and and uh thankful to be back up here this morning. Um we have enjoyed uh charathons and hearing all the phone calls coming from Oakland, Maryland. Amen. I'd like to look sometime, and Pastor would too, just see how many there are and and uh who all it is calling in. Uh but we're so thankful for you tuning in and listening And uh uh just uh thankful to be in the Lord's work. Amen. Where would we be without the Lord Jesus Christ? Uh this morning I believe it's important uh to speak to everybody's hearts here, whether if you're a Christian, where if you're born-again Christian, or you have not yet made that decision uh to receive Jesus Christ As your Savior. The message is for everybody this morning. In Titus, chapter number 13. That's why I had the children sing the song they did. The Bible says Titus chapter number three, uh chapter number two, I'm sorry, Titus chapter number two, verse thirteen, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. That's what we're looking for this morning. I hope you came this morning. Looking for Jesus, Amen. You won't see him right here behind the pulpit. You'll hear his word spoken. He is the word. Amen. And his word became flesh and dwelt among us. He's Emmanuel. He was God with us. And uh we're he's the reason we're here this morning, we're looking for that blessed hope. And the glory superior. Let's pray Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name, that name that's above every name. And at that name, Lord, we know that every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God And Father, I pray, Lord, you'll take the word this morning that it would go forth with truth and with power. And Lord, the if there be one here that's never trusted as their Lord and Savior, may today be that day. Behold, today is the day of salvation. And Lord, I pray that you encourage your saints, Lord. Give us something to uh to meditate on, Lord, here this morning and and just truly grasp and realize just how good of a Savior you are and what you did for us And Father, we'll be careful to thank you, give you the praise, honor, and glory for it all, and Lord, we love you in Jesus' name. Amen As we look at this scripture here this morning, we are looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. 1 Peter chapter number 1, verses 3 through 5. You don't have to turn there if you want to jot them down to where you can go back and look at it this week. Uh the Bible says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again into a lively hope. He's not just our hope, he is a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead uh to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. I'm looking forward to that. It is an uh incorruptible reward that we're headed to And uh just living a life here for him right now. Hebrews chapter number twelve and verse number two says, Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. I want to say that, you know, we sometimes we can read scripture so much, we can go over the same scripture so much that it becomes familiar with us, and if we're not careful, we'll miss the nuggets that God puts in there for us. I've never walked along on a on a dirt road or anywhere else out in the woods and tripped over a big old nugget of gold. Uh uh they don't appear on top of the ground most of the time Uh they're down under the ground and you have to dig for 'em. Amen. Uh diamonds are the same way, rubies, emeralds, all those things, God has put He knows where every one of them is, and uh you have to dig for 'em Even coal, amen. You have to dig for it to find it. And sometimes if we're not careful, we can become so familiar that we miss the nuggets there. I want you to turn this morning To Luke chapter number twenty-three. Luke chapter number twenty-three Our hope is Jesus this morning. The title of the message: Our hope is Jesus. Number one, he's our hope and sacrifice for our sins. He's our hope and our sacrifice for our sins. In Luke chapter number 22, 23, I'm sorry, I'm I'm not seeing good this morning. Luke chapter number 23 And verse number 44, the Bible says, And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit, and having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Uh we've heard the saying before that the Son of God became the Son of Man, so that the Sons of Man could become the Sons of God. That's why he came That's why he left the portals of glory and set aside his glory and came down to this sin-cursed world to die for the sinner. Uh we need a Savior. Amen. Uh we read in all four Gospels the account of the crucifixion and see Jesus suffering under the hand of man Uh we can see that uh most of the time when I preach on on the gospel, I'm spending most of my time talking about what man did to Jesus Christ. Uh what uh the scourging that he took and And uh how they placed the crown of thorns on his head and beat it in with a reed and and how they scourged his back and how he had to carry that cruel cross up Calvary's Mountain and and how he was crucified and and how he was fed on and how the soldiers uh came by before he was even crucified and buffeted him in the face. They hit him in the face and they pulled the beard uh from his face. That's what I usually focus in on in his sufferings. We read about that in all four Gospels under the hand of man. But what about his sufferings under the hand of God? Uh do we do we meditate on that? Do we think about what God did there? Now when I was growing up I used to get whoopings. I know it's hard for you to believe that, uh, because I'm perfect and everything. No, I'm not. I was a scoundrel growing up and uh every now and then I get in a little bit of trouble and uh my dad would give me a whoop and he grew up in the fifties And he saved every belt from the fifties. Those little thin belts uh that people wore back in the fifties And uh he was patriotic, he laid the stripes and I saw the stars and and uh but I can tell you this, I never got a a weapon that I didn't need, that I didn't deserve Even those I I didn't think I deserved, they took up for the ones that I got by and he didn't find out. Uh but But I needed that whipping. But what he did, he would always take me back in the bedroom or somewhere. He'd take me behind the cloud. He didn't go out in front of everybody at town and say, I have come to bring my son before you to whip him in public. He never did that. He took me behind the closed door. He he took me back there. I I can remember the words of my mom ringing in my ears. Just wait till your daddy gets home. And I remember her putting me on they called it the merry-go round, you know, when she gets a hold of your arm and you're running around in circles and and she's trying to catch up with you Uh I I remember those times. I don't know why they called it the merry girl. There wasn't anything merry about it, it hurt. Amen. Uh but it brought about peace. And they did a work in my heart and in my life. Jesus worked in the same way in his ministry, in that three and a half years ministry he had. Remember the woman at the well? He sent the disciples away into town to find some meat. Uh, to get some food and and he dealt with her one-on-one. He didn't call out her sin with people standing around everywhere. It was between him and her And and then whenever she realized that, hey, I'm a sinner, I and he's got the water of life and and I'll never thirst again. I want that water of life and And she received that. I think of another time whenever they brought the woman taken in adultery uh before uh the Lord. The Pharisees were tempting him But then Jesus stooped and wrote on the ground and then he got over and he says, The ye that are without sin cast the first stone. They left one by one. Then he dealt with her. And he said, Where are those thine accusers? And she said, I have none of the Lord. Called him Lord. She realized his divinity, that he was the Son of God, that he was the Savior of the world. He said, Neither do I condemn thee. But he said, Go. and sin no more. And my my dad, he it hurt him to have to give me spankings growing up and whippings growing up. Uh he didn't want to have to do that. Uh but he always did it in private and not in public. Question. Did what man did to Jesus please God and satisfy him for our salvation? All the beats that we talk about that Jesus Christ took physically, is that what satisfied God Children of Israel, they had mingled with with the enemy. And some of them had taken on some pagan uh views, some pagan beliefs and everything. Some of them caused their children to pass through the fire. and kissed the belly of Molech, which was an idol that had been heated up and and sometimes they'd take their babies and sacrifice them in the hands of Molech and And they would burn to death and and uh some of the children that survived were so disfigured and everything. Uh but did that did those sacrifices, they thought they were sacrificing them to a God, but did that satisfy God no. Did the blood of lambs and of goats and of oxen, all those sacrifices that the priest did every year and and Solomon and all the kings that they sacrificed on the altar. Did that satisfy God? I'd have to say no Job 22, verse number 3, says, Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that thou art righteous? Or is it gain to him that thou makest thy ways perfect? It's talking about a person that's trying to live right, doing everything right, and uh is that a gain? Is that an advantage to God? I can tell you I've never had God come to me one time and say, I appreciate that prayer this morning, Brother Miller. I appreciate that really helped me. No. He's never come back. God is holy. God is perfect. God is righteous. And he wants us to strive to be good and righteous, but but those he told us in in his word that those sacrifices could never make the hearers thereto perfect Never. It would never do. I want to turn to Isaiah for just a moment. Now think about these Jesus Christ hung on the cross of Calvary for six hours. There were three hours that everybody was watching. Then there were three hours when God turned the lights out. I believe that punishment was so severe that he said, I'm not going to let men watch That Jesus Christ suffered under the hand of God, his darling son, the perfect Lamb of God. In Isaiah chapter number 53, I want to start reading there for just a moment. I'm going somewhere and try to tie it all in. The Bible says, Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground, he hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not I think about those first three hours on the cross and and the time leading up to that and what Jesus Christ suffered under the hand of man. But he says in verse number four, a new paragraph there, he says, Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. He was smitten of God Uh we I I've made the mistake sometimes, and and I'll probably do it again sometime, whenever I'm preaching about that three hours of darkness that God had to turn his back on his son, he had to turn his back and not look upon sin That it was God's wrath and his judgment of sin that took place those three hours of darkness on the cross of Calvary. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. You want to know what took place that three hours? The Lord laid all the iniquity of us, of us all, on him. From past, present, and future, all the sins, every single sin that has ever been committed, ever will be committed, was condensed in a three-hour period and placed on the beloved Son of God On the cross of Calvary for three hours, an eternity of sin condensed down to three hours on the cross. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. And he was uh and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth I want you to think for just a moment Isaiah is pending these words down by direct inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. And he's writing this And and as the Holy Spirit is giving him utterance, he's writing these things down. And the Holy Spirit so far has used himself in the third person Which he is. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, he is the third person. But he's using it in the in the tense of the third person. But look Whenever Jesus had had satisfied God, whenever all those things happened, the Holy Spirit saying right here in the next verses, he says, I can't take it anymore. I gotta say what actually happened. I gotta tell them who it was. He says Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. He, God, hath put Jesus to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pre pre the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Look at verse eleven He shall see in the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall and he switches from third tense, he switches to present tense. He's pr uh first person. He says My righteousness, uh my righteous servant, justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. He Uh because he hath poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors He switches from saying, He did this, him, he, he, all that, and he says, I divide, I do this, I do this, because Jesus Christ uh was sinless and the perfect sacrifice No more do we have to put any more lambs and oxen and goats and those things to death because Jesus Christ has satisfied, he said, and shall be satisfied By his knowledge, and shall my righteous servant justify many The punishment that satisfied our holy God was so severe, man was not able to look upon it. And to this day we don't really have the words We can speculate what took place during that time. We know Jesus spoke three times while he was on the cross of Calvary during that dark time Uh and we realize the first one, uh the first thing he says is, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He called the heavenly father. He said he called him Father But when the lights went out, Jesus Christ, 100% man and 100% God, dying for the sins of the world, hanging on the cross of Calvary, switches from saying, My Father, to my God. He says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? During that time of darkness. He cries out. And then he says, I first. I think about Luke chapter number sixteen, that rich man lift up his eyes in hell, being in torments. desiring Abraham would send Lazarus to for one drop of water to place on his tongue. He said, because I'm tormented in this flame God put every bit of His wrath towards sin on His darling son on the cross of Calvary during that three hours. Jesus said, I thirst. And then at the end of it, in the ninth hour, he said, he's back to Father, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. It wasn't the horror of the first three hours, but the terror of the second three hours on the cross of Calvary that caused Jesus Christ to for his sweat to become as great great drops of blood in the Garden of Gethsemane. That was the cup That he wanted to pass from him. The wrath of a just and almighty and holy God, his Father Himself, was placed upon him during that three hours of darkness. And eternity of sin was upon Jesus and God judged it all in three hours. What about this sin? What about that sin? Every sin The Bible says to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. There's sins that we probably uh we've committed that we don't even realize. It was placed upon Jesus Christ. Ever horrible, wicked, immoral, every sin that can be thought of and committed was placed on Jesus Christ. During those three hours. He took the punishment. He became sin for us who knews no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him It was placed upon him and he endured it. He tasted death for every man. Our sins don't look too glamorous now as we look across our lives. As Jesus was on the cross paying for them there, taking in the wrath of God for those three hours of darkness. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. He, God, made Jesus sin. And Jesus was perfect. He was sinless, lived the sinless life, but he bore all of our sins, all of our iniquities. All of our evil thoughts that are in the recesses of our minds and in our hearts, God made an open display of them. And place them upon Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter number nine In Hebrews chapter number nine We see in verse number one, then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. Uh that that sanctuary, that tabernacle that was set up, he had placed in place a law that the priests they were to do this. uh all the time and every year. It says, For there was a tabernacle made. The first wherein was the candlestick and the table and the show bread, which is called the sanctuary, and after the second veil the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all. Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant and over it the cherubims of glory, shadowing the o uh shadowing the mercy seat of which we cannot now speak particularly. I wonder why it is they can't speak particularly about it right now. You read over in Revelation, that mercy seat is in heaven. uh right now. They they look for it, they can't find it anywhere because it's in heaven. Uh Jesus Christ sprinkled his blood, his pure blood, on that mercy seat Now when these things were thus ordained, the priest went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. All of them went in there, did their duty. They had them in in rows, in numbers, that did it from time to time Verse 7 says, But into the second went the high priest alone, once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself. and for the errors of the people. Now our our Lord Jesus Christ, he was different from that high priest. He had no sin of his own. This priest had to be cleansed. He had to offer it for himself and for the errors of the people, the sins of the people. Verse 8 says, The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, whileas the first tabernacle was yet standing, which was a figure for the time uh for the time then present. in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not be uh that could not make him that did the service perfect of pertaining as pertaining to the conscience which stood only in meats and drinks and diverse washings and carnal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. But Christ, being coming high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands That is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling uh the unclean sanctified to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot, to God, purge your conscience from the dead works to serve the living God. I thank God we've got a great high priest. He doesn't have to go in every year. He went once and then sat down on the right hand of God the Father. Romans chapter number three Verse 21. The Bible says, but now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and to upon all them that believe For there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith In his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus Jesus is the hope of salvation. He's our only hope of salvation. Amen. That taking on all the sins, all the griefs Just think about all the sins that one person would commit from the time they're born until the time they die. All those sins were put upon him. Multiply that times billions of people. All those sins, man could never have been the sacrifice. A lamb could never have been the sacrifice, but the Lamb, Jesus Christ Taking on the sins of the world. He was the only one perfect. He was the only one sinless and righteous that could have endured that. And he took it and he died. And then he went and set captivity captive. He took the keys of death and hell, and he brought them back with him. He brought me the saints from the from the other side, the paradise side of hell. Many uh saints it says broke out of their uh graves after his resurrection and were seen of many Then I believe he took them on to heaven. Amen. They couldn't go there until the perfect sacrifice had been made. Jesus is the hope of our salvation. Jesus is the hope of our families today. He is the only hope for our families in America. America has has uh strayed. America has seen it is still the best nation in the world to live in. Amen. I'm thankful for the blessings of God that that He rose up America, a Christian nation. But Jesus is the hope of our families In Genesis eighteen nineteen he says, uh talking about Abraham, he said, For I know him that he will command his children and his household after him And they will keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. He said, I know of Abraham. He's going to bring his children upright. I tell you what, we need to bring our children upright today. We need to keep Jesus Christ ever before them. They need to have a time every day where they search the scriptures, where they read the Word of God. Keep it before them They need a time. Our children and us included needs a time of prayer between us and God. He speaks to us through his word. We speak to him through prayer. That's called fellowship. Amen Our entertainment industry has put out an all-out attack on the family over the last decades. Satan is in all-out war against the Christian and against our children. Uh the devil would love to babysit your children and your grandchildren just for a little time. Put them in front of a DVD player or a TV Uh or send them off to the movie somewhere. Uh God's not happy with that, but the devil will sure get a hold of 'em and take them Hollywood has done its best to break down the family by weakening the role of the fathers and make them seem foolish. I remember looking at uh watching TV back in the 70s and And that's it seems like that's when it started. They uh they'd have the woman uh running everything and being the smart one and and the man was portrayed as just a fool. But God set up that the man is the head of the household We are the leaders. When you break down the foundations, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Our foundations have been torn down. Lives are so busy that family members text each other or leave a note behind so they can fellowship back and forth a little bit. That's all some families have in common Just reading the note. They've got smart refrigerators now. I can't believe it. They got smart radios, they got smart TVs, they got smart refrigerators where you can leave your child a message for when they're at home and you're not We've got to get back to the family. God ordained the family before He ordained the church and the government. It started out. Suicide rates are at an all-time high, along with drug and alcohol abuse. Answers Jesus. Put him back in the schools. Bring back the family altar Fight for religious liberty. Dads, lead your families. Moms, bring your children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Daddies, grandfathers. Joshua 24, 15 says, And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord Joshua wasn't taking a survey. He wasn't getting other people's opinions. He said he had it settled in his heart. He said, as for me At my house, we will serve the Lord. You're going to have to uh make that determination in your families today as we fight against evil and as we see the day approaching that the Lord comes and takes us home Jesus said in a part of the scripture, I didn't write it down or anything. He said, Will I find faith on the earth? How about when he comes back? Will I find faith? It's up to us. It's up to us, dads, moms. Keep Jesus Christ ever before your children. It's time to seek the Lord. It's the time for a hunger and a thirst after righteousness I can't say this in a lot of churches. This church is packed in this morning. It's good. It's good to see this big of a crowd in the house of God. We go to a lot of churches where there's hardly anybody there. And we want to bring them encouragement. We try to have a a a ministry of encouragements to help people. We can call it, we can brush it off and say, Well, there's been a great falling away But what it is is people, the people of God, are not hungering and thirsting after righteousness like we need to. I was talking to Pastor Serge Fayette a couple of cherophones ago. I may have shared with you last Sunday, I don't know. But it's worth telling you one more time. Pastor Serge Fayette is has a radio station down in Haiti. And uh he he said I asked him uh he has a church down there. He's got a hospital, he's got an orphanage, he's got a radio station, he preaches on the radio station, FBN down there, and uh He he has a church there and I said, Pastor Fay, how how many people do you have coming to your church? He said, Well, Brother Miller, he says, like this. He said We start at they start leaving their homes on Saturday morning walking because he's in a remote place. He's up in Saint Raphael, a mountain country Uh not too many people up there. He said they'll start out walking on Saturday morning to come to church. They'll walk all day, they'll rest along the way, and then they walk all night and they come in here and they're here on Sunday morning. He said, We'll have between seven and nine hundred people In church on Sunday morning and Sunday night. They'll stay all day to hear the Word of God. He said, We don't live in it to uh half an hour or an hour. He said, We'll go all day, we'll preach the Word of God to them. Many souls will be saved Because they're hungered and thirsting after righteousness. Why are they hungry and thirsting after righteousness? Because back in the eighties the leaders of their nation uh uh dedicated the whole country to Satan And they have paid dearly for it. And now the light of the gospel is getting in. And they've got a hunger and a thirst. They've been kept back. And he's led 22, uh no, not 22, 25 witch doctors to the Lord. It's a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. Oh, if we had that in America today, what would it take to get America to its knees to where they would have a hunger and a thirst after righteousness again? again and that we'd see our churches packed out again. Jesus is our hope for the family. Jesus is our hope for America. If America is to continue, we must turn America back to God. I'm almost done. Psalm uh chapter number thirty-three, the thirty-third Psalm. Verse number twelve says, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord and the people whom He had chosen for his own inheritance I read that. I preached on that during the Fourth of July and and uh bring about a patriotic theme and and all that, but I leave out the rest of the song. But look what it says. It says the Lord looketh From heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. God looks over the seven and a half billion people uh around the world today. And he looks in their hearts. He knows what's in their heart. He knows those that are saved and he knows those who are lost. Those that he is drawn to himself by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Lord looketh from heaven. And then he says in verse 15, He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. We were made in the image of God. It's that light that lighteth every man. Some people will reject Jesus Christ and say, I want to do it, go my own way. I want to do my own thing Well, there's only one place to go if that's in your heart, to reject Jesus Christ, the awful place called hell, and you don't want to go there Jesus Christ, we talked about in this message, for three hours died and took on all your sins on himself in that darkness of the cross under the wrath of God, so you would never have to go to hell. Hell is an awful place. Place of fire. That rich man is still there roasting and sizzling this morning, saying he is tormented in this in this flame Desiring one drop of water. Lord's the only hope for America I'm thankful that we bless Israel, that we have moved our embassy and acknowledging that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and other countries are are taking on and doing that same thing. But I know in Bible prophecy in the in the end that all nations are going to turn their backs against Israel. I just hope he comes and takes us home before America turns his back. There's other things that that I could go over this morning. A couple weeks ago I was burning some old furniture and some things and and uh there was uh some metal the next day I started pulling all that old metal out of out of where I'd burnt the the cloth and stuff off of. I don't know if it's legal or not. I guess it is North Carolina, dent in North Carolina anyway. But uh I was pulling those things out and a piece of a recliner had gotten tangled up in a in a box spring and and I went over and I uh grabbed hold of it. It didn't take me but one second to turn loose, but the damn was already done. Just for just a split second that I touched that recliner, it burnt uh this finger and this one and and then it just swelled up these huge bubbles on there and I thought, can you imagine what that would be like all over your whole body for eternity, not just for a split second. My wife came over immediately with a a water pot that was full and she was pouring cool water over it. That didn't help Uh I mean it did. It to while it was pouring there, but she ran out of water in that pot. So they brought me the aloe vera out there and we were putting it on there. It would dry up and we'd put more on there. Then we got some burn train. Somebody said Put your fingers put a burn in in uh flour and it'll draw the heat out. Yeah, it made the flour hot as it could be. But I was still hurting and And still certainly my fingers are still tender even today since all that skin's gone and everything. They're still tender today. But that's what sin does. That's where sin will put you. In the awful pits of hell if you don't trust Jesus Christ as your Savior. He's already paid the penalty. He tasted death for you. He took the penalty. He took the punishment for you. So that you can have your sins forgiven and have a home in heaven. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll take your word now during this time of invitation, that you'll speak to hearts Lord, if there be one here in our midst that's never trusted as their Lord and Savior, may today be the day of their salvation. Lord, we're running out of time. uh what we're doing, what we're trying to get the gospel out to every creature, Lord. We don't have much time left. We have an urgency. And Lord, I pray that that person that may be here that's lost won't won't reject you, that they won't walk out uh in the same condition they came in, that they'll get saved this morning as Pastor Leatherman comes. And Father, we'll thank you for what you do and give you the glory for it in Jesus' name. Amen Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt, I know that's settled. But I need revival in my heart. Like me, you're just burdened. And my own heart and life, that God would stir my faith, and my walk with God would be what it needs to be. And I just need God to revive my heart. How many of you are like that, like me, say that's where I'm at, preacher, I need that so bad. To my faith to get back and my walk with God to be what it ought to be. Any others? A lot of hands raised. How about it? Others, I need that I wonder how many of us would say, would be willing to say to God, Lord, I'm willing for you to do whatever you need to do in my life. Whatever you need to do to bring that revival about. I wonder how many of us would be willing to say that. And that's what we need. We need God to work, hands all around. I think it'd be a good thing to find a place old-fashioned altered this morning. And just say, God, I need that revival. Do what you need to do. Make what changes. Take away that which needs to be taken away. Add that which needs to be added. And Lord, get me where I need to be as a Christian. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved? There's a doubt, if there's a question there, I'm telling you, don't entertain that. Get that thing settled. The judgment of God is a horrible, horrible thing. There's only one way to escape it through trusting Christ. Is there some this morning? Anyone, preach or pray for me. I am concerned about my soul, where I spend eternity. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to be sure God has saved me. Any at all? One last question. There's some this morning say, preacher, I'm saved and I'm burdened for someone else. There's another unsaved person heavy on my heart. And I want to see them come to Christ. If God would use me or whatever, but they'd be saved. How many like that uplifted hand? Let's pray for them. Let's bring them before the Lord and ask God to do a real work in their heart. Bring great conviction. They turn and be saved. If you've been saved, you've not been baptized. That's so important. Follow the Lord in baptism. Uh if you're not a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, maybe God's been working in your heart. We invite you to come this morning. And let the Lord have his way. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan our invitation song. Now how