Verse number eighteen. I'm sorry, verse number nineteen and twenty, I would like for us to read this passage together in unison. Matthew 28. Verse 19 and 20. You got it there? Are you ready? Here we go with me. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage. I pray with all my heart, Lord. I ask you fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew to you this hour. Pray that uh I yield my will to you, and I ask you to speak through me, that I would just be uh uh just a conduit for you to speak to our hearts, open our hearts and minds And I pray as we consider this passage, our mission statement, that you'd stir our hearts as a church to carry out this instruction you've given us here. Again, bless and have your way, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. Next couple weeks, actually through the month of May leading up to our missions conference, which is just a week and a half out from today, and then throughout the month of May, we focus upon What's called in the Bible, what we call the Great Commission. We get it primarily from this passage here that we just read together. We call this the Great Commission. Now, are you listening, young people? Uh have you ever walked into a place of business And you saw on the wall, maybe in the lobby or when you first come in, you saw on the wall maybe a big placard or a billboard or something, and it will make this statement, our mission statement. Anybody anybody ever see that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Our mission statement. And um I got thinking about that. What is the mission statement? of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now when a business puts that statement up and it's in their books and a lot of times in their official corporate papers or whatever, it'll say this is our mission statement as a corporation. This is our mission statement as an organization. I got looking up. What exactly is a mission statement? I went to Oxford Dictionary, and the Oxford Dictionary said that a mission statement is this. Now listen carefully. A formal summary of the aims and the values of a company, organization, or an individual. A formal summary of their aims and their values. Wikipedia says that a mission statement is the statement of the purpose of a company. That organization or individual, it is a statement giving the reason for their existence. Very important. The mission statement is a statement giving the reason for that company's existence, why it's even in existence. I found a business dictionary. I thought, well, if anybody knows anything about business, it ought to be a business dictionary. And I like their definition of mission statement. A written declaration of an organization's core purpose and their focus that normally remains unchanged over time. Now let me read that to you again. A written declaration of an organization's core purpose, core purpose and focus that normally remains unchanged over time. And then it goes on. It serves, number one, as a filter to separate what is important from what is not important And it communicates the intended direction of the entire organization. I like that definition. In other words, when a business puts up, when the business establishes what is called a mission statement They are saying this is the very basic reason, this is the fundamental reason that this company exists. This is what we are focused on. It will not change. That focus and that purpose will not change. It filters out that which is important. From that which is not important. In other words, if the business starts getting involved in something that is not part of its purpose for existing, that needs to be filtered out And it needs to stay focused on why it exists. Even communicates the intended direction of that business. I want to submit to you that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has a mission statement. We have a statement that communicates very clearly, very concisely The purpose that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church exists. Why are we here? Why do we invest so much time and money and effort into this church being the church it is? We have a mission statement. It communicates our focus, what we as a church ought to be and we try to be focused upon, accomplishing. That mission statement does not change over time. It is the same today as it was that first day the church met under the leadership of Dr. Brother Ed Will in 1962. Exact same purpose. Does not change. That mission statement helps us filter out that which is important to us from that which is not important Doesn't affect our mission goal. Doesn't affect our focus. Doesn't affect our purpose. It's not a part of why we're here. Therefore we filter it out. I believe when Jesus said in Luke chapter 2 and verse number 49, when he was a 12-year-old boy, he said to his parents, Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business. Jesus was giving, in a sense, a mission statement. The reason I am here, he was saying, the reason I've come to earth, the reason I exist, is to fulfill my heavenly Father, God the Father's business. Later on, he put it this way, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus says God's business is the business of finding people who are in their sins under the judgment of God And getting them to accept Jesus Christ as their Savior so they can be saved from the judgment of sin, from hell, have eternal life, and live for God here on earth Jesus' business statement was, mission statement I should say, was the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Now I made the statement, our church, I believe, has a mission statement. Does the church in general, is there a reason the church exists Does Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, do we have a purpose for being? If somebody would ask you, where do you go to church, you say, oh I go out there in Mountain Lake on Broadford, they say, why in the world is that church even there? What would you say? What would you tell them? Could you say, well, we wh why does that church exist? Well, uh, you know, so uh we got somewhere to go Sunday morning. What would be the purpose? Do we have a purpose? Can we, are we able to communicate, express in a clear, concise statement the reason we exist? Is there one overriding purpose for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to exist? And if so, what is it I believe Matthew 28, verse 19 and 20 is our church's mission statement. Let's read it. Follow along as I read it again. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. That is the reason we exist. is to get the gospel into every nation, teach people the gospel of Jesus Christ, those that believe the gospel, baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, then teach those new bapt newly baptized believers. To be disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, to live in obedience to Him and serve Him and propagate the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the purpose of our existence. This Matthew 28, verse 19 to 20 is a formal summary of our aims, of our values. It is our unchanging core focus. That those verses there, Matthew 19 and 20. Enables us to filter out that which is unimportant from that which is important. You know, there's a lot of things that our church could be involved in But unless they somehow relate to and promote the purpose we exist of taking the gospel to every nation, unless they somehow support that, then we need to filter that out. Amen or not? It's a thousand things we could get involved in. But our mission statement is to take the gospel to every nation. Get people to trust Christ as Savior, baptize them and teach them to live for God. And so that statement helps us filter out that which is unimportant. That statement communicates the direction we are to grow go as a church. In two weeks we have our missions conference. Without a doubt, the most important service, most important conference we have all year long, we have our missions conference And we focus like a laser beam on what God has called our church to do, get the gospel to every person. It's our mission statement. As I said, we could be involved in a thousand different things. I get calls every week of the year. Why don't you get this? Why don't you buy that? Why don't you invest in this? Why don't you be involved in this? This, that, and the other. And every one of those things I need to stop and filter it through the Word of God. Does this fit into the reason we exist? I'm told, I'm certainly not an electrician, but I'm told that a floodlight can fill a huge area with light. And that it requires a lot of electricity, requires a lot of power to flood an area with light. But I'm told, again, I could never document this, but I'm told that a laser beam takes just a little bit of light, doesn't take near the energy. That is required of a floodlight. But what a laser beam does is takes all that energy and narrows it down into one fine point and it is powerful, powerful light. What I want to suggest to you for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is that we be a laser beam with the gospel We may not be the biggest church, we may not have the biggest budget, we may not have all the resources, but I'm telling you, if we will take what God has given to us And we focus on what God has called us to do as a church, and that is get the gospel into all the world. I'm telling you, God can and will do great things through this ministry here. I believe that with all my heart. Our mission statement is getting the gospel to every single person. It communicates the direction we're to go as a church. Now You say, all right, preacher, the Great Commission, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, teach all nations, baptize the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teach them to observe all things, whatsoever God has commanded us. Alright, that's all we do Well, not necessarily. I mean that involves a lot of different things. Let me ask you a question. I want you to talk to me here a little bit. What would you say is the mission of a hospital? What would be the mission of a hospital? If you were just going to summarize very concisely, why does a hospital exist? Okay, help the sick, heal people. Uh I put it this way, to make sick people well. Right? Do you agree? That's basically the ma just even if you don't agree, just agree with me, alright? Thank you. Makes me feel better. Helps my ego. A hospital exists, uh Memorial Hospital here in Garrett County exists to make people well. Question Does everybody that's associated with that hospital are they all performing surgery? No. In fact there's a lot of different responsibilities that fall underneath that umbrella of making people well. For those that have been around for a while, you already know this. You're already impressed by this. But maybe those that don't know, I worked for four years in the surgery department of the Park Ridge Hospital in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Come on now, you know how to respond to that. I seriously I did. And uh I would go in, I s my shift started at three in the afternoon. And I'd go in, I'd have to scrub down and add the little iodine brushes under the fingernails in the back for two minutes or whatever it was, three minutes scrubbing on it, and had to do all this, and I had the little hairnet They called it a skin net for me, but um and uh had the scrubs and everything and had the little booties on my shoes and I had to go back there on stero and other people couldn't come back where I was and I was in the surgery department And um uh I did not perform surgery. In fact, I didn't have any direct contact with sick people at all. You know what I did? I cleaned up after the doctors performed surgery. I shoveled up the guts, you know, and leftover body parts and Here's here's the interesting thing. I worked for four years in a butcher shop and then I worked for four years in a hospital and I get confused sometimes where I was at. But um no But I did. And my job was to, after the surgery, I'd go and clean the rooms and sterilize them and take different things. I could tell you stories and I and I had to wax the floors And keep everything clean and do all this and take the trash out. Now, the purpose for that hospital was to make people well. So why in the world would they have somebody waxing floors And taking trash out. What does that have to do with making people well? Ah. What it is, is I my responsibilities was to facilitate E more efficiently those whose job was to do what needed to be done to make the person well, right? So the doctor comes in and he's confident he's coming into a sterile environment. He's confident that the the uh um instruments that he needs to perform that procedure are sterile and they're where they need to be and they're in operating condition. And he is able to do what his responsibility is underneath that mission statement of making people well. There were some people there that cooked hot dogs. And they made French fries down in the kitchen. And they made all kinds of various things. And uh you say, what did that have to do with making people well? It made the whole operation more efficient. So that that hospital can fulfill its mission of making people well. You see where I'm going with this? How many people here ever ate hospital food and went yuck? The hospital, would you agree with me on this? Hospitals are not generally known for delicious food. You don't say, sweetheart, where do you want to go out to eat tonight? Oh, let's go to the hospital Nobody says that. I never did. Um now why is that? I got thinking about that. I think one of the reasons is the hospital doesn't exist to cook delicious food. They exist to make people well. Now they do cook food because they need that. That's part of what's necessary. So that they can fulfill their mission of making people well. So they may not be the greatest restaurant in the world, but that's not the reason they exist. The reason they exist is to make people well. Our mission statement as a church is to get the gospel to every single person on planet Earth. Now, does that mean every one of us is flying all around the planet and we're going everywhere, every little village, every little town, and we're confronting every single person? He said, that's impossible. We could never do that. No Not all of us can do that, but everyone that's a part of this church has a part in carrying out that mission statement. You follow what I'm saying? God is going to send our way in just a week and a half three missionary families. Now Brother DeLong is, you could call him a missionary, but he's our speaker. He's kind of overseeing it. But we have three specific missionary families God has called them to go to Mongolia, not Venezuela, Nepal and Argentina. God has called those three families to those three countries. That is part of the world. Now, our responsibility as church is to get the gospel. Not all of us can go to Nepal. Maybe none of us could go to Nepal, but we can have a part in getting those missionaries there. See what I'm saying? I've seen so many surgeries. Those four years I'd see five, six surgeries a day. The overwhelming majority of them, I would say, just from my memory, is um is uh appendicitis, appendectomies I'm telling you, there was a day I was absolutely convinced that I would I could perform an aphendectomy. I it looked easy. I could do that. That's simple. Fact is, no, I couldn't. But I could do my part to facilitate the one that God had gifted to do that job. See what I'm saying Maybe none of us can go to Nepal, but we can do our part to facilitate Brother Kevkoda that is going back to Nepal. See what I'm saying? So our mission statement involves another thing. Uh let me ask you this. A fire department. Fire company. Oakland Fire Company? Department? Volunteer Fire Fire Department. Okay, Oakland Oakland Volunteer Fire Department. What would you say is the mission statement of the Oakland Volunteer Fire Department? Well put out fires. Everybody agree with that? Alright? So I went by there the other week and I saw a guy had the hood up and he's working on the fire truck. Why is he doing that? That doesn't put fires out It facilitates the firemen to fulfill their mission. And so, uh, in like manner, we have the Webers are going to Mongolia. Say, all right, God wants the gospel in Mongolia. Why doesn't our whole church go over there? No, we can't do that. But we do what we can to facilitate getting the Webbers to Mongolia Follow what I'm saying? We all have a part in praying. We all have a part in giving. We all have a part in promoting and helping and doing what we can so that they can do that part. Because that is the mission of our church. The church is instructed by God to take the gospel to every nation To tell people how to be saved. Those that receive the gospel, get saved, we're to baptize them. And those that are baptized, they're to be taught how to live for God. And what the Bible says in disciple to become a disciple, a follower of Jesus Christ So they can tell others the gospel and be a part of that mission and enable others to go into all the world. Now I want to give you three reasons real quickly why I'm convinced That this passage here, this Great Commission, is our mission statement. Number one, the Great Commission is prominent in all of Jesus' instructions. You look at what Jesus instructed the church to do, and you find him stating over and over and over the fact that we are to go into the world, we are to go to all people and share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ. The book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, is one of the most detailed records of the life of Jesus Christ. Yeah, Mark, Luke, and John who all give the uh have uh uh different issues. They're all given the life of Christ, the ministry of Christ for the most part, but Matthew, in many ways, is uh g is the most detailed And I find it interesting what Matthew, the book of Matthew, ends with. If you look carefully, Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, does not end with the ascension of Jesus Christ. And that is when Jesus ascended, he leaves this earth, he goes to the right hand of the Father, Holy Spirit comes, the book of Acts, we read about that, and the church goes on from there. But the book of Matthew ends not with the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ, but it ends with the Lord's final instructions to you and I as the members of the church. He's telling us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. He says, and Jesus came and spake unto them, his disciples, there saying, Now look what he says: All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Now the word power there has the idea of divine authority. When a policeman pulls you over, he has the power to arrest you, to detain you In other words, he has that authority. He is the legal power to do that if he has justification And Jesus is saying here, hey, all power, all authority, all legal authority has been given to me by God. In what I'm about to instruct you to do. In other words, God the Father gave Jesus Christ his Son the highest authority in the universe. And with that authority, he gives us instructions. Now I can stand up here and I can tell you, hey, do this. Now you can say I want to do it or I don't want to do it. You don't have authority to tell me to do that. You don't have authority to tell me how to live my life. You don't have authority to Tell me what what I should and shouldn't do, and you may or may not be right But but let me throw this out to the kids. Hey kids, your parents do have that authority. Amen. Alright, so don't uh don't make application on the what I'm saying here. But I may or may not have authority. But when Jesus says something He's got the authority. Hey, Jesus does have the authority to tell you and I what we should and should not do. God, the Father, has given to Jesus Christ The highest authority in existence. And when Jesus makes that statement, says, All power has been given unto me in heaven and in earth. And immediately following that statement, immediately following his claim to this authority, he gives these instructions. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. I'm telling you, the highest authority in existence has given instructions to our church that we are to take the gospel to every creature. He gives clear instructions. We are to go into all the world, every single nation, every city, every village, every street. Preach the gospel, teach the gospel, baptize those who believe, teach them to obey God's instructions, to observe, give careful attention to everything He's instructed us to do. That is what God tells us. This Great Commission is the prominent teaching of Jesus Christ to the church that we are to do that. When you and I as Christians finish reading the Gospel of Matthew, if we'll read it with an open book and we'll read it very carefully, when we finish reading the Gospel of Matthew It is very clear to us what we are supposed to do. Right or wrong? Very clear. There's no question Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, the Holy Ghost. We know exactly what God expects from us. He tells us very clearly there. If you would take your Bible, turn over to Luke chapter 24 And I want you to notice verse number 48. Matthew, Mark, Luke, third book, third gospel, the New Testament, third book of the New Testament. We're going to come back to Mark in a moment. But look at Luke chapter 24. What do you notice about Luke chapter 24? It is the last chapter of the book, right? So we're winding up the Lord's earthly ministry. Luke's record of it. It's divinely inspired, of course. And notice in verse number 44. He said, Islam says, and he said unto them, these are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you Look at this. That all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. And he said of them, thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ. That word behooved means made necessary It was written in Scripture, prophesied thousands of years ago. It is absolutely necessary. It behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. He is saying here that it was sovereignly determined by God that Jesus Christ would give himself as a sacrifice to die for your sins and my sins. Every sin we've ever committed, Jesus Christ would take responsibility for it, take upon himself, suffer the judgment of God for it, be buried and rise again, so that we can be forgiven. God determined that from ages past that Jesus would do that. Now look at the response. Look at how he follows that. And that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name among what? All nations beginning at Jerusalem. In other words, it is God's declared will, number one, that Jesus Christ died for the sins of the whole world. And that as a result of that, those who are saved take that message of repentance and forgiveness into all the world. He's given us our mission statement. He's telling us why we exist. He's telling us why he died, why he suffered a cross, and why the church exists. To preach repentance and remission of sins to all nations. Come back with me if we would. Uh as I said, back to the Book of Mark Now I like Mark chapter 16 and verse number 15. To me, it is the most concise, pointed, clear statement in Scripture as to why the church exists. Mark chapter 16, verse 15. In fact, for many, many years we had this very large across the back of the church. Some of you remember, we had big letters across the back of the church. Look what it says, Mark 16, 15. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. All of Jesus' teachings, all of his miracles, his Sacrifice for our sins culminates with his command for the church to take the gospel to every person throughout the whole world. So Say, Brother Leatherman, why does Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church exist? I'll tell you why we exist. We exist to take the gospel to every single person in the whole world. Say how how do you come to that conclusion? Well, first of all, because it's all through the scriptures, all through the gospels. Jesus teaching all pointed and culminated with him giving instructions, take the gospel into all the world. That's why we exist. People call up sometimes and they ask me, can we help that? Can we help do this? And we certainly do, and we want to help people. So hey, can I tell you why we try to help people? So that maybe they will listen to the gospel. So they'll be more receptive to the gospel. Well here's my thinking, and you can agree with it or disagree it. Listen, if I agree with you, we'd both be wrong. So uh you can agree with me or not. I just like saying that. But um uh here's my thinking. If somebody's hungry, we should fill uh feed 'em, right? And by the way, that instruction isn't given to the church, it's given to individuals. Somebody's hungry, then you as an individual feed. It's not the purpose of the church. But here's my thinking. If we feed every hungry person and we house every homeless person and we shoe every shoeless person, And we fix the transmission on every person whose car transmission blows out. I'm just telling you stuff people call it and ask about. And we don't give them a gospel and they die and go to hell, what good do those shoes on their feet do them? How am I helping someone by letting them die and go to hell with a full belly? Our purpose is to reach people with the gospel. That's our mission statement. Now, we help others women to help, but with the end goal, understanding God has given us the instructions. He's told us we exist for this reason to show people and explain to them and urge them and try and persuade them to trust Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, so their sins can be forgiven, they have new eternal life, and they go to heaven, not to hell when they die. So everything revolves around that. That separates the important from the unimportant, that which is related to our purpose from that which is not related to our purpose. By the way. If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice, and you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell, I'm telling you, this church exists To show you how you can know that. God has given us that responsibility. You're here to say, preacher, well, I think I'd go to heaven. I hope I'd go to heaven. I mean, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell And God doesn't want you or anyone else to go to hell. He gave his own son, died, suffered hell for us, that if we will simply by faith turn to him and trust him as our personal Savior. We can have complete sins forgiven, have a new life in Christ, have a home in heaven. And the church exists to communicate that truth to you and everyone else. That's why we exist. We can't save anyone. Somebody told me one time, uh, you think your church is the only one that saves people? No, we don't. Our church can't save anybody. Church doesn't know no church ever saved anybody. Jesus saves people. But the church communicates that message. The church shows people, points people to Christ, and once they accept it, we baptize them and teach them to live for God. And so I believe, and I think it's very clear, our mission statement Is the Great Commission, one reason is because it's so prominent through the teachings of Jesus Christ. Let me give you another reason that the Great Commission is our mission statement. The Great Commission was practiced throughout the book of Acts The book of Acts is a fascinating book. It is a divinely inspired record of the early New Testament church. You say, I wonder what those first Christians did. Well, read the book of Acts. What was that first church like? Read the book of Acts. It's God's record. Of what that church was like, how they operated, what they did, why they existed. And one thing clearly stands out in the book of Acts: the church was absolutely consumed. With taking the gospel of Jesus Christ to every living person on the planet. It consumed that early church. Read the book of Acts The whole thing is the church starting in Jerusalem and like vanes going out through that Middle East, taking the gospel to city after city, to region after region, just going and spreading and out. That's the book of Acts. Every member was involved, not just the apostles You say, well, the apostles, those preachers, they're supposed to go tell people how to be saved. Take your Bible, turn with me to Acts chapter 8. It wasn't just the preachers. It was every individual member of the church. Was sharing the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout the known world at that time. Acts chapter 8. Are you there? Matthew, Mark, Luke, Acts, fifth book of the New Testament. Chapter 8. John Axe, sorry. It's funny how you all respond when I make a mistake. But I say something great, y'all are just I say something wrong. God bless you all I do love our church. I do. Uh look at Acts chapter eight verse one. And Saul was consenting on his death. This is Philip, or Stephen, I'm sorry. Saul was consenting on his death. And at that time there was great persecution against the church, which is at Jerusalem. I mean they came down. They're killing them for no other reason than believing in Jesus. How many people have heard of ISIS? How many people saw horrendous pictures on the news or on the computer beheading people? How many people see that? Doesn't that send chills down your spine? The only reason they're doing it is because they claim to be Christian. I'm telling you, that is what they're doing here Exact same thing, nothing different. You say, oh, we live in a modern age. Hadn't changed one bit. So that's what's taking place. That level of brutality, that level of violence. They're being murdered because they're what you and I, as members of the church, claim to be Christians. Now look at this. There's great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem. Look at this. And they were, what's that next word? All that's all the members. I mean, they're scattered abroad. They're being pushed out. They're running for their lives. And they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria And look at the last phrase, except the apostles. Huh. The preachers. They're not spread out. Now come down if you would to verse number four. Therefore, they that were scattered abroad, that's everybody except the preachers in this case, went everywhere doing what? Preaching the word. They're carrying out their mission statement. They're doing what that church existed to do. was to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person. You say, oh, that's the preacher's job. Yeah, I agree. As a Christian, it's my job. But in this case, it was everybody but the preachers were out scattered abroad preaching the gospel. My point is this The reason our church exists, our mission statement is to get the gospel to every lost person, and that does not simply mean that's the pastoral staff's responsibility. It means we as a church, every single member Are to be sharing the gospel with every single person. They carried out, to carry out this mission, they practiced two things. Carrying out this mission consisted of two activities. And you see this clearly through the book of Acts. Number one, prayer They prayed for boldness. They prayed that God would save the lost. They prayed for God's power. They prayed, can I put it this way, for the success of the mission of the church. That God would give them what they needed to carry out that mission, to get the gospel to every lost person. And then the second activity was preaching. Prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. That's all you read all through the book of Acts. Prayer and preaching. Now, you You do not you not don't find in the Book of Acts, you don't find one without the other They prayed, they went out and shared the gospel. They're out sharing the gospel, they're praying. The two go hand in hand What should be the two chief activities of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What ought to be the most uh uh the two chief activities in our church if we're going to be biblical, if we're gonna carry out a mission? It ought to be prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. Prayer and preaching. We ought to be praying for God's power. We ought to be praying for God's protection. We ought to be Praying for God's boldness and we ought to be sharing the gospel of all around the world So, our mission statement is number one. It's a great commission, first of all, because it was prominent in the teaching of Jesus Christ. Everything he taught, all the miracles, everything he did. culminated in this great commission instructing the church to go into all the world. All through the book of Acts, this early church, they were consumed with taking the gospel into all the world. And let me give you the last reason. Because the Great Commission is perpetual in its application. What do we mean by perpetual? If I say something is perpetual, it means it's what? It's just ongoing. It's ongoing. Uh you have these little things they call them perpetual motion things. And once you hit it, it just goes The church's mission, our instructions, this great commission, is perpetual in its application. In other words, we don't quit. It hasn't ended. God's instructions to the early church didn't end when that decade or that century closed out. It's perpetual. It carries on to this day. Matthew 28, or back there where we started out in verse 20, he says, Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. That clearly indicates That Christ intended for his church to continually carry out these instructions of taking the gospel into all the world. The Great Commission is, in effect, until the end of the world. The purpose of the New Testament church is to preach the gospel to every creature in every generation. Until the end of the world. Purpose of our church today is to preach the reach every person in every generation with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that Oakland, Maryland, and surrounding areas should know Should know what the gospel is and why it's important because we are here. Follow what I'm saying? Our mission is to make sure our community understands the gospel and how desperately important it is for them to come to Christ and trust Him as Savior. I'm telling you this, the most sophisticated moral person in Garrett County that is without Christ will die and go to the same hell as the worst perverted drunken uh uh uh low life you can imagine. Because Jesus is the only way to heaven And what is true here, we ought to be a part of around the whole world, our state, our region of this country, this continent, this hemisphere, and this planet. You say, preacher, not everybody can go to Nepal, not everybody can go to Argentina. Good greet. We can't all go to Kazakhstan, no. And God, you know, you know what the Bible teaches how that works? God reaches down and touches people and says, I want you to go to that country. He did that in Acts chapter 13. He says, separate me, Barnabas, and Saul and Barnabas. The purpose, what I have for them, and he sent them out on the missionary journey. And to this day, God touches heart, God speaks to people's hearts and says, all right I want you to go there. All right. I want you to go here. This is my part for you. But all of us have a role, whether it's on the field there or here. Praying, supporting, maybe faith promise, getting a that, whatever it may be, doing our part around here All carrying out the purpose, the mission statement of our church. I found that the stronger a church's commitment is to the scriptures, the clearer they will understand what their mission is. The stronger a church's commitment is to the Scripture, the greater our zeal will be to get the gospel to all nations. Now, as I said, if you're here this morning, you're into the sound of my voice, and you say, Preacher, I know I'm a sinner. I know I've broken God's law. And by the way, we all have. There's none righteous, no, not one. For all of sin that comes short of the glory of God, not one of us. Have met the required standards that God has established to enter heaven. Not one of us have lived up to that. Because of that, we are under the judgment of God. John 3. 18, John 3. 36 says, an unsaved person is already, right now, you are already under the wrath of God. You're already condemned by God. The Bible clearly teaches that Jesus Christ was condemned for us on that cross. He took all our sin, all my sin, your sin. He took upon himself, he said, God, in so many words, he said, God, I will judge, I will be judged for them. I will take the judgment of their sin upon myself. I will pay for their sin myself. God commended his love toward us. And while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us in our place, took it upon. His buried he rose again. And he promises that whoever, whoever calls on him says, Lord, I need you to save me. I'm a sinner. I can't save myself. I'm looking to you, trusting you, depending on you to come in my life. Forgive me my sin. Cleanse me from my sin. Give me new life. Give me a home in heaven. God promises whoever genuinely calls on him, trust him, he will forgive their sin, give them a new life. They can know they're going to heaven. Now, our church exists to communicate that message. Everything else we do revolves around that one mission we've been given. To communicate that gospel. Now, if you're here this morning and you say, I don't have that, I don't know for sure. I'd like to know I'm forgiven. I'd like for God to forgive my sin. I'd like for God to give me a new life. I'd like to know I go to heaven, not to hell, and I die. I'm here to tell you it came to the right place. Because we exist to show people how to do that from the Bible. You follow what I'm saying? Now, you say, preacher, I'm already saved. Praise the Lord. I'm glad you are. I trust that's true. Well, then, in that case, you and I need to involve ourselves Into that mission God has given us. I'd put it this way, and I think this would be a good thing to jot down. I'm just going to give you real quickly. But if I am saved, if I've already trusted Christ as Savior, number one, I should immerse myself in Jesus Christ and His will. In other words, I should just dedicate myself to Christ. You're here and you've been saved, I'm telling you the reasonable thing to do is say, Lord You saved me, you died, suffered hell for me, and rose again. I just dedicate my whole life to you. I'll live for you, I'll serve you, I'll give I'll I'll yield my will to yours. I give my dreams. I put them all in your hands. Lord, take me and use me however you see fit. I'm yours. That's the most reasonable thing to do. To me, the most selfish person in the world is one who accepts salvation, accept Jesus suffering hell, then go off and live my own life and do what I want. How selfish can you get If I'm saved, I'll say, Lord, I'm yours. I give myself to live for you. By the way, I lived for the devil for a period of time, and I've lived for God. Living for God is better than living for the devil. I'm telling you. I mean we have folks we could testify all afternoon to the truth of that statement So, number one, if you are saved, immerse yourself, immerse your life, immerse yourself in the life of Christ and His will. Just dedicate. I put this down. Involve yourself in sharing the gospel with the lost. You've been the folks that have been around here, you know I work very hard at tra trying to make it as uh uh uh make it as uh simple as possible for Christians to communicate the gospel to lost people. I try to find every resource, every ability, every opportunity we put things in place so that every Christian can be involved. And getting the gospel to lost people. That's why we exist. Invest your future in the Great Commission. I'm just saying this is Bible teaching in two weeks, less than two weeks, our missions conference, and we're going to start talking about supporting missions through faith promise. We're going to talk about investing money to help these missionaries get to the field. Not to raise the salary of the pastor, get the missionaries to the field. I don't apologize to ask folks to do Christians to do that at all. In fact, I suggest to you it's our reasonable service. It's why we exist. To do our part, to get these missionaries out there. So invest yourself in this mission, the future, into the future of the Great Commission. And then last of all, I put this: intensify your prayers. For God's will to be done in your life. Intensify your prayers for our missions conference. The invitation we're going to have in just a minute. One of the parts of the invitation is this. To ask members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to starting this morning, pray, pray, pray earnestly That God's will would be done in our missions conference in a week and a half from today. That's the least we can do. That's what they did in the book of Acts. God provide. God give power. God give boldness. Open doors. That's what we need to be praying. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Or this thought that we have a very specific, clearly laid-out purpose for existing stirs my heart. And I pray you'd stir our church beginning today to get a vision of what you can and will do through us, how you can use us to see people find forgiveness and new life How you can use us to see people receive the gospel of Christ and be saved from sin in hell. Stir our hearts, I pray. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've accepted Christ as Savior. I have a biblical basis for the assurance of my salvation. And you'd say, Preacher Pray for me. I really want my life to be sold out for Jesus Christ. I just want him to have my future, my dreams, my everything, my body, my life, my mind. I want him to have all in me And to be lived for him, wherever his will is. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my desire. God bless you. God bless you. It's called being a disciple. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I am. And I want to be involved in sharing this gospel with others. I want to be a part of this mission that the church has. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me have boldness and wisdom and tact and the compassion I need to share the message of Christ with others in my my where world of influence. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. That's my desire. I want to be older and more effective in my witness. God bless you, hands all around. How about this matter of vesting in missions How many members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and this is for our members, say, preacher, I'll begin praying today what God's will is for me as far as supporting the missionaries. with prayers and finances. And I'll begin today and between now and the conference, I'll pray that God will reveal His will, make it clear to me what part I have in supporting mysteries. How many would join with me Saying that I'll begin today I'll begin praying. God bless you, hands all around. Just ask God. I never ask anybody to do anything except what God says to do. And then last of all, the last part of the invitation is this. Intensify your prayers that God That God will raise up missionaries and raise up our church to fulfill this mission. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.