Isaiah 53. I want to begin reading in verse number three. I'm going to read four verses, three, four, uh, maybe five, three, verse three down through verse seven When we get to verse 6, I'd like for us to read that verse together. If you would have it ready there as you follow along. We get to verse 6, we'll read it together, and then I'll finish up and read verse 7. But beginning in verse 3, it says this. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. Verse 6, would you read it together with me? But uh all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Verse 7 goes on and says, He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shearers is dumb, so he open not his mouth. I want to speak this morning on this Easter Sunday morning on the subject Jesus our substitute. Jesus, our substitute. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven I thank you that we have the opportunity to assemble together on this Lord's Day. Lord, this is the day that you have set aside for worship and service and praise, the preaching of your word. And we ask now, as we consider this profound passage of Scripture here, that we have such description of what Jesus Christ did for us. And I ask that your presence would be very evident as we try to lift up Jesus Christ and glorify him and explain that he's our substitute. Lord, I know you're here. Your presence is here. I know that. You said where two or three would gather. You'd be there in a presence. Lord, we can't see you. God, we can't feel you. We can't hear you audibly. But God, you're here and you're focused on us. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me. And God, that you would speak through me to every one of our hearts. And Lord, be reminded again of that price that Jesus Christ paid so we can be forgiven, so we can go to heaven and not to hell. So their lives can have purpose and meaning beyond just the material, temporal things. And so please bless and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's no doubt the most important event in all of history happened on three days, a little over 2,000 years ago. In the city of Jerusalem. There were thousands of cities in those days. There was hundreds of countries. But in the nation of Israel, in its capital city of Jerusalem The most important event that ever happened took place on those three days. And that event was the crucifixion, the burial, and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. At the time, it was for the most part overlooked. That day Jesus Christ was crucified, although there were supernatural events, there was an earthquake There was a supernatural darkness. The Bible says, settled down on that Mount Calvary as Jesus Christ cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And the darkness of hell, I believe, settled over At Mount. The Bible says that when he died in that earthquake, many dead rose from the grave and were seen in the city. In spite of all of that, for the most part, that immediate time it was pretty much overlooked. It was just another crucifixion of another criminal on another day. That event proved to be the most powerful, the most profound, and the most positive, and by that I mean beneficial event in all of human history. The gospel of Jesus Christ is personal to me. The gospel of Jesus Christ has changed my life. The gospel of Jesus Christ gave me a new life, gave me a purpose for living. And gave me assurance that when this body dies, I will not go to a devil's hell, but I'll enter into the very presence of God. God assures me that because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I'm speaking for many, many people here in the auditorium this morning, and you can testify to the very same thing. The gospel of Christ is a personal thing. What God has done for us through the power of the gospel. Paul said in Romans chapter 1 and verse 16, he declared the gospel to be the power of God unto salvation. What I'm going to try and preach this morning is an old, old story. Most of us have heard this over and over and over again. But I'm here to tell you, it is the greatest story that has ever been told. That Jesus Christ loved you and loved me and loved this world enough to come down and take our sin Our blasphemies, our lust, our dishonesty, our hatred Our bitterness, our unbelief, our selfishness, and take all that upon himself and suffer the judgment of a holy God in our place. It's the greatest story ever heard. Greatest story ever told. It's nothing new. We've heard it. Over and over and over And by God's grace and with his help, we're going to keep on telling this story over and over and over. I believe every newspaper ought to publish every day the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe every news outlet on television or radio ought to broadcast the message of the gospel every single day. I believe every website, news website, every information website ought to carry the great news of the gospel of Jesus Christ on a daily basis. Every nation in the world ought to commit themselves to make sure that every citizen of every nation understands the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the greatest story ever told. It is the power of God unto salvation. There's not a sin that man has ever committed that the gospel of Christ can't bring forgiveness for. There's not a life so hard. There's not a heart so hard. There's not a life so wicked. There's not a life that's so destroyed. That Jesus Christ, through the gospel, can't reclaim that life and give it purpose and meaning and joy and assurance. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Man can do a lot of amazing things. We can make some tremendous accomplishment. As I stand here and speak, we have a team of astronauts that are making their way to the moon and are going to circle the moon, Artemis II, and go farther from Earth than any human being has ever been in all of history Here, just in the next couple days. That's an amazing thing. What man is able to accomplish. The timing that is necessary on that trip I've been following, I'm fascinated by this accomplishment the technology that is involved, uh the precision that is necessary to pull this off, a moon traveling at I don't know what 20,000 miles an hour and be able to meet that thing and circle it and come back. What an amazing thing. We're able to have now we hear a lot of talk about AI, artificial intelligence and what computers are able to do and they say someday that these computers will be smarter than man. Man can do some amazing things. But I'll tell you one thing that mankind cannot do. Mankind cannot save a soul from hell and get it to heaven. We can send all the people to the moon we want to, but if we die and go to hell for all eternity, what does that benefit anybody? You follow me? We can have all these great computers. We can have self-driving cars. We can have planes that travel the speed of sound. But if a person dies in their sins unforgiven and separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell, what does that accomplish? Only God can save a soul. Only God can cleanse a heart. Only God can change a life. Only God, through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, only the gospel can transform a life of sin. Into a life that pleases God. Only the gospel of Jesus Christ can take an old sinful heart and clean that heart and put a clean heart, a pure heart in that person. Only the gospel of Jesus Christ can redirect a life that is doomed for hell and a life that ends up in heaven. As I said, this is personal for me. I've experienced the power of the gospel. It's not just some theory, it's not just something I heard somebody say that God can do. It's not just something I read about in a book. It's something I have experienced personally where Christ came in my life and took away all that life before that The emptiness and the sorrow and misery and guilt and shame, and give a new life. Can I get a witness, anybody? The gospel, the Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah chapter 53 is one of the clearest and most detailed descriptions of the gospel in the Old Testament. This passage, this chapter 53, Evan read portion of it. I read another portion of it a moment ago. It was actually pen 700 years before Jesus Christ was even born, before he became man It was penned by a great prophet named Isaiah. The name Isaiah means salvation is of the Lord. It was his whole message. It was penned, Isaiah, the whole the book of Isaiah was penned to God's people. Now, Israel's condition, the people of God, the nation of Israel, their spiritual condition at the time that this was written was terrible. They were cold spiritually, they were dead spiritually, they were worldly. There was no difference, little difference I should say, between how the is the Jews lived and how the Gentiles lived. They had completely, for the most part, adopted the values and priorities and pleasures of the world. They had lost the power of God. They had lost the presence of God in their life. They had lost the joy of the Lord. And God addresses that through the book of Isaiah, and he confronts them. The book of Isaiah warns God's people of coming judgment. Their government was unstable. Their synagogues and places of worship were cold and dead and empty. There was no life, there was no presence of God, there was no power of God upon them. And God sent Isaiah and had him pen this book to confront all of that. To confront all of that. It wasn't long after this, they were, nation was destroyed. They were taken off into captivity for 70 years. Isaiah 53, the theme of this chapter that we're looking at, is a coming servant Look at verse number thirteen uh with or uh uh uh look at chapter fifty-two, I'm sorry, and verse number thirteen, the previous chapter. He says, Behold my servant. So the whole chapter 53 is talking about this servant. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. As many were astonied at thee, and as And his visit his visage or his face, his appearance, was so marred more than any man, his form more than the sons of men So shall he sprinkle many nations, and kings shall shut their mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they see, and that which they had not heard shall they consider. Then he goes into chapter fifty-three. He's talking about a coming servant, a servant. Chapter 53 tells us that this servant was going to suffer. This servant was going to suffer greatly. More than any other man ever did or ever will, the servant will suffer. Notice verse number six. It says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. We've disregarded God. We've disregarded our Creator He made us for himself. He made us for a purpose. And we said no to that. We pushed all that aside. And we pushed on on our own way. We've gone our own way. The Bible says the Lord hath laid on him this servant the iniquity of us all. This servant was going to suffer, not for his sins. But as a substitute for the sins of every man, woman, and child that was ever born, ever lived, or ever will live. He suffered as our substitute. I got three thoughts I want to give you real quickly, and then I will get us out of here. We have a kids have a giant candy hunt. As soon as I'm done preaching, I want to get over and get in on that By the way, moms, we're not having it outside today, so little old Susie's Easter dress won't be all muddy. I wanted to have it outside, but I got voted down. Three thoughts I'd like to share with you this morning. Number one, I want us to consider the prophecy of the suffering substitute. The prophecy. All through the Old Testament, we find scores of prophecies that are pointing to a day when a Savior would come. When a suffering substitute for man's sin would come and pay the price in our place for us From Genesis all through the Old Testament. We have over and over and over again statements made. Some of them are not are some of them are a little veiled in the statement. In other words, it's It's not real distinct what they're talking about. But as we look back and see that that was a reference to the facts That there would be a servant come someday, and he would be a sinless servant of God, and he would pay the price for all men. He would be our substitute. All through the Old Testament we find these prophecies over and over and over. Through the what we call the minor prophets, these small little books at the back of the Old Testament, there's little statements made pointing to this coming substitute. Psalm chapter 22 is probably the most detailed description of the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, our substitute. Psalm 22 is, as I said, very, very detailed the actual crucifixion of Christ. And here in Isaiah chapter 53, we have the most thorough explanation. Of what Jesus Christ was doing when he died for our sins. Now the question comes up: how do we know this is talking about Jesus Christ? In fact, among the Jews, one of the big discussions was back in the day, was who exactly is this talking about? Is he talking about David? Who is this servant he's referring to? Well we know it's the Lord Jesus Christ because the Bible tells us that. Would you turn with me? How many folks anybody got your Bible with you this morning? Bring your Bible. We might as well use it. We got it, right? We might as well use it Go with me, if you would, to the book of Acts, chapter number eight. We have an interesting story. We have this fellow that had been in Jerusalem. He was from Ethiopia. In Africa, and he had made it quite a journey, and he went to Jerusalem for the purpose of worshiping Jehovah. When he was there, now whether he had it before and he brought it with him or he got it in Jerusalem, somehow he came across a copy of the book of Isaiah. Maybe somebody gave it to him. Maybe he purchased it. Maybe he had it before and brought it with him. But he's heading back. He'd been to Jerusalem and he's heading back home. And God sends this preacher, his name is Philip, and he encounters this Ethiopian fellow. Look with me in chapter 8 of Acts, look with me at verse number 26. And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, that's the preacher, saying, Arise and go toward the south under the way that goeth down from Jerusalem. unto Gaza, which is the desert. And he arose and went. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace the Queen of Ethiopians. So he's a powerful man. He holds a powerful position. And it says, who had the charge of all her treasure and had come to Jerusalem for to worship. This Ethiopian, verse 28, was returning and sitting in his chariot. He read Isaiah the prophet. That's Isaiah. Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to his chariot. And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet of Isaiah. And said, understandest thou what thou readest. So at this point, all we know is he's just reading in the book of Isaiah. Philip shows up at the direction of God, says, hey, do you understand what you're reading? I see you're reading there in Isaiah. Do you know what that's talking about? By the way, God sent that preacher by at that very moment. I do not believe there are just coincidences when somebody shows up and they hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Whether you're here in the auditorium or whether you're online and you're hearing this message at this time from this preacher, I'm here to tell you it's not just a coincidence You're listening right now. I believe it is a divine appointment of God. He wants you to hear this message of Jesus Christ. And God sent this Philip, the Ethiopian, for that very express purpose, to explain to this fellow what Isaiah is talking about. Notice he goes on, verse 31, he says, How can I except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come and sit with him. So he invites him up in the chariot. Dope climbs up in there. Verse 32. And the place of the scripture which he read was this He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb dumb before his shearers. Open he not his mouth. That's Isaiah 53. 7. I just read that a few moments ago. That's what this guy's reading. Look what happens. In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away. Who shall declare his generation for his life is taken from the earth? Verse 34. And the eunuch answered Phil and said I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? Who's he talking about? Who's this servant being described here? Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture, Isaiah 53, what we just read, and preached unto him what? Jesus. Jesus. Say, preacher, how do you know? That was written 700 years before Jesus was ever born in Bethlehem. How in the world do you know that's talking about Jesus? I know it because God tells us. He's describing to us here 700 years before he was ever born. He's describing Jesus Christ. And what his mission was, what his purpose was, the prophecy, the prophecy of this suffering substitute. The Jews turned Jesus over to be crucified because they hated him. They rejected him. John chapter 1, verse 11 says, He came unto his own, and his own received him not. They said, No, we don't accept you. We reject you, Jesus. By the way, mankind's been doing that same thing for years and years and years, saying no to Jesus Christ No, to Jesus Christ. Say, preacher, I'm not rejecting him. I'm just not ready to accept him. By not accepting them, you're rejecting him. The Jews turned him over to the Romans to be crucified because they hated him. They rejected him. The Romans nailed him to that cross and crucified him because Pilate was a coward Because Pilate had no integrity. He knew Jesus was innocent. He knew Jesus did not deserve to die. He stated that a number of times, and yet he was afraid of the people. and he crucified an innocent man anyway. Humanly speaking, Jesus was crucified because the Jews hated and rejected him. And because Pilate was a coward, he could have said, no, he's innocent, you're not touching him, but he didn't That's humanly. However, behind all of that, God had a plan, and God had a purpose. Isaiah, if you would, come back to Isaiah with me. And notice, if you would, verse number 10 of Isaiah 53. The Jews hated them, rejected them, turned them over to the Romans to be crucified. The Romans crucified him because Pilate wouldn't stand up for an innocent man. But behind all of it was God working. God had a plan. God had a purpose. Look at verse 10 of Isaiah 53. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed and prolong his days. It's the Lord. God had a plan from eternity past. God planned that Jesus Christ would one day. Be the suffering substitute to die for your sins and my sins. Here's the thing. This is what I I was working on this week, this message for the For this morning, and God's deal with my heart as I'm rehearsing in my mind what Christ did for me, how he came in my life. And here's something that struck me. God knows everything about you and about me. He knows the deepest secrets of our heart. He knows what's in those hidden closets that nobody else in this world knows about. And yet he loved you, and he loved me enough To bear the judgment for my sin in my place. What a savior. What a savior. I think you understand, and I think I probably speak for all of us on this, but there are sins in my life that nobody knows about. And I want you to say there's probably true everybody I'm talking to. And maybe those are coming to your mind even now as I'm speaking. I'm here to tell you God knows. And yet he thought you were worth dying in shame and agony so that that sin could be forgiven. And I could be accepted by a holy God and escape hell. What a Savior. He knew that before he ever sent Jesus Christ. The prophecy. Romans chapter 5 and verse 7. Let me just read that to you. Romans 5-7. Listen to what the Bible says. He says, For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yea, peradventure for a good man will die Some would even dare to die. Some people would die for a good man. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I was in Sydney, Australia a number of years ago, and I've told this a number of times here, but we were in a open kind of a plaza area there downtown. And um there was markets and different things. It was just all open. There's no car auto traffic, just people walking. And we were standing there giving out tracks and just talking to people. It's very enjoyable. People were pretty positive. One of the young fellows that was there helping us had gotten into a conversation with some Muslims. And pretty devout. They were about college age and I I don't mean to be unkind, but they looked the part. It was very stereotypical what a you would think of a extreme Muslim would look like And this guy's in the conversation and he kind of called me over and went over there and we got talking and it wa it was a little tense. We weren't I didn't feel threatened in any way But it was a little tense as was going back and forth. And finally I asked the fellows, I just said to him, I said, Do you know for sure, fellas, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven, not to hell Their answer was, well, nobody can know that. We hope so. That's what we're working towards. And I said, well, the Bible says that we're all sinners. We've broken God's law. We disobeyed God. I went down through the Ten Commandments. And here's the thing: there's about four of them. Every one of those four pretty hardcore Muslims agreed with me that we're all sinners. They didn't take issue with that at all. They said, yes, absolutely, we have sinned. I took When I was in Romans and I went and showed that the wages of sin is death, and that means dying separated from God for all eternity in hell. I said the judgment of God for our sins is to be separated for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And I took a moment trying to describe hell as the Bible tells us. And every one of those four fellows agreed with me completely that the wages of our sin is death. We die unforgiven, we go to hell. I said, but here's the good news. I said, God loves you and He loves me so much. He sent his son, become a man, and took our sin on him, and he died for us He died for our sins and my sins. He suffered the hell. He suffered the wrath and judgment of God for my sins and your sins was buried, rose again. They immediately took issue. They said nobody loves anybody to that degree. God does not love you and me enough that He would suffer for our sins for us. I said, he does. He said the Bible says that. God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. They said, no. Nobody loves anybody that much. And then the one fellow looked at me and he asked me this question. He said, Do you love me enough to do that for me? Would you die and go to hell so that I could go to heaven? Would you do that for me? How would you answer that question? Would you be willing to forfeit your salvation so a sinner? Could be forgiven and go to heaven. You go to hell for all eternity, so they could go to heaven. That's a hard question to answer. Do you agree with me? He said, Would you do that for me? I said, I don't know, that's a hard question. I said, but I'll tell you what I do know. I know Jesus Christ did do that for you. Whether I love you that much or not, I can't answer, but I know God loves you that much. They rejected it. They refused it. They did agree to take a gospel track and they let me have a word of prayer with them That was about five, six, seven years ago. My prayer is those boys, if God would open their heart, they'd believe and be saved. I'll never know. But I'm here to tell you, God, from eternity past, 700 years before Jesus was ever even born in Bethlehem, God promised that He would come. He knows everything about you and me. Yet he was still willing to die for our sins, be buried and rose again. Oh, what a savior! What a savior. The prophecy I only got a minute or two left. Let me consider quickly the purpose for this substitute. Come back to Isaiah 53 if you're there. Notice with me. Verse number four. There's a little word that's repeated a number of times in verse four and five. Surely he hath borne our griefs. He carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. With his stripes, we are healed. We are healed. Look at verse 10, and look at the middle part of verse 10. It says, He hath put him to spree. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, we celebrate the resurrection, the crucifixion, and resurrection of Jesus Christ on Easter. Why did he do that? What was the purpose of all of this? He did it to be an offering for our sins, your sins. I try to be as simple and clear as I possibly can, and whenever I'm preaching the Bible, I want it to be understood. The Bible's clear: God is love. He is. This God that's here, that we can't see. Oh, you're in his presence. He's paying attention to what I'm saying. He's conscious of what you're thinking right now. This God that's here, he's eternity past. From everlasting to everlasting, he's God, he's here. And that God is love. Can't see him, can't feel him, can't, but he's a- and he is love. And when he created the first man, the first woman, Adam and Eve, when he created them, he had a purpose for that creation. Because he is love, he created man in his image so that he could love man and man could love him back in a pure perfect, unconditional way, a mutual love. If you love someone, you want them to know you love them and you want them to love you back, right or wrong. We get that from God. That's instilled in us because we're in his image. And he loved man. He wanted man to love him back. And man said no. Man said, No, I'm going to do it my way. And God gave him an option of free will. He could choose to love and trust him, or he could choose to go his own way. And man chose to go his own way. Man said, nope, I'm going to do what I want. And that fellowship, that relationship was broken. And I believe God's heart was broken. And God is holy. The Bible tells us God is holy. He's pure and just in every way. Wickedness cannot be overlooked. And God's holiness demands justice. God's holiness demands judgment. And when man rebelled against God, God's holiness required judgment on that. God made him. God made us. He created us. He gave us everything for his purposes. And we said no, and justice is demanded by God's holiness. So here we are. God loves man, but man rejected that love, and God's holiness requires judgment on that. But God is also wise. And in his wisdom, he sent his son. He came in the person of his son, Jesus Christ, came down here. Lived that perfect life, loved God like He intended for man to love God like we should, and then took upon him the sin and judgment of our sins upon himself Judged of God in our place as our substitute, took responsibility for all our sin upon himself, was buried, rose again. And now we can come and have that relationship with our Creator restored. Does everybody follow? Does that make sense? That's what this is all about The creator being restored, the creature being restored to its creator. Jesus Christ died by himself on that cross. Disciples forsook them, the Jews rejected them, the Romans mocked them, even the thieves on either side railed on them. The only one that ever stood up for Jesus Christ in his crucifixion was an old murderous thief on his one side that said, Lord, remember me. Jesus Christ died by himself on the cross, forsaken by friends and foes, but he did not die for himself. He died for you and me. Behind me is a cross hanging on the wall. That cross is a reminder to us. What Jesus Christ did for us, so that we can be forgiven. He was judged in our place. This is nothing new. We've heard this 10,000 times. But I'm here to tell you it's the greatest message that has ever been told. It is the love of God for you and me that drove Jesus Christ to the cross and to the grave. It was his sinless, perfect nature that rose him up out of that grave on our behalf. And last of all, I am with us, consider the product of this suffering. It was on the cross that the price for your sin and my sin was paid. If if we don't get anything else out of this message, when we leave here a little bit, go home and have our thank our thanksgiving, our uh um what day is this? Easter We have our Easter ham or whatever you're having. We get the family round and we go look for little bunny rabbits and eggs and whatever you're gonna do. I hope we walk out of here with this thought in mind. The God that made me loves me enough that he judged himself for my sins and my place so I could have a home in heaven be with him. That's Easter. That's the message of Easter. A new life, a new purpose, peace in my heart. The product. I put three things down, the product. Number one, my destiny's altered because of what Jesus Christ did. No longer hell. Now it's heaven. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, saved from hell on their way to heaven. Listen, this whole world can mock us all they want. This world can hate our Savior, and they do. And I tell you, they can't take away what Christ has done for us in assuring us a home in heaven. Have deliverance from sin. Because of what Christ did on that cross, his death, burial, and resurrection, the shed blood, we can be free from sin's control. We can be free. I don't have to be in bondage to sin. I don't have to be in bondage to an addiction. There's not a sin the devil can come up with out of hell. That the blood of Jesus Christ can't forgive and cleanse and deliver me from. He can't have victory because of what Christ did. We moved here in 1993. And please, I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But when we came here, Mountain Lake Park was a nice town. It's just beautiful. Nice people are so friendly. I would go out and knock on doors and people would say, oh, well, I'd say, I'm the new pastor here at the Baptist Church. Oh, this one, come on in, have some donuts. Here, drink some coffee. Here, I got I got just made a new blueberry. I just made a fresh blueberry pie. Come on in. I gained 40 pounds that first two months I was here But something's changed in our community. Drugs have moved in Talk to the sheriff's deputy. Meth. Horrific drugs destroying lives, leaving souls empty, hopeless. Get out and knock on doors and it's different. People are still friendly, but drugs have moved in What I'm saying is this: Mountain Lake Park needs the Lord Jesus Christ. What he did on that cross and shedding his blood, being buried, can deliver people even from the most hardened drugs. Even from the worst of sins, God, through the gospel, can set people free Mount Lake Park. Our town needs Jesus Christ, needs the gospel. Our county, our community needs it. Our country needs Jesus Christ. Our world means Jesus Christ. They don't need more religion. They don't need more hypocrisy. They don't need more right self-righteousness. What they need is Jesus Christ from in their heart and life and forgive their sin and give a new life and purpose and meaning, and then ultimately a home in heaven. That's the product of what Christ did 2,000 years ago when he was crucified, buried, and rose again. And then a life dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ. Just because Jesus died on the cross was buried and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's got all this. Doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. I can accept it or reject it I have a choice to make. Do I accept what Christ has done for me and receive it by faith? Or do I say, no thanks? I'll just do this on my own and end up in hell. Those that accept Christ as Savior, their destiny is altered, they can have deliverance from sin, and they can dedicate their life to Christ. Paul put it this way. He said, I beseech you therefore, brethren, saved people. I'm talking to saved. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable, and to God. It's your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you can prove was that good and acceptable and perfect will of God for your life. I trust Christ the Savior back in 1990, back in 1979. Jesus Christ came in my life, he changed me so dramatically. Man, I never had peace like this before. I never had purpose in my life. The guilt and shame was gone. God accepted me. The only reasonable thing I could think is, Lord, I need to give myself to you. I give you my life. I dedicate my life to you. What you've done for me. I'm not a preacher today because I'm some religious guy or other Just an old sinner that Jesus loved enough to die for, buried, and rose again. He led in my life to this point, and here I am. God has a plan and purpose for your life. If you accept Him as Savior, you can give your life to Him and allege you and direct you, not be a preacher, who knows, whatever. But in the will of God, in the will of God. Amen? Are you with me? Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray that this Easter, the truth of what took place on those three days in that little city of Jerusalem so many years ago, would have a profound impact on us. I pray that everyone, under the sound of my voice, would have the assurance their sins are forgiven, a home in heaven, a purpose and meaning in life. Through trusting Christ. And those of us that have that settled, I pray you'd help us just give ourselves to you, to live for you. Dedicate our hearts, our homes, our lives to you, to live for you and be a witness in this old world. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder this morning how many would say, Preacher, I've trusting Christ as Savior. I have that settled. I know God's forgiven me and saved me. I have a biblical basis. And preacher, I want to give my life to live for him who died for me. I want my life to count for Jesus. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Who in the world saved wouldn't feel that way? Now maybe there's something crept in, maybe there's something that's out of whack in your heart and soul. As a Christian, that needs to be addressed. I urge you this Easter Sunday. Address that. Let the Lord have his way. Agree with him. Submit to him. Let him make whatever changes in your life need to be made. Let him. And he'll lead you. He'll help you. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I got somebody dear to me. And I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I don't believe they're saved. I don't believe they know the Lord. I want them to come to Christ and I want them to know what I know and have what I have. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that I'll be a good witness. Good testimony of what the gospel can do. Is there any like that? Princer, somebody heavy on my heart. Oh, I want them to be saved. I want them to know the Lord. God bless you, hands all around. Is there someone here this morning? You say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. I would like to know God has forgiven me. That he'd give me a new life, a life that is good and clean and right. So anything like that, preacher, pray for me. I need that in my life. Just slip your hand up. Any at all, I need that in my life. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I need that in my life. I need that in my life. Father, bless our invitation now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.