Not Ecclesiastes chapter twelve, if you go to the middle of your Bible, you'll end up in Psalms And then gonna go towards the back of your Bible, work your way, you'll run into Proverbs, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, then Song of Solomon. If you get to Song of Solomon, you're too far. So chapter 12 is the last chapter of the book of Ecclesiastes. Notice in verse number 5, it says, Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way. And the almond trees shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. We'll talk about what all he's talking about there in just a moment. But notice this next phrase Because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets. He says, he's describing some things about our bodies. Then he says, man goeth to his long home. That caught my attention. Man's long home. That's what we want to preach about this morning. Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father in heaven, we're grateful for another opportunity to assemble together here in church. In your name, Lord, so grateful to sing these hymns, and Lord, just to be with your people. Now, Lord, as we've opened our Bibles, we are asking you to speak to our hearts and give us direction I pray, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would confront us as to our spiritual condition and as to where our long home is going to be. And I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will to your will. I present my body, Lord, just as a tool in your hands for you to speak through my lips Your word to our hearts and lives. And God help us to make right decisions as a result of what your word has to say today. So I ask your blessing on the message now, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Book of Ecclesiastes is a fascinating book. It's often misunderstood for various reasons The term Ecclesiastes, the title of the book, simply means the preacher has the idea of a man assembling, gathering people together in an assembly, in a congregation in order for him to give them a message. And what the book of Ecclesiastes is, is a sermon that was preached in Jerusalem. By and the penman, the preacher of this sermon, and uh what ended up being the penman of this book is uh is uh Solomon himself, if you would Come back to chapter one. Now keep your place there. Now we're going to be going to a bunch of verses this morning, so keep your Bibles handy. But come back to chapter one and look with me, if you would, at verse number one. Makes it pretty clear uh who the pen man of the book of ecclesiastes is. Now some Bible scholars, they sometimes sometimes these uh folks can think they're smarter than God, don't they Well, God makes it pretty clear exactly who the penman of this book is. In verse number one, the words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. So that would obviously be who? It would be Solomon. There's no other option. And so the penman of this book is Solomon. Solomon is the wisest man That walked the earth apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, he had supernatural wisdom given to him directly by God. So that's pretty sm that's pretty wise. The penman of the book, as we said, is Solomon. The premise of the book, what's the purpose? What's the idea behind the book of Ecclesiastes? Well, if you read it through and you don't pay attention. You can really get thrown. Because he makes some statements in there that if you don't understand the premise here It seems to contradict other statements in the Bible. For instance, he says, vanity of vanity, all is vanity, and vexation of spirit. Now, I don't know about you, but I study my Bible and I find that life in Christ is anything but vanity. Jesus came, said, I came to give that you might have life, and that you might have it more what Abundantly. So what is he talking about when he says that vanity of vanity, all is vanity? And he makes that statement repeatedly throughout the book. Well, there's another statement in the book, a little phrase in the book that clarifies that and helps us understand why he's making some of these statements and saying some of these things he says throughout the book. And that little statement is this. And this is important to take note. It is this. Under the sun And if you'll pay attention, I encourage you to read through the book of Ecclesiastes and pay attention and highlight every time you find that phrase under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. What he's saying is this: if all you and I are living our lives for is that which exists under the sun, in other words, as if there is no God As if there is nothing beyond this life, it's just whatever I see, feel, smell, and touch, that's all there is to life. If that's all I'm living for With no regard for my creator, no regard for my spiritual well-being. If that's all I'm living for, then guess what? Vanity of vanity. All is vanity. You ever notice, folks, sometimes folks who have everything this world has to offer, but they don't have the Lord and they're miserable They're drunkards, drugs, can't stay married, just run in their lives miserable, take their life, suicide. Vanity of vanity under the sun. And so the Book of Ecclesiastes is a fascinating book. It really is. It addresses materialism, it addresses hedonism, narcissism, all these isms. And he comes to a tremendous conclusion at the end, which we'll note here in a moment. The book of Ecclesiastes is Solomon preaching a sermon in Jerusalem. He's assembled the people of Israel together, a great congregation. And it's at it's towards the end of his life, and he is giving an account of his backsliding away from God and living his life under the sun as if God did not exist. And how that impacted him, and how he eventually came back to the Lord. You know, it's amazing how foolish a wise man can be It's amazing how small a great man can become. And Solomon made some of the most foolish decisions you'll ever find in the Bible He became so small, living for the flesh and self in sin. He records it all in the book of Ecclesiastes. It's a fascinating book And the conclusions and what he learned from it. It's Solomon's account of his backsliding out of the will of God into the world of the world and into sin and the lessons he learned from it. Look with me, if you would, again, at chapter number one. He says, Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, Vanity of vanities, always. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh what? Under the sun. That's his premise. That's his introduction to his sermon. And he goes through and gives this account of his experiences out of the will of God, living in sin, then if you would come back to chapter 12 again and notice with me the last two verses Of chapter 12. This is the conclusion of his message. This is his wrapping it up together and his invitation at the end of his message, if you will. And notice what he says in verse 13. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. All I've said, all this account I've given of how I messed up bad and what I learned from that. Here's the conclusion. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Now he puts a serious Caution here, verse 14. For God shall bring every work into judgment. With every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. I'm telling you, there's a great day of judgment coming for this whole world For the unsaved, it's at the great white throat. For the saved, it's the judgment seat of Christ. And he says, every work shall be judged. And by the way, he throws in there, he says, no secret's hidden from God. And I want to remind all of us: no secret is hidden from God. You might hide it from your spouse, you might hide it from your children, you might hide it from your parents, you might hide it from the preacher, from the congregation, but we ain't hiding nothing from God And so the conclusion of the matter is this: we better fear God. We better do what God says. We better trust Him and follow His instructions. And when God gives us a warning, we better heed that warning. When God gives us a promise, we should claim that promise. When God gives us some instructions, we ought to follow those instructions. Because there's a day of judgment coming. There's a day of judgment coming. Now, I notice our text here. Pastor Matt read verse 1 of chapter 12 down through verse 7. It's actually addressed, this passage here is actually addressed to young people. Look at verse number one. He says, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. While thy evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when I shall when thou shalt say I have no pleasure in them. He's saying, while you're a young person, you need to learn something here. I'm going to tell you something that is very, very important. You need to learn as a young person. Now not all not all of us are young persons anymore. And he comes down here and uh he uses very picturesque wording, very, very uh uh uh he's an artist with words. as he's describing the aging process, the aging process effect on the body. Now you've got to think a little bit, he's going through, but he's using very figurative language here. Look with me if you would at verse number three. He's talking about the days coming when you get older. He's talking to young people, so remember your creator in days of the youth. One day you're going to be old. And he describes the aging process's effect on the body. Look at verse 3 In the days when the keepers of the house shall tremble. I wonder how many of us we get older and we start seeing our hands do this. Right? My wife's husband uh has Parkinson's and the hands, the keeper My wife's husband. My Yeah, I thought I'd announce it today My mother's husband. And I go back up there and visit, and the old hands tremble like that. The keepers of the house tremble. That's what he's referring to. Look what he goes on. And he goes down a list here. He says, In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strongmen shall bow themselves. I think he's talking about the legs. not as strong as they were, tend to be bowed over a little bit as that aging process takes effect on the body. Keepers of the house tremble, the strong men, the legs bow themselves. The grinders cease because they are few. Anybody want to take a guess what he's talking about there? He's not talking about West Virginia. The older we get, those old teeth start wearing out, don't they? And uh start chewing. Man, it's it's hard uh to grind anymore because they be few. It's very descriptive. And those that look out the windows be darkened. What's he talking about? The eyes, cataracts come over, eyes, sight fails. The doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinding is low. Hearing. Loss of hearing. He's talking about the ears here. Um and he saw rise at the voice of a bird. I found the older you get you tend to sleep becomes an issue. Just the lightest little thing, wake up. I tell you when I was younger, there could be a freight train drive through the living room. I wouldn't wake up, I was out. But now just the slightest little sound. Wake up. He shall rise at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. That voice starts to fail. It starts to crackle, and it's not as strong as it once was. Verse 5, and when they shall be afraid, and when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way It's all about courage failing. Courage failing. They say the best soldiers in military are the young recruits just coming out of boot camp. And they're convinced they're fearl they're they're uh in they're convinced that they are um invincible And they're gonna get and they say those are the ones they said as the soldier gets older a lot of times he begins to realize he's not as invincible as he thought he was And then fear becomes a factor and caution kicks in and not as aggressive. As age takes its effect, it affects our courage in many times. And look at this. And the almond tree shall flourish. What's he talking about? Gray hair. That old hair turning gray. Or falling out. And the grasshopper shall be a burden, strength begins to fail. And desire shall fail. Zeal. I found uh you know, you get older, it's like, you know, I really don't feel like it. Sometimes I enjoy fishing and in the fall I like to go bow hunting and but I found as I've gotten older I sit in that recliner and I think, I don't know if I really want to get out of this thing or not I'm not as fired up about it as I used to be. And then he makes this statement because man goeth to his long home. And the mourners go about the streets. That silver cord is loosed, and the golden bow will be broken. Talking about then you die. Then you die. We live our lives. We're born. God gives us these bodies. Each one's unique. We're born, God gives us these bodies, we live our lives, and as time goes by, that aging process wears down the body. That body dies, the silver cord is broken, and man goes to his long home. We're born, we live, we go out into eternity. That's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. Or long home. By the way, I take away from this when he describes the effects on the body and then he says Man goeth to his long home. I take away from that the fact that you and I are more than just a body. Do you get that? He's describing as this body wears down and finally fails and dies, but man goeth to his long home There's a whole lot more to you and I than simply muscles and flesh and bone. You and I are a spiritual being. You and I, oh I always say it this way: you and I do not have a soul You and I are a soul, and we have a body. This body is not me. I indwell this body. I live in this body The Bible refers to our bodies as our tabernacle, our tent, our dwelling place for our time here on earth. There's a clear distinction in Scripture between the physical body of man and man. We indwell the body. We look out through these eyes. We hear through these ears, but they're not us. We are inside this body. The Bible says in Genesis chapter number 2 and verse 7, the Bible says that God formed man from the dust of the earth. And he breathed into the nostrils of man the breath of life. Now listen to this. And man became a living soul. It doesn't say this body that he formed from the dust of the earth, he breathed into it the breath of life, and man became a living body. He doesn't say that. Man became a living soul. That indwells this body he formed from the dust. And eventually this body returns. We say at the funeral, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. And so you and I are more than just a physical being. And by the way, there is more to existence in reality than just what we see under the sun, there is a spiritual realm that is just as real as the physical realm Now we live in a world and a society that tries to deny that, tries to somehow come up and prove that's not so, but I'm telling you, it's so Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 8, he says, for the believer, he's talking about here, he said, absent from the body, present with the Lord. There's a distinction between the two. And so we're born, we live our lives, and we die, our bodies die, and we go to our long home. Now, I want us first of all, my first point this morning is this: the brevity of life. I want us to consider the brevity of life. It seems like it's just a blink of an eye, and we go from youth to old age, right or wrong. I know I'm talking to some older folks today and I'm getting in that category, not there yet, close, awfully close. And it seems like it was just yesterday we were a child at home. Huh? Blink of an eye. Blink of an eye. Now I didn't appreciate that when I was younger, but the older to get, I don't think time goes faster when we're older. I think we just recognize it that it goes faster when we get older. We see it from a different perspective. than what we did in our youth. Time is flying. The brevity of life. How fast It goes by. Listen to some statements in Scripture that God says about the brevity of life. In Psalm 90, verse 10, and we won't turn to all these. Psalm 90, verse 10, he says that our life is soon cut off And we fly away. That long home. Psalm 144 and verse 4 says, Our days are as a shadow that passeth away. Just here and then go on. James chapter 4 and verse 14 says, Our life is a deper that appeareth for a little time. And then vanisheth away. Did you ever see these guys? Well, sometimes in the morning uh it'll rain. We were uh uh sometimes in the morning it'll rain, it'll be hot out, and that rain will hit the street. And in the mornings there'll be a vapor comes up off the the asphalt where it's warm. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or after rain? And that that vapor. And it's just there a little while and then it's gone. He's knuckleheads smoking these um like uh what are they even called? Vap vapor things Huh? Vaporettes? Listen, I love you, but if you're doing that, you're a knucklehead, you know? I'm just saying. And you see him, I see them, and they'll they'll think, and man, it's huge cloud. I called 911, I thought something was on fire. But you ever watch that and that cloud goes out and then it's just a moment. It's gone. That's what God says your life and my life is. Just, man, where'd it go? The brevity of life. Job chapter 7 and verse 6, he said, My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. We go up, sometimes we go up to springs for their festival, and is it in the fall or is it the spring? I don't remember. The fall. Um springs is in the fall. I ought to remember that. And they have a weaver's thing there if you ever saw it in that little museum. And that thing gets working and man, that thing's just this weavers thing are just I get dizzy looking at it And he says, that's what life is. Job said, that's what just like that. Swifter than a weaver's shuttle. In 1 Chronicles 29 and verse 15, David's at the end of his life. He's about to go to his long home. And he says this, our days on earth are is as a shadow, and there's none abiding. Again, in Job chapter 8 and verse 9, Job said this, our days on earth are a shadow. In Psalm 78, verse 39, he says, the Bible tells us our life is like a wind that passeth away. Just phom. Again in Job chapter 9, verse 25, David uh Job says, My days are swifter than a post. They flee away. That word post is referring to someone that runs with a message. Anybody here remember reading about the Pony Express? And they were a post, they would run from one town next, race those horses so fast. And they say if you were in a little along that route and you're in a town, that uh that post rider on that horse was just zing. Gone. He says that's what our life is like. The brevity of life. Job chapter 14, verse 1, he says, Man that is born of a woman is a few days. Take your Bible, if you would. We're in Ecclesiastes. Come back to Psalms. It's not far away. If you would turn over there with me real quick. And Psalms chapter 90 is actually penned by Moses. Now, God, of course, is the author of all of this, Ecclesiastes and Psalms, the whole Bible. But in Psalm chapter 90 Moses is writing under the inspiration of God. And in verse number 12, he gives us some pretty good advice in light of the fact that our days are so brief. And pass away so quickly. In Psalms 90, verse 12, he says this, so teach us to number our days. That we may apply our hearts to wisdom. You know what he's saying? He's saying, pay attention to how quickly your life has gone by. I put in the margin of my Bible, I wrote this statement down. Take life seriously. It's going by quick. Don't fiddle it away, don't risk it unnecessarily. Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. Take life seriously. Consider, would you consider with me this morning? I did this as I was preparing this. Stop and think about all the days that you've already lived, and think about how many days I have left. And then go back, I think this is what he's telling us, and then go back and think about how quickly the last ten years have gone by. And take that and put it to the next ten years, and they're going to go by just as quickly. The brevity of life The brevity of life. I think if we really understood the brevity of life, we would take our lives more seriously. I tell you, I think there there are people who risk their lives so foolishly, whether it's just driving recklessly down the street Uh man, I had somebody who were driving, I think it was on our trip, and pass on the shoulder in the right hand. I'm going speed limit on our interstate and they come up around the so shoulder. And I thought, how foolish to risk something that is going to be s over so quickly on something so foolish to get ahead a few minutes or arrive a few minutes earlier than what they would have been before. You follow what I'm trying to say? And then you have these guys jumping off of bridges on a rubber band tied to their leg. What kind of moron does that? Jumping out of airplane, a perfectly good airplane, they jump out. I don't think I think if we understood how quickly life goes by, we'd have a different attitude about our lives. We take it a little more seriously. I think if we understood the brevity of life, we would take our relationships with our loved ones a little more seriously. Because the day when they're gone is coming very quickly. The day when we're gone is coming very quickly. I think if we understood the brevity of our lives, our standing with, we take our standing with God more seriously. Now listen, this is a very s this is a very sober message, this is a very serious message for all of us The fact of the matter is, life has gone by so quickly, and we are going to stand before our God, as Solomon said there, before we know it, in the blink of an eye We're going to go out to our long home, out into eternity. And I think we need to take our standing with God more seriously, whether I'm going to heaven or hell. Ecclesiastes, uh, chapter five he says, uh let me come back there He said, Because man goeth to his long home. What is this long home? I'll tell you what it is. It's eternity Where you and I spend eternity is our long home. So if that's our long home, that means our home here would be our what home? Short home, our temporary home. The life I'm living right now in this body here in Oakland, Maryland, the life you're living in your body wherever you are That's your short home. Breathe. It's our short home. Then we go to our long home. Life is short. And not only is it short even when lived to its full length, sometimes our lives can be cut off Do you know you and I can make decisions that will shorten the brief life that it is, as brief as it is now, you and I can make decisions that would actually shorten it even more? There's a sin under death. We can do something stupid. How many people would still be alive because they if they hadn't done something stupid And by the way, sometimes young people have the attitude, I'm I don't think artists would, but sometimes young people have an attitude, well, I don't need to worry about God and all that, heaven and hell. I've got a long time to live. I'd say you better be very, very careful about that. Proverbs says, boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Do you know there's people out in eternity in their long home today that thought they had years to live a week ago? The brevity of life, as brief as is, and it can still be cut short. We don't know what tomorrow holds. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27 said, It is appointed unto man once to die And after this, the judgment. So my first thought is this this morning, the brevity of life. And we like to have fun, and I like to laugh, and I enjoy having a good time, but you and I must never get away from the fact That our life here on this planet is very brief. And that should affect the decisions we make, that should affect how we live our lives, that should affect every aspect, our relationships We live as if we're going to be here forever, don't we? We're not. Life here is brief. So my number one, my first thing first point I want us to consider is the brevity of life. The second thing I'd like for us to consider our eternal destination Again, in chapter five, in verse five of chapter twelve, he says, Because man goeth to his long hole Now, as you know, I enjoy doing word studies. I like to find out what the word means, where it comes from, how it's used other places in the Bible. A lot of times you can gain some insight there And I found out in doing that study, I found that the word long means has this idea everlasting, perpetual, unending Our long home, our everlasting home, our perpetual home, our unending home. And I found that the word home means what you think it would mean: an abode or a dwelling place. When he says man goeth to his long home, he's saying this. Man goes to a final destination where he is going to exist for the rest of eternity. Death of the body does not end the existence of the man. We go to our long home, our everlasting, perpetual, unending dwelling place. Long home. Every person that is living now or ever has lived Ends up in one of two long homes. There's two places. This body, the silver cord is broken This body dies, and the mourners are in the streets as he describes here. You and I are going to be in one of two places, our long home. It's going to be either heaven or it's going to be hell. If you would keep your place here, but turn with me to the New Testament, the book of Matthew. First book of the New Testament and go to chapter 7. This is Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. He's winding down the sermon at this point. And he's making a very strong plea for people to consider where their long home is going to be. Now, the Sermon on the Mount is not an evangelistic message, so to speak. He's preaching to his disciples. They're already saved. But he makes a strong statement in Matthew chapter 7 and verse number 13 about this long home that you and I are going to end up in, one of two. Verse 13, Matthew 7, enter ye in at the straight gate. That straight gate means narrow, very confined. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to what? Destruction. That's one of the long homes. I put in the margin of my Bible, I put a little little note out there and I put hell. He's talking about hell. He said that the gate to hell is very wide. And that the way to hell is very broad. And look what he says at the end of that verse. And many there be which go in thereat. I hate to make this statement. I wish this was not true. There are some truths in Scripture that bother me and disturb me. But the fact of the matter is, most people in the world are going to end up in the long home of hell. Many there be that go into hell. It's wide. It's broad. It's easy. You have to do nothing. Say, preacher, what do I got to do to go to hell? What sin do I have to commit to go to hell? I'll tell you what you got to do to go to hell. Nothing. We're born sinners. You don't have to try to go to hell. Just go through your life and neglect Christ. End up in hell. So there's two long homes a person can end up in. One of them is hell. The other one, look at verse number 14. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life. Now here he makes another sad statement, few there be that find it. You know, he's saying here another thing, this this bothers me. There are some things the Bible teaches that I wish were not so, but whether I wish it so or not make it, doesn't mean a hill of beans. Saying that few people actually end up ever getting saved. There's what, seven point some billion people in the world The overwhelming majority are going to end up in a long home that is the most horrific place you can possibly imagine. Man lives his life, the body wears down, the teeth fall out, the hair turns gray, the body weakens, and then the silver cord is broken, the body dies. And man goes to his long home. Now what is that long home? It's either hell or heaven. One of those two. I know there's a lot of things about people, y'all, a lot of things about all y'all here that I don't know much about, but one thing I know, every one of us is going to end up in either heaven or hell I was at the fair. We were at the fair all this week. People everywhere there, out and p riding the rides and everything. Every one of those people. We my Kathy and I took a little walk around Every one of those people, heaven or hell, heaven or hell, heaven or hell. You know what the sad, tragic thing is? The overwhelming majority. Along Holmes hell. Consider the brevity of life, how quick this life goes by, and then we go out into eternity to one of two places. Every one of us here will eventually end up in either heaven or hell, and we will be there forever. It's our long home, everlasting, perpetual, unending dwelling place. Now let me make this statement. There is nothing on earth that compares to the glories of heaven. Now, I would love to park it there and spend a couple hours preaching about heaven. I like the idea of heaven. Amen? Oh, what a wonderful place. We sang about it. What a day that will be. When Jesus I shall see. He said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I'll come again. He's there. He's got mansions. He is building heaven. What an amazing thing. I wish we had time to go to Revelation chapter. Well, let's go ahead and take time. That roast will be fine. Go to Revelation chapter, all the way back there, Revelation chapter 21. Real quick, I want you to see what God says about our long home for those that end up in heaven, those that uh have made the preparation and end up in heaven. Notice one statement. Now there's a lot of information in the Bible about heaven. But in verse number four of Revelation 21, all the way to the back of your Bible, second last chapter And verse 4 he says this, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. I know every one of us knows what it's like to have tears in our eyes. Amen or not? God shall wipe all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death. And while never, once we get to our long home, no more funerals. No more funeral homes, no more mourning. It's been a sad week for some folks that we've been associated with, the Renard's, Mother Brant's sister. Mourning, no more death in heaven. Neither sorrow nor crying. I'm preaching to some folks, no doubt, cried this past week. Neither shall there be any more pain. Praise the Lord for that. That's going to be culture shock for me, I'll tell you. No more arthritis. Come on, you guys don't sound very excited about it. You mustn't have arthritis. No more diabetes, no more heart disease, no more cancer. No more cavities in your teeth. No more glasses. What a day that will be. A long home of heaven. I'm telling you, there is nothing on earth that compares to the glory of that home in heaven. That's prepared for those that are ready. Now I made this statement. There's nothing on earth that compares to the glory of heaven. Let me make a second statement And catch this. Listen very carefully, please. There is nothing on earth that compares to the horrors of hell. Nothing compares to the horrors of hell. I've had people over the years make this statement. I'm thinking of one man in particular here in Chattanooga. Right when I first learned to go out soul winning, I've tried to witness. And Randy Miller took me out one day and we just he just go up and talked to everybody. Asking, you know for sure you're going to heaven? Man, I never saw that before I'll never forget it. There was an elderly man sitting on a str down the street. We're right downtown, rough section of town, and a big, busy street, people everywhere, and there's this old man sitting on a five-gallon bucket upside down, turned upside down, he's just sitting there. Randy went up and said, gave him a gospel dragon. He said, sir, let me ask you a question. You know for sure if you died right now, you'd go to heaven? He says, no, I don't. Randy started witnessing to him. I was fascinated. And he got to the judgment of God on sand and he got to the fact of hell. The man stopped him. And he said, I was in Vietnam. He says, I've already been through hell. He said, hell is here on earth. You know, there can be some things on earth that are pretty horrific. I can't imagine what some of these soldiers have been through, World War II and Vietnam, and you name the wars. Been reading a little bit about World War I, how horrific that was. I'll be honest with you, I think it is a little bit of the atmosphere of hell. is experienced in some of that, but I'll tell you this, there is nothing on this planet that compares to what hell is really like Anybody that makes that statement that I've been through hell or hell is here on earth has never read and studied what Jesus said about hell. Outer darkness, torments. I wish we had time to go to Luke chapter 16, where Jesus kind of opens a word window picture into a man, a rich man that's in hell. And he describes this man's experience there in hell. And he has full memory and he has full consciousness. And all his senses are aware to the torments and the flakes and the horrors of being in hell for all eternity. Solomon said, we live our lives, our bodies wear out and die, the silver cord is broken, and we go to our long home, and that long home consists of either heaven and the glories of God Or the hell and the absence of anything good, the absence of anything of God, the absence of any peace, but torment For all eternity, perpetually forever. I put this down. It's better to go to heaven all by yourself than to go to hell with all your friends you have on earth. Number one, the brevity of life. I hope you'll consider that this morning. I hope you'll think about it racing by. I finish one Sunday, I finish Sunday night, finish up the day. I go home, next thing I know, it's next Sunday. Is here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You get up in the morning and you blink your eyes, and it's the end of the day. Days seem like hours, and hours seem like weeks seem like days, months seem like weeks, and years seem like months So the brevity of life and then the eternal destination for every one of us here is heaven or hell. Let me ask you this question. Where are you going to go when you die? Where is your long home? Is it heaven? Or is it hell? By the way, there's no other options. I don't mean to be unkind. I don't want to be a smart aleck, but the Catholic Church is wrong when they teach there's a purgatory. That is wrong. That is a lie. Last thing I want us to consider is the importance of preparation. The brevity of life the etern our eternal destination, our long home, and then the importance of preparation. And it could and Solomon references that in Ecclesiastes when he says, let us hear the conclusion on that. Fear God, keep his commandments. He's saying you better get right with God. Jesus continually warned of the foolishness of failing to prepare for our long home. He referenced a rich man that his crops blossomed and he's very, very prosperous. And he says, I'll pull down my barns and build bigger barns And Jesus said, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. He said he's invested all his time and all his effort for everything under the sun. He's lived his whole life for this shorth. And he neglected to prepare for his long home. How foolish! How fool! Jesus said. He warned the Pharisees that were so religious here on their short home. Boy, they love to put on a show. And they wanted everybody under the sun to think highly of them and praise them and think how wonderful they were. And they never gave a thought, and they never gave preparation for their long hope. And he says, ye shall die in your sins. The worst thing that can happen to a person is die unforgiven. Under the judgment of God. And go to the long home of hell for all eternity. The importance of preparation We buy insurance on our houses. Let me ask you a question. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Somebody told me today, this morning, they came in and they said, Preacher, you better preach, because I'm sleepy today. I'm trying Why do we buy insurance on our houses? Somebody help me. In case it burns down, in case something terrible happens, right? We have insurance on our house. We didn't get insurance on our house because it's going to burn down. We got insurance on our house in case it burns down, right? We hope it won't. We do everything we can to avoid that from happening, but it might. And so we want to be sure we're prepared in the case of that event. It might happen. Hopefully it won't, but it might, so we want to be prepared. Right? You follow me? We buy insurance on our cars. Why do we buy insurance on our cars? In case of what? A wreck, an accident. Fancy people call it accident. We call it wrecks Now we don't get insurance. I just paid our insurance on our car this week. I didn't pay my insurance on my car because I'm going to have a wreck. I pay insurance on my car in case I have I try everything I can not to. I blow the horn at others when I blow through the stop sign, you know. I just I do everything I can to avoid that. Not because we're going to have a wreck, not because the house is going to burn down, but in case it does We do all of that, and that's important, that's right. But here's the tragedy. We do nothing to prepare for our soul's destination And that will take place. Listen, you're not, it's not I might die someday. And go to hell. No, no, no. It's we will God. And then we go to our long home. It's not an if, maybe, I'll try not to. No, no, no. It's happening. Listen, mark it down. It is coming, and it's coming quickly. And so that makes preparation importance. You know what's tragic? Most Americans, probably true around the world, most Americans are more concerned about the well-being of their pets than they are about their own spiritual condition More worried about whether the dog is okay than whether I'm right with God or not. My standing with God and my relationship with God determines where my long home is. The importance of preparation. We're at the fair booth this week in a Family came by as a man and his wife and their d teenage daughter and we got talking a little bit and he They're missionaries to Russia How about that with a little different denomination? We got talking and it was just kind of exciting to talk to them. They've been there ten years. They came home for a short time this summer. They're heading back at the end of August And he made this statement, and this encouraged me. He said, I said, I really appreciate the display here. He said, This: the whole message of your booth is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I said, bingo. That's what we want. You know why? Because the gospel is how we prepare for our long haul. All those people walking by. Thank God for all the fun and the sales and the show. I'm not disparaging that. It's wonderful. But what good is it if we do nothing to repair for our long home and die and go to hell? Die and go to hell. The importance of preparation. We make no preparation for where we spend eternity, which will happen. Jesus said in John 14, verse 6: No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Nobody ends up in heaven except through the Lord Jesus Christ. I've had people over the years say, I ask them, do you know for sure? If you die now, you go to heaven? Oh, yeah, I go to heaven. How do you know? I'm a member of the church. There's not a church in the world ever got a person into heaven. Church can't save you, can't save me. Lady said, You think your church the only one saved? No, we're on the o we're not the only one saved. The only one saved are those who trust Jesus as Savior. It's not the church. It's not the baptism. It's not the offering. It's not the Eucharist. It's not the Mass. It's not the last rites. It's not Buddha, it's not Allah. It's not Joseph Smith. It's not Pastor Leatherman It is Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the light. And no man cometh unto the Father but by him. The importance of preparation, coming to Jesus Christ. Coming to Jesus Christ. I finish with this. If you're listening, if you're here, you're listening to my voice, and you're unsaved. If there are any doubts in your mind or questions about where your long home will be, the most important thing in the world for you right now is to get that settled. You know you say, well maybe this week I'll think about it. You don't know that you have another week to think about it. The El Moody, as I understand that was pastoring in Chicago, the Great Moody Tabernacle there, Great Moody Church, and this was many, many years ago. And as I understand the story, as he preached a message on salvation and He was going to invite people to be saved, and he got the thought in his head, I'll wait until next Sunday before I invite them to make a decision. I'll let them think about it for the week That next day, the great Chicago fire hit. Thousands lost their lives, and the city burned to the ground. Much of the city burned to the ground. And next week they couldn't even, if I understand it correctly, they couldn't even have a service. And he thought, how many went out into eternity? Would have gotten saved. Could have gone to heaven, died, and went to hell because I didn't press the issue right now. Listen, there's a lot of things I don't twist people's arms about, but there's one thing I'll put the squeeze on every time, is getting the matter of your salvation settled. To know for sure that Christ is my Savior. My sins are forgiven. I have eternal life to be with the Lord. If you're here and you're unsaved, I urge you settle that. If there's a doubt, a question, anything at all, there is a long home coming that quick I need to know for sure I've been saved. I'm on my way to heaven. Let me say a word quickly to the saved. You say, well, preacher, I'm okay. I got saved. I've trust in Christ as Savior. I have a home in heaven. I've got God's promises. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I've called on the Lord. Praise the Lord for that, but we still have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to try and get as many others to Christ as we possibly can. Jesus said that we should lay up treasures in heaven. You ever wonder what he meant by that? Wait, wait, send money up ahead? You've heard the saying, nope you never see a U-Haul attached to a hearse, right? I saw a picture, it was a grave, an empty grave, and it had the rich it had the poor man's grave, it was an empty hole in the ground. And then there was another empty hole in the ground, and above that it said the rich man's grave, both identical A hole in the ground. So what does it mean to lay up treasure in heaven? What is he talking about? You and I think the best way to lay up treasure in heaven is to get as many people as I can on the way to heaven And I think you and I have a responsibility, and God has given us a very clear command to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And as individual believers and as a body of Christ, we are to do all we can to help others prepare for their long home and point them to Christ and give them the gospel. Amen. Now that requires living right. Not going to be much of a witness on living the same way the lost do. God deals with my heart about areas of my life that need to be adjusted. I need to grow in my faith to be stronger in my witness. We do what we need to do, but that's the bottom line, I believe. Father in heaven, I ask you bless now, or invitation Lord, I ask you to help all that are under the sound of my voice that do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, have a home in heaven. If there's any doubt I pray that today would be the day they settle that. No more risk, no more Russian roulette with their soul, but an assurance settled. And I pray for those that know Christ as Savior, that we take this matter of getting others saved seriously and apply ourselves to that and living right and being a witness, not just in our lips, but in our lives. And we need your Holy Spirit to help us, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ. I have a biblical basis for that. You say, but I need to play I need to apply myself more to be in that witness I ought to be in. I want to try and get other people saved on their way to heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. Every Christian would feel that way, I'm sure. I wonder if some would say, preacher, my life here is brief. I need to work harder at my relationships, in my home, with my spouse and my parents and my children. Before I know it, they're going to be gone. You'd say, preacher, help me be a better husband. Preacher, pray for me. God will help me be a better wife, better parent, better child. Any like that? I'm telling you, it's going to be gone. My daddy, you many of you know what I'm talking about We better work on that. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm not sure about my long home I hope I'd go to heaven, but I can't say I'm sure. We asked the question at the fair, are you 50, 75, or 100% sure you're going to heaven? You've got questions or doubt, I plead with you. Get that settled. We can help you from the Bible. How to get that settled. Is there any like that? Preach or pray for me. I I need to know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preach or pray for me. God will help me get that settled settled. How about it? Any at all? Any watching online, if that's an issue, you contact us. We can help you and show you. Any in the auditorium here, please. Don't put it off. Don't push it off. Settle it today, settle it today. Father, ask you bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.