23. I'd like for us to read this passage together, if you would. Luke 14, verse 23. If you have it there, read along with me. Here we go. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. Talk about the uh bus our bus ministry is important to us as a church. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now this special morning as we focus in on this one ministry of our church. I pray you'd stir our hearts and help us to see people the way you see people. God help us to see what role we play So God, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray and ask, Lord That you'd fill my fill me with your Spirit. Lord, speak through me and help us and challenge us in the few minutes we have. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We have a lot of ministries here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm grateful for that Um uh I mean just scores of them uh going on, something going on all the time, and that's by design, and I believe I believe the Lord's coming back I'm I mean I we don't no idea when he's coming. It might be hundreds of years till the Lord comes back, but in my mind I can't help but think his coming must be pretty soon. Now we don't know, but if that's the case, and it very could could very well be, we ought to be busy about our Lord's business. So what what I'm trying to say is we a lot of ministries here at our church But I think we don't have any ministry here at a church that's more biblically based than our bus ministry. Now, all our ministries are biblically based. If they weren't biblically based, we wouldn't do them. We don't have a Bible basis for everything we do. I think our missions program is very near to the heart of God. Getting the gospel all around the world. We know that is God's heart. I believe the bus ministry is very near to God's heart. I don't think we have a ministry here that is any more in line with the purpose that a church exists than our bus ministry. Of course our missions, I keep emphasizing that, our fingerprints, the blankets for babies, all of these various ministries, the radio station. Our Thursday visitation, I mean you name it, our children's, all those uh are vital, are dear to the Lord, but I think there's just something about the bus ministry that is especially dear to our God and uh especially lines up with the word of God. I was introduced to the bus ministry I hope you'll bear with me a little bit this morning. I was introduced to the bus ministry as a as a child, probably about eleven years old, ten or eleven years old. My daddy got saved. You've heard me tell his story And uh in a denominational church, very religious, but he was lost. He sought the Lord, he got saved. Fell he worked with was witnessing to him. Daddy started attending shortly after his salvation, he started attending an independent Baptist church Faith Baptist Church in Perkesy, Pennsylvania, was Pastor David Auckland there. Dr. Auckland was a great pastor, a great man of God. Daddy got there and got involved. One of the first ministries he got involved in was the bus ministry. They ran six or seven. They ran a slew of buses And Daddy had his, was a truck driver. They didn't have CDLs back then. He was a truck driver. And they said, would you drive a Sunday school bus? He said, I would love to And so at the time we were living at the house there and uh he'd get up. Well church was a over a half hour drive, 45-minute drive to church. He'd get up early, get uh us myself and my sisters up, we'd go and um uh get there at church early. I mean hours before the church started. The only people there were the bus workers, some of the leadership And he'd drive that Sunday school bus all through Percosine, Quakertown, all that part of the of the state there. He'd drive all around through there, pick up boys and girls. I'd sit in the seat right behind him. He'd be the driver. I'm the little ten, eleven year old boy sitting there behind him. And that was my first introduction to the bus ministry. Of course, I got away from church and things changed in the home. And uh 19 I got saved. A year and a half later went off to Bible college down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Tennessee Temple. And down there at Highland Park Baptist Church. Uh one well I'd just been there probably a week. I didn't know anybody. I had never been that far from home in my life. And um here I was, I didn't know anybody, I I was this was all new to me and I'm in Bible College, Tennessee Temple University. I'm sitting at lunch one day, a fellow across the table from me, we're eating lunch together and introducing ourselves. He said, well what ministry uh he knew I was new, just showed up the week before, I'm a new student. He said, what ministry are you in? I said, well, I don't know. I'm not in anything yet. He goes, how about you come this Saturday morning with me And help me visit my bus route and uh help me in the bus ministry. I didn't I didn't know what the bus ministry was. I said, okay, sure. And uh Randy Miller became a dear, dear friend, still is to this day. He pastors out in Illinois. And um He introduced me to the bus minister. We went out and knocked on doors in the in the ghettos of Chattanooga, Tennessee. I mean inner city We're off. And uh we go and he got me working on the bus. It wasn't long till eventually I had my own bus route. We had an afternoon Sunday school. They'd run the buses in the afternoon. They had 42 buses The church would run. All of them would head out Sunday morning service, bring in kids and riders any age. Then the afternoon the buses come back after dropping them all off. We'd clean them up real quick and send them out again In the afternoon. Pick up kids, bring them in for an afternoon Sunday school. That's what I was worked in. Eventually became a um uh head of one of the assemblies. There was three afternoon bus assemblies. And um So uh uh I learned the bus ministry down there, and from that point on, the bus ministry has been a major part of my life in ministry. It was in the bus ministry that I met Kathy Working together in the bus ministry, and she caught my eye. And uh one long till we fell in love, got engaged, got married at our wedding We had two of our faithful little bus bus kits, inner city kids, and uh we we got them and uh worked with them a little bit and they were our ring bearer and flower girl was two of the little bus kids off our route and um uh and and what I'm trying to say is this it's been dear to Kathy and I's heart this bus ministry going out and getting people and bringing them into church. Went to Indianapolis for four years. I was youth pastor there. Ran the buses. Um I had my own route. I was youth pastor. I'd Uh get up early, run the route there through Indianapolis, we'd bring in 7580. Sometimes we'd break 100 on the bus. I mean kids stacked on top of kids. Don't tell the state police that. But uh we we had kids piled up on that thing, bring them in, drop 'em off, run down, teach the teen class, run up, preach the junior class, run back out, get in that bus, run all those kids home. Went out to Colorado, worked in Neighborhood Bible Time. While we were there, there was a little church we were helping get started. And there was a van. Bible Time had a van. The ministry had a van We said, how about we take that van, go out and see if we can't find some folks we can pick up and bring into church. So we started running that little van out there all through Boulder, Colorado. We'd pick up kids and bring them in And then of course we came here to to uh what church are we in? Uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And uh restarted the ministry. This church had a bus ministry long before I showed up. I don't want to give the wrong impression. We did not introduce the bus ministry in Mountain Lake. They were running buses back in the seventies and And in the eighties, but it had died off. And so we got here and uh first thing I did showed up on a Thursday. We unpacked. Friday I Set up the office, studied Saturday, went out, made a few visits, studied things. Monday, I just went out and started knocking on doors. Every day I just go knock on doors, introduce myself We started seeing some people saved. The interesting was, the thing was, we had some people getting saved that didn't have cars. A couple of them didn't have license. They had made some bad decisions in life and were suffering the consequences. And they came to Christ and got saved. And so I was picking them up. We had a little uh I think it's a Pontiac Sun Dance That little car, a little great day. I'd pack that thing full, drop 'em off, run back out. Get some more people, bring 'em in Run back out, bring them in. So finally I said to a couple of the folks attending, I said, would you be willing to help me bring some of these people in? Would you go pick some of them up? And so we had Marvin, a couple of others, I think Helen got in on it, help pick some of these people up I was wanting a bus, right? From the first day I got here. I wanted to have a bus ministry. But uh I wanted the church to be behind it. I wanted just not be something I just pushed on the church And after a while, we've got three, four people, five cars bringing in people. One of the fellows said to me, said Brother Leather Pastor Leatherman, what if we would get a bus and start bringing them? I said, that's brilliant And so we bought a bus and started running all these years. It's been dear to my heart. It's been an important part of this church. The concept of a bus ministry can be traced all the way back to nineteen eighty si or not nineteen eighty-seven to eighteen eighty-seven D. L. Moody, the great evangelist, was in Chicago, and he had a great church there. He started the Moody Bible Institute. And he had it set up where he had, he would have wagons, old horse-drawn wagons, all around that city. They'd set there all week long. Then on Sunday mornings, farmers would come in from out of the city, they'd hitch their horses up to those wagons, and they'd work their way through the city. coming into the great moody tabernacle as it's called now, uh they'd come into that church and they'd fill those wagons up with people, other farmers sometimes, people that couldn't get themselves there They would fill those wagons up and bring them into the church for that service that morning. Then afterwards they'd take the wagons and go back and drop all the people off that couldn't get there. Then they'd park those wagons and all week they'd sit out there. Then the next weekend they come in and pick up people and bring them in. And um somebody uh I heard a preacher say one time, one of the men in his church was complaining about the buses. He said they were dry it was dripping oil all over the parking lot. He said, We've got oil. All over this parking lot, those buses. DL Moody didn't have oil buses. He goes, No, he ran horses. What do you think they dropped all over the parking lot Because all the way back, D. L. Moody used to give, he taught uh I've heard one read one account uh where he uh Had a boys' Sunday school class and he'd try and get boys to come in there. He'd do anything he can. And he told him he would give them a suit. If they would come five weeks in a row, he'd buy them a brand new suit. Then something else he would do. Something else he would do. So what I'm trying to say is this the bus ministry has a great heritage going way back many years, using whatever means possible to bring people to church that would not or could not get themselves there. And that's a tremendous thing. The bus ministry has not been without critics. People who criticize the bus ministry. When we came here and uh we first got the bus, I would there was a preacher's fellowship I would go to. And um Just get together with some other preachers once a month and we'd have a meal pray, share some things. And in that meeting, we talked a little bit, and I said, well, we bought a bus, a Sunday school bus. I was all excited. I thought they'd be excited. Man, we bought a Sunday school bus. I found out some of those guys weren't as excited as I was And one of the fellows pulled me aside afterward. I'm young, you know, I'm just starting out. He'd been in the ministry longer than I was. He pulled me aside and he said, Brother Leatherman, I'll tell you right now, you're not going to build no church on a bus ministry He said, you've got to go after the wealthy people. You've got to go after the business owners and the and the the upper level people if you're going to build a church He says, you can't just go after poor folk. I told him, I said, we're not going after poor folk. We're not going after rich folk. We're going after folk. Whatever however you want to describe them doesn't matter. We're going after people, rich, poor, and every point in between. Young and old, red and yellow, black and white, smart and dumb. Good looking and not so good looking, we're going after them all. And so the bus ministry had its critics uh over years. I ignored his advice. We just kept right on going after people and God's blessing. Here's why bus ministry is important to us. I only have a few minutes. Let me give you my three thoughts here real quick. Number one, bus ministry is biblical The bus ministry, I believe, is biblical. As Baptists, our sole authority is the Word of God. This book right here is our authority, and if something doesn't line up with this book, we ought to have nothing to do with it. I don't want any ministry that can't be supported by the Bible. We don't want anything that doesn't have a biblical basis to it, everything we believe. Must have a biblical basis. Every doctrine we preach must be biblically based doctrine. There ought never be anything preached from this pulpit that does not have biblical support. There ought to be nothing taught in our Sunday school classes that does not have biblical support. Nothing in our master clubs or teens alive. Nothing sung from the choir that does not have biblical support. The Bible is our sole authority. And everything we do needs to be based on this book and needs to come from the Word of God. And I believe the bus ministry does I think our our uh every ministry we operate ought to have biblical support, and I believe they do, or we wouldn't be doing them. Notice in our text, if you would, if you still have your Bibles open there, I want you to notice real quickly, verse number 16, Jesus is telling this, he's illustrating a truth And he tells about this certain man, he mentions in verse 16. He said unto him, a certain man made a great supper and bade many. Now again, he's illustrating the importance of bringing others to the Lord Jesus Christ, bringing others to the gospel. And in his illustration, he references this certain man Now if you look at this carefully, it doesn't take a lot of effort to see that that certain man would refer to God Almighty. This is God that he's illustrating And this certain man made a great supper. Now, what would that great supper be illustrating? I believe it's pretty clear to me, it's illustrating the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you the gospel is God's idea. God is the one that makes salvation possible. A certain man, God, made a great supper, salvation. And by the way, notice it says, a certain man. God himself is the Savior. He doesn't need you or me to help him provide salvation. Jesus is the Savior. It's not Jesus and the Pope. Come on now, help me out. It's not Jesus and the preacher, it's not Jesus and anybody else. It's not Jesus and the baptism. It's not Jesus and the Lord's Supper. It's Jesus and the last right It's not Jesus in alms giving. It's Jesus is the Savior. And so A, certain man, God in and of Himself, salvation is God's idea, salvation is God's work, salvation is God. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son. So this certain man is God. The supper, I believe, is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he goes on, and it says, look at the last part of verse 16. And he bade many. Made this supper and bade many. That word bade uh there is kind of an old English word, but it has this idea. It means to call or invite loudly It says, hey y'all, come on, supper's ready. Hey everybody, come on down, supper's ready. That's what it means I was going to have us all do that, but the neighbors might complain. He says, bad many get out there and call folks in. It literally means to call aloud. He said, made many. And then notice verse number 17, and he sent his servant at supper time. The servant, and uh, that'd be you and I The Lord made salvation possible. He died on the cross, buried, rose again, the gospel. He wants everybody to know about it. He wants everybody invited to come on out. And you and I that know the Lord, he sends us out. to invite the people. Are you with me? Everybody's still with me so far? Now look what happens. He has two groups of people here that are invited. Two groups of people. The first group there, notice it says, verse 17, he sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, that are called, invited, come For all things are now ready. Salvation's paid for. It's all done. All you need to do is come and receive it. And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse. And he goes down through here, and there's a number of people that are invited to come. They're bidden to come. Notice he uses that word and all consent. And they're bidden. And they're invited to come, but they make excuses. The one fella says, I have some property. Bought some land. So this fella is a property owner. This fella owns land. No doubt he has a house. He has uh buildings, perhaps, but he owns land. The other fellow says, Oh, I got some oxen. I bought five oxen. Am I in the right order? Then the next guy buys, he says, I've got five oxen. I've got to go prove them The first fella is a landowner. He has a house and home. He's got land. Oh, I gotta I bought this land. I gotta go look at it. He's a property owner, he's a landowner The second fellow buys five yoke of oxen. No doubt he didn't get five yolks of oxen to go out for a Sunday ride in the carriage. What's he use a five-yoke of oxen for? Farming. That's his business. He's made a business investment. He owns a business, a farming business. He's a farmer, no doubt. He is an agricultural businessman. He says, I can't come. I got to go prove these oxen. Uh and then uh the other fellow says, uh, oh I can't come. I got married. I can't do nothing now. Uh Because I I can't go nowhere. And uh I got married and I got uh please. So this guy has a family So think about this clientele. I got to look at this, I got to think about this. These are not poor people. These are people that have means. In other words, these are people who could get themselves to the sufferer if they so desired They were capable of bringing themselves there. If you can afford land, you can get yourself to the cup uh dinner. If you can afford uh five yoga box and you've got a business going on, no doubt you can get yourself to the supper. You got a wife, you can do whatever she tells you to do. So this first category of people are people who could get themselves to the supper if they so desired. Now, in this case, in this illustration of the Lord's giving, every one of them makes an excuse. We say this every time we look at this, but who in the world buys land without first looking at it? Who in the world buys invests in a five-yoke? That's like buying a brand new John Deere tractor for hundreds of thousands of dollars without checking it out first. He gets married. Well, that case you can understand. But um well what I'm saying is their excuses are flimsy. At best. They just don't want to. They could, but they don't want to. Then we have a second category of people here First category, they're fairly wealthy, they could bring themselves. But then notice the second category. Look there, uh verse 21. So the servant came and showed his Lord these things What these people said, who he went to and what they said. Then the master house, look at this, he got angry. Boy, that upset him. I invite these people, I make them, I make this great supper And all they can see is their material things, the temporal things they don't want to come. I tell you, I tell you, God wants people to be saved. And people make excuses for not getting saved. People make excuses for not coming and trust Christ. I tell you, you're not impressing God with your excuses for rejecting Jesus Christ as your Savior. That certain man says, man, I paid all this price for them to be a blessing to them, to benefit them. And they w they walk away from it. So notice what he says. Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly, into the streets and lanes of the city. Now look at that next phrase. What's that say? Are you with me? And bring in the first ones he said bid them. Hey, y'all come on, come on. Shh! Shh. I can't whistle. Can somebody whistle? There you go. Hey, come on in, hey off, sh and um none of them do. He goes, All right He says, you go out, if they don't come, those people that can get themselves here, if they don't come, you go out and find people who can't get themselves here, and you bring them in. There's a change. First one is bid them. The second one is bring them. Notice what he says. He says, go out and bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. Go out to where they are, then get them and bring them in. I looked up the word bring. I thought this was interesting The word bring means to take something that is in one place, all right, it's over here, go out, and bring that, pick it up, this is the meaning of the word bring, pick it up, and bring it over here. to the other place. Go out to where they are. Go out the highways and hedges where they are. and then get them and bring them, carry them, bring them to where the Great Supper is. It's different than the first crowd. First crowd was, hey, y'all come, come on. Hey, supper's ready, come on. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, supper Oh we care uh he says all right if they're not coming and you go out find those people and you bring them in you transport them in you take them from where they are And you bring them to this great supper. You see the difference? He goes beyond that. Look at verse 23. He says, And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out, okay, in the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in. Compel them. That word compel means to constrain. In other words, if they say, oh, I'm blind. I how I can't. How in the world? Oh, no, no, no. Listen, we'll take care of you. I'm hauled. I can't even walk. How can I? No, no, no, that's not a problem. We'll pick you up and carry you. Come on. We want you to come. It means to constrain them, put some pressure on them, twist their arm a little bit, get them here. I think, as me, this is Leatherman thinking, I think that would certainly include, hey, y'all come on, ride the bus, we'll give you some bubblegum. Come on, ride the bus. We got some special contests. We got a uh what's that thing we put up? Um bounce house. We got a bounce house. Come and bounce and break your neck. Come on, it'll be great By the way, we haven't signed a release form. You have to do that now. We're compelling us. Get them in here. The first group could have come themselves and they didn't. They were well off. They had means to transport themselves there. They did. The second group could not get themselves. They're poor, they're maimed, they're halt, they're blind. They can't get themselves there. Now, I think the Lord is illustrating for you and I as a New Testament church. He's illustrating that God wants people to come to Christ. God wants people to come to this great supper. And everybody is invited And some people who could get themselves there are not going to. But there's a whole heap of people that if somebody goes gets them and brings them in, they would be glad to come. Do you think the poor would be glad to enjoy a great supper? Yeah. You think the blind would like to have somebody lead them out of their home, their little world, and take them to a nice place, enjoy a great meal? Sure. You think the halt, the people that can't walk, they're uh uh crippled and they can't and somebody comes say, hey, we'll get you and bring you in. You think they wouldn't like to get in a nice place? Sure I tell you, there's people in our community, if we just get them and bring them to Jesus, they'd be glad to get saved. They'd be glad to come be a part of our church. Do you see this whole platform filled with people up here? Man, a little Chloe gate testimony. I love the bus ministry. Go and get them. Pat, you drove the bus when you were little, didn't you? Yeah, I thought so. It's a biblical ministry. All were invited to the supper, but a certain element of society was unable to bring themselves there, so he says, go and get them. If you're with me still, come back to Luke chapter 5, just real quick, a few pages back in chapter 5. We have another another, we have an example of what the Lord's talking about, I believe. Luke 5 and verse 18. The Bible says, and behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with palsy. And they sought means to bring him in and lay him before him. Here's a man that's halt, we could say. He is palsy, he can't walk. He can't maneuver. He can't transport himself. So four guys get a burden for this fellow and they say, we need to get him to Jesus. People Jesus meeting in the house. There's a great crowd there. It's not a church in the biblical sense, technical sense, but it's a body of people that have gotten together to hear of Jesus, hear Jesus. And they say, we want to get them there. And so they went and one of them found a bed. So how are we going to get him there? He has palsy. He can't walk. He can't even stand up. Uh let's see. I got a bed. Okay, let's get it. And they went out there, got that bed, put that boy on that bed, and the four of them took him from point A to point B. They kept transport him. They brought him. In uh uh we won't turn there. Luke chapter 10, you have the Good Samaritan. Remember this, how many people remember Good Samaritan? And he finds this guy, he's left for dead, he's been beat up, and uh others, nobody else cared about him. I gotta be careful. All the other churches went by, never did a thing for him. This guy comes along, just a kind of an outcast, Samaritan. His heart gets stirred. He said, this guy needs help. This guy needs help and he can't get himself to where the help is. So the Bible says he took his donkey. He put that poor beat up half nearly dead guy, put him up on that donkey, and he hauled him down to the end where he could get some care. And it says here I'll pay for any of the bills. You know what he was saying? He was saying, here, let me get on my bus. Get in my car. And here, uh I'll pay for the gas. I'll I'll pay whatever it costs to get him here where he needs the help. I'll pay for that and get him there. I think that's an example of what the Lord's talking about. Bring them in. Bring them in. Anybody here recognize the name Mephibosheth? Mephibosheth, grandson of King Saul? And David said to his servants, is there any left of the family of Saul that I could show kindness to? And they said, oh yeah, there's Mephibosheth, Jonathan's son. But he's lame, he can't walk, he can't get himself, he can't go down the sheets, he can't do nothing. David says, Well listen, I'll send a bunch of servants down there, they'll take a wagon and some uh c um uh uh bus and uh we'll load him up. You bring him on up here and we'll take care of them I'm convinced the bus ministry is biblical. Hey, listen, if you can get yourself to church, you ought to get yourself to church. Don't make excuses. But if somebody can't get themselves to church, the church ought to go out and get them and bring them in. Amen or not? We can't make them But we can compel them. We can invite them. We can urge them. We can can I use this term? Entice them. Come on out. You'll love it. It's biblical, it's biblical. It's effective. We saw that on the platform this morning. Makes it possible for young people and adults to come to church, be taught the Word of God. I'm telling you, vast majority of these folks standing on this platform here 20 minutes ago, vast majority of them Would not be in church today if somebody from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church didn't go get them and bring them in. I was sitting there, I was thinking, I wonder what they would be doing right now If we buses think go get them, our workers think go get them and bring them in. Laying in bed, watching TV, and here they are, learning of the Lord Jesus Christ, seeing the love of God. Are you with me? It's effective. It's biblical. It's effective. Many of the people who trust the Lord as personal savior are bus workers, or bus riders, I should say. We had a boy in Chattanooga, I guess, quickly. Michael Suggs, Zing Gangs, he was about 16 years old, 15, 16 years old. Gangs, drugs, drinking. I mean he pr probably didn't know who his parents were. Rough. He rode my Sunday school bus He came and heard the gospel. Michael got saved. And I mean God changed his life. He came out of those gangs. He came out of drugs. He showed up a week or two later, he comes to church. Now you've got to understand this is inner city ghetto. He has a suit on. He has a Bible. He gets on the bus. I am I'm tell I'm telling you the truth. I'm not exact if I tell if I ever happen to tell the truth, I'll point it out I'm telling you the truth. We're driving the bus. There is kids on the streets yelling at him, calling him names That were gang members because he's not in the gang anymore and he's coming to church and he just sits there head up, shoulders back. Till we got married, I moved off to Indianapolis. I don't know whatever happened to Michael Suggs, but he rode that bus faithfully. I'm telling you, the bus ministry works. I could give you score name after name after name. Chattanooga or in Indianapolis, little Chad ride the bus. One day we're riding along. And um He's there back there and I thought he was getting sick. I said, Chad, are you okay? He goes, no. I said, what's going on? He goes, oh, just chili coming out my nose. I said, what? He said, I eat chili for breakfast and I sneezed and it came out my nose I just thought that was funny. But old Chad got saved. Chad, I was just preparing you for lunch Old Chad got saved. About 14 years old. He rode that bus Sunday morning. We pick them up Sunday nights in my car. Pick them up Wednesday night, bring them back. Last I heard, I got a, he's on uh social media, I got a little message from several years ago. He's at a good church singing in the choir. Broken home, inner city, Indianapolis rough. Charles Sandnifer. Uh his mama's dead, his daddy was a drunk. Drove taxi, was a drunk, he missed, you know, required 180 days in school. Charles Sandifer went to school two days out of the whole school year and they passed him. We we took him in. We said, Charles, why don't you move in with us? He moved into our house. He had so many problems. We prayed, we taught him old Charles got saved, got baptized. He passed away here a few years ago. He had sugar real bad. He died. And Charles was faithful to the Lord. And I'd get messages on Father's Day. He'd write, he'd send me an email or he'd call me and say, Pastor Leatherman. He says, you were a daddy to me when I had no one. You know what that is? That's bus ministry. It's effective. Charles got married, led his wife and kids to the Lord here at Mountain Lake. His two girls baptized the last two weeks? Buses. You ride the buses. Praise the Lord. Amen. James Kent, assistant pastor, Calvary Baptist Church, Mannington. Carol, remember how many of you remember Jim passed away? You know what that was? Off of Jerry Gogol's bus rail. I'm telling you it's effective. And the third reason, bus ministry is important to us, it's good for our church. It's good for our church. There are little or no material returns in the bus ministry. It is an expensive ministry. We know that, we knew that going into it. But I'm telling you, the spiritual rewards are out of this world. Thus ministry is an investment in the well-being of our church. It is an investment in eternal rewards. It is an investment in the destiny of people in our community. It's good for our church. It's beneficial for our church. The bus ministry is a practical training ground for those who want to learn to serve the Lord. I cut my teeth preaching on the bus ministry. I learned ministry on the bus ministry, how to visit, how to deal with problems, how to love people that are not very lovely. I learned all that in the bus ministry. It's good for me. And I say it's good for our church. We start running that bus, start bringing kids in. And one day one Sunday somebody, I guess one of the bus kids might have been one of the senior citizens, I don't know, left a big bubblegum, got in the carpet Now you remember when it first came, we had that shag carpet. How many people remember that? About an inch deep, orange. It's terrible. And somebody got some bubblegum in that carpet. I think it was over here somewhere And one of the one of the fo one of the people came to me and they said, Pastor, we're bringing these kids in. And look at this, bubble gum in the carpet. That's these kids we're bringing in I tell you, I'll take bubblegum in the carpet with kids coming to Jesus, over million-dollar carpet, and no kids coming to Jesus. It's good for our church. Teaches us to be humble. Teaches us to be patient. Men's Sunday school teachers, we could use that. It's good for our church. Keep our priorities right. I thank God for the facilities God has given us. But these facilities are given to us by God to be used to reach people with the gospel. We're not a showcase. We're not a museum. We're not a home and garden display tour. Come by and see what a beautiful facilities we have. We're not worried about that We want God to use what we have to bring people to Christ. We'll keep it as nice as we can, but brother, our priorities are not in fancy buildings. I thank God for the new facility. And I thank God people are getting saved in that new facility. See what God can do through us. Bus ministry is good for our church I went longer than I wanted to. I always do. D. L. Moody preached his last sermon. D. L. Moody went a greatest evangelist. You ought to study his life. His very last sermon he preached from Luke chapter 14. He said, Go out and compel him to come in. Go out and compel him. While he was preaching, he was having chest pains. And he leaned on the pulpit and he said, bring them in. Bring people to Christ. Bring people to Christ. Gave the invitation, 40 people came and trusted Christ as Savior. He went back to his house, lay down, died, went out into eternity. Bus ministry is important to our church. And I pray that every one of us reaching others for Christ is important to you. Because that's what we're all about. Thank you for indulging me. I'll share my heart this morning. Songs dear to me and dear to our church. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. I pray you'd stir us. And God, we just want you to use us to help others find Jesus. Just use us to help others find a new life in Christ, a better life. Forgiveness of sins and home in heaven. And from the youngest to the oldest, I pray you'd use us as individuals. To be a good testimony and bring others to Christ. Father, I ask now you'd have your way. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I just want God to use me? Any like that? I just want God to use me, bring others to the Lord. I do. Now we've got to be available. We've got to be willing. We've got to trust Him. And follow his leadership and do what he says. And if we do, God will use us. I know that. You're here this morning, you're not saved. I plead with you, you come to this great supper that's called salvation. God will shave you, He'll change your life, He'll meet your needs. I guarantee it, I guarantee it. Father, bless our invitation. I ask now in Jesus' name.