This number chapter 37, and I want to read to get us started here, I want to read the first four verses. Of Genesis chapter 37. Keep your Bibles handy. We're going to go around a few passages of Scripture. Not a whole lot, but keep your Bibles handy there. We're studying the life, we're beginning our study in the life of Joseph. Last week, if you remember, we uh discussed why we ought to study the life of Joseph. And one we said is because uh uh were instructed by God to study old scripture and he's in scripture and uh another reason was is he can he uh his uh story, his account makes up a huge portion of scripture. 25% of the book of Genesis is devoted to Joseph And uh his account of uh uh from 17 years old on to the end of his life. And so that's uh he's mentioned more in Genesis than any other individual. And these great people mention Noah and Abraham and And uh these folks. So we ought to study it for that. And three is there's a tremendous lessons to learn from his life. So that's what we're getting after here. Now notice verse number one of Genesis 37 The Bible says, and Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Dilha and with the sons of Zilpah. his father's wives. And Joseph brought in unto his father their evil report. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colours. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. So tonight we're going to have our introduction to Joseph. Let's pray together and we'll get started. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for those people that in your wisdom you recorded their experiences in your word for us to learn from. And as we uh embark on this uh journey of studying Joseph, I pray you'd prepare our hearts. I pray we would learn from him. I pray that our faith would grow stronger, our understanding of your power and your will for our lives would be clearer. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and that you would speak through me and challenge and help us tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe, and I think a lot of people, the response I've been getting to our starting the study of Joseph's life, I think for a lot of people understand Joseph is quite a remarkable figure in Scripture. And uh it's almost like as we study his life and just getting started here and reading over it, um, it's almost like we can sort of relate to him in a lot of ways. He connects with us is what I'm trying to say maybe. And uh the remarkable thing about him, I think there's two features that stand out in his life that we're going to pick up as we go through. One are the trials of his faith. Joseph's faith was tried severely. Would you agree with me? God tried his faith. He went through some dark valleys. He went through some heartaches and disappointments and fearful things. And God tried his faith. I think there's only a handful of people in Scripture referenced in Scripture whose faith was tried to the degree that Joseph's was. Can you think of anybody in Scripture whose faith was sorely tried? Anyone stand out in your mind? Job is the one comes to mind. Job's faith was tried. Would you agree with me? Probably more than anybody else. He probably is at the top of the list. And who else? Somebody else said others David's faith was tried. Abraham, I'm thinking of one in particular. Daniel's faith was tried. Uh I mean he purposed in his heart and uh the Babylon when he purposed in his heart he wasn't going to defile himself. The Babylonians didn't throw him on their shoulders and and uh have a parade for him saying, Oh yeah, we're gonna support you, Daniel, and you're par No no no. Uh his faith was tried. Joseph uh is in an elite group of people, I think, in the Bible whose faith was sorely tried. So the one thing that stands out as we look at the life of Joseph The one feature is the trials of his faith. And the second thing that stands out along with that is the triumph of his faith. He didn't fold when his faith was tried. He did not fold. He stayed true to God. He stayed true in his commitment to that which was right. He stayed true in his commitment. To God's will and God's plan for his life. And so the fact that he was tried, perhaps as much, if not more, than most others in Scripture is outstanding But we study him and we find, and I want to be careful how I say this, but we study the life of Joseph, we see an almost flawless life of faith There's too many in Scripture that there is nothing overtly negative said about them in Scripture One of them is Daniel. You'll be hard-pressed to find anything said negatively or critical on God's part of Daniel's faith. Now, that does not mean he was sinless. Nobody's sinless. But Daniel had a phenomenal testimony, almost a flawless testimony, as far as the record and scripture is concerned. And Joseph is right there along with them. Now, as we go through, there's a couple areas there where I think Joseph had some struggles. And uh we'll we'll see there as we go through the life of Joseph. But we have nothing overtly negative said about him. Nothing critical on the part of God said about uh Joseph. I can't find anywhere where anybody had to come and rebuke Joseph because of his behavior. I can't find anywhere where God had to send somebody by to confront Joseph because of his lack of faith or his selfish behavior. And so he's remarkable in the triumph of his faith, even when tested sorely. And as I said, we understand he was not sinless. We're we're not even remotely trying to suggest that. He was a man just like uh uh looks like others and he was a human just like all of us. Now we're told very little about the early years of Joseph's life. And so I want to zero in on our introduction to Joseph on particularly two areas. Number one, I want us to consider his homeland. Where did he grow up? He died in Egypt, but he was born in Canaan. Look with me if you would, verse number one. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, the land of Canaan. What do we know the land of Canaan as? What do we call it? The what? The land of milk and honey, what's the term we like to use? The promised land. God had promised to Abraham that He was going to lead him to a place and He would give him that whole area Israel, much later on, after Joseph, they come out of Egypt and they're heading to the what? Promised land. That's where Joseph is born, in this land of Canaan. At this point in time, where we read here, we're picking up in his life, at this point in time, his family only possessed a small portion. of Canaan. They didn't have all the land that God had promised Abraham, all in the Abrahamic covenant. They didn't possess even a minuscule piece of that. They had little parcels of land where Sarah was buried. And um and uh Rachel would be buried. And so they had a little bit of lamb, but not all that God had promised uh Abraham. Abraham was Joseph's great-grandfather And so Abraham had showed up, he had his struggles, settles down, and then Isaac, and then Jacob, and now Joseph shows up on the scenes. Like Abraham and Isaac, Jacob and his family were strangers in this land of Canaan. And so foreigners. And they didn't possess much land, but I'll tell you what, God blessed them tremendously with cattle and with possessions. Joseph did not grow up as a poor boy. They were tremendously wealthy. They uh they no doubt they lived in the nicest tents that were available uh from uh Tabela's Or wherever they got their tents from. I mean they drove they had the nicest camels. They had the they had the Cadillac of the Camels. Um and they didn't have to plug them in and recharge them. They just had to give them water. But uh I mean uh uh at this point in time his homeland where he grew up was the land of Canaan, all this tremendous stretch of land that God had promised to his great grandfather that his family and offspring would eventually possess Now they only owned a little bit of it. That's Joseph lived there on just a small portion of it was theirs. But brother, God had blessed them tremendously. They had finances, they had resources. He grew up in a very well-to-do home. So that's his homeland. Now, what I want to really zero in on is to get us started, is I want us to consider his household. What was the home like that Joseph grew up in? What was the atmosphere of that home? What was it like? If you would come to Genesis chapter number 30, just a few pages, just a few chapters back here. And uh we're introduced to Joseph, Genesis chapter 30, and notice with me if you would, verse number 22. It says, and God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her and opened her womb. And she conceived and bare a son, and said, This is Rachel saying this when she gave birth to this son, God hath taken away my reproach. And she called his name what? Joseph, here's Joseph is born to Rachel. And uh and said, the Lord shall add to me another son. So Joseph comes into the world. He is Rachel's first son. He is her firstborn son. However, he is not Jacob's firstborn son. He is Jacob's 11th son. And so we notice right off the bat, he's 11th out of 12, we notice right off the bat, there's some flaws in this The makeup of this home and this family and this marriage, right? You follow what I'm trying to say? If it's Rachel's first son, but it's not Jacob's first son, there's something here. And it's an early indication. I put a few things down about the home that Joseph grew up in. Number one, it was an unsettled home. It was an unsettled home. Look with me if you would at verse 25 of chapter 30. And it came to pass when Rachel had borne Joseph that Jacob said unto Laman, Send me away that I may go to mine own place and to my country. So Joseph is just born, and right away Jacob says, all right, we're packing up bags and we're pulling out. We're leaving. He didn't even hardly have a chance to learn to walk. And they're already moving on the road. Here's the thing about Jacob's or Joseph's daddy. Here's the thing about Joseph's daddy. Joseph had a very dishonest daddy. Jacob was a conniver. Jacob was a schemer. Let me put it bluntly. Jacob was a liar. And I found something. When a person is a liar, when a person is dishonest, they're on the run a lot. Anybody notice that? There's always somebody mad at them. There's uh you know when you're ripping people off, when you're lying to people, and you're scheming and conniving You tend to not stay in the same place very long, and that was true with Jacob. In fact, right from the get-go, when he stole his brother's blessings, he had to flee to get away from Esau, because Esau was out to kill him. He said, I'm going to kill him. And so then he goes to Laban, his uncle, and uh he's working for him, and he gets conniving. And by the way, Laban was a conniver himself. And he and he works things out and suddenly that whole relationship has fallen apart and now Jacob's on the run again And so Joseph grew up in a very unstable home. He didn't stay anywhere very long. If they would have had schools back then, Joseph would have been in a different school every other year. He had no time to make friends. They didn't stay anywhere long enough, hardly, to develop anything. So it was an unsettled home. Look at chapter 33 with me, if you would. And notice verse 2. They're on their way back. Joseph, Jacob is on his way back. God's trying to get him back to Bethel, back to where he's supposed to be, get him settled down. And on their way back, Esau comes out to them. Look at verse 1. And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau came with him with 400 men. Now I don't know about you, but that doesn't sound like a welcoming committee to me. Esau's coming out with 400 men. What do you think those 400 men. We're coming along with Esau for. What was their intention? They're taking Jacob out. Or Jose uh Jacob out. They're done they Eli I think I think Esau is still mad. At Jacob. He's still intending to take him out. And so they're heading back, and here comes Esau, four hundred men. And he divided. Now look how Jacob responds to this. Now Joseph is a boy here. This is a home he's growing up in. And with him for him and he divided the children unto Leah and unto Rachel. Those are his two wives. We'll address them here in a little bit. Then he's got two handmaids. We'll address them here in a little bit. So he divides his family up. And he put the handmaids and their children foremost. That's um uh Zilpah and Bilhah, I think. Uh those two. He puts them up front. So here he's traveling with his household and all their possessions. He's got a ton of cattle. They're traveling through the desert, heading back to Bethel where he really needs to be And Esau comes out. He's got 400 men. And Jacob says, this is in the Hebrew, yikes. This isn't good. And so he schemes once again. And if you never know, if you ever notice schemers always use other people. And so he gets these two handmaids of his wives, Leah and Rachel, their handmaids, and he has kids by them. Like I said, we'll talk about that here in a minute. And he puts them out first between Esau and four hundred armed men. Coming to kill him probably. So he puts them first and they got a bunch of gifts. Then notice who do you who does he put next? Puts a Leah His his least favorite wife. And he puts her next and her kids. So if if uh if Esau comes before him and if he kills Zilpah and Bilah and their kids then Leah and uh her kids are next in line. And then he puts Rachel and Jacob and he's back last. So what are all these all these his his wives and his kids? They're all out there. What are they? They're cannon fodder. They're going to get killed before they ever get to uh Jacob. How many people agree with me? Great home to grow up in, huh? Boy, what a blessing. And so this is the home that Joseph is growing up in. This is the mentality of his daddy. This is the atmosphere. Verse 2, it says, uh, uh, and he put the handmaids of their children foremost, Lee, and her children. And uh would you agree with me? Joseph, a young boy here, scared to death, right or wrong. He has to be. He's terrified. This is the home that Joseph is growing up in, an unsettled home. Look with me if you will and come to chapter 35. And uh verse number 16. So he they don't stay anywhere long. Um his father he sees firsthand that his father's using him for cannon fodder. You know, there's expendable. And then look at verse uh chapter 35, verse 16. It says, and they and they journeyed from Bethel, and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath. And Rachel travailed, she's with child, she travailed, and she had hard labor, and it came to pass when she was in hard labor. That the midwife said unto her, Fear not, thou shalt have this son also. This is her second son. This would be Jacob's little brothers being born. And it came to pass as her soul was in departing, for she died, and she called his name Ben-Oni, but his father called him Benjamin That Benoi means it's the Hebrew means son of my sorrow. Now here's a small boy. He's never known what it's like to live in a stable Place just stayed there always running from somebody. He's seen his family used as an expendable thing to for his daddy's safety. And now he watches his mother die as she gives birth to his little baby brother. Would you agree with me for a young boy under 17 years old? That would be a little unsettling. That would be tough. We would put it this way that would leave some scars, emotional scars, mental scars maybe. So the household that Joseph grows up in is less than ideal. It's unsettled I put it this way, Joseph grew up in an unhealthy home. Now, I don't mean physically, I'm sure they had the best there was. They were very, very wealthy. They had plenty to eat. So as far as when I say unhealthy, I don't mean physically. I mean he grew up in a unhealthy, a home that was unhealthy spiritually Spiritually. Jacob had two wives. And we won't take the time to go and how all that came about. That was a fiasco. Mary, he thought was Rachel, finds out, I don't even know how this happens, he finds out in the morning it's actually Rachel's sister Leah. Then he works another seven years to get Rachel, so he's got these two wives. And then he has go back to chapter 30 with me, if you would. So Rachel is ha uh Leah is having these babies, and Rachel is not. And so uh in verse number four of chapter 30, uh Leah has this uh Rachel's has this great idea. She we'll look at verse 1, but she has this great idea. Hey, I got a great idea. Uh verse 3. She said, Behold my maid Bilha. Go in under her, and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may have children by her. And she gave him Bilha, her handmaid, to wife. And Jacob went in unto her, and Bilha conceived and bare Jacob a son. So he's got these two wives, which was a fiasco. Now Rachel is barren. She's not having children. So she goes, all right, go in to my handmaid. She'll be a wife to you. So now he's got kids by her And then Leah gets in on the act, verse number nine. And when Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah, her maid, and gave her to Jacob to wife. Zopalih's maid bare Jacob a son. Now you got a fourth woman in here. So he's got two women that he's married to. One was Kanaive getting married to, not on his part Now he's got these two other women that are not legitimate wives, but they're functioning as wives to him. Would you agree with me when I use this term to describe this situation? It's a mess. Good night. And this is what Joseph grows up in. God did not design marriage and the home to consist of multiple wives and mothers. If you would, come with me and keep your place here in this general area of Genesis, but come back to chapter 2 of Genesis. And here, as I mentioned last week, Genesis gives us the foundation, or you could say God's blueprint for the home and for marriage. Now we understand that this was in ideal circumstances. Sin was not yet in the world, and we have to deal with sin, and uh sin happens, right? So we gotta deal with that. So don't misunderstand or anything. But this is God's design. Genesis chapter 2. And verse number 3, Adam speaking of his wife Eve, that Job just presented to him, this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Now look at verse 24. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and cleave unto his what Wife. Is that singular or plural? Singular, wife. Doesn't say cleave to his wives. And they shall be one flesh. Come with me if you would to Matthew chapter 19, real quickly, if you would Jesus is confronted by the Pharisees, and they're trying to catch him in his words, and they want to find something he says or does wrong so they can discredit him. And if you would, Matthew chapter 19, look with me if you would at verse 4. Jesus is answering these Pharisees about what constitutes marriage and the marriage And he says, verse 4, he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read he which made them at the beginning, made them male and female? By the way, that is very important to say in this day and age, believe it or not. He's quoting what we just read from Genesis chapter two. Jesus is quoting Genesis chapter two. He's referencing it. And he says, for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his singular or plural. Singular wife. And they too shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together let no man put asunder. So he says, from the beginning That's God's plan. That's God's pattern. That's the blueprint for marriage and the foundation of the home. And Joseph is growing up in a home where there's multiple wives There's mothers, half-brothers and half-brothers. There's all these mothers, four mothers, four wives. Would you agree? That's an unsettled home. That's an unhealthy home for a kid to be growing up in. Any breakdown of God's design for marriage and home is unhealthy. Now please, I know you know we live in a sinful fallen world and and breakdowns happen. We know that, and God gives grace and God helps us. But what I'm saying is this is the pattern, this is the plant the plan, this is God's design. I think you understand what I'm saying So he grows up in a home. They never stay anywhere. They're always running. There's fear. There's families being used. There's dysfunction in the design of marriage. Number three, I put this down, his home. We're talking about his home life. He grew up in an unhappy home. Well that seems like doesn't need to be said. But if you would come back to Genesis and look with me if you would at chapter 29. And um verse number thirty one, Genesis twenty nine, verse thirty one This is Jacob has uh Rachel and Leah, and look at verse 21, 31. And when the Lord saw that Leah was what? Hated. So that tells me in this home that Joseph is growing up there's hatred. There's hatred in the home. Rachel and Leah, they ra Rachel hated Leah. I doubt I don't think Jacob thought very highly of her himself He grows up in a home where there's hatred. Would you agree with me? A home where there's hatred is not a happy home. This is what Joke Joseph is growing up in. This is the atmosphere Come over, if you would, to chapter 30, and notice with me verse 1. And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister. And said uh and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. So there's hatred in the home. Now there's envy in the home. I'm telling you, where there's envy, there's not happiness. He's growing up in a very unhappy home. In fact, look what Rachel says there at the end towards the end of verse 1. She says, Give me Come over to verse 14. Rachel said to Leah, give me. Rachel keeps saying, give me, give me, give me. What is that indicative of? Selfishness. There's hatred, there's envy, there's selfishness. If you would, look at, come over to chapter 37 again. I'm sorry, before you get there, come back to chapter thirty. Oh, we just looked at it. I'm sorry. Yeah, chapter 37. Hmm. And uh look at verse 3. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children. What does that sound like? Favoritism. That's uh oh that's real healthy for the kids. Um we have to be careful that we don't now you know most of us here we've raised our kids, but we have to be careful that we don't show favoritism to our children. We ought to love them all the same. Now we don't I take that back. We ought to need to love them all equally, but we don't necessarily love them all the same. And by that I mean some children are loved one way and other kids are loved a little bit. The expression of that love may be different for each child. You follow what I'm saying? But they're loved equally. And none aren't more valuable or more important to others, the children that God entrusts me with, I need to love them And so Joseph, Jacob is showing favoritism towards Joseph. Anyone want to guess what that produced? Look down at verse 4. When his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they what? They hated him. That didn't make them love him more. They hated him. In fact, look at the next phrase. And could not speak peaceably until they couldn't even talk nice to the guy. This is the home that Joseph grows up in. Look at verse 2 of Genesis 37. Now this is interesting. Look at this clear carefully. These are the generations of Jacob. So he's kind of concluding what he started in the previous chapter. Then he makes this statement. Joseph, being 17 years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren And the lad with was with the sons of Bilhah, that's one of those maidens, that was, I believe, Leah, uh Rachel's maiden, and uh and the sons of Zilpah, that was Leah's maiden that they gave to his daddy to have kids. And Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. Now, what got interesting, I got look in these words up here. And I came across the word lad in the middle of the verse. And the lad was with the sons of Bilha. I thought, why did God use that word lad there? I looked it up And it has this idea, a lad in in that context would have been referred to as a young servant A lot of the Bible scholars and the people I went to to get some insight on that, they suggested pretty strongly that what was taking place here was Joseph was given as an apprentice Under these two half-brothers of his who were much older than him. They were probably at late teens at the or or no, they were probably in their mid-twenties or so. They were significantly older than Joseph. So his father, Jacob, had given Joseph, his favorite son, to work as a servant or an apprentice under these half-brothers So that's a good thing. He's learning to work. Amen. I think I think seventeen year olds ought to work. I think thirteen year olds ought to work. Uh they ought to have responsibility. So to his credit, Joseph isn't just keeping Uh Jacob isn't keeping Joseph back, sitting at home playing video games, drinking iced tea, and eating tomato sandwiches. He's got them out there. He's like, I want you to look you need to learn a trade. And your half-brothers here, they can teach you something. And so the lad here is uh is an apprentice. He's starting out as a servant. I find it kind of interesting when we're first introduced to Joseph, he's a servant. When we last see Joseph, he's a second in command of all of Egypt. That says a little bit how to start out. I was back there sweeping leaves out and uh Ron walked up and said, Yeah, that's how I got started. I was just sweeping the leaves there. I said, that's not bad, but when you end up sweeping leaves, that's not good. It's a good thing to start out as a servant. It's a good thing to start out at the bottom and work your way up. I think the best leaders today were the best servants yesterday. And so he's got some things gone for him here as far as some work ethic is concerned. And then it says the sons of Bilhah with the sons of Zilpah. These were not legitimate wives. And so there was not a total family connection here between these two. Now, this is what really got me. I don't know if you've ever thought of this, but at the end of verse number two it says, So he's out there working under these two half-brothers. They're teaching them, apparently, at least they're supposed to be And it says, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. Now there's a mystery. Because we're not told what the evil report was. And I'll be very honest with you, it's driving me nuts. What did these guys do? Now, I put in my margin of my Bible a long time ago, I mean 20 years ago probably, I put a little statement beside, I put a question mark behind it, I put this: was Joseph a tattletale? That's what it sounds like on the surface, would you agree? He's out there working when he comes back, Daddy, you want to know what so and so did? You you should see what these guys did. Yeah, it was a snitch. Uh however, the more I study this the more I've given it thought, and that may be the case. This may be Uh this may be the humanity of Joseph showing through a little bit. Seventeen-year-old boy is a teenage tattletale But I wonder, these two fellows were not good guys. And I'm wondering if maybe rather than seeing the hu seeing a flaw in Joseph's character Be a little tattletail snitch and maybe we're seeing a little bit of character and integrity on his part. where something is happening that's damaging his daddy and is hurting his daddy and he says, daddy needs to know about this. This isn't right. They may have been stealing from him. They may have been defaming his name. We don't know. That's that's what I'm starting to think. Is that rather than him being a tattletale here, I think maybe There's something about him that says this can't be tolerated. This has to be addressed. And maybe some insight, some maturity on his part that his older brothers did not have. Now we're not told And so we have to speculate a little bit. One thing we know, whether it was a tattletale or this was a legitimate act on his part and it needed to be told, one thing we do know Is that Joseph and his brothers did not share the same values? Whatever they were doing, and it says an evil report, so whatever they were doing, God says is evil And Joseph did not share those values. Whether he was tattletaling or whether it was a legitimate report that he had to give, whatever the case was, we know this. They did not share the same morals. Who knows what they were getting into? Joseph said, I'm not getting involved in that. In fact, Daddy needs to know about this They didn't share the same values. They didn't share the same morals. And apparently, and obviously, they didn't share the same lifestyle. Joseph said, that's not right. We ought not to be living that way. We ought not to be acting that way. We ought not to be behaving that way. Now we're not told whether he confronted the brothers about it or not. I would assume he did, but we're not told. And so he grows up in a home that is uh not a happy home He doesn't share the values with others, the other kids in the home. He doesn't share their morals. He's not living his life the way they're living. I thought about Amos chapter 3 and verse 3. It says, can two walk together except they be agreed? And the answer is what? No. Joseph's saying, I can't walk with this. I can't, uh this isn't right. I can't tolerate this. This needs to be addressed. So it's an unhappy home. It's an unhappy home. Joseph's learning to take a stand, perhaps, which comes in later on. And then last of all, his home. We're talking about his home. We said, first of all, it was unsettled. He was unhealthy spiritually. He was unhappy. But then on verse number uh point number four, I put this down. Joseph turned out to be an unlikely man of God It's tremendously unlikely that somebody growing up in this setting and this type of family would turn out to be somebody of the caliber of Joseph. How in the world did this home and this environment and this atmosphere that he's growing up from a small boy How in the world does that produce a man of God like Joseph? It's an incredible, unlikely event. Bus ministry, yeah. If you study his brothers, and we're not going to because I want to stay focused on Joseph, but if you study his brothers, they all had serious issues. Serious moral issues. You study uh uh his eleven brothers, um not counting Benjamin, well later on his offspring were awful I mean, there was immorality rampant through their lives. Dishonesty, as brothers, were a bunch of liars. They learned well from their daddy. They had lack of discipline. In fact, Jacob on his deathbed, I think it was Reuben, he says, uh, he says, and I'm putting my own words, he says, you're very, very gifted, you're very talented, you're a strong man But you're unstable as water. See, you don't have any discipline. You don't have any temperance in your life. You're wishy-washy. You're the most talented gut kid I have. But you're wishy-washy. You can't hold to anything And that was the brothers he grew up with. Lack of character. And yet, out of all of that, here comes this young man of impeccable character. How does that happen? God. God raised up out of a horrendous situation a man of outstanding faith A man of outstanding character, a man of outstanding wisdom and integrity I'm telling you, God is a master at taking the ashes of man's failure And bringing something good, and bringing something beautiful, and bringing something right out of a mess that is so wrong, God is a master at doing that. Somebody asked me recently, in fact just this past Sunday, one of the members came to me, they said, is there any case that is so bad that God can't save it? And without hesitation, I said, absolutely not. If God can raise up a Joseph out of that environment, I'm telling you, God can do a miracle in your life and in my life. And God can take the prodigal that is so far, and God can still bring them back and make them into something profitable for His name and His glory. And God can take the worst mess that you and I can come up with, and He can bring some good out of that. Now, don't presume and say, oh good, I'll go make a mess, and God will bring something good out of it. I'm going to remind you, Joseph is one in a million. Well it wasn't every mess, something good came out of it. Well I'm I'm not saying God will every time, I'm saying God can if we let Him. If we let Him That's our introduction to Joseph. What a horrendous. You say, preacher, you painted that worse than what it really is. I don't think so. I looked at it, I studied it. This is disaster. There's a lot of other lessons can be learned there. But here's what I want to leave us with. Don't ever lose hope. Don't ever lose hope. God Can raise up even in the worst of situations. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us to see what you're capable of doing. God help us to see how you can take our messes and bring somehow bring something good out of it and teach us to trust you. Lord, teach us to have faith in you and just follow your leadership and submit to your will. And Lord, we want you to lead us and direct us and help us. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need God to help me and lead me in whatever situation I'm in, but I need the Lord to help me in leading. Any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. We all have them. Maybe we just trust them and have faith. Joseph is a tremendous testimony to the fact that we just trust God. Don't react and don't go off on our own. But trust God. Trust God. Father, bless our invitation. Help us to get a good start in this study here in Jesus' name. Amen