Honors, the world honors what the world values. Right? If it's important to the world, then they'll honor somebody in that category. Um, there's nothing in the world wrong with being a very good basketball pet player. There's nothing wrong with that. It takes a lot of training, it takes a lot of discipline uh some natural uh physical abilities. There's nothing wrong with that. The world values that very highly. If you'll notice we didn't give out any basketball player awards tonight. Not that we think it's terrible. Uh uh football. Uh Academic areas, you can go down the line. There's awards and honors for all kinds of character categories. At Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we don't want to discredit all that, but our values are a little different than the world's values. And our what we honor may be, and not maybe, is very realistically very different than what the world honors. Uh there's w those again, there's nothing wrong with some of the things I mentioned, but our concern is the spiritual well-being of our young people. Our concern is their walk with God, their relationship with their Creator, where they end up when the life is all said and done. And how they're recognized by our Lord. And the Lord honors those that live for him, the judgment seat of Christ. is very similar to this in some ways. And so I want us to notice, if you would, and I'll just give you a couple thoughts. John, the third epistle of John There's no chapters, just one chapter there, but if you would notice verse number four with me. He says, I have no greater joy. Than to hear that my children walk in the truth. I want to suggest to you tonight our greatest joy as a church. Is when young people come to know Jesus Christ as Savior, then they dedicate their lives to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what this is all about. King's kids, Sunday mornings, reaching. Master clubs, discipling, teens alive, preaching teens, training them, instructing them in the things of the Lord, and honoring all of this. As pastor, I believe I speak for most of us here at Mountain Lake, our greatest joy is to hear and see these young people living for God. It's our greatest joy. That's the most fulfilling thing we can do. And we we try very hard to get folks saved. We don't want anybody to die and go to hell. Somebody approached D. L. Moody early in his ministry, very early in his ministry. They approached him and he had a big meeting the next morning. Big citywide campaign, I think it was, something like that. Next morning someone asked, was there anybody saved in the meeting last night He said, yeah, there was two and a half people saved. They said, two and a half? They said, you mean two adults and a little child? He said, no, two children and an adult. The children have their whole lives to live. The adult had already lived half of his. And we want to reach children. We want to reach young people. We want them to know Christ. I wonder how many of us older folks got saved older in life. I wonder how many of us wished we had gotten saved earlier. Gotten saved younger. I was saved at the age of 19. When I was twelve years old, my parents sent me to a camp. It was a church camp. And um it wasn't an independent Baptist, but they did give the gospel. And on Friday night, they gave the invitation to be saved. They told you how to be saved. My heart was stirred. I can still remember, burdened, broken. I need to be saved. They gave an altar call, which was kind of unusual in that denomination, but they gave an altar call. Well, went forward, 12-year-old boy. One forward. They took us out back. I can still remember. There was a door. It's like a tabernacle type thing. We went out the back door and we're outside. Under the stars, there's a few lights And they said, we understand you all came, you want to be saved. And there was about twenty of us there, maybe twenty-five. We said, Yeah, we confirmed that, yeah, we want to be saved. We want to accept Jesus as our Savior They said, okay, let us get your name and address. They got our information, and they said, you all can go back into your seats. Nobody opened the Bible. Nobody showed us from the Bible how to be saved. It's back home for about a week or so, and we got a call from the pastor of the church there that We were involved in. He said, I understand got a message from the camp that Dennis wants to join the church. And I didn't know. Said, oh yeah. So I went through a little church membership class, poured some water on my head, and sent me on my way. And I left that just as lost as I was when I showed up. But I sincerely wanted to be saved. Now I don't blame them. But there was a breakdown there somewhere. There was a breakdown somewhere. And I've often wondered. If someone had sat down with me that Friday night and just taken a simple Bible And showed me from the Bible how I could know Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I just wonder how different my teen years would have been. I just wonder how many scars As a 63-year-old man, I still have in my heart and mind, if someone had just shown me And right from the shortly after my salvation, I had a burden on my heart to reach young people. So we want to help them avoid the scars of sin in life. We want the numb to know a full, abundant Christian light through their whole life And so we have no greater joy, we have no greater joy than to hear young people trusting Jesus and then dedicating their lives to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, well, I give all my tithe and all of that. I give this money to church. What's it doing? I tell you, what you saw tonight is what your money's doing. There's a financial part of this. We're investing. We're not just giving to the church. We're investing in the future of young people, their spiritual well-being, their eternal life. We're investing in that. Let me give you four things. I'm just going to list them. We're going to be done. On what you and I can do To help these young people, to see more young people come to Christ. I put this down. Number one, they need a few things our young people need. They need our prayers. They need our prayers. We won't take time to turn, but if you would, sometime look at Matthew chapter 17, verse 14 through 18. A father brought his demon-possessed son To the Lord Jesus Christ. He would cast himself down, he would throw himself in the fire. We hear a lot of reports of children who do self-harm. They want to hurt themselves. They want to do things that are harmful to themselves. I believe the devil's behind all of that. That is not of God. And this man brought his son to Jesus and he prayed for his boy. Lord, you can help my son. I tell you what young people need. They need God's people. Say, God, help our young people. Every daddy ought to pray for his kids. I wouldn't give you a nickel for a daddy that doesn't pray for his children. Church ought to pray for our youth. Pray for them. They need our prayers. Pray for their protection. Pray for God's leadership in their life. Pray that God gives them wisdom. Pray a spiritual hedge about their hearts and minds. Number two, our young people need our support. They need our support. This world's out to destroy the youth. And I know I'm being a little morbid here and I'm being a little extreme maybe in my statement, but it seems like that if the world can't kill them in the womb, then it'll mutilate them when they're small Distort their minds. Distract them from the important things in life and the values in life. The eternal things in life. They need our support. They need our support. If we don't win and lead these children to Christ, the world will win them and lead them away from Christ. They need our support. They need our support. Our youth are being targeted by the devil and the world in an obvious way. Seems like years ago it's a little more subtle. Now it's just the devil's thrown the gates of hell open and is just full full blitz. Full blitz. Number three, I put this down. They need our instruction. They need to be taught the things of the Lord. They need to be taught what's right and wrong. They need to be taught what God says. What God's will is and what God's plan is for them. It doesn't just come naturally. They're not going to get it from the government They're not going to get it on the television. They're not going to get it on social media. It has to come from God's people in God's house. Now, granted, the pain ultimately, primarily, the parents are responsible. The fathers and the parents are responsible. But as Pastor Matt says so often to our parents, he says so often, we are here to support the parents training of their young people in the things of the Lord. We've got to teach them. Proverbs 22, 6 says, Train up a child in the way he should go. Listen, if it was up to me, every one of these kids would be missionaries going on the mission field. But we're not supposed to train them up in the way I think they should go. They're supposed to train them up in the way God has them to go. God has a plan and purpose for every one of these young people. God does. And we need to train them the principles of the Christian life and the disciplines of the Christian life so they can go the way God intends for them to go. Train up a child in the way he should go. Ephesians 6. 4 says that fathers are to bring up their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I think a daddy ought to pray for his boys. Can I just give my opinion? I think a daddy ought to bring his kids to church. I'm grateful for our bus ministry. I'm grateful I love every bus kid that comes in. I love them to death. Sometimes I want to wring their neck, but I love them to death But they need to be trained. A daddy ought to bring his kids to church. Daddy ought to bring his kids. Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Proverbs 29:15 says, A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. Bringeth his mother to shame. They need our instruction. They need us to love them and teach them the things of God. And then last of all, I put this down. This may be the most important. They need our example. Every one of these young people ought to be able to look at every single church member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and see in that member's life an example of what a godly, mature Christian is. They ought to be able to pattern their Christian lives after us. We ought to set a pattern for them, set an example for them in our attitudes, in how we speak to one another. And what we allow in our lives and disallow in our lives. They need our example And by the way, supporting these kids and instructing these kids and being an example of these kids, we've got to do that in the Spirit of God. Sometimes folks will want to teach the kids, but they do it in the flesh. They get short and sharp with them and say unkind things. And I think sometimes mean well. But these kids need to know the love of God and need to be taught and supported in compassion. Not weak and loose firm, but compassionately. They need that. And they need to see in us the Spirit of God. I am, and I know I overdo this, and you are very patient with me. I appreciate your forgiveness. Because I know I overdo this, but I thank God that my daddy gave me an example of what a mature, godly, humble Christian is. Some of you have good parents also that set an example, set a pattern. I don't know about you, but uh I think we want our kids to be better Christians than we are, right? I want them to succeed better. But I've got to set an example. I've got to be a pattern. Our young people are watching us. James chapter 2 and verse 18 says, we show our faith by our works. We can talk to them, preach at them, bark at them all we want. But if I'm not an example, if they don't see my faith in my actions, my attitude, if they don't see our faith in our behavior as a church, And we're not display we're not the testimony we ought to be. I've always, when we have church business meetings, and we don't have a lot, but when we do, I always thought, yeah, let's have the kids in here. Let's set an example for young people how we interact when we make important decisions. Let's let them see how Christians do business meetings. Amen? And churches are notorious for business meetings, getting angry and people getting worked up and saying unkind things and sharp. I always pray God help us as a church to be an example to young people How Christians do business. How Christians interact with each other. How Christians forgive each other How mom talks to dad and how dad talks to mom, that's going to have more of an impact on our young people than anything we can do. And so we need to be an example. We need to be an example. We talk about how we talk about others, our respect for the Bible, our attitude towards the church, all of this. They need to see Christ. They need to see Christ. No greater joy. I don't know about you, Awards Sunday. I love it. I love Team Banquet. Awards banquet. I love it. Because it just thrills our heart to see what God is doing in the lives of our young people. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us.