Benefits all of us so I trust God will use the message this morning to be a help and a challenge to all of us. Am I on there? Okay, good It's a great privilege to be a father, isn't it? Great responsibility. I've just like I said, I'm so tempted to talk about my daddy about uh being a daddy, I just one thing that uh I often think of and and this happened with both our boys when they were born. Uh my wife um I yeah, my wife uh gave birth through C section for both of our boys and so um when we've realized uh the first one that they were gonna have to do that The doctor asked if I would like to come back and be in there when they cut my wife's stomach open and um uh pull my child up out of her bowels. And um I said I said I said I think I have a little cold. I'll just wait out here. And they said, oh that's fine. Just wear this little mask. So I went back and then they said They said, Here you want to sit and watch us do this? And I said, No, I'll sit up here by her head and I'll look at her her face. So I sat up there and held her hand and um I tell you when they they brought little Sam out from my wife's womb and and laid him in my hands. I just started bawling. Just started crying, crying, crying. I thought, what a responsibility. Oh God, I need your help. And then Dan was born, same thing, and Dan ingested um fluid when they came out and they had to put them in an incubator for about three days or some type of thing, oxygen thing. and just struggling for every breath. It was just horrific. I'll never forget, I I was praying and um Kathy was still back and they had him in this thing. I could reach down in I was just praying, God help him, God help him breathe, help him to breathe. I put my hand in. And he just uh his little newborn hand came up and grabbed my finger. When I was in there praying for him, just rips your heart out. And uh what a honor to be a daddy and the times just fly by. So Anyway, thank God for God's goodness. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. What I would like for us to do is I'm going to read verse 3 and 4. And if you would follow along uh on these two verses. Then as we go through the message, we're going to look at some other verses here, but this is just what I want to read uh reread what uh Pastor Grant read a little bit ago. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, the God of all comfort. who comfort us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Did you get that, what he's saying here? Now I've used for the title a little phrase at the end of verse 3, the God of all comfort. I reworded it for my title, Our God of all comfort. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Lord, we are grateful for folks that are in the house of God here this morning. I pray your blessing on us as we look into your word. I pray you'd open our hearts and minds that we would be obedient and trust you as you speak to us, instruct us That we would have faith in you, that you know what's best for us, and we could follow your direction, your leadership. We do pray for comfort where it's needed. We pray for encouragement, instruction, rebuke where it's needed in our lives. And uh I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that you would speak through me. It would not be me, but it would be the Spirit of God, the author of your word, speaking to our hearts. So please bless. And Lord, when it's all the message is done, help us make the right decisions, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I was reading a fellow's account of the birth of a giraffe. Apparently, this guy was had gone to a zoo, and while they were there, there was a giraffe that was giving birth, and he recorded The account of this giraffe giving birth. He said, first of all, the front hooves and then the head of the giraffe appeared And he said it was just within moments that that whole baby had popped out and fell ten feet to the ground. He said the little baby giraffe landed on its back. Now I don't know if this is how it goes with all giraffes that give birth. I'm trying to remember all the ones I've seen if they've all played out this way. But this is how he this is what he observed. The baby fell ten feet to the ground, landing on its back. He said the giraffe then rolled over to an upright position, laying down, but laying in an upright position on its back, and he said it shook off the the birthing fluids and whatnot and began to look around. So what was interesting was the mother giraffe bent her head back down around and looked at the baby and then positioned herself over top of that little baby and get this. She drew her back leg up and kicked the baby, throwing it across the ground, tumbling across the ground. He said, everybody gasp. The mother giraffe then watched it. The baby giraffe did not get to its feet. It kept laying there, kind of positioned itself back into an upright, looking around. The mother giraffe came over to where it was, positioned herself over it, and kicked it again. And the little giraffe went tumbling head over heels across the ground till it came to a stop It still did not stand to its feet. It kept laying there. And he said that Mother Giraffe repeated that process. Until that little giraffe finally wobbled up onto its feet and stood upright. He said, then lo and behold, the mother went over beside it and kicked it again. And the child, of course, the baby giraffe was knocked down, worked its way up, and stood back up on its feet. Now the reason there's a reason that mother did that. Now I don't know if this is a process for all giraffes, but the suggestion was That as long as a baby giraffe is laying on the ground, that baby is in the most vulnerable position for prey to get it. That baby has got to learn to get up on its feet and be able to maneuver on its feet. And out of love. The instinctive animalistic love that God had placed inside that mother, she would kick that baby giraffe until It learned it had to get up and be able to flee and be able to maneuver. She was teaching her child to get up And to get up again and again and again. Because as I said, as long as that little baby giraffe is laying on the ground, It is vulnerable. Predators can come and just devour it. It has got to learn to get up. Now, as I read that, I thought of through the Bible. These great men and women that are recorded in Scripture, whom God used in tremendous ways. And I noticed something about them. Life kicked them around pretty good. They would get knocked down and knocked down and knocked down. But every Christian recorded in Scripture, and those that we look through church history that stood for God and amounted to something for God, every one of them learned. The importance of getting back up again when they get kicked down. Um I enjoy boxing. I'm not an expert on boxing. I enjoy watching it. I just like seeing guys get clobbered, you know And uh I if there's boxing I was watching last night a little bit, I enjoy boxing and um I often thought, boy, I'd like to get in that ring. Then I think a little more. I thought, no, no, I wouldn't like to get in that ring Uh several months ago, uh there was about going on this pretty good fight, and uh the one fella got knocked down. He got they caught him, I don't know, and he went to the ground. And the announcer said this. He said, Don't worry. He said, This guy's been knocked down before, and he knows how to get up and go on and win the fight. And he made this point. He said there's a lot of boxers that are very gifted and have the potential to be a great champion, but they can't handle being knocked down. When they get knocked down, they get rattled. It gets in their head. They become timid. They begin holding back a little bit, afraid it's going to happen again. And they can't win a fight that way. I thought there's a lot of potential, potentially great Christians. A lot of Christians that have a lot of potential for God and really have an influence for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in this old sinful world. But they can't handle being knocked down. And if something doesn't go their way or something happens or something that throws them a little bit. They can't get back up on their feet. They can't get back up in position and go on for God. And they sulk and they s and they sour and they suck their thumbs and they never accomplished anything for God. Why? Because it can't get back up again. When you and I, when life kicks us, or situation throws us a little bit, and we get knocked down, so to speak, as long as we're down We are in the most vulnerable position for the devil who walks about as a roaring lion seeking for whom he can devour. We have got to learn to get back up again. We have got to learn to get back on our spiritual feet. We have got to learn to not lay there and sulk and whine and feel sorry for ourselves. But somebody says something, uh something happens, uh we get thrown, maybe we fail in some way, we cannot lay there and sulk and worry and whine. We need to get back up again. Because that devil, sure as anything, will come and devour us I like Proverbs 24, verse 16. That verse has helped me so many times it says this: a just man falleth seven times and rises up again. And rises. Doesn't say a wicked, ungodly man falleth seven times. He says a just man falleth seven times. You know what? I don't like it, and I'm never thrilled when it happens But when a Christian falls or stumbles somehow, I'm not real surprised, and I'm not real concerned. When I become concerned, it's when they don't get back up. They don't get up and start going again. That's where the danger comes in. Why in the world that giraffe mother keep kicking that little baby? That baby had to learn to get back up again. Had to learn to get back, get up on its feet, and be able to move her and go forward, or it would surely be devoured. Job Knew what it was like to be kicked around. Am I right or wrong? Job was a good man in every sense of the word. God spoke highly of Job. I tell you what, he got kicked around a bit. Lost all his possessions. You know the story. Children killed, all in one day. Everything he had taken from him. If his wife turns on him, why don't you curse God and die? You know what? She was saying to him the exact same thing that Satan wanted to happen to him His wife turned on. Then sickness sets in. And almost the whole book of Job is Job struggling with being kicked around by trials and afflictions in life. Joseph. Joseph knew what it was like. He kicked around a little bit. Joseph was a good kid. Now my personal impression of Joseph in his early years as recorded in Genesis, I think he was a little cocky. It's a little bit of a brat in his early years and I'll preach a message sometime on brats and I'll deal with that. It might be a series. But uh man alive. His brothers turn on him, falsely accused of rape, forgotten in prison, unjust. He knew what it was like to be kicked around a little bit. David, King David, man, behaved himself wisely, loved his king, King Saul, loved God. Did right, had incredible faith in God. King turns on him. For years he's fleeing for his life. Now some of David's kicks he brought on himself. He kicked himself when he didn't trust God and got involved in immorality. Huh? Kicked himself when he got proud and numbered the the army against the will of God. Cost his people thousands of lives. He kicked himself a little bit. Hey, we've all kicked ourselves a little bit, huh? We've all made decisions that hurt us. We did things we knew weren't right We entertain attitudes. We know we're harmful. We knock ourselves down. Joseph knew what it was like to be kicked around. Job knew what it was like to be kicked around. David knew what it was like to be kicked aro Brown David kicked himself around a bit What about the Apostle Paul? Man alive. Read his record. Stoned, left shipwrecked, left for dead, prisonments. Falsely accused. Job knew what it was. Paul knew what it was like to be kicked around a little bit. Now wait a minute. Job and Joseph David, Paul. They went through some tough times. But every one of them knew where to go when they got knocked down And when it was all said and done, Job and Joseph in particular, at least in my mind, they came at the end of their lives. They finished up. They finished the race with a testimony of integrity that very few people have. They got knocked around all right But when it was said and done, you walk away from it and those two men, they had integrity. David got knocked around. Well when it was all said and done, we look at the life of David and we say there is one of the most passionate lovers of God that I've ever heard of in my life. David loved the Lord. He was a man after God's own heart. What a testimony. Paul kicked around. But when it was said and done, Paul was without a doubt one of the most powerful witnesses of the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ in all of church history. So being knocked around, being knocked around. Now with that in mind, that setting that I've tried to paint here, men of God, and there's women of God. Throughout church history and throughout scripture, that have faced tremendous hardships, tremendous afflictions and tribulation And yet they had sterling testimonies. They got knocked down, but they got back up again. Now with that in mind, let's look at verse number three of our text, 2 Corinthians 1. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. I want us first of all consider the source of Christian comfort. When we get knocked down, when we get something that happens that just uh uh hurts us, it discourages us, it sets us back, whether it's our own doings or something somebody else does, or maybe just the sovereignty of God allows something into my life. And it hurts me. And it knocks me down. Where do I go to to find the strength and the help and the comfort to get back up again? My passage tells me where that source is. One of the key things to living a victorious Christian life is knowing where to go to to find help and comfort when I'm hurt. Where to go to to find that help to get back up on my feet. Chip was teaching Sunday school lesson. What a great lesson. That was good, Chip. And he referenced, he asked me uh how long I've been here as pastor. This September will be 21 years. 21 years ago, 1993, September, we showed up in Oakland. Moved here from Colorado And uh we didn't know anybody or anything. I had been here myself and candidated a few weeks before. Kathy wasn't able to come with the boys and So we showed up and um uh we didn't know the folks here at the church, they didn't know us, but uh we were both convinced it was God's will for us to be together. And we began looking for a doctor. Of course we had the two small boys and Kathy has had health issues. Seems like ever since she met me. Uh she's had health issues and I don't think there's any correlation there, but um uh so we showed up and uh we needed a doctor. There was times when we were physically ill or whatever, the boys needed physical help. Needed somebody that knew how to deal with that condition that we did not know. We needed a doctor. You know what we did? We began asking around. We asked folks who would be a good doctor for us to go to. Who would be a doctor that could help us. We wanted to know who we could go to to find help when we weren't well. To find a cure when we were sick. And we were given different names. We went around to different doctors. There's some I wouldn't send my dog to, to be honest with you, but um there are other doctors that are very helpful. Finally, we found one doctor and Um we thank God for him. He's been very helpful. This is what I'm trying to say. One of the keys to being well is knowing who and where to go to to find the help and strength and comfort that I need when the time comes. These men of God that I referenced, Job, Joseph, David, Paul, and many, many others through scripture, they knew exactly where to go to for the source for help and comfort. God of all our comfort. God is the source. Now the world offers a lot of comfort I I'm looking out at the crowd here this morning. We got a number of people out on vacation and different things and uh we thank God for everyone's here and visitors and whatnot. We're glad you're here. I'm looking out at the crowd I don't know everything that's going on in everybody's life here. Some of y'all do, praying with you, different situations. Many of you, we know some burdens you're praying for or whatever. So I don't know everything about everybody here, but I do know one thing about everybody here. We all have to deal with tribulations. We're all dealing with heartaches, we're all dealing with setbacks, we're all dealing with difficulties And I'm here to tell you, all of us, regardless of how strong we think we may be, all of us at some point need help. At some point, we need somebody or something that can take us by the hand and help us get back up on our feet again. All of us do. And if you don't think you do, just live a little longer. And they'll come. Now the world The world offers all kinds of comfort. The world has a thousand failed ways to comfort and help us. The world says, alright, you knocked down, you knocked out, you have a tough time. Just go get good drunk and just forget about all of it. Listen, that works for about three, four hours. Then you sober up and everything's worse than it was before. Listen to me. I know for many of you, maybe most of you, maybe all of you, I don't need to say this, but I want to say it anyway. Liquor has not done a thing to help one single person in the history of mankind. There's nothing about liquor that has ever made a marriage better. There's nothing about liquor that has ever made a life happier, a uh uh a life giving it more meaning or more purpose, but liquor has destroyed, destroyed, destroyed for thousands of years. And the world comes along in these stupid rock and roll and country and western singers and try and advise you and I that when we're down, that when things are going rough, when we when our hearts are broken, that we can just go to some bar. Or pick up a six-pack and have a good time, they are lying through their teeth. So the world says, oh, we've got some ways to comfort you. In fact, one of the liquors is called southern comfort. You know what it ought to be called? Southern torment. Southern destruction. So the world says, all right, here's a way, we'll comfort you. This will be one comfort. It's failed every single time. The world says drugs. I cannot believe, can I can I just I cannot believe our country is legalizing drugs. That just blows my mind Listen, some of you guys, many of you folks here maybe could could relate to what I'm about to say. But I've been involved in that. There's nothing good that comes out of that. You talk about the harm of liquor, pot and all that is ten thousand times worse in my mind. Just go out to Colorado and get high. Let's go out to Oregon, you can buy it free, man, be bleed. It's not surprising the arrests and wrecks and destruction and death are increasing in these states where pot is being legalized. Duh. The world says drugs, the world says liquor, the world says oh sensuality. Free law! That's all that'll just make you so happy. I'm telling you, it'll destroy your life. Destroy your life. We say a word to our young people, you keep yourself pure for that person God has for you. I don't care what the world says, I don't care what the government says, I don't care what the liberal uh quote-unquote Christians say, sexual activity outside of marriage is ungodly and destructive. By the way, if you're married, you stay you and your spouse, period. I'm just so down, I'll just go find someone. You're a knucklehead. That's Greek for moron. My wife says I shouldn't say that. Liquor, drugs, sensual pleasure, shared misery. Oh, we'll just get together a little group, we'll sit around and talk about how miserable we are Oh it's so bad. Oh yeah, you think yours is bad, listen to mine. Uh oh yeah, you both, that's nothing compared to how bad mine is. You walk out of that stuff, you want to hit yourself over the head with a hammer. Empty rituals, yoga, and all these things they come up with, oh you just need to meditate and wash all the negativity out Some people run to food. Money, I'll go shopping. They call it I think they call it comfort shopping. You're out down, you're all messed up, you're sad, go out and just go into debt tens of thousands of dollars. Feels good while you're shopping. This is what I'm trying to say. There is only one source of genuine comfort and help that actually makes a difference in our life, and that is the Word of God. I get knocked down, I get disappointed, my heart is broken, my dreams are shattered, and I run to the world and I look to the world's solution and the world's comforts to how to get back on my feet and make something out of myself and recover. Whatever's been shattered in my life, and I find out that the world offers me nothing. But I come to the word of God And God, the God of all comfort, through his word, answers my questions. Solves my solutions, gives direction and wisdom, gives spiritual strength and help. He gives me grace and strength and wisdom so I can get back up again and go on and live a life pleasing to God, living a life that Has some purpose and meaning to it. The source of Christian comfort is in the is the God of all comfort through the Word of God. Now that word comfort here is fascinating. It's used ten times in these passages in verses 3 through 7. Let me let me go down. I'll just tell you what I did. We were talking about studying our Bibles and how to study beyond just read it. I did this In verse number three, I circled the word comfort. Look at there, the God of all comforts. In verse 4, who comfort us? I circled that. Drew a line between. Who comforteth us in all our tribulation that we may be able to Comfort them, I circled that. Which are in any trouble by the comfort, circled that, wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Then come down to verse 5. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so are consolation. Guess what? Comes from the same word as the word comfort. It's just a variation of the same word. For the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth in grace. Whether we be afflicted, it is for your Consolation, your comfort, same word. And salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer, whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation, same word and salvation, and our hope of you is steadfast, knowing that as ye are partakers of the suffering, so shall ye be also of the consolation. Comfort, same word. Ten times He tells us in varying forms that God can and will comfort us. He will help us. He will strengthen us. Now the word itself is fascinating. The word it means this. Now we think of comfort as uh oh you poor little thing. That's not what the word means. The word comfort means literally to come down alongside of with strength. I like the one definition. I like this definition. This is from the Latin form of the word. This is what it means to be brave together. Isn't that a neat definition? The God of all comfort. In other words, this is the word picture I see in my mind I'm knocked down, uh I've maybe made a decision that cost me dearly, uh uh somebody's hurt me, a dream has been shattered, my heart has been broken, there's been some sort of setback, maybe physically, financially, whatever it may be But I'm hurting and I'm shaken and maybe I'm knocked down. And if I look to God, the source of all comfort, all Christian comfort, I look to God He says, I come down there, and we will be brave together. We will, our strengths will merge And we'll get up and go on together. Now here's the great thing about my strength merging with God's strength. I don't have any to merge with him. It's all his strength being infused into my heart and soul. And him getting me up. Him getting up with me. How many folks here? How many folks here are a little you when it comes to witnessing, let's just use this for an illustration, you can apply it in in a thousand different ways. But how many folks here if we said all right I'm gonna send if I said, all right, I'm gonna send you down to this house, uh the guy drinks, he cusses, he hates the Bible, he hates churches. And I want you to stop by there on your way home and tell him how to get saved. How many folks would say, I'm a little and I'd be a little timid about that? Come on now, I'm raising my hand Of course. Yeah, we know the guy. I I like I one time a guy, uh one of the folks said, Hey preacher, I need you to go visit this guy. I said, okay, he's not safe. I said, good, I'm I'm I'd like to go visit him. Uh he lives out in the stick somewhere. I said okay Uh he said he's a little crazy. I said, um, all right, we think we might have killed someone. Alright, I'll go visit him. And they said, wait a minute, don't go by yourself. I gotta go with you and he'll shoot you for sure. I was a little timid at all. Now suppose I had alright, I want you to go visit this guy, and and that was the thing. He'd be a little tempted. Suppose we got the back. Now this is this isn't even in the realm of reality. But suppose Jesus Christ stepped up. I said, oh, by the way, Jesus himself is going to go with you to visit. Now remind you, Jesus walks on water. Jesus just speaks a word and Roman soldiers fall to their feet backward. Fall to their feet, fall off their feet backward. How many folks say, yeah, I can go visit that guy? Jesus right there beside me. Sure. What would you be afraid of? Because we would be brave together He would be there to comfort me. He would be sharing his strength with me. So, what this passage is saying, the source of our comfort is God Himself. who comforts us in our affliction. He comes down right with us and infuses and shares his strength and his help with us so that we can get back up again and go on for God. We're not on our own. No Christian ever pulls themselves up by the bootstraps. Every Christian gets back on their feet when God strengthens us and enables us to do that. When we look to ourselves for comfort, all we get is the strength that we have. When we look to others for comfort, all we get is the strength that others can give us. We look to the world or to things to try and comfort us and relieve the hurt. All we get is the strength that the world and stuff can give to us. But when we look to God We get the strength that God has available for us to get back up and go on again. Sometimes folks will say about a great Christian, they say, how in the world could he go through that and still to have his mind and be able to be strong and go on for God. I'll tell you how, because God gave him strength. God gave him strength. How in the world does Job deal with all of that? And at the end he's rejoicing in God. I'll tell you how. God came down and strengthened him. And help them. So the source of comfort is God Himself through His Word. God, I don't want the comfort this world has to offer. We get knocked down, we get discouraged, we get hurt, and the world comes along here, we'll help you back up. My response is no thanks. No thanks. I don't want your liquor. I don't want your music. I don't want your sensuality I don't want your seances and your rituals and all of that. I'm going to the source of all comfort. That's God Almighty. And as a Christian, you and I have that resource. Amen or not? So the source of comfort. Let me give you the second one real quick. The schedule of God's comfort. I thought this was interesting. Look here at verse number four. Who comforteth us What's that next word? Who comfort us in all our tribulation? You know what we think, you know what my flesh thinks, you know what me, myself, my sinful nature thinks, my sinful nature thinks God Don't let me go through the tribulation in the first place. Keep me from who comforts us from tribulation. No. He comforts us in the tribulation. God does not keep us from trials, but he does strengthen us in the trials. I believe it's a very shallow and empty life that never experiences the grace and strength of God in the midst of a trial. What a shallow and empty life. What a shallow life it would be to get to the end of the life and say, you know, I've never been through a difficult time, I've never experienced God's strength and grace to help In the midst of a heartache. I don't know what that is. What kind of empty life would that be? What kind of testimony does that have? But you have folks that go through deep valleys And have shattered hearts. And they stand and say, I went through that dark valley. I went through that disappointment. And God was with me all the way, and he strengthened me, and helped me not to lose faith, and he kept the joy of God in my heart, and I was able to come out the other side, giving glory to God for his comfort and help. Now that's a testimony. I talk uh occasionally about a little lady down in Chattanooga, Anna Nixon Tate. Little black lady down in the slums of Chattanooga, we run our bus route there. I mean inner city projects You can't imagine the debauchery and sin and poverty and wickedness. And this dear precious little lady, widowed four times. Uh Piccotton in Alabama. It's a little girl. She'd tell somebody, that beard lady loved God. She walked well, one of the neighbors asked her to keep her television. She had to go away and she knew somebody breaking the part of the the housing project in there and steal her television so she said, Would you keep it? She hated that TV so much, she put it in the corner, faced the screen against the wall, and put a blanket over it. She couldn't stand it She quotes scripture, brother she called me brother Danny. Don't you call me Brother Danny? She called me brother Danny. Brother Danny! Come on in! I've been working on my memory passage. She'd quote Psalms 40-50 verses, some chapter of Psalms, and she she couldn't see past her nose. And uh she'd quote that thing, she'd sit there and quote that thing And I get the Bible and I said, Ms. Tate, you've got that thing perfectly right. I tell you what, that lady knew what it was like to have heartache. That lady knew what it was like to go through difficulty. That lady knew what it was like to hurt But she also knew what it was like to walk with God through those valleys. And what a testimony. One thing I can't wait to get to heaven, see old Ms. Tate. She has to be there. She was eighty-some years old back in 1985. 1985. So she's gotta be in heaven by now. So the schedule of God's comfort, it's in the trials, it's not before, He doesn't keep us away Someone said the heaviest burden a person has to bear is the burden of having no burdens. Think about that The heaviest burden is to have no burden to carry. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Where did God show up and comfort them? In the fire. In the fire. Is that what you're going to say, isn't it? He didn't come before and say, oh no way, we're not going to let that go. Now he let him go in the fire. Then Jesus shows up and says, Listen Which which displays God's power more? Keeping them from going in or keeping them in the fire? See what I'm saying? Who comforted us in our tribulations, in our tribulations. My experience has been that the Christians with the least amount of heartaches and difficulties are generally those who complain the most. Huh? Those that have the least heartaches, the least trials, the least genuine burdens are the ones that complain the most about how hard it is. Number three, I put this down, I gotta end. Consider, no, bear with me. Consider the scheme of God's comfort. The scheme. In other words. The purpose that God comforts us. Look at verse 4, and I'll end with this. To comfort us in all our tribulation, so that we can feel better and just live our lives and be happy. Is that what it says? Who comforted us in all our tribulation? Why? That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. Huh? God comforts me. God helps me. God strengthens me, helps me get back on my feet so that I can take that strength that He Share with me that what he's done with me and I can go to someone else that's in trouble and comfort them and help them with the comfort that God gave to me. Are you with me? So that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. God gives me strength. God comes down with me in my valley, so to speak. And he helps me through that so that I can find somebody in a valley. And take that help that God gave me and pass it on to them, and God can help them through the valley. Not with any strength or wisdom or help I have of my own. I have none of my own I simply take the help and strength and wisdom God gave me and pass it on to them, and they're able to come through. Sometimes folks would come and say, Pastor, I'm having I have a situation, I have a tough time, whatever, I need to talk to you. I bring them in. We sit down, we talk. And sometimes, I mean, it's just heart-wrenching. What the heartache people have in different things. One of the things I always try to point out as I go to this passage, I'll say something like this. You know, God is allowing you to go through this difficulty, I believe, because you're going to come across somebody's path down the road, not far. That is struggling with the very same thing. And God wants to help you so that He can help them through you. Now, what I tell him, I said, now you've got to respond to the Lord. You need to trust Him. You need to obey Him. You need to let the Lord have His way and get you through this because down the road somewhere there's someone else going to go through that same thing. And you'll be able to Hey here's the thing. And and we say this uh uh fairly often. We'll say something like this. Somebody ha let me just use this illustration and maybe somebody has a child that passes away tragically. I can't go to that person and say, hey, I know how you feel. Because I don't. God forbid, that's not happening. I pray it doesn't. But that does happen and people do go through that. And I can't come and honestly say, hey, I know how you feel. I can say, listen, I know God can help you. I can point to verses in scripture and help them. But you know, somebody comes along and I say, you know, as a I was a young teen and my family fell apart and made a bunch of stupid decisions, messed up my life. I can do two things. One, I can come to them and say, Hey, I know what it's like, man. And I can say this. Let me tell you. How God turned my life around. Got me back on my feet. And He can do that for you. I got a boy I'm working on right now. Man, that poor kid messed up And I look at him and I feel like I'm looking in a mirror 35 years old. 35 years ago. I see myself. Every time I talk to him, and I've been trying to track him down, but every time I talk to him, it's like, hey man, God can turn us around. Look at me, God can do it. That's what this verse is talking about. Some of you guys, you I'm talking to some folks right now. Your heart is broke. You're going through maybe the toughest time of your life. I'm telling you, God number one can and will help you if you will simply trust Him and do what He says. And number two There's somebody down the road that God wants to help through you. If you will let God help you. Am I making any sense? So God comforts us so that we can find that one or cross paths with that one that's going through a tough time. We can comfort them with the comfort God gave us. It's not a dead-end streak. It's not me piling up God's strength and God's comfort and God's blessings. It's God doing this for me and helping me and directing me so that I can go and take that help and that strength in that direction and pass it on to someone else. And I found most of the time that comfort and help and strength that God gives me usually comes to me through some other person. Because that's what God uses, people. The scheme. God allows this trial, so that if you'll trust and obey him, he can use you down the road to help somebody else going through that same trial. Fact is, God is still using Job to comfort other people. God is still using Joseph's testimony of integrity through all that trial to encourage and help others to have a testimony of integrity. God is still using David's scriptural response to his failure, Psalm 51, to help other people respond scripturally to their failures. So God helps us so that we can help others. And with two thoughts. One is uh Jennifer and Joe Graham are on vacation this week and But when she was in school at Northeast Baptist School of Theology, there was a young man there. I used to speak there a lot. And there was a young man there that was in the school, in the college. He had no arms. His first name was Johnny. He just had little short stubby legs, and his toes were almost as long as fingers. And that guy did everything that you and I do with our hands, he did with his feet and toes. He had a little electric wheelchair, little feet would stick out. He comes up to me. One of the first times I spoke in chapel there, he comes scooting up to me and says, Hey Brother Leatherman, stuck his foot out. I shook hand and foot. Brother Johnny? And it was just the way it is. The guy's incredible. He'd sign he'd signed stuff. Can you sign my Bible? Handed me a pen. Sure. God called the guy into evangelism. He's living down eastern side of the state somewhere working out of a church down there. He's preaching around. You know what he preaches? Let me tell you the strength God has given me and he can give it to you too. What a powerful message. He has no arms, no stubby feet, does everything with his feet, writes, shakes feet with uh people. And he's just praising God, rejoicing God, and being a blessing to other people, telling them the comfort that God gave him, how he can help them in whatever situation they're facing. One last thing, I read this past week, I read about a lady back in 1992 in Baytyville, Kentucky. A family by the name, their last name was Smith. And both their teenage boys, a policeman showed up at their door, both their teenage boys were killed in a tragic automobile accident. Christian family, loved God. They were devastated. Oh, one time they sought the Lord They looked to God and God comforted them. God helped them. God gave them strength not to lose faith, not to walk away from God, to stay in their place and faithful to the Lord. When they came out of that, which I'm sure you deal with it the rest of your life, but when they finally came out of that, God stirred their heart to find other people, and she the Mrs. Smith Searches the newspaper and searches the internet for child obituaries. And they go to that family and contact that family wherever it may be. And they send them little packets and booklets and pamphlets that they wrote down what God had done for them and how God helped them through their horrendous tragedy and what God can do for these families. And it has developed into a tremendous ministry that through their heartache and through their darkness and through their value God comforted them so that they can help and comfort others. And she says she currently receives fifty emails a day. From people asking for their literature and their help. She and her husband have assembled and sent out over 5,000 packets To grieving parents. They go on and explain how so many have come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. How's that? Because one man and woman, father and mother, who lost their teenage boys in a tragic accident, sought the Lord, and God helped them and comfort them in their tribulation. So that now others that are going through that same heartache can find the grace and hope, comfort, and many cases the salvation of God in their heartache and trouble. So, number one, go through a valley, look to the Lord. Get in his word. Do what the Bible says. Trust him. He'll lead you through it. He'll help you. He'll strengthen you. And then number two, anticipate God directing you to someone who needs that same help that he gave you. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to have faith in you, to trust you. Lord, when things are down, we get knocked around, don't let us lose faith. Lord, don't let us lose focus. Help us to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and trust you. And then Lord, show us. Those folks that you bring our paths that we can help them. Every one of us have been in the valley of sin. God, you saved us and you brought us up out of that valley. You gave us new life. And there's other folks that need that same comfort of salvation. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I am in a tough situation right now? It's between you and God. This may be personal. I understand that. But you say, Preacher, I have an issue. I have for me it's big and it's hard. You say, preacher, I'm going to make a decision this morning. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to keep my eyes on it. I'm going to have faith in Him. Whatever His word instructs me to do, I'm going to do it. And let him lead me. How many are like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me. There is a situation, there is a circumstance that I need really need God to help me through it. God bless you, hands all around. Now many of these, as I said, I understand are very personal Well we need to trust God. We need to look to the Lord. How many of us say this, Preacher? I know what God can do. I've been through valleys. I've been through tough times. And I know how God has helped me. And maybe this morning you say, Lord, you say, Preacher, I want to make myself available to the Lord And he can use me to help others. Not to build myself up or my great wisdom, but to point them to Christ, point them to a God of all culture. And you'd say, Preacher, I want God to help me do that, to see that, to give the wisdom. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. We've been around any length of time, we know what God can do We know how God can help us. Now let's not bottle that up. Let's pass it on and share it with others. Many other decisions maybe need to be made, some sin that needs to be dealt with, confessed and forsaken. Some areas of surrender, some matters of obedience, whatever it is. Let's let the Lord have his way this morning. Let the Lord direct us. Let's trust him and obey him. Father, bless our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together