On the walls here, we have the Don C. Williams Gallery of Grace. We finished up our fall revival uh this past Friday night, where the Williams of course was with us last Sunday and kicked it off And each evening through the week he did a drawing and preached a great message and um and these are the six drawings done through the week. And I just want to say, I was so bad all of our folk would could have been able to be in on all the services. God just blessed And um I think the drawings were just exceptional. And what he does is Friday night he gives these drawings out to those that brought the most visitors throughout the week. And our number one visitor bringer uh was uh little Zoe Hardesty And uh she brought, I think, forty-one folks uh points wise, and uh and she got that picture over there. She was able to pick which one she wanted, and she She choose chose that one. I think that was Pappy's actually, she said. I ch I chose that 'cause Pappy liked it. And it was cute. So um and uh she got them. Brother Jerry and Connie came in second. They got the snake one over there And uh they just love that. So um good for them. And then the others were giving out throughout the week. I like the um I like the sailboat over here. That was Sunday nights and boy that thing was Uh I thought that was really great. And so we had a great, great week. We had some folks trust Christ and had a lot of visitors out, good decisions made. Brother uh Grant said in his prayer how God used the revival in his life, God used it in my life. Definitely some Some changes that Lord uh brought about in my own heart and life throughout the week and so we praise the Lord for that. Uh I did want to say that we got a lot of hunters in our church and Folks have been showing me little um Jeffrey shot some five point, he was showing me a picture of it. I hate it when little kids shoot bigger deer than I do. So I'm very bitter at him. And um But uh and then uh the West Virginia brother Mark is over in West Virginia. Paul and Paul's over there, Charlotte didn't go with him. Paul's over in West Virginia hunting and uh the hunting starts this week. So I thought in honor of all our hunters, I'm gonna preach a ten point sermon this morning. Uh nobody wants a spike or a four point. Uh you know, you want a ten point, so not really. If you if you would, read with me verse number three. I'd like for us to read that verse together in unison. And um uh I think I'm a tad bit strong, Dave. I just flipped that on there Not verse 3, verse 2, if you would. Will you read it with me? Here we go. Ready? When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. I want to preach this morning on overwhelming floods and fiery trials. Let's ask the Lord to bless and speak our hearts. Lord, we're grateful for the privilege to assemble together in your name. Lord, you've been so good to our church these years. And we just rejoice in your mercy and grace. Lord, this is really your church. And we just ask that you would meet with us again this morning. I'm glad as pastor for the folks that made the effort come out on a snowy day and are here together. We're grateful for visitors that have come out to be with us. And now we ask, as we look at the have the most important part of the service, we look into your word. I pray you'd speak our hearts. Teach us, Lord. Help us to understand you a little bit better. Help us to understand maybe what you're doing in our lives. And that we could trust you and um and uh let you lead us and direct us uh in our lives. So bless now. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. Speak through me in Jesus' name, amen. I don't believe there's ever been a nation That has suffered throughout history, like the nation of Israel has. I mean to tell you, this little country has been through it throughout their entire history. They began in slavery to a harsh, harsh king, Pharaoh, down in Egypt. And that was the beginning of the nation. They've suffered hostility from surrounding nations. They've been persecuted intensely with a bitter hatred Even to this day, there are nations surrounding that little country of Israel that are bent on their destruction. That are very open about the fact that they want to wipe them off the map. In fact, just the news. Late last night, this morning I caught a little bit of the news where uh Israel's bitter enemy, Iran, is is obviously trying to make nuclear weapons and they've said repeatedly in the past that their purpose for them is to wipe Israel off the map And uh just that little nation so hated and so oppressed. Can I just throw this out? America makes a terrible mistake if we don't stand behind Israel. And that's going to be to our own demise, I'm afraid. We have got to stand behind them. Uh very clearly, very boldly, and um and so Israel, they've been oppressed by their own kings You read back through history and had some ungodly wicked kings that were just so hateful to their own people. And then the Israel as a nation failed God. On a number of occasions, so so thoroughly failed God and didn't trust him when they needed to and would abandon him and forsake him and disobey him And, you know, much of their failures, uh uh much of their troubles and struggles were a result of their own failures. They brought it upon themselves sometimes just because they didn't obey God. I found in my own experience as a Christian, these 34 years now That sometimes my own failures, I should say this, many times, my own failures brought more heartache and grief to my life than anything anyone else outside ever could do to me. Just failing God and bringing regret and grief to my own life. And that's the way Israel was. You think of King David, and he disobeyed God on a number of occasions, a man after God's own heart Disobey God on a number of occasions. And boy read Psalm 32, you read Psalm 51, and the grief and the heartache that his disobedience produced in his life just because he failed to trust and obey God. So Israel has been through it. Now, here in our text, God is addressing the nation of Israel. And uh the previous chapters, he's been telling them they're going to go into captivity into Babylon. They failed to trust God. He has sent prophets by to get them to come back and live for God and trust him and obey him and make him the Lord of their lives. And they refuse to and they refuse to and they refuse to. And now God's going to have to chasten them and they're going to go into captivity to Babylon, but God is reassuring them That in spite of what they've been through and what they're going through, um, he is going to take care of them through it. Look at verse number one with me. He makes some tremendous statements here. Look at verse one of chapter 43. But now, thus saith the Lord, that the Lord that created thee O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name. Thou art mine. Come over to verse, look at the first part of verse 4. Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honorable, and I have loved thee The fact that God had chosen Israel to be his own people, the fact that he loved them so dearly, that's what kept them from being totally annihilated. If it had not been for the Lord's love for them, the fact that they were God's people and He had chosen them, they had been destroyed a long, long time ago. But God kept them And Israel is in existence today because of God's tender mercy, because of God's watch care over that nation. And so, as I said, the context here, God's assuring them that in spite of the coming trials, in spite of the coming captivity, they are not going to be destroyed. Now, I said all that to say this. Verse 2 in Isaiah 43, that we just read here together a little bit, that promise, those verses, are directed to the nation of Israel. Isaiah is preaching to them this message that's recorded by inspiration here, preservation, God's kept it for us. But Isaiah is preaching to Israel, and he's giving them this assurance That the coming captivity, the coming hardships and difficulties that they're about to face, they will not destroy them as a nation. Just like uh uh like going through a flood. They're not going to be wiped out. They're going to come out of this okay when it's all said and done. Now they need to go through this fire. They need to go through this flood. God has his plans, his purposes. But they're going to be okay. It's all said and done. God's gonna take care of them through this. Now the context is to the nation of Israel. But listen to Romans chapter number 15, verse 4. Let me just read it to you. It says this: For whatsoever things were written aforetime. In other words, the things written in the Old Testament, particularly this passage, were written for our learning, that we, through patience and comfort of the Scriptures, might have hope. Now what am I saying? I'm saying this. Just like Israel had its share of heartaches, just as Israel had its share of trials and tests and difficulties that they had to face. You and I are going to have to face trials and difficulties also. And God's promise to Israel as God's people that he would take care of them, that though they would go through this, they're going to be okay We can learn from that. We can look at those promises and we can apply them to our lives, and we can be confident that God loves and cares for you and I as His people today. Now here's my outline. I just want to give it to you quickly. Ten points. No, not really. I thought that was a great statement, a ten-point sermon. I've been waiting all week to say that. Here we are. Number one. If you're taking notes and you're joting this down, write this down. Number one, we are destined to face trials. We are destined to face trials. Trials in life are inevitable. Now, I wish I could tell you otherwise I wish I could stand up here as a preacher of the Word of God, as a God-called pastor, and be able to say to our church folk, hey, listen. Once you get saved, once you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, all your troubles are past, all your trials are over. It's easy sailing here on out. God's going to just keep you from all trials and all troubles. It's going to be cake off the rest of the way. But that is just not so. The fact of the matter is, trials are we are destined to them. They're inevitable. We cannot escape them Look at verse 2 with me again here in our text. I want you to notice the very first word in verse number 2. What is it? When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee. Then look at that next word. When thou walkest through the fire. When. It's interesting. I got looking through scripture, and whenever God addresses the subject of trials in life, he never uses the word if. He always uses the word when. Nowhere in Scripture does it say if you go through difficult times. If God would you if God would use the word if, it would imply that there's a possibility that you're not going to go through them. It's up in the air. If we would read it this way, if thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, it would imply there's a possibility that what? We might not go through the waters. If thou walkest through the fire, if he would say that then there would be the possibility, hey, maybe I'm not gonna have to face difficulties, maybe I'm not gonna have to face trials, maybe I'm not gonna have setbacks in my life Maybe I'm not going to have to deal with financial issues. Maybe I'm not going to have physical maladies. Maybe my heart's not going to be broken. Maybe, maybe I'm not going to have to deal with the death of a loved one. But he doesn't say if. God never says if you go through trials, if you face difficulties. God always says when, because they're inevitable. They are a destined part of life. Notice here in verse four at verse two I was looking at this, and uh God doesn't talk about in anywhere in this whole passage, he doesn't talk about drying up the waters. Of course, the waters are a picture of difficulty and trials and the fire that tests us. He doesn't talk about uh, well, I'm going to dry those waters up for you and say, I'm going to put that fire out No, he says when you go through the water, when you go through the fire, I'm going to take care of you. So my first point is this: we are destined for trials. I wish I could uh maybe there'd be someone uh in the service or in the sound of my voice that has never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Maybe you're here and you've not come to the point where you've accepted Christ, your sins are forgiven, you don't have the assurance in your heart and life. When you die, you go to heaven. I'm here to tell you, if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, He will forgive all your sins. He will save you from the coming judgment of God. When you die, you will go into the presence of God. That is a guaranteed assurance of Scripture to every person that believes on the Lord Jesus Christ. But I cannot promise you, and the Bible does not promise you, that if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, you'll not face any difficulties I cannot promise you the Bible does not assure us that if we accept Jesus Christ the Savior, our heart's never going to be broken And we're never going to have to face illness, and we're never going to have to, hey, any preacher or any supposed man of God or Bible teacher that suggests that we can escape trials in life, they are being dishonest. That is not true. And so God assures us here, nobody gets through life without heartache, without trials, and without difficulties Listen to what Jesus Christ Himself said in John 16, verse 33. Listen to this. In the world ye shall have tribulations. You can't get any clearer than that. He couldn't have said it any more bluntly than that. And so The grace of God, salvate will bring salvation into my life, May 7, 1979, 10. 30 at night I knelt beside my bed back outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and I called on God desperately. God trusting you, I'm accepting you as my personal Savior. I was such a sinful wretch And I called on God. When I got up off my knees and crawled in bed, there God had forgiven me all my sin. God had uh uh saved me from eternity in hell. I found out as time went by, he'd given me a whole new life. But I'll tell you one thing, God didn't do for me. He didn't keep me from trials and difficulties. And I'll be very honest, I'll be very frank with you, some of the greatest heartaches have been since I've been saved. Some of the greatest trials I've faced have been since I've accepted Christ. I have close family members that because they got saved, it brought on trials. From other family members. I remember we had a lady in the church here years ago, got saved. And boy, her family turned on her and gave her the hardest time, and she would weep and cry. But I'm here to tell you this. Uh maybe you're saying, well, I don't want to get saved then. I'm telling you what, being saved is worth the heartaches that it might produce. I'd rather go to heaven with heartaches than go to hell without any. Amen? But here's the point I'm trying to make, and this is what God was telling Israel, and this is what the Bible tells you and I. Having faith in Christ, being a child of God, being saved, does not shelter us from difficulties and heartaches and trials. I don't know what the statist statistics are, but I'm just taking a wild guess. I'd venture to say the cancer rate for unsaved is probably the same as it is for the saved. Huh? Heart disease, uh diabetes, different things Salvation does not keep me from heartache. Salvation Salvation doesn't uh deliver me from trials and difficulties and uh and uh uh heartache What salvation delivers me from is the judgment of God. Salvation delivers me from eternity in hell. Salvation gives me a whole new life And a whole way of facing the issues of life, a whole new strength to deal with the issues of life, but it doesn't take away those issues So we're destined to trials. Nobody gets through life without difficulty. I was going to go down through the Bible and try and name every individual in the Bible that uh had to face difficulties and heartaches And you know what? I had to I would have to name every person in the Bible. I thought of uh Noah. What a neat guy Noah is. By the way, I just thought of this. I don't know anything about it. I've just seen a few advertisements, but I don't trust Hollywood when they make Bible movies. I have no idea this movie coming out on Noah. I don't trust that thing as far as I can throw it. And uh I'm telling you Hollywood uh and the Bible don't mix too good, so I got that off my chest. Now I'll get back to the message. Noah faced some trials. You know, the whole flood, uh, I would imagine he had more family members than just his three sons and their wives. I'd imagine he had brothers and sisters. I imagine he had cousins and nephews and nieces. They died in that flood. He lost many family members, no doubt about it. Folks he worked with, grew up with. What a heartache that would be. And then afterward, the fail his own failure and drinking and getting drunk, and then the failure of his son. Noah had his share, and yet he was a great man of faith. Um Abraham had his share of trials. Do you know Abraham lied on a number of occasions? The father of the faithful, Abraham. And yet he lied and grief on him. And as a result of his lies, the handmaid, Hagar comes in, and boy the grief that that produced. And the heartache. Noah, Abraham, Joseph, man alive. You talk about a godly young man, and yet here he is, falsely accused, attempted to attempt to murder him Falsely accused in prison for years, forgotten, lied about, lied to And yet he was a great, great man of God. God used him greatly. Moses, we could talk of Joshua and David and Elijah and Paul. You go in Corinthians and Paul gives a list of the things, scars on his body, is because of his faith in God and shipwrecked and imprisonments and stoned. Yet God brought him through all of it. Here's my point. We need to accept the fact. Listen, we need to accept the fact that in life there's going to be difficulties. In life, we're gonna have to go through some over we're gonna have to go through some overwhelming floods. In life, we're gonna have to go through some fiery trials. Just as Israel did, you and I are going to have to. I wish I could tell you as otherwise. I wish I could tell you it wasn't so, but it is. I wish I could tell you never have to stand beside the grave of a loved one So I was preparing this message, my mind kept going back to, I did a funeral for a little baby of uh one of the ladies rode our Sunday school bus for years. And what a tragic, sad thing that is. I tell you, there's hardly anything sadder than a baby's funeral and buried her out there, that little child. I wish I could say that would never happen. But it does. And so, number one, my first point is this. We are destined to face trials. Let me say this. The great challenge in life. The great challenge in life is not avoiding trials, but the challenge is exercising faith in God through the trials. That's where the challenge is. Some people spend their lives trying to escape difficulty. Some people try and spend their lives trying to escape heartache and and uh and uh uh uh anxiety and all of that. You know what they use? They'll use liquor, they use drugs, pleasures of this world, try and put it out and get away, try and just escape Uh good night. People became millionaires singing about trying to escape their trials through a bottle. Never works. You know what happens? Something falls apart, you lose the job, the doctor gives a report, you go out to the bar, you start drinking your sorrows away, you know what happens? Just makes them even worse, doesn't it? You get out away from God and you say, I'm just going to forget it, I'm going to go in. You know what happens just makes it even worse. So, number one, we are destined to trials. Number two, here's my second point. This is just a four-point buck. Um, second point, trials come in diverse forms. Number one, we're destined for trials. Number two, they come in diverse forms. In other words, they're not always the same. Look again at our passage here. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burnt. He's using various illustrations here of the trials we go through. Sometimes it's waters and my picture there, the term waters is just uh uh getting uh you know just uh some maybe your house being flooded or something something that's causing everyone. Then now then he says um uh I will be with thee when now Uh I will be with thee. And through the rivers, they shall not overflow. There that gives me the picture of something that's just devastation. Just washing it away. And then the fire, something that is so painful And he uses just two things that are very, very opposites, water and fire. And I think the point here is that trials come in various forms. No, everyone faces trials and difficulties, but not everyone faces the same trials and the same difficulties. The trials that Brother Jerry faced might not necessarily be the same trials Brother Greg faces. The heartaches and trials and difficulties I face wouldn't necessarily be the same thing that maybe Jacob will face in his life. There are various forms. They're different things. And the trials that come into my life aren't always the same one over and over. Sometimes it seems like some people their lives are characterized by a specific uh uh trial they have to face, difficult they have to face, but many times they come totally surprised. It's not what I expected. And so trials come in diverse forms. We do not just face one type of trial in life. Sometimes they're physical trials. And how painful that can be. I tell you, and we know a little bit of this from experience, but there can be, I don't know if there's anything more discouraged than just a continual ongoing pain Day after day after day, month after month, year after year, no relief, I tell you what, that can eat away at the soul Physical pain, emotional, financial difficulties, spiritual oppression, relationships with other people, all of these things are various ways that we have to deal with difficulties in life. I found that often trials come totally unexpected. Things seem to be going good. Things seem to be going well. Then all of a sudden, out of the blue, world falls apart. I was looking back over my life. Now occasionally, occasionally you can kind of see something coming and building and boy or hope not, hope not. And uh and boy sure enough it comes through. I was thinking Denise's here this morning. I was thinking about old Vic Sloball. What a blessing he was. And you want to talk about someone that had been through some difficulties. Old Vic been through it. He dealt with diabetes so bad. And he made a statement to me, just uh it was when it when he first really his health really started going down, he said, he said, the thing I greatly feared has come upon me. When that disease started taking its toll and it was obvious it was going to take his life. He saw it coming. But sometimes they show up completely out of the blue. I look back over my life and some of the things that were most devastating in my life, an hour before they hit me, I had no idea they were coming. So they come in various forms. They come in various ways. They come upon us suddenly. Keep your place here. I want to show you something. Come with me to the book of Job. Now you're in Isaiah, if you go back earlier, get back to Proverbs and Psalms, and right before Proverbs you have the book of Job. Book of Job is a great study. On how God uses trials and difficulties in our life to help us learn more of Him and grow in our faith and our understanding of the Lord and become stronger. But in the beginning, Job chapter 1, I'll give you a chance to turn there, and I encourage you, I think it's a good thing to take notes in your Bible and underscore verses. I like to do that in mind. It helps me in future study. I want you to notice something, and maybe you want to underscore this in Job chapter 1 Everybody find it here and I want you to see this. Now what do we know about Job? What do we know about him personally? Job was a good guy, right? He was an exceptional God. In fact, God bragged on Job to Satan Just go ahead and look at the first verse there of Job chapter 1. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. Now look at God's description of him. That man was perfect and upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. That word eschewed meaning he despised it. He wanted nothing to do with sin and evil. This is a good guy. God is very the to put it uh lack of a better way to put it God's very proud of Job You read on down through there, and God initiates an argument in a sense with Satan. He says, Satan, hey, have you considered my servant Job? He's upright, and boy, God starts bragging on him. Now look, this is the point I'm trying to make. Look at verse number six. Now there was a day. I circled that phrase: there was a day. Things were going well for Job. He loved his family, he had a good family. He prayed, they got along good, all his kids. He was very successful in his business life, financially. He had quite an empire He loved God. God was very pleased with his life. I mean, there was nothing more that could have been gone in Job's favor. And then there was a day when all that changed. Suddenly. When he went to bed the night before, he never dreamed. Come over to chapter 2. And of course Satan goes and devastates his property and kills all his children. His wife uh uh she kind of turns on him there a little bit. Well, not at this point, but look at chapter 2, look at verse 1. Again there was a day. Man alive, Job is devastated, all his kids have been killed, all his property's been stolen or destroyed. And here he is. The only thing he really has left is his wife and his health. And he gets through that, and he's trying to deal with all of that. Then lo and behold, boom, here it comes again. Satan, God gives Satan permission to afflict his body. He can't kill him, but the pain and the sickness that comes upon him boils is overwhelming. Then his wife turns on him and says, Why don't you just curse God and die? In a matter of just hours, Job is left with nothing. We can't escape trials. And they come in various forms. And often they come so suddenly, so suddenly. You know what that challenges mean? Are you listening? You know what that challenges mean? That I need to stay close to God. I tell you what, I'm putting myself in a lot of danger when I get away from the Lord, even for a short time, because I have no idea what's going to hit. And when that storm comes, when that trial comes, I want to be close to the Lord to find his help and grace and strength. You know what Proverbs 27. 1 says? Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth We've kind of given ourselves as a church to try and get the gospel to as many people as we can here locally and around the world. We put a lot of time and effort and money into that. And we try and share the gospel and try and get people saved And I tell you what really worries me is when I had the opportunity to talk to someone about their salvation and where they're going to go when they die, heaven or hell, and I have the opportunity to share with them what the Bible says about having their sins forgiven and trusting Christ and knowing they go to heaven when they die, getting new life. And I go through all that and they make some statement like this to me Well, I understand that, but I'm just not ready yet. Maybe sometime down the road, maybe later, I'll trust Christ. That worries me to death. You know why? Because you have no idea what's going to happen tomorrow. Don't even know if I have tomorrow. We just had prayer of Paul, uh one of Slobal's family. was suddenly driving down the road over uh around uh Klartsberg's area somewhere and a truck out of the blue comes careening across the road and kills both passengers instantly. One of the young boys played football with our son. They had just ten minutes before that happened, they had no idea they were going to be out in eternity. Come suddenly And we need to be prepared. We need to know that we've been saved. We need to stay close to God. We need to walk with the Lord. Because these trials come. When thou passest through the water, I will be with thee. We're destined to face trials. Trials come in diverse forms. Number three, let me give you this one real quick: trials are defined They're destined, they're diverse, but they're defined. Now, what do I mean by that? They're limited. The trials that God lets come into our life, the issues that we have to face in life, God says very, very clearly that he limits them. They are restricted on how far they can go. Look again at verse 43. Come back there to Psalms 43, verse 2. Now look at this very carefully what God is saying to them. When thou passest through the waters, as we already pointed out, he doesn't say if you're going to, he said, it's going to happen. You're going to pass through these waters. But I will be with thee. Now look what he says. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. That word overflow there means, this is fascinating. It means to sweep away. It means to completely wash away. Did anybody see any pictures of that typhoon that hit Philippines? Man alive, those storms and those winds and those waters, towns, just wash them away. Completely swept away. They were overflowed. The rivers they shall not overflow thee. God says, I'm not going to let that happen to you spiritually. You're going to go through some trials, you're going to face some overwhelming issues, but I am not going to let it destroy you He goes on, he says, When thou walkest through the water, thou shalt not be burnt. Neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. That idea of kindle upon you, the word kindle there has the idea of just being consumed. I like building fires. In the living room, basement, wherever. I just like building fires. But oh yeah, a little fire pit out there. In fact the other day I got it out and built a fire for no reason. I just I was inside. I just want to build a fire. And um so the church burns down. Um But uh what was I talking about? Fires. I like building fires. Did I ever tell you about the time I started a fire in a basement as a little kid? See me later, I'll tell you that story. It's interesting. But um what do you use when you're gonna first still start a fire? What do you use? You use what kind of wood? Kinland wood. What does that kinland wood do? When you light that, it just Just burns up. All that does is start the other wood, enough there to get the other wood so that there can be ambers and some bed of coals there. The Kinlan doesn't provide coals. Right? The kindlin is just consumed. Oh, that is enough heat there to get the larger wood burning. He goes, I'm not going to let you be kindlin. You're going to go through fires, but it's not going to totally consume you. It's not going to destroy you. They're limited. As I was reading here and studying about this kindling, about the fire shall not kindle upon you, guess who I thought of? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Boy, you talk about suffering some opposition. You know the story there, and Daniel, the King Nebuchadnezzar, made the law He's going to have a band, and when that band starts playing, everybody needs to bow down to this huge statue of King Nebuchadnezzar, he's telling them to disobey God. He's commanding his people to commit idolatry. It is the law of the land. Everybody has to worship this. Everybody has to commit idolatry. They need to break one of the first commandments of God. Well, Shadrach, Meshad, and Begego. Or, and by the way, he says, if you don't, I'm going to throw you in a fiery furnace. Now let's put ourselves in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego's shoes. Let's suppose our Congress, the House of Representatives, and the Senate, and the President signs it, they pass a law, that everyone in the United States Let's just say has to become Muslim. Well, you and I as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ and believers in the Bible, we can't do that. That's a false religion. There is no God named Allah, it's a figment of Muhammad's imagination. There's only one true and living God, that's Jehovah, Jesus Christ his Son, the Son of God. The Bible's the Word of God. And you and I believe that. We're convinced that. To us, it's obvious. And so the law all says You've got to worship this false God, or you will face a firing squad. Let's just put it in that. Now, how many of us here that would become a bit of a struggle? Come on now. You know what we'd like to think? We'd like to think, oh yeah, there's no way I do that. I'd just face that firing squad, no problem. I like to think I'd be that way. I I hope I would, but I'm not so sure I'd be that confident. I think there'd be a lot of struggling and prayer, seeking God. I think I'd be looking for a way out. You know? Well the next flight to Australia or somewhere That's the circumstance Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedne found themselves. Now that is a trial. That would be could be overwhelming. By the way, they weren't the only Jews in Babylon at that time. Can I suggest to you a bunch of their peers were breaking God's law? A bunch of other Jews were bowing down to that nonsense. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said, we're not doing it. We worship the true and living God, and we're not going to disobey him. We're going to be faithful to God. Boy, they were taken. You read that passage very carefully. When they were thrown into that fire, I think they were fully accepting the fact that they were going to burn to death. They say God's able to deliver us, but if he doesn't, we're still not going to bow down. What'd God do? God came through. God didn't save them from being thrown in that fire. They can you imagine? I was trying to going through this last night. I was trying to imagine what how would I feel? What would be my frame of mind when they're taking them and Throwing them into the fire. You imagine the terror. And they get in there. You know what they found out? The fire didn't kindle upon them. They had to deal with it. They had to face it. They had to go through it. But God limited it. It was very defined. It could only do so much. And when they came out of that fire, they were in better shape than when they went in. The Bible says they went inbound. They were tied up. Their feet, I mean they're tied up and they're thrown in there. When they came out, those ropes burned off. And they had more freedom and they had more respect than when they went in. And I'm telling you, God limits, God knows what you and I can take. God knows where our breaking point is. And you and I think, I'm at my breaking point. I can't go any farther. God knows that. And God will limit that. God will, He's not going to consume you. It's not going to wash you away. It's not going to destroy you. You just trust me. That leads me to my last point, and that is this. Trials have a design. In other words, there's a purpose behind them I go back to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They were despised. They were hated. They were looked as some radical, extreme nuts. In fact, in fact, Nebuchadnezzar was just, he I I think Nebuchadnezzar's thinking was these guys are delusional. So I'm going to give you another chance. Obviously, you guys have psychological problems. I'm going to give you another chance. I said, no. You can give us all the chances you want. Um Paraphrasing, you can give us all the chances you want. We're not going to bow down. God can deliver us from fire even if he doesn't. Hey Neb, we ain't bowing. That's what I would have said. Nib Man, everybody around them, these idiots, these guys, these are just troublemakers, these morons, throw them in there! The guys that threw them in, they get burned up. So hot, the guys throw them in. But when they came out, nobody was mocking them then. They came out, they say, good night. There's something different about these guys' gods than that stupid statue. There's something real. And it scared everyone to death. You know what Nebigar said? There's only one God. It's the one they worship. Now here's my point. God lets you and I go through trials and difficulties sometimes because He's got a message He wants to communicate to this old sinful world that even if we go through trials, God is still good. Now I'm guilty of this. Sometimes we'll say, you know, something will happen and something good will happen and you know maybe financial something will come through and oh wow. I'll say, boy, God's good I'm going to submit to you, God's good whether that financial thing comes through or not. God is good because God is good, not because of my circumstances or situations are favorable to me. And God wants to show this old sinful world that He is real and He is powerful and His people can go through difficulties His people can deal with almost overwhelming circumstances, and God will keep them through that, and they can have joy and confidence And blessings, even through the trials, and this whole world says, man, they've got something this world can't give. I like to say at funerals when I do funerals, funerals are sad times. Sometimes it's very difficult to accept the death of a loved one. And it can be devastating emotionally and and uh uh mentally sometimes. And I always try to funeral, especially if it's maybe unsaved people, whatever, I always try and emphasize this. Listen God can give you a peace in the midst of your heartache that this world cannot give. God can give you a strength to deal with this heartache. to deal with this difficulty that there's nothing in this world can give. And God has a purpose in our trials and difficulties and adversities, and one of those purposes is to show this world that God's people can make it through and he'll keep them and take care of them. Does that make sense? So God says to Israel, by the way, there's a day coming when Israel is going to be the nation on planet Earth. In the millennial reign, Jesus Christ is going to reign as king, and Israel is going to be the nation. And the Bible says all the other nations of the world are going to come and worship the God of Israel. And God's going to come through, and they're going to go through trials and difficulties, but God has a plan and purpose. I like what Job said. He said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. My daddy has told me many times over, and he listens to these sermons. He's told me many times over, years ago, he used to say, that verse has meant so much to me when he was going through some awfully dark waters. Awful fiery trials, and some of you know what it was. And he said that verse sustain me. Though he slay me, I'm going to trust him. Later on, Job said this: When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. You know what he's saying? I'm going to be better off. Because Lord let me go through this difficulty. Because I trusted him and went through it. God's I'm going to be better off Maybe he's saying this. Hey, I'm speculating. Maybe he's saying this. I'm of more use to God on this side of the trial than I was on the other side. My influence for the gospel is going to be greater on this side of the trial than it would if I had never had that trial. Second Corinthians chapter one, boy, oh we don't have time. Study that. You know what it says that God lets us go through difficulties and God comforts us through those difficulties so that down the road somewhere I can take the things God taught me and God did for me and I can share that with others who are going through that same thing. And I can help them. There are some people that have issues that I I come and say, listen, you know, I don't know how it feels. I can't go to a funeral and say to someone who had a parent pass away, say, boy, I know how it is. I don't. My parents are still living. I don't know what that's like. But I have do have some issues in my life that I can go to someone that's been through those same things. And I can go to them in full confidence and say, hey, listen, I went through that myself. Let me tell you what God's done for me Let me tell you how God helped me. Let me tell you some things I did that I'm glad I didn't. Tell me something let me tell you some things I did I wished I hadn't. And God lets me go through a trial, maybe of a broken home. I can say to a young person going through that same thing, say, hey, listen, let me tell you what God did for me. Let me tell you how God used that situation, heartache in my life, what he can do for you. And God uses these trials to make us more effective, to make us be able to help others. I came across a poem that has just stirred my heart. And let me end with this. It's called When Thou Passest Through the Waters. Don't turn me off. Listen to this. Do you feel your heart discouraged as you pass along the way? Does there seem to be more darkness than there is of sunny day? It is hard to learn the lesson as we pass beneath the rod, that the sunshine and the shadow serve alike the will of God. But to me there comes a promise, like the promise of the bow, that however deep the waters, they shall never overflow When the flesh is worn and weary and the spirit is depressed, when temptation comes upon you like a storm on an ocean's breast. There's a haven ever ready for the tempest-driven bird. There's a shelter for the tempted in the promise of his word For the standard of the Spirit shall be raised against the foe, and however deep the waters, they shall never overflow. When sorrow comes upon you that no other soul can share, when the burden seems too heavy that the human heart can bear, There's a one whose grace can comfort if you'll give him an abode. There's a burden bearer ready if you'll trust him with your load. For the precious promise reaches to the depth of human woe, that however deep the waters, they shall never overflow. When the sa listen to this one, when the sands of life are ebbing, and I near Dark Jordan's shore. When I see the billows rising and I hear the waters roar, I'll reach out my hand to Jesus. In his bosom I will hide. It will only be a moment till I reach that other side. It is then the fullest meaning of the promise I shall know when thou passest through the waters. They shall never overflow. Isn't that good? Job never knew. This side of heaven, I don't think Job ever knew why he had to go through such heartache. But God had a plan, and God had a purpose, and there's no doubt in my mind, He understands now. And someday you and I will understand. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for these promises in life. We live in a sin-cursed world. God, we live in fallen bodies. We have a sinful nature. And all this brings grief and heartache. But God, you've given us these precious promises. Help us to trust you. Help us to draw close to you. God, help us to do like Job, to love that which is right, and eschew the evil and live for you. I pray that we could be a testimony to this whole world that you are a good God. You're an all-powerful God, even through the trials and difficulties of life. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed before I finish the prayer, if there's any would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt in my mind. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. But you say, you know, I do have some waters I'm going through. There is some fiery trials. Maybe it's situations no one else in the world knows about, but God knows. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I will draw close to God, that I will stay faithful And let the Lord have his way and lean hard on him in these trials and difficulties. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. As I face these issues. God bless you, hands all around. Now listen, trials face young and old, rich and poor, all classes of life. We need to trust God. We need to obey him. Let him have his way. Sometimes we bring them on ourselves because we won't trust God. One more question. Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that I'm saved? I've never I don't know that I've ever accep accepted Christ as my Savior. I don't have the assurance when I die I'm going to heaven and sure enough don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me settle my salvation, that I can know that when it's all said and done, I end up in heaven and not in hell. God says we can know that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die, I go to heaven, and I don't want to go to hell. Anybody like that at all? Uplifted hand, I'll pray with you that God will help you in that matter. How about it? Anyone? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. God, you know where we're at in life and what we're dealing with, and I pray that you would help us to trust you. Lord, many of us have already got that matter settled and yet we still deal with issues. Help us to bring them to you and let you lead us through, Lord. Some this morning don't have that assurance of sins forgiven. I pray that today that you would just help settle that matter. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed. Now you raised your hand Some for burdens and issues you're dealing with, some for I'm not sure I'm saved on my way to heaven. We invite you to come as the piano plays, as an old-fashioned altar. And we want you to come on and just bring that thing to the Lord and let the Lord have his way. Just maybe a matter come and say, God, I'm going to trust you through this. I want to be faithful, Lord help me, show me what to do, show me what not to do