61. I just want to read verse number two. We read just had Evan read the whole uh chapter there, eight verses. But I'd like for you to notice with me verse number two It says, From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee. Now look at this, when my heart is what? Overwhelmed. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. When my heart is overwhelmed, I want to talk this morning about what to do when we're overwhelmed. When we're overwhelmed. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to hearts. Father, I thank you. For the opportunity to assemble together and be with your people in your house. And Lord, I have no doubt in my mind, from Scripture and from experience, that your presence is here right now. And God, we can't see you, we can't feel you We can't hear you audibly, but God, we know you're here. And I pray you would make your presence known in our heart and souls And as your word is declared, I ask God that you would touch our hearts and apply it to our lives, that we could respond in line with Scripture in a way that would please you I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Spirit. I know that your Holy Spirit indwells me, my body right now. God, I pray your Holy Spirit would fill and empower and control me as I try to preach your word. Guide my thoughts, my words, be exactly what you once said. So, Lord, again, I yield myself to you. Have your way in our lives. Help us to trust you. Help us to obey you. Allow you to lead us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You notice above verse number one in this chapter here. We're told we're not we're not given a lot of information about this chapter. Sometimes in Psalms Above verse 1, as I almost always point out whenever I preach from a chapter in Psalms, sometimes you're given a good bit of information about the background, who repented. Uh what the circumstances were, where they were at. Sometimes you're given that, sometimes you're not given anything. This chapter we are told who penned it. We're given a little bit of information, but not much And if you look above verse 1 there, who's the penman of this chapter? David, King David. We're all familiar with King David, no doubt. Of course, we always emphasize this: God is the author. David penned it down. God moved on his heart and mind, according to Peter, and uh penned down exactly what God wanted said and preserved for us throughout the ages in the Word of God. But David is the penman, but we are given. A statement here that I found interesting. Look there at the title. Just take a moment. I want us to look at this We notice who it is directed to, who this psalm was penned by David, and he gave it or directed it to the chief musician. Now, who would the chief musician be? What term would we use in our context for the chief musician? The choir director or the song leader. So it would be like if I penned a psalm, a song, and I gave it to Brother Mark or to Brother Austin And they would incorporate into our service, and the choir would sing, we would sing it. So that's who this psalm is being directed to, is instructed, given to the chief musician, the choir director of Israel, the temple. At this point would have been the tabernacle. But then he says this. He says to the chief musician upon, now here's a word that is kind of odd. Negana. Negana. Now you don't know how to say it any better than I do, so I can pronounce it however I want. It's a Hebrew term. And it's transliterated, is what they call it into English, and so there's no English parallel to it. But what in the world, what in the world is a negana? It is a stringed instrument. In fact, the Hebrew word, neganah, what that word is, refers, it can it can be used in two different ways. One referring to the instrument itself. A stringed instrument. Could be a harp. Harps were very popular then, used in worship a good bit. I don't know that they had guitars, but it would be that would be a stringed instrument. I think, correct me if I'm wrong, a piano is considered a stringed instrument, correct? I'm not a musician, I'm not a uh I don't have any neganovs uh myself, but uh it would be any type of stringed instrument. Or the term is used in this way. It might be referring specifically to the instrument itself, or and probably in this case The musician, the chief musician, is being instructed by David, again under the inspiration of God, that this song is what it was originally penned as a song is to be played on a stringed instrument. Now it's not saying, it's not specifying which specific instrument is to be played with this song, but it is that type of instrument. As opposed to say a trumpet, a woodwind, or something like that, or uh some sort of percussion. It's to be on a stringed instrument. You say, well, big deal. What does that mean? The interesting thing is that term is used various times through the book of Psalms. Not a lot. Maybe five or six, seven, maybe eight, maybe four, maybe nine. That's used various times throughout the book of Psalms, and every one of the psalms that They're instructed to be played on the Negana. Every single one of them is a psalm dealing with distress. Is a psalm dealing with heartache, difficulty. In this case, a key word in this psalm is what we stated together, and I titled the message, would be what? Overwhelmed. Overwhelmed. So there was something about that particular instrument that was always associated with grief or heartache or difficulty trials. And so um and by the way, the fact that the title here, David, it's Penn by David And it's for the chief musician, and it's to be played on this instrument. Now it's not stating this expressly, and I don't know what the spiritual significance on this would be, other than It's interesting to note, probably David not only penned the wording of this psalm, but he most likely wrote the music to accompany it, the score that goes along with it. David, I guess this is what I took in studying that. David was an amazing man. He was gifted. He was a powerful leader of Israel, one of the most godly men after God's own heart. He was a tremendous warrior, unafraid. Take on the Philistines, the enemies of Israel. He just, he's right down there in the bloody battle front And yet he can sit on the side of a hill or in a secluded place, and he can pour out his heart in song and then write the music that goes along with it. I don't know about you, but I look forward to getting to heaven and meeting David. Of course, the Lord Jesus is the top of the list, but to meet him and interact with him. I wonder what his voice sounds like. I wonder what his personality is like. How do you interact? And so this is a tremendous song. The Negana. Stringed instrument used for psalms that touched on heart issues. Now, other than that, we're told nothing about the background of the song We're not told where this was penned, why. We don't know what the circumstances were, what point in David's life this was penned. The only thing we can do, we can look at the content of the psalm itself. And we can maybe come to some guesses. We can maybe come to some conclusions. And the consensus, for the most part, is this this was probably written. When Absalom rose up in rebellion against his father, did a uh tried to overthrow the government. In fact he did briefly overthrew uh David's leadership, his government, him as king, and was driven from Jerusalem by his son Absalom. And that's pretty much the consensus on when this was written. We don't know for certain, but we think probably that's the case. It was penned by David. At the time when his son now get this his son rebels against his daddy He more than just rebels against his daddy. It is absolute total rejection of his father of his father. Not only that, he takes it to the ultimate extreme. And Absalom is out to kill his father. Kill his father. Now I don't know about you, but as a father, I have two boys. I cannot imagine The heartache that David experienced as his son not only rebels against him. I mean, you know, we're all rebellious a little bit. You deal with that raising kids, right? And I no, I take it back. As pastor kids, they never did that. They were just flawless, perfect angels. Now of course So that's one thing. Would you agree? Hey dads, would you agree with me? Your son is rebellious, that breaks your heart. Right? Makes you mad, but it breaks your heart. How about if your son says, I repudiate my father? I want nothing to do with them. I reject them totally. I can't imagine the heartache of that. Maybe I'm talking to some that you've experienced death. I'm not I just can't imagine how deeply my heart hurt when my boys would do something maybe rebellious, how that hurt my heart And then for one of them to repudiate me and then set out and put a plan in place and implement that plan to kill me, to remove me from the equation completely That's what David is experiencing. The depth of heartache that he is experiencing. And Psalm 41 Is David's expression of that grief. It is him putting down, of course, again, under the inspiration of God This very personal and emotional prayer, it's a prayer penned in a uh in a song, but it's a prayer And he praised God for God to help him. God, help me. He's praying for protection to some extent. But yet he's trusting God. Look again, verse 2. You can catch this a little bit. He says, From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee. He feels totally abandoned. He is com he's like he says, I feel like I'm on the end of the earth, I'm totally alone. And he look what he says. He says, When my heart is overwhelmed. My heart is overwhelmed. Now I got looking at that word overwhelmed. I said, what is he saying here? I want to try. You know, we're 3,000 plus years later. And I'm reading this under the inspiration of God, the inspired word of God. I'm reading this, and I want to get in the heart of David. I want to somehow know what he's feeling, what he's experiencing, what is he saying here? I look up that word overwhelmed and the word it comes from, how it's used throughout scripture and different And it comes, this is the definition I come up with. This is the way I understand it. It means to be covered over with grief. Like you're drowning in grief. Sometimes it's used in the uh in referring to intense overwhelming grief. Sometimes It's used to refer to fear. I'm so afraid. I just feel like I'm drowning in fear. Sometimes it's used to refer to heartache. My heart is so broken. And it has the idea to be covered over to the point where it's making me weak. I'm so brokenhearted. I'm grieving. I'm so afraid that I'm weak. I'm on the verge of fainting. I'm unable to function. Because of this overwhelming grief, because of this overwhelming covering, smothering fear, this heartache is just drowning in heartache. I can't even function. That's the idea. of the word. Are you with me? We're getting in the heart of David. This is what he's experiencing when he's penning this down. Now I don't know at what point in that whole event, if that's the case that this is when he's writing it. I don't know when that is. If you remember he fled Israel in the spur of the moment as soon as he found out that Absalom was rising up against him, he fled Israel, he crossed the river there, and he's out in the wilderness. Maybe he just withdrew from the camp. I just see him weeping and sobbing, and he keeps telling the his soldiers, his security around him, don't kill him, don't kill Absalom when they come out. And maybe he withdrew away from the camp and out in the dark of the woods in the middle of the night, he can't sleep. And maybe just Pours his heart out then uh uh on pen and paper and just pours his heart out. Maybe that's where I don't know. But he's opening up heart, we're getting into his heart, we're experiencing what he's feeling Now, part of the definition of the word overwhelmed is to be drowned in fear. Overwhelmed with fear. Now, I'll be honest with you, this is my take. I don't believe David was afraid of Absalom killing him. David was a warrior. David knew how to fight. He knew how to defend himself. I don't think for one minute there was in David's mind this boy's going to be able to kill me. He wasn't worried about that. He had some phenomenal soldiers and warriors around him. They're described in other portions of scripture. These guys are amazing. And so Absalom, really, as far as David's life is concerned, I don't think that was a big issue, but I think this was the issue. His heart is broken. His heart is absolutely crushed. In fact, and I don't have time to look at this, I'd like to, but when he's fleeing, if you remember this this uh little punk by the name of Shimia. Anybody familiar with Shimei? And as David's fleeing, this guy's uh loyal to King Saul, who's been dead for quite a while now. And he starts cursing David and starts throwing dirt and rocks at him. He's up on a ridge as they're making their way out And he's throwing just saying awful things about David. One of David's uh fellows, I I don't remember which one it was, said, uh, let me go up there and separate his head from his shoulders. You know what David said? David said, no, let him go. He's so heartbroken, he says, maybe God told him To do this to me. I'm telling you, that's a statement of a man who's broken. That's a statement of a man who's overwhelmed. Let him do what he wants to me. Let him curse me, let him throw rocks, let him do what he wants. So that's the atmosphere of Psalms 61. David's overwhelmed. But here's the thing, and this is what I want us to take away from it. I pray that none of us here Have been, are now, or ever will be at the point where David is. I pray that's never true, but I'm telling you, I know this is reality. Every one of us have experienced heartache Every one of us have experienced grief. Every one of us probably have dealt with fear. And I'm sure if we haven't already, some point in life, we're going to get to the point where we are overwhelmed By our circumstances and heartaches and difficulties and trials. Are you with me? And what I take from this is I was reading this psalm. What I take away from it, when David was overwhelmed, two things. He knew where to go and he knew what to do. He knew where to go and he knew what to do. This isn't the first time he's been down in the valley We could go and look at instances where he was fearful for his life at some point, where his heart was broken. This is probably the pinnacle of all of it. But he knows where to go, and he knows what to do. And he does three things. Now, this psalm here, if you noticed when Evan read it, it's broken in two parts. In verse number four, the last word of verse four is Sila. That's a Hebrew term. It means just stop and consider, meditate on what's just been said. Just think about what's just been said. Then the last four verses He picks up again. So it has a natural division there with that word Silah. However, I see three I see three divisions in this, three actions on David's part that I think can help us, and that's what I want to give you this morning. Number one, I see he cries out to God. And then we're going to notice he puts his confidence in the Lord. And then last of all, he commits himself to the Lord. Three things. Cries out to God. He puts his confidence, his hope is trust in the Lord. And then he commits himself to the Lord. First of all, David's cry to the Lord. Look at verse 1. Hear my, what's the next word? Cry, O God, attend unto my prayer. To the end of the earth will I cry unto thee. So he knows where to go. I'm going to cry out to the Lord. When Absalom turned against his father, it broke his heart, and David knew exactly what to do. He went immediately to the Lord in prayer. Now we were just talking, I was just talking with somebody, not within the last week maybe or so, I don't remember who or where. It was um it may have been in the last nineteen years, I'm not sure. But I was talking to somebody recently, and um we were talking we we said this. Why is it When things go wrong, we face a trial, something breaks our heart, whatever, why is it prayer is almost always the last resort we go to? Did you ever hear anybody say this? Well, I guess all we can do is pray. David didn't take that approach. He didn't get out there and say, well, I all I can do. No. His very first reaction, his very first instinct is I gotta go to God. My heart is broken. My son's turned against me. He wants me dead. And his immediate reaction wasn't to defend himself, wasn't to strike back, wasn't to revenge. His immediate reaction is: I got to go to my God. I need to go to my creator. I need to go to the God of the universe. And he cries out to God. He cries out to God. I don't think there's anything that breaks a parent's heart as deeply as a wayward child. But when he was overwhelmed, he cried out to God. I hope this, I hope if you don't get anything out of the rest of what I say, anything I say this morning. If you don't get anything else out of it other than this, I hope you get this. Listen, you can pray to God You can cry out to God. You can. Say, preacher, I'm going through a time. You can pray You can go directly on. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you have access to God Almighty You don't have to go through a priest or a father or a pastor. You don't have to go through anybody. You only go through the Lord Jesus Christ. If I know Jesus as my Savior, I have direct access to God Himself. He is here right now. He's here. And as a believer in Jesus Christ, I can pray directly to God. If you don't get anything out when you leave here, I pray you take that with you. I can pray to God. I can go to God for help. I can go to God for strength. I can go to God for wisdom. I can go to God for direction. He can show me what to do. He can enable me to do it. He can change my circumstances. He can strengthen my heart. David cries out to God. He cries out to God. When we're overwhelmed, we can pray and cry to God. Never underestimate, and I say this so often, I'm believing it stronger as I go through my life, the older I get The more I'm believing in this, the stronger I'm believing in this. Never underestimate the power of prayer. Never underestimate the influence that you and I can have simply in prayer to God. In prayer to God. You say, I got a circumstance. There's no way. It's impossible. It can never. Nothing is impossible with God. There's no heart so hard that God can't meld it. There's no sin so dark that God can't cleanse it. Never, ever underestimate the power of prayer. I'm talking to people that have needs this morning. I'm telling we have a God in heaven that can meet needs. I'm talking to some people this morning, you've got some sin. You can't beat that. You fight it, and you say, Preacher, I don't know if I'll ever have victory. I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that can give us victory. Amen or not? David knew what to do. He cried out to God. He cried out to God. He prayed. He prayed. Never underestimate the influence that prayer has. No one is ever so far from God that the prayer of a parent can't reach them. I notice here his prayer was fervent. I got looking at that word cry. It means to call out loudly. It means exactly what we imagined the word to me. This is a his prayer was fervent. If something's fervent, it means it's passionate, it's intense, it's emotional. When God says, when David wrote down, under the inspiration of God, my cry unto the Lord. You know what he was saying? He was saying this. I'm not playing around in this matter of prayer. It's not just some formality I'm going through. It's not just some thing the preacher said, oh, say a prayer. I'll just say it. No, no, no. It's from his heart. It is intense. It is emotional. He is pouring his heart out to God. I don't know if you've ever been at that point in your life. I don't know if you've ever been at that point in your Christian life. Or whether it's down on your knees or laying on your face on the floor before God and you just pour your heart out to God. That's where David is. He's passionate. He's fervent in this prayer. He's not playing around. Passionless prayers are powerless prayers. They're ineffective. I see it this way listen. If I'm praying and I really don't care, if I'm just saying words, I'm just saying a prayer, and there's really no there's no concern, I really don't care That prayer ain't excuse me, it ain't going nowhere. You're just saying words. But we get to the point where we mean business. Remember when Jacob wrestled with the angel of the Lord? And he made a statement, I think, that Illustrates what this term cried out means. He says, I am not going to let you go until you bless me. Would you agree? That's pretty intense. God, I'm going to keep praying. I am not going to quit. I'm going to pray with all my heart. I'm going to cry out. If I have to fall on my face before you, God, I'm going to pray. And I'm going to pray. I'm going to pray with all my heart. Till you hear me, till you respond. Now we have to be very, very careful. Some of these crackpots on TV say you can command God. We do not command God to do nothing. God commands us, right? He's God, we're not. God's heart is tender. God instructs us to pray, and he uses a term with supplication. A big term there, we don't use that very much, but it simply means this: to pray with all your heart. Pour your heart out to God fervently. Go, God. We get serious about prayer. I think God gets serious about answering prayer. We don't passionate. There's no passion, there's no urgency, there's no fervency in our prayers. I don't think we're going to be very effective in our prayer life. So powerless prayers are ineffective. His prayer was fervent. I notice in verse number two, his prayer was unfeinting. Now, what I mean by that is persistent. He says, from the end of the earth. Now he's not talking about a literal geographical location here I think, as I said when I was introducing the message, that it has the idea of I'm completely alone. I'm in the wilderness. I'm at the end of the earth. There's nobody. I feel so alone. But the idea is this: he's not going to quit praying. Doesn't matter where. No matter how bad things get, no matter how alone I feel, no matter how hopeless it may appear, I'm going to keep on praying, I'm going to keep on praying, I'm going to keep on praying. It has nothing to do with the location of the prayers. Listen, you and I, we can pray anywhere. You don't have to go to and listen, I'm all for altars. I I believe in the altar call. I've I think every Christian ought to be Feel at home and be familiar with the altar call when the altar is given. I think we ought to be that way. I sincerely believe that. But you don't have to be at an altar to get a hold of God And pray anywhere. You can pray anywhere. Yesterday we were down at the uh the parade, I was saying we had the booth set up, we were giving away Bibles and talking to people and uh and I had a sign up there that says, Do you need prayer? People come by. Can you pray for me about this? Can you pray? And I talked to them. And there was a young couple came by and um I gave them they wanted a Bible. I gave it to them. They had some questions. We were talking. I showed them some things in Scripture And um I asked him, I said, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven, not to hell? And he said, No. I said, Do you ever think about it? No, not too just a little bit. Some I said, has anyone ever shown you? And I said, Well, we don't know I said, well, can I take a minute, show you from the Bible? They said yes. And so we stepped over, if you saw our setup there, we stepped over behind the banners, a little privacy, and I went through the plan of salvation. And both of them bowed their head and they called on the Lord, I believe, with all their hearts, sincere, they call on the Lord, asked Jesus to be their personal Savior, trusting Him to cleanse their sin, give them eternal life You know where we were at? We were standing right beside a porta potty. Literally. We said amen. I looked over and said, ugh Did you know you can pray standing right beside a portabandi? When David says I'm at the ends of the earth, he It's not some location. Well I have to get I had a lady years ago, Mountain Lake Park, not long after I moved here. I was out knocking on doors, talking to people about the Lord, and I was trying to win her the Lord. She said this If I ever get saved, it ain't gonna be anywhere but the church house. Listen, you don't have to come to church to get saved. You ought to come to church, amen. But you can get saved in your living room. You can call on the Lord to be your Savior. I can tell you some places where people call in the name of the Lord. And you can be in your car, you can be in the attic, you can be in the basement, you can be in a barn, you can be in a field So he's not saying it has to be any particular place, but he is saying this, you need to pray and keep on praying, keep on praying, keep on praying. Persistent, unfainting. Don't stop praying. Say, preacher, I've been praying a long time for this. Keep right on praying. Last week we preached, keep on knocking, keep on knocking, keep knocking on heaven's door, keep knocking at the throne. I will not quit what David is saying is, I will not quit crying out to you. Even the ends of the earth. If it drives me out to the ends of the earth, I'm going to keep praying to you. I'm going to keep on trusting you. I'm going to keep on looking to you. You don't have to get saved. You don't have to be any particular place to pray. And then I noticed his prayer was faith-based. Verse 3 and 4. He says, For thou hast been a shelter for me, a strong tower from the enemy. He's looking back. He remembers what God has done for him before. And he believes that God can do it again. I will abide in thy tabernacle forever. I will trust. There's the key word. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. He's expressing faith in God. He's fervent. Oh, he's praying so hard. At the ends of the earth, I'm going to keep on praying. And God, I'm praying believingly. I'm trusting you, God. David has faith that regardless of how bad how things are going to turn out with Absalom, however they turn out, God, you're still going to take care of me. God, however things turn out, you're never going to leave me. Notice he says there the last part of verse 4: I will trust in the covert, the covering, the shelter. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Now my first thought was as I started studying this and looking at it My first thing I pictured in my mind when he says, the covert of thy wings, I thought of a mother hen. How many people here raise chickens? Anybody here raise chickens? Um you raise chickens, Wilbur? You have. Chester has chickens. The r Harveys have chickens. You have raised chickens. Anyone have chickens right now? Look at that. Well this is a bunch of chicken people here My gr my grandfather, my mom's father, had a chicken farm. That was his business. He had 5,000 chickens laying hence. Imagine that. Big barn full three two three three stories high. Chickens, chickens, there we went, chickens. And by the way, they're stinky. But anyway My first picture as I read that I would trust in a cobra of the wings. This was what came to mind. Was a mother hen. Do you ever see the picture? Hear stories how maybe there's a fire, there's a hawk overhead, and she calls the little chick, however the noise they make. And uh and uh all the little ha uh all the little um uh chicks come running in and she spreads her wings out and boy they're safe. Anybody get that picture in your mind? That's what I thought. I was trusting the cobra wings. I got looking at it, I don't think that's what he's talking about. I don't think he's talking about a chicken and her a hen and her chicks. I think he's talking about the tabernacle, the ark of the covenant And remember, the Ark of the Covenant is covered with the wings of the cherub. Remember reading that? We don't have time to go look at it. I think this is what David's saying. He's saying, I am trusting you as if I am in your very now, that Ark of the Covenant represented the very presence of God. Now God's everywhere But it was like, and it's hard to uh uh comprehend, but it's like the immediate presence of God, the glory of God was there David said, I'm coming into your presence and I'm going to pray, and I'm trusting you, God, like I'm right there under the ark, the safest place you could possibly be, in the very presence of God. The peace that is in the presence of God, the security. David said, that's where I'm at. His faith was in God. So the first thing I notice is his cry to the Lord. I don't know what you're going through, but I'm here to tell you, you can pray to God. You can cry out to God. You can pour your heart out to God. The second thing he does, he expresses his confidence in the Lord. Look at verse 5. For thou, O God, hast heard my vows. Thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thee, fear thy name. Thou wilt prolong the king's life and his years as many generations. Who's the king in verse 6? David. God, I got confidence in you. I don't know how this is all going to play out. I don't know what's going to end up with Absalom. But this one thing I know, God, you're going to take care of me You're going to see me through. David knew what God had done in the past. That's what he's saying in verse 5. You heard my vows before. You honored them. You took care. You've given me the heritage of those that fear thy name. God, you've been good to me in the past. You've taken care of me in the past. How many folks here God's been good to you in the past? Then why do we doubt he's going to stop doing that in the future? David says, I got absolute confidence in you were good to me in the past. You heard my vows. You gave me a heritage. You did all this for me, God. And I'm confident. That you're going to see me through. You're going to take care of me. Confidence. He knew what God had done for him in the past. He uses the word heard. Lord, thou hast heard my vows. That word heard means to hear with understanding, with perception. I think this is what he's saying. God knew David's sincerity. He knew his honesty. God, you know my heart. You know that I'm serious. You know I'm sincere. God, you saw me through so many trials in the past. King Saul's trying to kill me. You protected me from the Philistines. You protected me from King Saul. God, you brought me all through this. God, I sinned against you with Bathsheba, and it hurt deeply, but you saw me through it and you forgave me. And you restored me back to the king, and God, I know that I can trust you with my future. How many folks here you're saved and know it? Say amen. Listen, if God can save our soul from hell, he can keep us throughout this life. House, uh Romans puts it this way, and I want to turn there by on time, but he puts it this way, if God spared not his own son And dying for our sins that we can be forgiven and cleansed. If he didn't spare Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, how on the- why makes you think He's not going to give us all the things that we need that he won't take care of us. Good night. If he does that for us, we can be confident he's going to take care of us. I think that's what David's saying Every saved person ought to have absolute confidence that God's going to take care of us. Because of what he's already done. So David knew what God had done for him in the past. God knows our heart. He knows if we mean business. He knows if we're trusting him or if we're just talking. He knows if our relationship is real or if it's just lip service. And if it's real and if it's sincere, we can be confident God's going to take care of us. I think the question I have to ask myself, I think the question we have to ask ourselves is: when are we going to get serious with God? When are we going to get serious about my relationship with my God and my Savior? The condition of my soul? When are we going to get serious? When are we going to start just trusting God? Uh I have a preacher friend of mine, an older friend, and and everybody here would know him, but there was a young fellow in his church that was just kind of playing with his Christianity. He's just toying. He'd go to church. He did all he was supposed to do, but this preacher, a friend of mine. And the young fellow told me he's older now, he's uh but he he said he said my pastor came to me, we were having a fellowship, and he pulled me aside and he said He said his name, he said, when are you going to get serious about living for God? When are you going to quit playing games and get serious about your relationship with God? This friend of mine said it broke them. It broke him. He said, God, I give you all. I'll trust you completely with my life. It wasn't a salvation. It was just total surrender, total confidence in the will of God, the plan of God, and the purpose of God for my life. David said, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to trust you. David knew what God had done for him in the past. David knew the promises of God. Look what he says there in verse 6. He said, thou wilt prolong the king's life, speaking of himself, and his years as many generations. God had given him great promises. Look at verse 7. He shall abide, he shall abide before God forever. David's confident that God's going to hear his prayers. He's confident that God's going to keep his promises. Look at the last part of verse 7. That's what I was looking for. Oh, prepare mercy and truth. which may preserve him. That word preserve means guard, watch over, keep, secure. David was confident God's going to take care of him. God wasn't going to abandon him. He wasn't going to leave him. I love, I love, love, love. Hebrews chapter 13 verse 5 Jesus said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. How many people say, Praise God to that? If I know Jesus Christ as Savior, he's never going to leave me. He says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. I have the presence of God. I'm secure in the Lord. And David understood that. He uses that word preserve. By the way. I find this fascinating. That word preserved is also used in Psalms chapter 12, the exact same word, referring to the preservation of the word of God. Would you agree with me? God's going to keep his word, amen or not? For all eternity, heaven and earth shall pass away, but thy word shall not pass away. The same word that he uses for the preservation of the Word of God, he uses for the preservation of the soul of the believer. Not a wonderful thing. David's got confidence, God. I'm yours. I'm in your hands. I don't know how this is going to play out, whether it's going to go the way I want or not, but whatever it is. You're never going to leave me. You've got a plan. You're going to take care of me through all of it. What a way to live. What a way to live. God will do what's best. David was confident. Whatever that may be I like what Jesus prayed. I reference it a lot. I actually pray it every morning in my devotions. When he was in Gethsemane before he is the night before he is to be, he's about to be betrayed within the hour. Judas come up, take them, they're gonna take them down, beat them. Bologna trial, just sham They're going to torture them, literally torture them nearly to death, and they're going to nail them to a cross, let them bleed and die naked before the world ripped to shreds The night before Jesus alone, the ends of the earth, he's alone. He said, Lord, and it's interesting, I think it's marked, he says, Abba Father. All things are possible unto thee. God, you can do anything. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And he makes the most powerful prayer I think has ever been prayed. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. What a prayer. I think that kind of catches David's idea. God, you've given me so many promises. You're perfect in wisdom. You're perfect in knowledge. I don't know what's going to happen with my son. But God, I just trust you. And whatever my will is, God, I want your will to be done because you always do right. You said you'd never leave me. You promised me, God, I'm trusting you. Would you agree with me? That's a great way to live. Completely trusting God. So David cries out, son rebels against him, he's brokenhearted, overwhelmingly brokenhearted. He cries out to God. He just pours his heart out fervently And then he says, God, I'm trusting you. I have confidence in you. And then last of all, I notice here is commitment to the Lord in verse number 8. So will I sing praise unto thy name forever. Huh? All this? You're crushed, you're overwhelmed, you're broken. And you're going to sing praise to God in the midst of all that? Yeah. I will sing praise unto thy name forever, that I may daily perform my vows. I think he's making a commitment to do two things. Number one, he's going to praise God forever. Good times, bad times. Up, down, sun, dark, storms, nice. I'm gonna praise God. I'm just gonna keep praising God. I'm gonna keep praising God. That word forever literally means perpetually, endlessly. Sometimes, would you agree? It's easy to praise God when all the bills are paid. Oh, praise God, all my bills are paid. Some of these some people are saying, I've never experienced that. Praise God, I'm out of debt. Come out of the doctor, he says you've got a perfect bill of health. Your blood pressure is perfect, your sugar level is perfect, uh, your your uh uh all your blood work is perfect, you're handsome. And uh he's never said that to me, but um and you walk out and say, Praise the Lord, right? That's easy, right? Let's put ourselves in David's shoes. His whole world is just devastated. He gets up off his face. I'm picturing this in my mind. He gets up off his face and he looks up to heaven. He said, God, I'm going to keep on praising you. Just like I did when I was on the throne. Just like when all our enemies were conquered and the uh and we were prosperous beyond anything Israel ever imagined. And God I'm going to praise you now also. I'm not skipping a beat. I'm not, I'm going to keep on praising you. And When we're up, we should praise the Lord. When we're down, we should praise the Lord. When we have money, we should praise the Lord. When we're broke, we should praise the Lord. When we're popular we should praise the Lord. When we're unpopular we should praise the Lord Perpetually, forever, continuously. Why don't you just decide this morning to praise the Lord? You know what we do? I'm guilty. I say we. You know what we do? We let our emotions determine our gratitude to God. Right? If everything's going well and my I'm happy emotionally, oh then I'll praise the Lord. But when everything starts falling apart and things are tough and uh and and uh my emotions are uh are afraid and they're they're chaos my emotions that's when get this this will help us that's when I praise God on purpose I praise God on purpose. I have certain truths in Scripture that help me praise the Lord. When I'm going through a tough time, I always go back and remember, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Okay, I can praise God for that Follow what I'm saying? Jesus coming back again. I can praise God for that. I'll never leave you. I can praise God for that. So David's making a decision. It's not his circumstance determining whether he's praising God or not. It's not his emotions. They're shot. They have been plowed over. He gets up and he says, I'm going to praise you. God, I'm going to praise you. For who you are and what you are and your promises and your goodness. So, number one, he determines, he commits himself to praise the Lord. And second of all, he commits himself to praise and to perform. Look at verse 8 again. I will sing praise unto thy name forever, that I may daily perform my vows. Perform my vows. In other words, he's saying, I'm going to keep my word, I'm going to keep on doing right. The word perform there, I thought this was interesting. The word perform there comes, the root word is shalom. Anyone here know enough Hebrew to know what shalom means? Peace. In fact, one of the phrases in Israel I was told years ago in Bible Kids was, Shalom Alekham. Peace be unto you. Alaikum shalom, and unto you be peace. That's what the word perform, the root word of it is peace. I thought, what in the world is that? How does that connect? I think this is what it's saying. I think this is what God's telling us. When we do right, we have peace of mind. We just do right. We be honest. We're kind. We're gracious. We give the benefit of the doubt. We love. And when we perform, when we do what is right, there's a peace of mind that comes to us regardless of our circumstances. The whole world can turn against me, but if I do right and I perform what is right, I can have peace in my heart and mind, even though everything else is against me. Are you with me? And David says, I'm going to praise you. I'm my son. Oh, I'm overwhelmed. I'm going to praise you, and I'm going to keep on doing right, and I'm going to keep on doing Right? If the stars fall, I'm gonna do right Do right, do right. Doing right produces peace of mind, regardless of the circumstances. I wrote this down. I was thinking this through and this came to my mind. It's never right to do wrong when everything is going wrong. Keep on doing right. Don't let your overwhelm, don't let your heartache Don't let your heartache become a justification for being unkind. Don't let your disappointments and your grief Become a justification for being selfish and hateful and bitter. Just decide I'm going to do right I'm going to do right. My heart is breaking, but I'm going to be kind. I tell you, I learned a lesson yesterday down at the parade. I was at the booth. I don't know if Derek was there or not. I I might have been by myself, but a little a little girl came up with her grandma. She said, I'd like little girl said that she was looking at the Bibles. I said, Would you like a Bible? And she was just like six or seven And um she goes yes and so we had different covers and I was helping her pick one out and I and then I showed her inside. There's a little coupon, you bring it, it's just the New Testament, you bring it, you get a whole Bible, bring it to church, we'll give you a whole nice Bible. And there's a gospel tract in there, and I said, this gospel tract will tell us how we can know for sure that when we die all our sins are forgiven, we go to heaven and not to hell. And the little girl, just six, like I said, six cute as a button. I mean just the cutest thing. Almost as cute as my granddaughter. Almost And she said, I know someone in heaven. I said, You do? I was thinking maybe grandpa or somebody. I said, who do you know in heaven? She said, my mommy. I said, I'm so sorry, sweetheart. And grandma spoke up and she said her mother passed away just two weeks ago I said, I'm so sorry, sweetheart. And then uh we talked a little bit and I was trying to share Christ with her a little bit. I said, something about her daddy came up. She said, my daddy's in jail. I said, I'm so sorry. I said, I'm going to write your name down. I'm going to pray. I'm going to have my friends and people pray. That God will help you. God will take care of you. And I said to grandma, I said, this, I said, your granddaughter has some tremendous challenges in life. And I learned something. Regardless of how my heart may be hurting, around me are people who are hurting also. I had no idea she was a cute she was an epitome of just a happy, carefree little girl, and yet she had such heaviness. I pray, God, help me to be kind even when I'm hurting. God help me to be loving even when people maybe hate me. David said, I'm going to keep doing right. I'm going to keep doing right. I'm going to perform my vows, God. Overwhelmed. What do we do when we're overwhelmed? Three things. I hope you'll get this. Pray. Pray. Hard. Get the family together. Pray. And then have confidence in God. Trust him. His promises. Trust him. And then commit to do right. Amen. Father, I pray you'd help us. Help us to learn from David here. Sometimes life hurts, sometimes it's hard. And I ask that you would teach us to trust you and pray and praise you and do right. At all times and all circumstances, and not let a broken heart make us bitter people Lord, if there's someone here this morning that does not know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, God, they desperately need you. Help them see that, Lord. Help them understand their need of Christ. So with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say this morning, say, Preacher, I need to learn to pray. I need to learn to get a hold of God. Maybe your heart's broken. I don't know. But I know this: that we can pray to God, and He's all powerful, and He's perfect in wisdom and love We can come. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me. That God will help me learn to pray. Any like that? I need to learn to pray. God bless you. Hands all around. I don't know what you're going through. I don't know what he got. I know this. God can answer prayer. We can pray. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I always tend to think negative. I always think, oh, it's not going to work, it's not going to be this, this. And I need to learn just start having some confidence in God that he will keep his promises and he will take care of me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need to learn to just start trusting, have confidence in God. God bless you. Hands all around. Just trust him. I'm going to trust him. And then maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I need to just determine I'm going to do right. I'm not going to let my broken heart, I'm not going to let my difficulties, my trials Justify or prompt me to do wrong. I'm just going to keep doing right. Keep on praising God no matter what. Is there anything like that? By the uplift of hand. God bless you. Hands all around. We need that One last question. Is there someone this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I need Jesus. I need to know that I have Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I need that Is there any like that if I'd left at the hand? Preacher, pray for me that God will help me get that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation time. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen.