Preacher may not understand this, but I woke up this morning and I said, Man, I get to preach today. That's the first thing I thought of. It's it gets exciting for me when I know I get to preach. I I I'm preaching about two hundred, two hundred and fifteen days I'll be you're sometimes more than that, as high as two hundred and fifty. So I get to preach a lot and church a lot. That's good because it's my favorite place to be, is in the house of God I love being in the house of God. I love being with God's people. I love enjoying seeing what God can do and wants to do in in in people's lives. We'll be in uh twelve churches by the end of April. So that's a lot. Uh I've got I think next week, week after, I've got a sportsman's banquet on Thursday, then I've got one on a Friday, two different churches, then I've got one on Saturday, and then I start a revival that next day And go all the way through. It's going to be an eight-day revival, which doesn't happen off of Sunday through Sunday. And uh we're going to be preaching on the Lord Jesus Christ every day, all the way through Easter. And I'm excited about doing that. My pastor at Cleveland Baptist Church in Cleveland Hall, Dr. Roy Thompson, he said the greatest year of his ministry, Cleveland Baptist Church, and I was there during that year. is he started at an Easter and he had a special speaker come in preacher and he wanted to preach of course on the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ and the man got up and preached on the incarnation On the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ as a child. He actually got mad while he's sitting there, he's thinking, man, I didn't bring this guy in for this. And the guy starts preaching, and he said about halfway through the message, the Holy Spirit began to convict him. If he hadn't come, he couldn't die, he couldn't be resurrected And God convicted him and to a point degree that he went to the altar that morning on an Easter service, and God convicted in his heart for him to start preaching on the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, on the works and statements of the Lord Jesus Christ, for the next fifty-two weeks, that's all he preached on. We went in that year At Cleveland Baptist Church, we went from 800 people to almost 1,500 people in attendance. Our church became a soul only church, and I watched God light a fire in my pastor. You listen, when you get in the Word of God, you get into any verse of the Word of God, when you find Jesus Christ in that verse, you went as deep as you need to go. Unless it's all about Him. It's he is the word. That's not our message this morning, but I've been I've been kind of keyed up this morning. I'm I'm excited today about what God is doing in my heart. I hope He'll do likewise in you. I love the house of God. I love to preach. And I love the work of the ministry. It's it's the most productive job you can have in the world. And God allows me to do it and I thank God for it. How many deer hunters do I have in here How many small game hunters? Hold your hand up. Don't be ashamed of it, man. That's part of being an American. I don't know how you guys were raised, but I had a dad that raised me. Dad, my dad had this philosophy that if you weren't in pain when you were in the woods, that you weren't having fun. That's just the way my dad's mindset was. You had to freeze to death. You had to be in pain. You had to be sitting on a rock. You know, you had to be in some position where it was absolutely horrible. And you had to stay there all day. My dad did not believe in coming out of the woods, especially during deer season. We would drive to go, my dad, that's the one vacation he took each year was to get to go deer hunting, and I didn't care what it did, if it was 20 below, if it was ninety-five You were going to be in the woods and you were going to be there all day. And that's just the way it had to be. So I had to learn to get comfortable, as could be. And finally, tree stands were invented. Praise God for tree stands. Because I a a rock gets so hard and so cold after several hours. You guys know what I'm talking about? You know where I'm coming from. I mean, you know Even when they set you next to a tree, you notice when you first sit down, you say, it's not bad. I'm in the leaves, cleared out a spot, it's not bad. But in 45 minutes, you've got a rock or something. You go to move and your dad's looking over and say, quite stop moving around, you know So you learn. You have to learn. Well, it's been maybe 15, 16 years ago, just before my dad started getting sick. I'd watched the weather, and it was calling for really, really cold weather in West Virginia during deer season. And I had a real good pair of Danner boots. You know, I'd got 'em when I went out west hunting. They were a good pair of boots. They were supposed to, you know, they're rated to keep your feet warm. None of 'em do that, of course, you know. And I'd start having more problems. I don't have circulation problems, got some neuroty in my feet And so my feet get so cold. And they go to hurtin'. And so I thought, man, I've got to do something. Sit in a tree stand all day. And so I got to looking online, Gander Mountain, back when they had a catalog. And I looked online and they had them boot blankets. You ever seen boot blankets? You ever seen them? Oh they're they're really neat, but they they're huge. They're this big thing that you actually get in your tree stand, then you slip this boot over top of your boots and you zip it up. It's this big insulated thing So I I bought me a pair. And we go on we go out getting ready to go out on the first morning. We all get up at four o'clock in the morning. I fixed breakfast for all the men and I had about six or eight guys from our church that went with us. So this is about twelve, fifteen of family members and church members that were there. And I get my pack together and I've got these boot blankets. They're not very heavy, but they're huge. And I've got them strapped on the back of my pack. And everybody starts making fun of me over these boot blankets You know, they're oh, that's what you need, you know. My dad especially, you know. That's not a man. A man's not gonna carry those in the woods. Well I get my tree stand that morning. And the wind's going about 30 miles an hour, so the windshield had to be below zero. It was cold. I mean, you know, I I pulled a scarf out and I've got it around my neck. And then I've got the face mask on. Then I take my toboggan and pull it down to work. It's just on top of my glasses, you know, so this is the only part that's showing, you know. And then I've got I've got my gloves on, and then I I have my muffin I've got my hands on I mean it is cold And I'm watching for deer and I'm hunting and about 9. 30, 10 o'clock, my feet start really getting cold. I thought, no blankets. So I get my boot blankets out of my pack off of my pack and I put them things on. Man in fifteen minutes my feet were like toast I thought, yes, I am set, man. I've got my lunch, got my water, and I was good all day about two o'clock in the afternoon. I mean the rest of the guys when guys are just starting to come back into the woods I have this guy drive drive this big buck. He's he was a real, real nice nine-pointer. Comes right up by me. I shoot it, go to the ground, I go down and gut it. I get back up my tree stand. I'm warm as a toast. I'm just enjoying the day Get back in the truck. Everybody meets back after dark. We all get down the truck. These guys are crying, whining. Two of them have been in the truck for four hours, freezing to death. Here I come with my deer. You know. Only guy out of the group that day to get a deer. Who's laughing now? Next year, every one of them. Boot blankets. Every guy. We had two new guys go with us. Gotta get you a set of them boot blankets. It wasn't yours cold that year. Where are you going with this, preacher? Ephesians chapter 6. Drop down there to verse 11. Ephesians 6, verse 11. Jason talked about the book of Ephesians in Sunday school, if you were with us. Talked about the first four chapters dealing with setting in the Lord. That time of fellowship, that backside of the desert experience with Jesus Christ. That's the only thing that empowers us to walk through the Christian walk, to have a testimony that edifies the Lord uh the believer and and and builds the believer. And then we come to chapter 6. And folks, if ever we needed the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ to stand, it's today. Can I say something to you? I had a tremendous amount of respect for the men in my life. Dr. Roy Thompson was my hero. Dr. Larry Clayton's one of my heroes. My dad was my hero. Old W. E. et al. and G. B. Veck. These were my heroes. Oswald Smith is on the sword of the Lord. I got to hear him preach about two dozen dimes at our church. Heroes. I can never feel them shoes, but their hour is not this hour. This hour is your hour. This hour is my hour. This is my moment. This is the time for me to stand. They didn't have the opportunity to stand this hour. You do. I do. This is our time to stand. And when I come to Ephesians chapter 6, it talks about us standing. It says there in verse 11, it says, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places, wherefore take up uh take upon you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day and having done all to what? To stand. To plant our feet and not be moved. As the world goes, we don't go with it. Just a little ways behind. We stand. We stand. Father in heaven, bless our time together this morning. Oh God in heaven, I would ask you, Lord, that you would do something in each heart here. Lord, there may be some folks in here this morning. They may attend. They may be a regular, but they're not settled in their salvation. They're not born again. They know it. But they're deceived in their own hearts. And Father, maybe this morning is their hour of salvation. Lord, we've got some folks here this morning. They're absolutely burdened down with the sin of yesterday. Father, the memories of yesterday, the defeats of yesterday, has confused them, has defeated them, has ruined them for today, and they're unable to stand. Lord, we have some folks here today that because of sin is squandering this day away, consumed, consumed with their own selves. Instead of their purpose of being here is to glorify your name and to serve you. Lord, we have some folks here this morning, O God in heaven, that their worries about tomorrow have defeated them for the day. And Lord, we'd ask today that you'd build us up, that we'd self-determine. That we are going to stand by the grace of God. Lord, may we understand today how it is so necessary for us to put on the whole armor of God that we might be able to withstand the spiritual wickedness. That's before us, around us, and desires to destroy us. Lord, may we understand the warfare that we're in today, and we'll give you the praise for what you can and will do in our hearts and lives in Jesus' name Amen. To put on, that's what that verse says, right? Put on the whole armor of God. To put on means to put something on you that's necessary. To clothe yourself in something that's necessary. My boot blankets were necessary for the climate that I was in, for me to stay, for me to Performance the purpose of me being in the woods, I needed my boo blankets. The Bible says here that you're to put on That means you don't necess you don't have it now. It means you've got to put on the homework of God. It's necessary. You must be clothed in it for you to be able to stand in the day we're in. If you don't Then not only will you not stand, but you will not have a Christian testimony to walk through life. You'll be inconsistent, you'll waver, and people will not see in you Christ. If that's true, that means you have no relationship with Jesus Christ. I'm working backwards. So therefore, we must have that relationship. We must have that testimony. But most of all, we must stand. And to do that, we've got to put on the whole armor of God. Now I'm going to use a very simple acrostic today, that word put. If I may do that, I want to deal on it. I'm going to give you three points right up front. First of all, the word put, P, is perspective. And our perspective is how we look at yesterday. The perspective of yesterday. Secondly, it's the letter U. It deals with utilizing the day. If ever there was a day we need to utilize today and not waste it, it's now So we must have the right perspective of yesterday. We must utilize the day. Now listen to me, and then T. We must trust God for tomorrow. We must trust God for tomorrow. That means we have to be men and women, boys and girls, of faith If this world is going to be saved, if this church is going to be full, if that missions board is going to fill up, if we're going to reach the world for the Lord Jesus Christ, if we're going to still be the mission warehouse of the world that we're going to have to have faith. We're going to trust God, folks. Your preacher's going to get next Sunday and not to steal this Sunday, but he's going to talk about how the Philippines is sending missionaries. all around the world. I've been to three mission fields in the last several years and all of them had more Filipino missionaries than American missionaries. I praise God for that. But we should still be the mission warehouse of the world. We should. And we're not. How do we put on that which is necessary? How do we clothe ourselves in the whole armor of God? I'm going to ask you that question. It's simply through perspective, utilization, and trust. It's how we look at things. Now I've got a simple visual. I'm going to use several of them this morning. This is my first one. Now this is the my I don't how your wives are and ladies are. My my wife is not a big picture person, but she likes family pictures. So we've got family pictures all the way through. I don't know if you've ever done it here, but our church, you know, used to put a directory out when I was pastoring And so about every couple years we put a new directory out. Well, I planned this directory for this year. It was in the middle of July And I did it on a Sunday afternoon. I don't remember why I did it that way. I just remembered that from the time I set up, my wife complained at me. You ever give those things your wife rides you about? I mean she just started on on. She said, Howard, first of all, why did you plan it for July? I said, I don't I don't remember, honey. But listen, this is when I get old Olin Mills was doing it for us and they are coming in, then they're going to do it for us. And so and she goes, and why Sunday afternoon? I said, well everybody's in church. She said, honey Do you have any idea of what we're going to look like? We worked a bus together at the time. And I always went back with her when I could. And so and all my kids worked the bus. So it was the middle of July and of course it was a hundred degrees. And it's always a hundred degrees on any bus you ride in the summer We're right in Baltimore, right down in Baltimore City. And so we had my wife had two buses running that day. So I told her, I said, I'll ride one with a couple of kids, you ride the other one going back. We got our drivers all set up and I don't know how many kids she had. She had 130 and 40 kids on our two buses. And so by the time we got back to the church Most of the people already had their pictures taken and I walk in and I always look like a slob anyway. I just I can't help it. I can walk near a vehicle and dirt jumps out on me. At least that's what my wife says She says, How how is it, Howard? You can just get near dirt and it jumps on you. I said, Oh no, honey. I just that's me. I'm a slob. I can't help it. And so I go in, I'm trying to, I'm sweating, I don't perspire, I sweat. I'm just sweating everywhere. And my little girl here, this one right here, this next to me, well, she's the only one I had that had dark hair like me And she's just like me. Now she's not in here so I can say this. And she's thirty-five now, so she would die if she was in here. But she sweats just like I do. I mean she just perspires just like I do. So her hair was absolutely matted to her face, you know. And my wife, she says three times to me, getting off the bus, look at me, look at me, look at me, I said, Hi, I'm looking at you. You're beautiful. No, look at me. Okay, what do you want me to say? You look bad? I I'm not getting away with that. You can't say you your wife you look bad So she goes in and ties her hair back, you know, she's got it all wrapped backwards. You see the picture of her right there. And she's trying to blow dry the girl's hair, the sweat out of it, you know, to try to get to get this family picture This is the only family picture it's in my bedroom. I love this picture. She says, this is the one you want in the room. In fact she got mad when I took it out of the frame. I said, yeah, that's my my favorite picture. Why? Well, this picture helps me with perspective. You listen to me. This one gives me perspective. See, I can sit down with my family now. All my kids are married. Got 13 grandchildren. And on our 40th wedding anniversary, we all got together. And I sat and listened to my children. I listened to them talk about their memories. What was important. What was their favorite times? It wasn't vacations, preacher. It was uh riding on that bus. Getting out on a visitation together. It's cleaning up after a funeral, mopping the floors together, laughing at one another. That's all they talked about. Every one of them. Isn't it funny how that two people can have the same circumstance in their life? At the same time and the perspective of it is totally different years later when you sit down and talk to them. And I love listening to each one of my children who are a hundred percent different. In fact, if If you look at Jason, you see a preacher and a man of God, and to listen to his four sisters, you'd think he was the devil incarnate Dad, you don't understand it. Used to stand us up against the wall and throw knives at us. Dad, you don't understand it. Used to pat practice baptizing in grandma's pool and hold us under for four minutes at a time. I said, honey, you would have ground on that Ask grandma, she'll tell you he did, you know. She says he's the best brother they ever had. He's the only brother they ever had. But he was the oldest and evidently he was pretty rough on him I love listening to them. Take your Bible and go back with me to the book of Job. Job chapter 32. I've got two verses here in Job I want you to look at, but Job chapter 32. And we'll pose a question to you, and in this question, I want you to try and get a perspective Of what God is saying here in Job chapter 32. Verse 6, the Bible says, Elihu, the son of Barakel, the Buzzite, Answered and said, Job 32, I am young, and ye are very old. That's got where that bothers me now. Do you ever notice how young people now they never tell you you're old, they always say, boy, you're really old. Do you know the Lord even does that one point in scriptures? You're very old. I am young, and ye are very old, wherefore I was afraid and durst not show you my opinion. I said, days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom But there is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. They should speak. In other words, if today's your last day, what is today going to say in eternity for you? I I have tried over the last year to examine my life, and I don't do it every day, and I'd like to say that I did, but I'd like to think that every morning when I wake up I say, if today's the last one, what's this day going to say in eternity? Because today is really all that I have. This day. And day should speak, July 4th, 1776, defined America, did it not? It declared our independence. It declared we were going to be a nation that was under God. That we would would adapt with our Bill of Rights. Biblical principles would establish the way our nation runs December 7th, 1941. Would you not say that that was a day that defined America and redefined us? Of course it did. We motorized, we mechanized. Hey, listen, w we we we changed the way we looked at the world. In fact, the world became global with the Second World War and us going into it. Sad to say, January twenty twenty-second, nineteen seventy-three, when Roe vs. Wade was the term legal according to the Supreme Court. And we legally begin to murder babies. That was part of the sexual revolution, was it not? And with that taking place, with that taking place, was it not, listen to me, was it not redefining us as a nation? So when last year on June 26th Actually, the way we look at marriage was redefined. Should we be surprised? See, each of those days defines America. Now the truth of it is there may be a time and place in your life that you got saved and that di that day you became a child of God, but what does today say about you? In other words, what does your days say? What does your days say? I mean, the truth of it is, if I don't put on the whole armor of God, if my perspective is not right, if I'm not utilizing today, if I'm not trusting God for tomorrow, then listen now. Then I am not putting on the whole armor of God. I've not utilized the armor of God. I'm not I'm not efficient as a born-again Christian. Perspective about yesterday. Me looking at yesterday. When I look at my family, then I think of, listen, my service for God and what it produced. Uh my God, my family being involved, I watch many preachers draw their children away because of the the burden of the church and the church spying on their kids and watching kids and they they do spy. People spy on preachers' kids because they're always trying to catch them in something. And you know, and I told I used to tell church, you're always going to catch my kids. My kids are little dirty sinners. I know why, because her mother's a dirty sinner It's gonna happen. It's gonna take place. But I made sure that my kids never allowed that to create rebellion in their lives. And and I I made sure that my children realized what a privilege it was to get to meet missionaries and evangelists and have them in our home and and have them there on their church property and what a privilege it was to get to serve God together as a family. And that stuck We've got a problem. Listen, the Christians of the 1960s and 1970s, they keep yearning for yesterday. We don't yearn for yesterday. We learn from yesterday. Our job is to learn from what we went through. I look at those pictures, that's why God gives us a memory. We look at those mental pictures to teach us. How that we can teach others and how that we can be firm and we can have great oaks growing up in this tree, this church that other Christians that are young in the Lord can cling to and go around and learn from That's why we have a body of believers. That's the purpose of us. We shouldn't be yearning for yesterday. We should be learning from yesterday. Look back there at Job chapter 8. Look there, Job chapter 8 and verse 8. You're right there in the book. It says, For inquire, I pray thee, of the former age, verse eight, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers. For we are but of yesterday and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow. Shall not they teach thee and tell thee and other words out of their heart? Yesterday should teach us the things that we've been through and our experiences. I don't want to be a yesterday Christian. I want to be able to stand up before you say, listen, I see I saw people saved last night I got to deal with a man that was right across from me last night. I don't want it to be twenty years ago or thirty years ago. I want to hear my daughter call me in, tell me the experiences that they're having, her husband and my two grandchildren out in Wyoming, and them serving in the Lord in the church and how they serve together and how that little Cammies doing a puppet show this morning down in junior church and And and how Seth is is is giving testimony at the youth rally. How my son-in-law is preaching the word of God and how there's a family, they're serving together the way she learned to do it 25 years ago. Now how does that happen? How does our perspective stay right? Well, he says it right there in Job chapter 32. If you want to flip back there, I want you to look at that verse. It says there on verse 8 of chapter 32 of Job. But there is a spirit in man. And the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them, listen to me, understanding And I see this disappearing in our local churches. Understanding. Understanding is a perceptive insight. It's the ability to judge righteously. It is knowledge and knowing how to use it righteously for his glory and your own good. If I was to take the time, I could go back over to Romans chapter 1, and I could see that in Romans chapter 1 we see depravity take place. You see the progression of man turning to animals and then and then turning to each other. We see the progression of unrighteousness All the way down to that which is reprobate and rebellion. And right down there, toward the end of that chapter, you're going to come to a verse where it talks about, and there is no understanding. No righteous perspective. No ability to see righteously. I listen to people all the time talking about yesterday, and their perspective is all out of whack. I listened to people talking, born-again people, about the candidates for today. People that sat under people just like Dennis Leatherman. Set under like people like my pastor Dave Martin in Martin in Winchester. And I listened to them talk and they're talking about yesterday and they're looking at candidates and I'm thinking What? Where is their righteous perspective? Where is their understanding? I don't have all the answers, but I have a book that gives me all the answers. And we lack understanding today because we don't have the right perspective of yesterday. We're not learning from yesterday. We've got candidates running on the Republican ticket right now That listen, they're liberal, they're unsaved, they're unrighteous, they're immoral. And I've got born-again Christians voting for them. Where's their understanding? They say now you're into politics. Yes, but that applies to every facet of life. I've got parents that are that are listen. They're condoning the sin of their children. They're supporting the sin of their children. To win their friendship or to buy them out of their sin. They're sending their kids to hell. With that type of life uh that type of lifestyle and that type of condonement we need the right perspective of yesterday. God says he would give us understanding. That's what he says right there in Job chapter 32. In Luke chapter 1 that says, it seems good to me also having had Perfect understanding of all things from the very first to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theopolis. God gave Luke at the very beginning of the book perfect understanding Wow. God wants that for every one of us. In fact, I don't believe you can put on the whole armor of God unless you have biblical understanding that God may be able to impart to you wisdom that you might use that understanding correctly. What good is all the knowledge that we have at our fingertips on our phone or our iPad today? What good is all that knowledge if we don't have biblical understanding? That comes from the right perspective of yesterday. That's where that comes from. What's God say in Proverbs 3:5? I'm sure it's been a memory verse in this church at one time or another. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own. Understanding. What's that say to me? It says, Howard, you cannot trust you. You cannot trust your your desire for what you want in life. You can't trust what your desire is in making money. You can't trust yourself, Howard. You can't trust yourself when it comes to looking at your kids because you want, listen, you want to excuse your kids, you see your own sin in your kids. And it's easy for us to do that. God says, no, you don't trust your own understanding. I will give you an understanding that's righteous. I will give you a righteous perspective that you might utilize the wisdom of yesterday. And the understanding of yesterday to make you effective today Proverbs 7. 7, the Bible says, and beheld among the simple ones. I discern among the youths a young man. The Bible says, void of understanding. God says in Proverbs 13:15, good understanding giveth favor, but the way of transgressors is hard We live in a society today and I expect it of a society society today that has either no understanding or they're totally void of understanding. I don't expect any more out of our politicians, I'll be honest with you, because they're not saved people, they don't have biblical understanding. They don't have it. They listen, that's why the liberals and the unbelievers and those people that are against God are trying to rewrite our American history. If they can rewrite American history, then they can give their slant, their understanding, which is, listen, which is carnal and not of God. You know it's very easy for us in our minds to excuse our sin of yesterday. It's very easy in our minds to make the way we live better. We look at ourselves as better. All of a sudden we were the we were the tackle on the football team. By the time we're 50, you know, we were the quarterback. You know, that's the way we have a tendency to do in our minds. Either that or the devil burdens us down with all the things that we've done wrong in life where we're ineffective. It's very important that our perspective be righteous of yesterday. It's very important that we allow God to give us a biblical understanding. For when we look back on yesterday, we see it as it is. And the things that are righteous and important are these kind of things. You do understand that the only thing you can take to heaven is people. That's it. That's it. You ask any any one of my children what was important to daddy, and they'll tell you it wasn't things. It was what we did together as a family. I told him it's us, it's not what you have, it's who you are. It's who he is in you. They grew up hearing that time and time and time again. That's why I bragged on Jesus today. That all my kids are serving God. And I've got three more of my grandchildren to accept Christ. As soon as they get old enough, Papa will be hammered away and grandma will be right there at the fate. And and and my daughters and my son are always pressing toward the church. Of course right now, I praise the Lord, my two, Jason's two oldest, James, he said the one in Sunday school that thinks he knows everything. He's w he's won over sixty people to Christ this year. He's a soul winner. He loves souls. I told him, I said the last time I watched him deal With a boy his age, and I watched him leading Christ and watched him sit there and tears. I said, You know, I finally have hope for you. Because the boy doesn't think. The boy, when it comes to spiritual things, I'm watching God begin to mature him. You've grown into a man of God. Yeah. Woo! I'm sorry. When I get my grandson out there in Wyoming, he was the text in his papa. And texting these scriptures encouraged me. Man, I've got something to do, don't I? See, right perspective of yesterday. Comes with biblical understanding. Brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen. Then we come to today. Utilizing today. Take your Bible and go over to Ephesians chapter 5. I know it was gonna be this way this morning. Jason says, Dad, I have a good group of kids down there. Don't you leave me down there all day with them I said, I'll try. He says that means nothing to me, Dan. Ephesians chapter five. I love verse one. It's been uh seven, six years ago. Uh I was building a new puppet stage for vacation bible schools. And I love to come up with the theme and I love to come up with a new puppet stage every year and and I do all the building on them. I love to I love to work with my hands. And uh Jason's middle boy, Ben. Ben's ten now, but I guess he was four or five at the time. Maybe five. And Ben hates been inside. He hates video games, he hates iPads, he hates all that. He'd rather be outside playing. I love that. But he also likes to work with his hands. And I was out there working on the public stage, and Jason was supposed to be working with me, but he couldn't. And so I was trying to handle four-bate sheets of plywood by myself. and and the two before as I was trying to work my you know, sometimes it's awkward when you don't want some help. And Ben decides to be my helper. And he loves he loves that kind of stuff anyway. So every time I turned around to reach for a tool, my tool belt, he'd be standing there grinning and holding it He'd be reaching to my belt, getting it. He'd have my tape measure, then he had my pencil, then my and then he had my square. And he would just be grinning at me And I say, I appreciate it, buddy, but Papa's trying to work and I'd get it from him and I'd go back to work. Well I had to go get some materials the next morning, went to Lowe's, into Winchester, went to Lowe's, and I'm standing there at the cash out and they and they had uh they had little boys tool belts And it wasn't them plastic jobs, it was a real leather tool belt, had real tools, they were just miniature. And had a little hard hat And I thought, man, Lord, I ain't gonna pay for this, but Ben is getting that one way or other. So I bought him this thing. I took it home. I got out of the truck, and he's waiting on me. To help. He's this is like the third or fourth day. And I've been trying to paint. He had to paint his hair. It just uh that was Ben. And so I get my tool this little tool belt and I put the thing on him. He slept for it. slept in it on four or five days. His mother says, he's got to get that belt off. He's got a big hammer placed in his side. He wouldn't take the thing off. But anyway, he got it all on him. And I start working and I'd take my tape measure, I'd put it on my four baits, she'd probably win, I stretch it out, and I look over my shoulder, and he'd taken his tape measure out, and he'd hooked it onto the chair, and he'd pull it out, he was watching and imitating everything I did. Verse 1, chapter 5. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. What's that mean? That means we're to imitate the Lord Jesus Christ in everything we do. We're to be imitators of God. You say, how do I utilize today? Listen to this. Today is all you have. Yesterday is a spent check. Tomorrow's, listen, a promissory note you may never see or get. This is it Oh, if I could hammer one thing into you this morning, don't you realize that, listen, you go through the same way, the same day, every day. What a waste. What a waste. You can only watch so much of the Andy Griffith show. I'm sorry. You texting 5,000 people, what in the world are you accomplishing? How much time do you spend with God? How well do you know God? How well do you understand God? How much do you serve God? If today is all you do, what's this day going to say? You say, well, I I I have part of the armor of God. That's not good enough. God says you've got to put it all on. It's all necessary. I had all my clothes on that day, but I had to have the boot blankets. I would have never lasted. You have to put on the whole armor of God. Chapter 5 of Ephesians, the Bible says, verse 2, and walk in love. As Christ has also loved us and has given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. What's it mean to walk in in love? That's simple, folks. There's nothing hard about this. You say, how do you walk in the love of the Lord Jesus Christ? You share his love with others. It's what we tried to do last night. It's what we did last week. You guys are easy to preach to. Last week the crowd I preached to was at a sportsman show. I had Episcopalians and Catholics. I had unbelievers. I had contemporaries. I listen, I had independent Baptists that won't even wear uh a blue shirt. I mean, I had every breed there is in that building I had guys that hunt 290 days out of the year. I mean, I had every kind of crowd in the world. I had people that were millionaires, and I had people that wanted to be millionaires. I had TV hosts and shows, also sportsmen show. Every year we have that crowd. What a crew to preach to. You're a piece of cake. Most of you people are like-minded to some degree. You agree with me on most of my doctrine. This was a crowd. But to get up and tell them that Jesus loved them. Jesus loved them. To have eight people get saved. Three of men, one of them was a Roman Catholic out of New New North Carolina, 71 years old. And here's here you say that's exciting. Oh, you you don't know exciting. Exciting was to quit there and in one hour the show was going to start. All these vendors had to be in their booths. And then I go up and down the aisles and and all of them wanting to talk to me had uh heart heart guns. He custom-built guns. He's got it on TV program. I go to his booth and him and his dad are sitting there with their Bible open and tears. What God had done for him that morning. Was it you? No, it wasn't me. It's just people hearing the unadulterated truth of the Word of God. Listen, a lot of people just don't get what you get every Sunday You're special. A lot of people in churches are raised up in churches, and they may even receive Christ at some point in their life. And they believe that, listen, they believe Jesus died from the sins, but they don't know the truth of the doctrine. And they only got partial truth and living right. And these people are hungry for truth. And to go up and down them aisles. That show opened at 1230. I didn't get to our booth. I even missed the show that Jason did with the birds The show was over at 5. 30. I got there 10 after 5 to help pack up. I dealt with people with my Bible. I've done that all afternoon. Wow! Man! Got in the truck, started home, and broke down. That's the way the devil works. He can't attack me in in eternity. He can only attack me now. I broke down, spent half the night sitting on the side of the road trying to get tow trucks to come get me, because I had a trailer on, trying to get a hold of my son-in-law who's in Winchester to come and get the trailer, and I sat there and just Smiling. Now I'm not always that way, but I'd had such a good day there was no way the devil was gonna run me of that. No way he was robbing me of that Two o'clock in the morning I finally pulled in and I talked to the tow truck driver all the way. I was only one I let Jason M go on with my son-in-law and I stayed with the truck and I said, Well Lord, maybe do you want me to talk to this old boy in the truck? And this old boy went to sight and sound And he had seen Moses. His wife had got saved four years ago. And he made a profession of faith in sight and sound, and I got to spend the entire trip, 62 miles, talking to him about assurance of salvation. That's why we're here. That's what we're here for. It's not about what you get to do. It's not about your your bills. It's not about your house. It's not about your grass. It's not about your landscaping. It's listen, it's not about your truck or your car. It's not even about your health. It's about what you do for Jesus Christ. It's walking in love. Verse 8 says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light. And the Lord walk as children of light. We should be intolerant intolerant of darkness, don't you think? Here we have this idea that when we get saved and the Holy Spirit comes in us, that we can utilize and use God and the truth of God and the understanding of God to do what we want to do. Do you see where I'm coming from? That's we have that idea that we can do that. Uh I don't even know if it's working. I think I brought it with me. I wasn't going to use it, but yeah, flashlight. Everybody uses flashlight filtration. We have this idea. That with light in us, that we can go do what we want to do, and the Holy Spirit will just go along with us. That's not the way life works. When I got saved, I have to be a new creature in Christ Jesus God says that in Romans chapter 12 that I'm to be conformed. For me to utilize the day, then that means when God does this, oh okay, that's where God wants me to go. But God, I want to go over there. Paul did that. He said, Lord, I'd like to do this. Lord said, no, I don't want you to do that right now. In fact, I want you to go to Macedonia. He said, We'll go over here. That's obedience. That's how I utilize the day. I don't do what I want to do. I had big dreams of evangelism. When I went to evangelism, there were some things I wanted to accomplish. You know what I do now I get in the backseat? I let the Lord drive. Lord, I I don't care if I'm the bird man. I don't care if you ever know my name As long as people have been edified and getting saved, I don't care. I really don't care. Whatever the Lord wants, then this is what I'm going to do by God's grace. You know, I was worried about support. I'll be honest with you. We we were we're two families. This last year I said, Lord, you know, we just can't live on the love offerings. I mean, I've got to pay my bills, I want to have a good testimony. Lord, you've got to take care of us Lord, please, would you meet this need? And I told my son, I'm stop asking, I'm gonna ask believing. So he and I got down to pray. We did it for two weeks solid. Do you know in the next three weeks I had four churches that support us, double our support, in four weeks What was God doing? He said, Harold, I'm going to take care of you. I'm going to take care of you, but I want you to live by faith. I'll give it to you as you need it. And that's what he's supposed to do. So if God says go over here, I go over here. Go over here. I'm our walk in light. If I walk in love and walk in light, I'm utilizing the day. One last one here. Go to the latter part of that chapter Verse 15 says, and then that ye walk circumspectly. See that right there? Not as fools, but as wives redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. God says we're to redeem the time. That we're to walk circumspectly. That means to walk wisely. Now I'm going to ask you a question. You just stop and think, what do you spend your time on? How do you spend your time? I don't know how many Christians that I deal with and I I actually preached this message in our church in Winchester and I asked them several questions and I I know those people well enough and I can take liberties in that church, Pastor let me, that I had people raise their hands I was amazed with their heads bowed and them raising their hands, how many people sat and thought about, and the way they thought about their sin of yesterday and how it defeated them today. Listen, you know that sin is paid for You do understand, you understand that you're as good as in heaven. You understand that if you're saved this morning? Do you understand that you're washed in the blood of Jesus Christ? God doesn't clean halfway. He doesn't need tithe. He doesn't need ham and har arm and hammer. He's got the blood of Jesus. I'm covered. I'm taken care of. My sin's done away with. I'm not going to be beat up over yesterday. That's why he saved me. That's why I need him. I'm imperfect. I can't do it. He can. Man, we ought to be living victorious lives, and people are not going to get saved. They're not going to visit this church. They're not going to come through them doors if they don't see the light in you. They don't see the love in you, and you're not walking circumspectly, redeeming the time. The people next door to us in Cleveland Baptist Church, we invited to church for three years, the entire time we lived in the house. And not one time would they go to church with us. Not once. After we got out of Bible college, my dad and I went to Bible college together. After we got out of Bible college, we went back to Cleveland to preach one Sunday. Dad preached Sunday morning, I preached Sunday night. I had our next door neighbor walked up. The people that bought our house was out of Cleveland Baptist Church. They was in the house two weeks. And they invited him and said, You you can't tell me you go from the same church that Caldwells are from. Yeah, well, it's from the same church You bought the house. Yeah, we bought the house. And David had invited them to revival services. They went to revival services, got saved. He was called to preach and starting a church in Lakewood. Why? Because they said you n listen, we could set our clock by you guys going to church By you going to church. You never cut the grass, you never did anything. You weren't inviting us to something at the church and trying to talk to us about the Lord. Walk in love, walk in light, redeeming the time. I had a little Volkswagen bug. If you can imagine me in a bug, okay. I took the seat and welded it into the back to where I could drive that thing. It had autopilot. It never went into Cleveland. It didn't go to Tetamin Road and the Cleveland Baptist Church. Let me tell you something, folks. We're not sold out anymore Because we don't listen. Our perspective of yesterday is wrong. We don't have the understanding of God in our lives. We're not putting on the whole armor of God. We're not clothed. And and listen, in the right we're not utilizing today. I'm I got a point I want to make here. Let me make this point with you Take the bottom of this box. Today is a gift. Maybe a simple object lesson, but today is a gift. Today is all you have. I don't know how preacher, I can't speak for your pastor, but I feel a sense of urgency right now that I've never felt in my ministry Maybe it's because of my age, I don't know. Maybe because I have had some health problems, I don't know. Maybe it's because of losing dad last year, but I'd like to believe That it's because I see the apathy in our churches, the lack of defense and offensiveness in our churches, the lack of us standing up for righteousness, too many empty pews. Too few young people. Not enough. You folks that are 55 and older, that are saved and born again, do you realize the responsibility you have? To help these young younger couples have perspective today. Do you realize how many of these younger couples that your preacher is dealing with all the time that you witness to, have no understanding of what it means to have a daddy that loves them or a mommy that understands and cares for them Now it's quiet. You're you're supposed to listen, you're supposed to be the ones in this church that when the winds of this world blow through this church. That those people can cling to. They can look at and you can say, oh listen, we've been through that before. Here's what God can do and will do for you. That's convicting, isn't it? Today's a gift. We need to utilize today. We need to listen. We need to imitate Jesus Christ. Walking, listen, walking in love, walking and light, redeeming the time. The days are evil. I've got one more point and I'm done. How about trusting God? It's a short point, folks. Because this is what I've seen more than anything else in over almost 360, I think it's almost 365 churches now. Why don't we trust God? Psalm 78. 8, the Bible says, It might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God. When the children of Israel came out of Egypt They cried out to Moses that the Egyptians were going to kill him, and God saved them. Then, once God saved and they got through the Red Sea, they started crying out that they were going to die of thirst, better that they were back in Egypt. Am I right? Then they cried out that they were going to starve to death. Wanted to stone the man of God. All they did was worry. Did you ever notice that? I mean, they just went from God blessing them to right back into worrying about a circumstance again. Is that a lack of faith? That's a lack of trusting, isn't it? Now, I don't want to be too hard on you, but you listen to me. I come from a long line of fretors. My mother, if my mother doesn't have something to worry about, she'll invent something. My mother loves the Lord. But she just she's allowed herself her entire life to worry about things. And she kind of transferred that gift to me. I'm always worrying so much about tomorrow. I mean it can be the election, it's gonna be president, what the stock market's gonna do, and We're going to have enough support come in. God's going to give us enough love offering to meet our needs. You know what's the doctor going to say? And you catch yourself at two o'clock in the morning lying in bed worrying about it and awake Oh, I got you now. Oh, I see the faces. Can't hide that. I used to think it was just women, but men are just as bad as women. They just don't show up and won't admit it. We're no different than the children of Israel. See, because we don't have the right perspective of yesterday, And because we're not utilizing the day and we're just working for the Lord, you know, when you work for the Lord, you go home physically and spiritually exhausted. That's the way we ought to be. That way you get a good night's rest. But instead, we sit around all day defeated by yesterday or lying about yesterday and and and listen destroying today worrying about tomorrow You know what I'm telling you is the truth. It's the truth. Now, I'm going to present this as something, and it's either one or the other. But what did I just read, dear? I said, and might not be as their fathers a stubborn and rebellious generation. Did you know that worry and rebellion are bedfellows? And you may not look at worry as rebellion against God, but what you're saying when you lie in bed worrying about tomorrow. Now listen to me. What you're saying is that God's asleep. God's dead. I'm not trying to be irreverent to the Lord. God is dead, or God doesn't care about you, all of which is a lie. God knows exactly what you're going through. God has suffered every temptation, every heartache, ever abuse you've ever had or ever will God knows exactly where you're at and what it takes for you to be what you ought to be. And God just wants you to surrender to Him and trust Him. That's what God's after. God wants you to trust Him. I've got a daughter that's having surgery the 17th of this month. I've not got to be there for one thing that my daughters had done. God allowed me to be at home when my dad passed away. But the truth of it is, even when my pastor died, I was preaching a revival and I called his wife and she says, Don't you dare come home. Uh up come up here to Cleveland. She said Roy would turn over at his grave if he knew that you're skipping a revival to be at his funeral. Listen to me, folks. I've got a job to do. I'm not saying I'm neglecting. I'll be praying with my daughter. But the truth is I can't do anything for her if I'm there. But I can when I'm preaching the gospel. And listen, my daughter's on her way to heaven. Last January I'm I'll close with this. Last January. I don't know if I told it here, but our first thing dinner of the of the year, we were supposed to be up near Breezewood, Pennsylvania to preach a church first time second time they've had a sportsman's banquet. And my daughter-in-law called me and she said Jason was passed out. He was laying in the kitchen floor. I live about 150 yards from the house and I I just threw the phone down took off. Ran across the field, got up on just as I got in the door, Jason had come to, and he he was laying on his elbow. And so I went down, got on my knees, and I said, Son, what happened to you? He said, Dad, I don't know. He said, no night I woke up and he said my heart was beating so hard. He says I I can't get my breath. I said, well let me call an ambulance. He said, please dad. Don't he said it called so much last time we called an ambulance. He said, please don't do that. He said, just give me a minute and help me get up. Well, I went to raise him up with this little bit man. He went right out again. Bam. That's why that's it. Well, I had no sooner did his head hit, his outfit just said he looked up and he goes, I went out again. Don't you dare call an ambulance. Please, Dad, don't. So I I told uh Tanya to go out and start the truck. I got him in the truck and I rushed him to Winchester. As soon as I got him to Winchester. Of course they admitted him. He had passed out twice in the car. He was an AFib 39 years old. His heart was up over 180, 200 beats a minute and stayed that way for eleven hours. So we were supposed to leave at 12 that day. I uh I got him hospital and I said, well what can you do for him? They said, well, he they just explained what was happening. I they couldn't explain why it was happening. Finally they looked over and they said, listen, what we need to do, we need to just shock his heart back into rhythm. I said, you mean you're gonna put paddles on him? He said, yeah. I'll just shock him. He said, no big deal. May not be a big deal to him, but it's a big deal to me. It's a big deal to his mother. And so I went into Jason and and I looked at him and I said, son, I said, uh, they're gonna shock you back. He said, yeah, the the doctor just came and explained it to me what they're gonna do And uh and I said, well, I said, I've got to call that preacher. He said, What are you calling that preacher for? I said, Well, you're they're gonna shock you and I'm gonna do it till three o'clock. I said, that thing starts at five at Sportsman's painting. He said, Dad, man, you gotta go preach You can't stay here. He said, you've got to go on. I said, no, I don't know, Jay. I said, I don't I don't know, son. I'd rather be here with you. He said, Dad, hey, listen, God wants to take me. He's going to take me. He can't He said, You go, Dad. Just go. He said, Tony, I'll keep you abreast of what's going on. I'll be honest with you, very hard for me to drive on up there. My and getting my wife in the car was not an easy deal. Not an easy deal. I took my oldest grandson James. We went up there, set up just like we did here last night. James helped me set it all up. I did the first part that Jason usually did. I did the second part right between the first part and the second part. My phone dust in my pocket I picked it up, looked at it, daughter-in-law text. Came through it fine. Gonna let him go home tomorrow. Stuck it back in my pocket, got it and preached, had eleven people get saved. Now, was you trusting God? I had no choice. It's personal illustration. That's all I have is my life. But what I'm telling you is we've got to trust God. And we've got a job to do. And it can't be about us. It's got to be about him and our service for him. You say we're your preacher. No, we're all Christians. If we're saved, that's our job. To have the right perspective of yesterday, to trust God and utilize God today. I mean utilize today and then to trust God for tomorrow. What happens, happens. America's on a downhill slide, folks But the Church of Jesus Christ must stand. We must become the lighthouse we need to be. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I know I preached long this morning. I'm not going to apologize for it. I'm just uh I'm acknowledging it, okay? But with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Can I talk to you that are saved first? What is your perspective like of yesterday? Are you utilizing today? What would your day say? And how about tomorrow? You know, there's room for yesterday and today, but there's no room for rebellion in today. There's no room for that. There's no room for that worry in today. There's no room for it. We're to be people that live by faith and trust God When Paul was in the jail cell, he shined. When Peter was in jail, he shined. When they were martyred, they were shining. Folks, are we shining today? With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, listen, in one of those areas, I have problems in my Christian walk? I have problems, preacher. Would you pray with me this morning? Just raise your hand up and let me know. All over the auditorium, people raise their hands. I'm with you 100% I'm with you, but listen, we need revival in our churches today, and we can't have it unless the church of Jesus Christ is armored to the teeth. We must put on the whole armor of God and we can't do it without the perspective of yesterday being right. Folks, I know all kinds of people that are worrying all the time, but worry, listen, worry is like a rocking chair. It's something to do, but it won't get you anywhere. All it'll do is defeat you in today Anyone else say, preacher, pray with me. I'm over fifty-five. It's very easy for me to get stale in my walk with Jesus Christ. Oh God, give me a renewed passion and I may be oh God bless you. That I may be what I need to be in this church and to my community, to the couples in this church. Somebody else. Bless your hearts all over the auditorium. Now let me be very personal with you a minute. Listen, you cannot survive in this life or the hereafter without Jesus Christ It's all about Him. If you're here this morning, there's a time and place in your life that you listen, you may even prayer to prayer, pray to prayer, but you have no victory in your life. You're gonna have a personal relationship. with Jesus Christ. Listen, you're like Jason talked about in Sunday school this morning. You can't measure anything in your life as far as Christian growth. There's no fruit on your tree. Then you need to examine your hearts whether or not you're even born again. I'm telling you, the days are short. Jesus is getting ready to come back. So someone here this morning raise their hand and say, preacher, I've got concerns about my eternity. I I people in this church know me, but the truth of it is it's got to be between me and God, and I have no victory because I'm not sure that I I'm saved. I have doubts in my life about my my my salvation. Is there someone like that? Just raise your hand up and back down Anyone at all. I'd love to pray with you and for you. Let's stand to our feet this morning. Heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm gonna have a word of