Alright, thank you, Brother Mike. Um I was gonna walk around tonight and Brother Tim back there told me I shouldn't do that because uh I need to not wear a lapel mic. No, really I wasn't planning on walking around to I Um tonight I just want to bring us a simple um uh little bit of milk from God's Word. And uh it was one that I spoke with the teens about uh what was it maybe a couple weeks ago? Um we're gonna speak tonight on the parable of the sower. And many of you guys are familiar with this with this parable itself. It's in three of the gospels. And uh I you know, I've always felt like over the years like this is one of the most important, maybe the most important parable. And uh maybe we can discover as to why that is. Um but uh definitely God reveals to us in this parable uh a way to to examine our hearts and our and our behavior, our actions in life and uh and uh so we want to be attentive to what God has to say about that. So let's open our Bibles And uh the version uh or the you know the the particular gospel I want to go to is the gospel of Mark. Let's go to chapter four. And I'm gonna begin reading here in verse one as soon as I find it. Everybody hear me alright? Sounds okay. Okay, the Bible says in uh book of Mark, chapter four, verse one, and he began again to teach by the seaside, and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so he entered into a ship and sat in the sea, and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine, Hearken Behold, there went out a sower to sow, and it came to pass as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up. And some fell on stony ground where it had not much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root it withered away And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased, and brought forth some thirty, and some sixty, and some a hundred And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for this uh parable that you've given us, Father, that uh reflects a truth that you would like us to understand. And God, I pray that you'd open our hearts and our minds to understand this truth. Lord, I pray tonight that if there be anybody in this uh in this room or in the sound of my voice that doesn't know Jesus is their Savior. Father, I pray that today would be the day that they would uh come to a saving knowledge of your Son and what He did for them on on uh on the cross at Calvary. Uh we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, well, before we discuss this parable, I I wanna I want us to note something. We want us to know how Jesus prepared this parable and how he closed this parable. Look with me at verse 3. Before we discuss the parable itself, look with me at verse 3. What's the first word? Hearken. And then look again, this is how he opens. This first thing he says, Harken, listen. And look in verse nine. After he's finished with the parable, what does he say? He says, and he said, and it says un and it's and he said unto them He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Now this phrase, if you've done any Bible reading at all, uh he that hath ears to hear, let him hear, is repeated all over the place in the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament And every time I read that, I've developed this habit of asking myself, did I just have ears? Did I hear? Maybe I need to go back. Maybe I need to go I need to look again at what God just told me. And uh, you know, Jesus opens up. He says, Listen, hearken. Then he closes and saying, If you have ears to hear Let you hear. Okay, so I feel this is uh probably about as uh close as he's gonna come to just grabbing you by the Short and saying, listen up. And uh we know that uh when God says, if God were just to appear in this room right now and say to you, hey, ask you uh ask you, are you listening? which should strike a nerve in you. You should want to listen. You should want to understand. I know if you were growing up around a stern parent, somebody that was led the right way, and if they said uh are you listening, you probably would listen right away. So This is God asking you, hey, are you listening? Listen to me. Hearken. So let's get into the parable now and let's find out what the parable uh here is his teaching. We we understand what a parable is, I hope. Or l let's let's maybe talk about what a parable is. A parable, I'm going to tell you just from what the Webster says, a parable is a short allegorical story. It's designed to convey some truth, a religious principle, or moral lesson. It's a statement or comment that conveys a meaning indirectly by the use of comparison, analogy, or the like. So here we have We understand this to be a parable. We understand that this is conveying a truth, but that is pictured in a way that's that's uh not literal, but but means that we need to look at this as an allegory and what's going on. So the parable opens up, here's a picture of a sewer. So we all understand what a sower is. A sower is someone who's taking seeds and has them in a satchel perhaps and he's walking along his field and he's tossing seeds out onto the field Um and uh if we look at what sowing is, actually I went and looked up the word sow in Webster's too. And let me give you the uh definitions that I have from that. The first definition is to scatter seed over land or earth, etcetera, for the purpose of growth. Well the other definition I pulled up that looked interesting was this one. It says to introduce for development, to seek to propagate or extend, disseminate. Now that's important, and uh I think this provides sort of a bridge as well when we look at this. But here we have a sower and he's sowing seed. And uh well again we note that the sower seeds uh sowers sows seeds for the express purpose. of growth. You don't just go sow seeds for no reason. He's going out there and he's sowing these seeds and he wants something to grow, right? Are you guys with me? I told you this is going to be simple tonight. Okay. So here we have a sower sowing seeds, and we're told that there are four circumstances In which this seed finds itself. Four circumstances. And again, we look at this. We find one is by the wayside You see again in verse four, and it came to pass as he sowed some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up. So we have this seed falling by the wayside. Never gets a chance even to set root. No root set The other seeds get a chance to set root, but this one doesn't. The wayside seeds get gobbled up by the birds right away, immediately So we see the next situation here is in in uh uh stony ground. Look again at verse five. And some fell on stony ground where it had not much earth, and immediately sprang up because it was had no depth of earth. So here we have a seed that grows with the rest. But look what happens in verse 6 When the sun was up, it was scorched. Why? It was in stony ground, had no depth. The roots weren't there. And it withered away. So now we see a third situation. Christ presents us with the third situation that these seeds might find themselves in. Thorny ground. But look what happens with the thorny ground here we see in the in verse eight uh or in verse seven and some fell among thorns and the thorns grew up and choked it and it yielded no fruit. So here we have seed falling on ground that already apparently has at least a few thorns in there, although they might not be all that big at the point that the seeds were in there, but but at some point the thorns grow up alongside of the of the plants that have grown from the seeds. They get intertwined with the with with the uh thorns and they never bear any fruit. And finally we have this fourth situation. Thank God. The good ground. Uh here we have in verse eight, and others fell on another fell on good ground and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased, and brought forth some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred. So we see that the f the plant finally came to the That the sower originally intended for this crop, this plant to grow up and to yield some kind of fruit. So we see here and go back to verse 2 and look look at what's going on. Jesus is teaching, it says, and he taught them many things by parables. We need to understand what he's teaching here. So we get this parable, we understand Jesus is teaching a lesson, we understand what a parable is about, that it's uh that it is reflective of the truth, it's not literal uh that it's an allegory of some greater truth and that Jesus, according to the Bible, he taught them by many th many things by parables. So here we have Jesus teaching. I want to understand what it is Jesus is teaching about. So here, thank the Lord. The guys that are with him, that later go home with them or go back to where they're going to be staying, get a little antsy They're not sure. How many of you guys uh have ever read a parable that maybe didn't actually even have a direct uh revelation in the Bible and sat and had to scratch your head and try and figure out what was going on I mean I have myself, okay? And these guys were no doubt in the same situation. What on earth did Jesus exactly mean? And so let's read in verse uh starting in verse 10, let's read the rest of this the the meaning of this parable revealed. And when he was alone, starting in verse ten, and when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parable. And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the But unto them that are without all these things are done in parables, that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them. And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? And how then will you know will ye know all parables? The sower soweth The word. Thank you. The sower soweth the word. And these are they by the wayside, where the word is sown, but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and take away the word that was sown in their hearts. And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground who when they had when they have heard the word immediately received it with gladness And have no root in themselves, and so endure, but for a time, afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth, for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. And these are they which are sown among thorns, such as hear the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lust of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful And these are they which are sown on good ground, such as hear the word and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred. Aha. So here we have. Now I have I promised only three side notes in all of my in all of my notes here, but this is side note number one coming at you. Okay, I want us to look again at verse eleven and twelve just for a moment. Um I'm gonna read this again and And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but unto them that are without all these things are done in parables, that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted and their sins should be forgiven. Now this is a hard pair of verses to me anyway, and I started to search out what various commentaries might have to say about these two verses. Verses and I find some very conflicting ideas about what some people would propose that Jesus is saying in these two simple little verses that are not so simple, that are quite hard in fact. But I am not going to try and um tear these two verses apart. I am only gonna I'm only gonna say this one thing. Here we're talking about here Jesus offers um a reason for presenting the parab presenting truths in parable format to them that are without And uh I I wanted to understand more about what this really means. But let me tell you what I finally determined in my mind here and in my heart. God never never dupes or predestines anyone out of salvation. No matter what I'm gonna read in the commentary Uh some have even provided the explanation that uh that these two verses apparently are suggesting that Jesus deliberately hides the truth. from folks in a way that they will never receive the truth. And that is my friend's bunk. I'm telling you here as I stand that Jesus provides the truth, God provides the truth in his word for all to receive it. Uh there there are none that have been deliberately deceived or duped, and uh and that's really uh what I want to uh say about those two verses. I I do say this though, that phrase, lest they should be is not exclusive. It is not exclusive in its sense. It's not saying that they're going to be excluded. These these folks that uh have seen they seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted. That phrase, lest they should be, is not exclusive, but it's case inclusive. In other words, Jesus isn't saying uh it isn't for these folks to be converted. He's not saying that it's that it's not for them. What he's saying is, I believe, if they perceive, if they understand, then their sins will be forgiven them That's all. So, you know, we go back to four God so loved the world. This is everyone. Christ died for all men's sins, not for some Uh and so we need to understand that these these paraverses you might read later on in in uh some notes that you may have from somewhere else. These paraverses do not exclude anyone from hearing Now, side note number two. Mark and Matthew actually are and actually Mark is arguably the oldest in terms of being uh the the first written of all the gospels. It looks to me like uh Mark and Matthew both sort of square in in the fifty and sixty So, that being the case, and understanding that this parable is in both Mark and Matthew and is actually recorded first in both Mark and Matthew, leads me to understand that this is the first parable ever written down, ever recorded in God's Word. And So that of itself is quite interesting. And if we look, I want to look at verse 13 to consider this a little further. And he said unto them Know ye not this parable? Okay, and how then will ye know all parables? That Says to me, this parable itself is a key, is some type of key to understanding future. And how then will ye know all parables? So how is this, how is this a How does this parable have some kind of key-like nature? I want to come back to that thought here in a little bit. So let's go back. We understand this is a parable, it represents truth. So let's examine what the parable is. What is the scene? The seed is the Word of God. Okay. What is the ground? The ground is the heart of man, right? The heart of man's mankind. The heart of man. So, if we have four grounds in the parable, we must also have four hearts. And uh so let's look at these particular hearts. Let's look at what these might have to uh to say. The first one, this case of the wayside ground. Um by the way, I was reading um uh Was it uh some s some uh uh uh a message by uh by Charles Spurgeon on this on the same parable, and he was talking about the fields. We need to understand the fields over in uh Middle East are maybe a little different than they are here and kind of get our English. mindset of how how the fields are. They're a little bit different. This wayside is actually a place where you would walk in between a a a pair of persons fields. And so this is trodden over with perhaps uh carts or or certainly at least walked over. And so this stuff is pounded to utter compaction. There's no way the the ground is uh not loose at all. It is it is pounded down because the people were walking in between a pair of person. And you may actually even have a row of stones along that wayside where people walk. I always thought the wayside was the side of the road, but apparently that's not the case. This wayside is is actually the place where you would walk, according to Spurgeon. So Uh so here we have the wayside and some of the seed falling on the wayside. Now, how does this relate to a heart? And I told my wife that you never know who you you you can't be a Baptist preacher until you can uh what is it alliterate multiple words. Have you ever noticed Baptist preachers were preachers will uh have a bunch of words that start with the same letter. I did that tonight. Um so I don't know that might not Okay, wayside is what I would call the evasive heart, the evasive heart. This is the heart, according to the Bible, that is immediately Immediately plundered by Satan. As the word is sown, the word is picked right back up by Satan, immediately plundered by him, um, and why? Because the because that ground was not receptive. It was Pounded down, packed in. Now we have the second case, the stony ground. I call this, we need to start with the letter E, this is the emotional heart. the emotional heart. And this is the heart that when they receive the word, they readily accept it. In fact they happily accept it. Look here. Immediately receive it with gladness. And we know these people Uh immediately receive it with gladness. Okay, they readily accept. But what happens? Is soon offended. For the word's sake, not just for anything. This isn't just a person who's offended because uh because of any old reason. This is a person who has become offended for the sake of the word that was sown and grown in his own heart and now has become offensive to him. And so that is the emotional heart. Now we go on and we find there's the thorny ground. What does the thorny ground represent? Well, this one should be easy. It starts with an E, this is the worldly person this is the earthly heart. The earthly heart. This person has a somewhat more mature spirit, but They don't end up bearing any fruit. Why? Because they're too wrapped up in everything else that's going along. Look at what Jesus says. He says The cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in choke the word and it Now these folks from the parable had roots. They had pretty healthy roots. They were in fairly decent ground. But There were thorns alongside of them. So they couldn't continue to their full maturity where they would begin to become fruitful. And finally, of course, we have the good ground. This is what I call the effective heart. Or really even the affected part. This is the part who has received the word, who grows spiritually, and Fulfilling God's purpose and that word being sown eventually bears fruit of themselves. Now look Some sixty, si well some thirty, some sixty, some a hundred. Differences in how much they're producing, numerically speaking, producing Perhaps, but they're fruitful. That's the important thing to understand. So now Can we see the key in this? Um can we see I I mentioned this is a key like parable. How is this a key-like parable? Well um It seems to me that salvation, receiving the word, receiving the word is the first part of this growth process that finally blooms to maturity. You see, receiving the seed, receiving the word. The ground must receive the seed, or the heart must receive the word, and it must grow So what is this process of receiving the seed? Well, alright, I'm going to take you one other place in the Bible tonight, but that's the only place. Let's go to John, the book of John And I this is so intertwined with this parable that I I really have to go through this. Um I'm just going to start in chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Who is the Word? Jesus Christ our Savior. Look here in verse 12. But as many as received him, received Christ, the word, to them gave he powers to become the sons of To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The ground existed before this new life came into that ground. You and I have have in the past been alive physically, but not alive spiritually. We existed before we had this life that was given to us of God from His Word in our hearts, sown in our hearts, this new life growing in us. What kind of life? Born not of blood. Nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. It is spiritual. This is our spiritual life. When the seed takes root, and what do you call it when a seed takes root? Anybody I did a lot of studying on seeds too. We can go into botany tonight if you want. Thank you. Yes, germinate. When the seed finally germinates, it has taken root. When we receive the word of God Initially, that first experience we have, or maybe we've we've heard we had heard it before, I know I'd had multiple times, when I finally, when my heart finally received The message of what Christ did for me on the cross, that new life started to grow, the seed germinated in my heart. And so we see that We know this, that salvation must come before we can grow with these other mysteries of God. So we have to receive the word. Then we can grow and we can later understand more mysteries. There, I see where the key is then How will he know all parables? Well, we know them first by being saved. Then the rest begins to be revealed to us. We all know this from experience. So, and I have here written You can't try on God's wisdom without first being washed by the blood of the Lamb. You could go around and talk Bible wisdom all day long, but if you're not saved You haven't really put on God's wisdom one bit. Okay? You're still a fool in God's eyes. You need to get that squared away. So, side note three. Last side note. Um Uh there was one time when I had heard this parable. Again, I I've always felt like this is the most important parable in the Bible. Even when I was a kid, I wasn't saved. I was afraid of this parable This parable scared me, and I'll tell you why. Because growing up in the kind of uh environment that I was growing up in, I thought that there you were gonna be a particular ground You were gonna be a particular ground and I would worry about what kind of ground am I. If this parable is what I looks like it is, and even as a kid I could understand this What kind of what kind of ground am I? That concerned me. But now let me tell you what's been replaced. That fear has been replaced by another feeling that I'm not quite proud of, and that's shame Because I now understand that our heart can be whatever ground we want it to be. We're not fixed. We're not a particular type of person. We're not a particular type of heart. We can allow our heart to be whatever it is. Listen God will use you if you simply give him your heart. He will allow you to grow and be fruitful if you simply give him the right ground. So you are not stuck in a particular ground. Don't be afraid. Shame? Yeah, you can probably feel that if you want. Uh if you're sitting here right now and you think to yourself, you know, maybe I'm stony ground. Maybe I got a few one too many thorns in my my plot Uh you can feel shame if you want, but I can tell you something else, you can change the ground. You can change your heart What is the constraint? In all these seeds, these seeds have been tossed. What's the constraint? What is you know, in engineering we always talk about what the constraints are. You gotta build a bridge. Well what are the constraints? Well it's gotta be uh less than so and so amount of weight, it's gotta susp you You know, suspend a certain amount of weight, this kind of thing. What's the constraint here in this situation? The sower sows the seed for the express purpose of growth. God gives us the word for the express express purpose of growth What is the constraint here? It's the ground. It's the ground. Our heart is the limiter of what God can do. So let's look at this application of the parable. Here we have God sown His Word for the purpose of growth. Again, for the purpose of growth. God did not give you the word simply to save you from Eternal residence in the lake of fire. It was not that was a major part of it, yes, but he sowed the word in your heart so that you could grow Has anybody here ever eaten a um a uh watermelon that did not have seeds in it? Do they have 'em? Rats that destroys my uh Destroys my illustration. What about corn? You ever eat corn without seeds on it? Well you're trying to eat the corn on it. How about oranges? Are there such things as seedless oranges? Oh let me ask you this, what would happen to a seedless orange? Ha! Nothing's ever coming out of that baby, right? It's done. It's done. It's been chemical You probably should wash it three times, but it's it's done. Okay? And that watermelon, man, you can make a fortune with those. Do they really have those? How come we always get the seeded ones? Are they more expensive? Uh aha. So see Miss Helen says even the seedless one says Alright. But but we know what would happen. A fruit without seed is the end of the road, right? Okay. So and let me tell you something else. I I was thinking about this and I was thinking about down on my dad's farm there's a uh across there's a there's a river that borders the edge of his property And the local guy, one of our neighbor, is a really good guy, he was telling me that there's this bear in the area. And the bear has been walking up and down this trail uh and everybody's seen this bear so I decided to go walking on the trail. And you know what? That bear was there. Not not when I mean I didn't see the bear, but I saw all the the results of that bear being there. If anybody's ever seen bear scat Uh it's a pile of berries. I mean it's it's a pile of berry seeds. You know, you look at that, there's seeds all over the place. Ha! That's amazing how God works God makes that fruit delicious to that bear. And that bear eats that fruit and he goes off and he does what all bears do and then that plant that seed gets planted somewhere. It grows, it spreads, it disseminates. Okay? God has shown the word in our hearts for the purpose of growth and dissemination. So we have been sown. Our hearts have been sown. We can propagate. We can disseminate. Let's take the word. Acts 1630 project. Take the word. Let that growth occur. God sow the word in your heart for that growth to occur. Again, we don't need to worry about one thing I want to point out too, we don't need to worry about spiritual nutrition of that word once it goes in. Notice I and and again I I'm not going to get into a huge lesson on botany, but let me tell you what I know about seeds just from studying a little bit. Um there are three main parts to a seed. There's a seed coat. There is this thing inside this you know thing we I think probably tastes good and that's what weeds, the endosperm, and then there's this little thing inside there called the embryo. Okay, and the life that starts to grow, comes out of the embryo, starts to feed on the endosperm while that seed coat is still kind of in effect. But the seed coat uh gives it time to allow it to bathe in its own nutrition before it starts to grow. Now once it does that, once it starts to pop out of the seed coat, then it has a primary leaf and a primary root And notice one thing about this this uh uh I want us to notice one thing about the root. It's internal growth. It's what no one sees Okay? It's it's where the plant takes its roots, but no one can see it. How deep is my root? Uh you don't know. I know. God knows more than I know about how deep my root is, but you guys have no idea I don't know how deep your root is. That's the internal part of growth. That's our faith, perhaps, I think, more than anything. What about the stalk, the leaves, what's coming up out of the ground? Everyone can see that And you see that emotional heart? Wow, they're on fire for God. But they got no they got no internal growth. They have no faith. And it ends up, what happens to them? They wither up. And eventually you can't even tell that there was ever growth there in the first place. Withered up. So that the stalks and the leaves are outward growth. But I noticed one other thing For those things to exist, they both gotta be there. The stalks, the leaves, they both they gotta be there. They gotta be there. And the root's gotta be there too. They both gotta be there. We gotta have internal growth. We gotta pray. We gotta seek God's will in our in our inhand His word, reading in our in our daily devotionals. Daily? Okay? Our outward growth. What are we doing? I'm not talking about what everyone can, I'm not necessarily talking about what everyone can see, but I'm talking about Our our actions. You know, James knew what he was talking about when he said faith without works is dead, right? Okay, we have to get out there. We have to have leaves, we have to have sprouts, we've got to be able to Why? Because if we don't have a seed or if we don't have the stalks, or we don't have the leaves then we're never going to get to the point where we're going to be shedding fruit, where we're going to be fruitful, where the got where God's word is going to be disseminated from us. Okay? So I would say uh and again my point about the seeds was the initial nutrition, it's in there. God's word has all the strength it needs to take root on its We don't need to do any not add anything to it, not take anything away from it. You cut a seed in half. I don't know what happened, maybe somebody could tell me that it would grow. But I have a feeling if you cut a seed in half it would not grow Is that right? Probably. Okay. Well, we shouldn't take anything away from God's word when it's sown, right? And we don't need to add anything to God's word when it's sown Okay? It's gonna be sown in their hearts. There's gonna be nutrition there for it to start. But then once it starts, you need to start getting the uh other nutrition. through through internal growth, through external growth. So again, I'm gonna ask us this. Ask your heart. Look into your own heart. If you're an evasive heart, if you are that wayside ground, and uh I've been there, we all have. You know that every time, look, when we go out knocking on doors and we tell people about the truth of what Christ did for them on a cross, they know and you can see them doing it, evading, evading God's truth. They have made their heart a ground that's so compacted that the word is going to be gobbled up by Satan. He's going to plunder it You don't have to have your heart that way. You don't have to evade God's truth. It will what happens? You eventually you're spiritually dead. You die physically, and that's it for you My friend. If you're an evasive heart, get that squared away. Emotional heart of people. Maybe you're an emotional heart person here tonight. Listen, you need to grow internally You need to get get your prayer life right. You need to seek God's will for your life and His Word. Okay, read your Bible daily. Get that internal growth down Get serious about what God has for you, what God's purpose for you is. He wants you to become fruitful. Get serious about it. Don't be stony ground. What about you earthly people? And uh Uh again, I may mention that we can become different grounds at different times in our lives, and I have a feeling that all of us have been in the earthly category at some point in our lives Listen, you have potential. You have great potential. You've got great roots. You've got internal strength. You've got you you you may be actively involved in what the church is doing, but if but if there's no fruit Something ain't right. Okay? And this parable apparently is saying that a lot of that is just, listen, you're getting a little bit too carried away with what's what's going on in this world. Don't worry about that. That's only a short little time compared to eternity. Now for you effective hearts out there First of all, thank God that you're an effective heart. He knows who you are, even if other people don't know who you are. And I've often thought, what about this fruit? How can we tell? Sometimes we can't tell It seems, who's fruitful and who's not. Sometimes it looks like fruit and it's not even fruit. But God knows who you are and God knows your fruit. Okay? And don't get concerned about Joe Blow, who has thirty fruits when you got one fruit. Hey, you got fruit? Amen. Praise the Lord. You're a good ground. You're an effective heart. You've been affected by God. So your reward's coming, effective hearts. If you're not there, you can get there. I say to you this our hearts are not fixed in a particular place position. They are not. Let us work on getting our hearts where they need to be. Let's be honest with ourselves about this. Now I uh normally don't give an invitation, but and I'm just gonna ask everybody, let's just bow our heads and I'm just gonna ask the question in closing. Let's look in our hearts right now. Let's ask God right now, Lord. Just be straight up with me. What what kind of ground have I provided for you? Am I evasive? God forbid, am I evasive? Have I truly accepted Christ as my Savior? Do I know when I die? My sins are forgiven on my way to heaven? Listen, if you don't know that, you do have an invasive heart, and you can get that right. Ask Christ Jesus to Be your Savior. Trust in what Jesus did for you on a cross. Accept what He did, accept your sinner. Call on Him, and you will be saved now and forevermore. If you're that emotional heart Be honest with yourself. If you're the kind that gets worked up, but you you know you don't have a root, grow your root. Give yourself spiritual moisture. Grow deep and what God has for you will begin to flourish. You won't wither. There won't be that day. Listen, if you don't, if you don't get your roots straightened out When the trouble comes, you're gonna wither up, and you know what? None of us are gonna even be able to look at you and recognize you for the Christian that you are Again, be honest with yourself. Ask God to detect where you are. You can change your soil. You can change your heart. If you're that earthly heart. And it's so hard sometimes. When the troubles of this world come in, and the cares of this world, and everything that's available to us, we get carried away. Forget about that. Let's worry about our heavenly reward Let's worry about that. Let's put that first. Let's prioritize our lives. You have potential. You need priorities now. And now for you affected hearts, you know who you are, and God knows who you are Don't don't let's not worry about everybody else's fruit, but but just thank God that you're you're fruitful. And uh Uh you know let's just ask God to to search our hearts, tell us where our where our hearts really are. Let's offer 'em our hearts, let's give 'em good soil, and let's be fruitful. Because that's what God's purpose is for all of us. of our lives. As a piano players, just gonna there's just gonna be a short invitation. I ask you, come as a Christian, you have this altar available to you. Let God know where you stand. Be honest with them and ask him to change. If you need your heart changed, ask him to change. He'll change it. He'll help you. He'll help you get that right.