This is chapter number two, if you would turn there, James two, continuing our study and series through the book of James. I got uh I was handed a prayer request here, I ought to mention this, and uh Frankie Yeager had a stroke, so I don't know who that is, but somebody asked that we pray for Frankie Yeager. Friend of yours, okay. We need to pray for one another, don't we? We really do. James chapter 2, while you're turning there, I'll share a few bits of great wisdom with you here. Uh what do you get if you cross an oyster with an owl? An oyster with an owl. You get pearls of wisdom. I know it. Here's one. I like this one. How do you get a baby astronaut to go to sleep? You rocket. These are ones that this is the kind of little things that you all just groan and moan. Then you go to work tomorrow and tell them to other people. I know how this works. What do you get if you cross a rabbit with a sprinkler? Hairspray. Here's a go I like this one. Do you hear about the dentist who married a manicurist? After one month they were fighting tooth and nail. And last but not least, what do you get what do little people use to communicate with e to each other with? What do little people use to communicate with each other? Microphones. All right. James chapter number two. They weren't that bad, were they? Come on. Tough crowd. I'm gonna read verse I'm gonna read verse one of James two down through verse number nine. Uh it's a little longer portion than I've been reading in James, but uh it's all one subject here. And it's interesting that Jeans, of course under the inspiration of God, but he devotes a pretty significant portion of this book, this letter, to this subject of prejudice, partiality. And so that tells me apparently this was an issue in his day And not just in his day, but apparently it was an issue in the church that he would take such a significant portion of scripture and devote it to this. So we're trying to break it down as we go through. But I want to read the whole passage together to get the context. Look at verse 1. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons For if there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring and goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment And ye have respect unto him that weareth the gay clothing. Now I it just irks me to death that wicked, perverse people have taken just a good, nice word and distorted the meaning of it. That's sad. Simply means he has pleasant, attractive clothing. That's all that means. He weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit down here in a good place And say to the poor, stand thou there, or sit thou here under my footstool So in other words, they give the wealthy man it's dressed nicely, very attractive, they give him a prefer preference in the seat, and the poor man they just kind of push him aside and that not such a pleasant seat Are you not then, verse 4, are you not then partial in yourselves and are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren. Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which ye are called? If ye fulfill the royal law according to Scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well. But if ye have respect of to if ye have respect to persons, look at the next three words, ye do what? Commit sin. And are convinced of the law as transgressors. So I want to speak just for a few minutes, particularly the first four verses, about this matter of partiality Verse 40 says, Are ye not then partial in yourselves? Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to hearts. Father, again, Lord, it was a good day. We thank you for that, for blessing us As we look in this portion of Scripture, we ask that you would challenge us, help us, Lord. I believe I speak for all. I trust I speak for all of us. Father, when we ask you to help us, we want to be right. We want to do right, and we want you to be pleased with how we live our lives and how we interact. And so teach us from this passage of Scripture. Show us how to apply it to our lives. Show us how to obey this portion. And I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me. and that we would be victorious and and uh please you in this matter. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've already begun looking at this uh a couple weeks ago back before the revival and uh had a couple quotes I want to Reiterate here, we said that faith in Jesus Christ and prejudice towards others is incompatible I'm genuine um if I'm genuinely exercising faith in Jesus Christ, and then I show prejudice towards others, there's a conflict going on there. Those two don't match. And then we also made this statement, my behavior towards others is a strong indicator as to my relationship with the Lord. In 1 John, he puts it this way: How can you say you love God who you can't see when you don't love your brother who you can see? And he's pointing out there in other ports of scripture, he's pointing out that my interaction with other people is a strong indicator of what type of relationship I have with the Lord. Now he's addressing here this matter of partiality, this matter of uh of prejudice, and it's important to understand that because we have a sinful nature, We are prone to look down on other people, maybe who are not people who are a little different than us. We have an inherent tendency to think of ourselves higher than some other people, if they're different or they're not on the same uh scale we are as far as finances or in society or whatever, maybe they're not as educated, maybe they don't uh you know uh whatever the case may be, we have this inherent tendency to lift ourselves up and look down on others and treat them that way. And that's what he's warning us against Now when we hear the term prejudice, well what comes to mind? Exactly Particularly here in the United States, it's probably true throughout most of the world. When you hear that word prejudice, we think of black people and white people and their treatment of each other. Fact of the matter is, prejudice is rampant through all areas of life, not just between black folks and white folks or oriental folks or whatever else. It's in all areas of life. I found that rich people can be very prejudiced against other people regardless of their color skin. You know what I found out? I found that poor folks can be very prejudiced. We worked in Chattanooga, we worked with uh very poor folks, ghetto. And it's funny, even within a certain race of people, they would be prejudiced against other folks within that same category, you might put them High society folks, folks that we consider wealthy and and maybe up there in the uh the elite world of success and business and politics and all that, you know what I found out? Even within that Society, there's prejudice among themselves. What school they went to, or what this, or what that, or something else, their background, their family. And find some reason to diminish the importance of another person. This is interesting and Tom maybe could testify to this, even within the prison system. There's prejudice within the I noticed that we're in Indianapolis in a very large prison system there. The county jail is huge And uh you know even within that there was prejudice, uh look down on others and treat others differently. And I'm just what uh my point I'm trying to make here is that throughout the whole the whole humanity It's not just limited to white folk and black folk not getting along. It's all categories, all races You know what I found? Sometimes there's prejudice within how a person looks. I mean what I'm trying to say is if someone's attractive or not. Sometimes you get folks that are very attractive, physically speaking, they're very attractive, and they'll look down on folks who are very unattractive. And they'll be prejudiced against them and treat them the way James is. And you know, I found that the other way. I found that maybe uh there'll be some folks that are not bad uh that uh not that attractive physically, they're not that attractive. And then someone walks in that's very attractive, they'll look down on them. You see what I'm saying? It goes both ways. Um appearance. Um uh and church here's another one that I brought into. Church sizes. And it's not as bad, I guess, as what I might make it out to be, but sometimes people get the idea. If you have a small church, some folks have the idea If you pastor a small church, you're in a small church, well obviously you're not working very hard, you're not doing much, it's just a little church, it's not that important, it's not significant I've tried to give in myself in ministry and working with other pastors, particularly in smaller churches throughout the Appalachian area. I've tried to encourage them, hey, don't you allow yourself to get that mindset. Because it costs Jesus just as much to establish a little church in the hills as it does a big church in the city. Oh, that's a small church But there's another way. You know what I found out among some small churches? Oh, you're a big church. You must be c you must be compromised in some way. Oh, that big church, they must be doing something wrong, or they wouldn't be that big Hey, listen. There's good churches that are large in number. There's good churches that are small in number. There's sorry churches that are large in number. There's sorry ch Riches are small in number And all this comes out as a part of this prejudice, this partiality. As I mentioned in the beginning, James, under the inspiration of God, gives nine verses. That's, you know, James is not that big of a book. And he gives a pretty large percentage of the of the writing here is given to this subject. So it must have been an issue in the day, and it must be something important for you and I. I have three thoughts real quick I want to give you. Number one, I want us to notice the principle that's established in Scripture. There's a principle established in Scripture. Now we already preached on verse one, but I want to look at it again as we work our way down here My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. Did you notice here that he ties in, having faith in Jesus Christ? And my respect towards others, he hooks the two together. They're closely related. And I believe there's a principle here that as a disciple of Jesus Christ I must not allow myself to make unscriptural, superficial judgments about others I am a follower of Jesus Christ, and I must not allow myself to make an unscriptural, superficial judgment about others. They are poor, therefore they must be lazy. They must be negligent. They must not have very much character. Therefore, I'm going to treat them badly. As a follower of Jesus Christ, I should never make those sort of judgments So what he's saying. There's a principle given here. Our standard, this is what I want to get at, our standard of making judgment about other people should be God himself and his word. Now, I want to show you a few verses, if you would. We saw a bunch of Bibles here tonight. We might as well use them. They're sitting there. Let's use them. Acts chapter 10. Turn over there with me if you would. Acts 10 I guess uh Dr. Rhodes is getting a little older while you're finding place. I noticed he was drinking water a lot during the week. Do you notice that? Every time he did that it made me thirsty. I was thinking, man, I wish he'd quit doing that. It's making me thirsty. Acts 10, look at verse 34. I wish we had time to look at the whole chapter, we don't. But Peter, uh carrying over from his Judaism, was a very prejudiced man. We're going to notice this. That was a tendency that he had that God had to deal with. and help them overcome it. And God, there was a, if you look early in the chapter, there was a Gentile, a sent man of Sent uh uh Uh Caesarea called Cornelius. He's a Roman fellow apparently, and he's not a Jew, and he's praying, and God instructs him to find Peter so that he can find out how to be saved Well, Peter had no doings with the Jews. He's very or with the Gentiles. He was very prejudiced against them. So God goes through this elaborate system. Remember the story? He goes into a trance and the sheep comes down. There's all kinds of animals God tells him to eat. He said, Lord, I would never do that And the Lord says, what I call clean, don't you call uncom uh don't you call common. I think this I'm not wording exactly. But you remember the story? Anybody familiar with that? Now look what the Lord says in verse number 34. He's witnessed, he goes ahead, he overcomes his prejudice, he witnesses to this fellow. Then Peter opened his mouth and said Of a truth I perceive, look at this, that God is no respecter of persons. But in every nation, he feareth him. But in every nation, he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him. The Lord went to great lengths to teach Peter a lesson. He is not to judge people based on their nationality, based on the His uh superficial understanding, he was a man that God was working in his heart deeply And he says, listen, God doesn't judge people that way. God's not a respecter of person. And my impression, I thought it was interesting that verse 34 is tied in with verse 35. Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. He could have stopped there. But he said, But in every nation, you know what I think? You know what comes to my mind when I read every nation? Missions And God is saying here that He has people in every single nation. Are you listening to me? Are you listening? Are you listening? God has people in every single nation. Where he is working in their hearts, he is dealing in their hearts, and all he needs is somebody who would be willing to yield themselves and overcome whatever prejudice they might have and go and share the gospel with them, those people would be saved. And I wrote in my notes this partiality or prejudice kills missions. It kills that whole mind frame, that frame of mind that this person, for whatever reason Does not deserve to have the gospel. This person, for whatever reason, is not worthy of the message of Jesus Christ. And this idea of partiality, this idea of prejudice will absolutely kill a mission spirit. And Peter had to conquer that. He had to get victory over that. God does not show favor. All men are held to the same standards. Peter was saved the exact same way this Gentile was going to be saved. Peter had no special favor. Peter had no special access. He was a sinner that needed the grace of God just as bad as the centurion did. God has no, does not show favor. Everyone's held to the same standard. Everyone is, I like this statement, everyone is is eligible for the same blessings. The rich man is eligible for the same blessings from God as the poor man is And so there's this pattern here. There's a principle established. God does not prejudice. He's not a respectable person. Turn with me, Wood, to Romans chapter 2. Romans 2 and verse number 11. It's kind of reiterating the basically the same statement. For there is no respecter of persons with God. And he deals with that, then he comes down to verse 16. In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to their standing in society. It's not what it says, is it? But according to what? Jesus Christ, God judges every man according to the gospel. You know what that tells me? God doesn't see people as rich people and poor people. He doesn't see him as educated and uneducated. He doesn't see them as respectable and unrespectable. You know how God sees people? He sees people as sinners in desperate need of the grace of God. He judges the value of a man upon the gospel. Let's go over to Romans chapter 3 and verse number 22. Do you see the principle established here? Chapter 3, verse 22. This is familiar with us. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. The issue isn't whether my skin is white or black. The issue is I'm a sinner on my way to hell. Um Romans chapter ten, verse thirteen, we're very familiar with that passage. What's the let you get a chance to get there? Many of us no doubt have this memorized. Romans 10, 13, what's the second word in that verse? For whosoever There's no qualification put on that. There's no standard established that for whosoever. Regardless of where they live, what they are, who they are, what their background is, what their level of standing is For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the The black man in the ghetto that's strung out on drugs can be saved and needs to be saved just like the rich white man that sits in the capital of a city uh of a c of a state that's a governor needs to be saved the exact same way. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I appreciate Brother Mike Creed down at Independent Baptist Church. That guy's got a clear view on this. Their church is in the suburbs of of of um Washington DC. They're in Clinton. And they have a bus ministry, runs in the ghettos and slums of of Washington, D. C. and brings these kids in and brings these just poor poverty kids in. And yet the same week that they do that, he's down on the Capitol, on the steps of the Capitol, and he's witnessing to millionaire senators and representatives and sharing the exact same message to those guys as they do to the little kids that come out of the ghettos on their bus. That is Bible evangelism, my friends For whosoever so far. There's a principle here. Ephesians chapter 6. Come over there. I've got a couple more I want to look at. Ephesians 6. And verse number nine. Here he's talking to employers. What we would call in our day employers. Ephesians 6:9, and ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbear threatening. Look at this. Knowing that your master also is in heaven, neither is the respective persons with him. He's telling the employer here he is to treat his employees the exact same way God treats him. It's not to show partiality. The guy's doing his job. If the guy's working, don't threaten him all that. If you need to fire him, fire him. But uh don't treat them differently because of some superficial reason. Uh uh we won't take time to turn these. Colossians chapter 3, verse 25 touches on the same issue. First Peter chapter one verse seventeen again addresses the same issue. What I'm trying to say is there's a principle in Scripture, and that is this I am not to disregard anyone whom the Lord disregards Now, that does not mean that we simply accept whatever behavior. The world has picked up on this and they've perverted it. And you've heard people say this. Don't judge me. Anybody hear that? Tuss and do, and just have the most ridiculous, ungodly behavior, and then say, Don't judge me. Listen, God instructs us that we are to judge sinful behavior. We are to use discernment. And if something is wrong, it's wrong regardless of who does it. If something is sin, it's sin for the preacher behind the pulpit, it's sin for the person sitting in the pew. It's when we begin to say, oh, this person can sin and it's okay, but this person sinned, we're not going to accept it. That becomes partiality. So don't confuse what we're what he's talking about here with this idea that anything goes. We are to use discernment. We are to judge behaviors, whether it's scriptural or not, whether it's godly or not. But what we are not to do is to show respect to persons In other words, this as I said, this person, it's okay for them to do that, it's wrong for this category of person to do it. It's the same across the board. And by the way, there's another aspect here, regardless of how sinful and wicked a person may be, they ought to be treated with respect. Now we should confront them in love and compassion, but earnestly and very firmly. What you're doing is wrong, it is sinful, there are horrendous consequences to that type of behavior. But nevertheless, we're respectful to the person. You follow what I'm saying? And by the way, there are some behavior, there are some sins that have horrendous consequences. And we live in a day and age now. We live in a day and age now where sexual sins are absolutely rampant, not out in the world, but in the church. And sin, men with women, no outside of marriage, fornication, that is, God says that there is a specific consequence to fornication. Read Corinthians. God doesn't look lightly on that. God doesn't ignore that, especially if it's a child of God. Now, He's not saying that we are not to preach against sins like that and others But what he is saying is we're not to be partial in that. Well, it's okay for this person to live in sin, but we're not going to accept it in this person. That's partiality. You see what I'm saying? And that's the principle throughout Scripture. It's interesting, you go through the Old Testament, you know what? I found that God judged the sin in the kings just as harshly as he judged the sin in the peasants in the street. When his prophets sinned, same consequences as when the folks in the streets sinned. God doesn't show partiality. And so we need to be very careful. And I f as I was studying this thought, you know, the world likes to take this idea of being not being prejudiced and twist it to somehow come around and explain Accept and approve of ungodly lifestyles. God does not ask us to do that, but what He does say, don't show respect of persons My second thought is this. Number one, the principle established: God loves all people the same, God treat uh has the same standards uh for all people, he has the same blessings available, salvation is available to all. And everybody gets saved the same way. And that ought to be my approach to people. Number two, he gives us in James chapter two a picture. That exposes this partiality. Verse number two of James chapter 2. Now he illustrates this. He doesn't say this actually happened. He's illustrating. Look at verse 2. For F There come into your assembly, we can say your church service. They've assembled together. A man with a gold ring in goodly apparel, and there come also a poor man in vile raiment. And you have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and saith to him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there and sit here under my footstool. So he's saying, Let me illustrate what I'm talking about. It's basically what he's doing, verse 2 and 3. He says, just imagine you have this scenario, and as we just read there. That tells me it must have been happening. Those folks that he's writing to, they could picture this in their mind. They could see this happening. Whatever type of building they're meeting in, whatever the setting was where they were getting together to have their services, they could picture this happening That tells me that partiality has played out all through history. Back in the early days of the church, all the way through the present day. I read this illustration, I read this little event took place for Ronald Reagan. when he was governor of California. Now Ronald Reagan, I think, was a good guy. He um had a church that they attended, he and Nancy attended on a regular basis. And like many of us here, he had a certain place where they always sat. And a certain pew wasn't reserved for them or anything. It's just where he always sat And God forbid if somebody sit in somebody's pew sometimes, amen. Good heavens Well, one day, the story goes, uh, Governor Reagan and his wife were late for church. A couple college students walked in, not knowing anything. There was an empty spot And they sat down in Ronald Reagan's pew. Well the ushers, as soon as they saw what happened, they saw the governor come in, they saw the teams, uh the college students sitting there. The ushers took it upon themselves that this was unacceptable. Now, Governor Reagan had nothing to do with this. He just happened to be there And the ushers came down to the college student and they said, excuse us, but this is Governor Reagan's seat and his wife, you need to move. Well the place was filled and the young fellows ended up back in a corner somewhere And they brought uh Governor Reagan down and apparently he didn't know, but they sat him there. The pastor on the platform saw what happened. And to his credit, he stood up and apologized and said, that will never ever happen again. There are no seats reserved regardless of what position a person holds. Everyone has equal access to any place in this church. And that's the way it ought to be. That's the way it ought to be. So, number one, we have this principle established that God Has the same interaction with everybody, same value on every person. There's a picture given here and he gives it to them and they can see it. And then verse number four, real quickly, we have the point That is explained. Then he comes back. Look at verse 4. Are ye not then partial in yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts? He's nailing this down. He's applying it right to them. Hey. Is this what you're doing? Are you prejudiced in your life, in your actions? He's making a point here. Are ye not then partial in yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts? He wants them to stop and think this through. What about me? The answer to the question, I think, is obvious. Yeah, they are being prejudiced. They apparently this was going on. Again, the word partial there is an interesting word. It means to discriminate against. It means to have, I like this definition, to have an unscriptural preference. An unscriptural preference, being partial. We don't have time, but Galatians chapter 2, I mentioned that Peter had uh struggled with prejudice. Partiality. And in uh Galatians chapter 2, Paul is writing and he it relates an incident that Paul had with the Apostle Peter. And he said that when Peter, when there weren't any other Jews around, Peter mixed it up, and I'm putting this in my own words, Peter mixed it up with the Gentiles. I mean, he worshiped with them, served with them, preaching, just spending time together. But when the Jews for Jerusalem showed up, Peter immediately withdrew himself from them. Peter of all people was scared what the others thought about him And he was partial in his behavior. And Paul says, again, I'm putting this in my own words, but Paul makes this statement. He said, I withstood him to his face. I don't know about you, that'd take some guts. Peter. And he said, you're wrong You're wrong. And he said it was so bad that even Barnabas got drawn into that. Barnabas is a good guy. So what am I saying? What is the Bible teaching us? He's teaching us that we have a tendency to be this way. We have a tendency to maybe to look down on someone, to prejudge someone, to be partial, to unscripturally discriminate against someone. And look what he says. He says, you become judges of evil thoughts. I thought I don't understand what that means. And that phrase judges of evil thoughts simply means this: you're making ungodly judgments on others. Well, this person, they never went to college, so obviously they're just not that smart, so I'm not gonna treat them differently. He's saying that is ungodly. That is ungodly Well this person, well they're that well this they're that way, and treat them as less value than someone else. When we show favoritism and partiality, we are exercising ungodly judgment. Now again, I want to reiterate this. We must not confuse this with condemning sin. The Bible is very clear in Corinthians, if there is somebody living in sin and they refuse to make it right, the Bible says that we are to withdraw ourselves from that person. It's called personal separation. Proverbs says, make no friends with an angry man. There are certain, there, there are people that have certain behavior. They behave a certain way. That I do not want that to influence me, I do not want that to hurt me, so I withdraw myself. But it does not mean that I don't think that person is as important to God as the other person is. You see what I'm saying? It requires a little bit of wisdom here. It has to do with my attitude. And that's the thing here about James on this passage. He's not talking so much just our actions, he's talking about our attitudes towards people. In Corinthians, there was a fellow living in fornication. He claimed to be saved, and he was having physical relationships with women outside of marriage. And Paul condemned that. God condemns that. And he said, listen, you need to withdraw yourselves from that fella. Until he makes things right, until he repents, and then later on he writes back, apparently the guy got the idea and he humbled himself, confessed his sin, repented of it, made things right, and then Paul said, Listen, you make sure you take him back under winning. He's a brother in Christ. He's repented. He's made things right. And you accept him back. He says, if you don't, you give Satan an advantage. And so when we're talking about prejudice and partiality, we're not talking about saying, oh, you're living in sin, oh, that's just fine. But we are saying, hey, that person is living in sin. I need to keep my distance. I need to be careful. But that person is just as important to God as I am. That person is loved of God just as much as I am. It's interesting, Jesus said if there's a man living in sin, one person should go to them and confront him. If he doesn't hear one, then two people should go. If he doesn't hear two, Then it should be brought before the church. And if the ch and if he won't hear the church, he says you're to treat him like a publican and a sinner. Does that mean we're to be unkind to him and hateful and rude to him? No. It means we're supposed to treat him like he's lost. And try and win them back. And try and get them back into fellowship with the Lord, just like we try and win an unsaved person to Christ. Partiality is when we said he doesn't deserve to be made right with God. Prejudice is he's not worthy of God's forgiveness. See the difference? See the difference? I'll tell you something that has helped me so much over the years. When there's somebody that I've my sinful nature, my sinful tendency is to look down on. To disregard, I try very hard to remind myself that Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for that person just as much as he did for me. That the Lord Jesus thought that man or that woman was worth suffering hell for. And who am I to look down on someone whom Jesus Christ would love that much? That is wicked judgment. That is ungodly judgment. So, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you would help us to view people the way you see them. God, help us to love people the way you love them. I pray, Lord, you would help us to see ourselves as nothing but lost sinners, and that you saved us by your grace, not by anything worthy of us. And Lord, every man is a sinner. Help us to see that. Help me, dear Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many might say this morning, and I know that you say, well, nobody thinks that way. Yeah, they do, or it wouldn't be in the Bible. I wonder how many this evening would say, preacher, pray for me. I want to see people the way God sees them. I want to have an attitude towards people the way God does. I don't approve of sin. I'm not going to justify, excuse, ignore it. But I'm not going to look down and disregard people either. How many of the uplift a hand? You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I'd be that way. God bless you. Hands all around. Now our tendency is to look down. Our tendency is to disregard. But we need the Lord to help us. Is there someone here this evening, say, preacher? You're talking about being saved in hell. Maybe there's someone here tonight, and you don't have the assurance in your heart that when you die, You're going to heaven and not to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. Trust me. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'd like to have that settled in my heart and mind that my sins are all forgiven. And that God has given me eternal life and I'm going to heaven someday. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. The Spirit of God's dealing with my heart, and I need that settled. Any at all? Now we're going to take Lord's Supper in just a moment. This is a good time. The Bible gives stern warnings about being flippant, about taking the Lord's Supper. This might be a good time at this invitation. Just humble ourselves before the Lord. And ask God to search us and try us. And just anew, bow before the cross, so to speak, and get everything completely cleared out and right with God. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. As we have the invitation now, you raise your hand. We go into the Lord's Supper in just a moment. Why don't you come on maybe tonight? Just find a place old-fashioned order Lord, search my heart. God try me. Lord, I want my whole heart and life to be fully yielded. What a price. As Brother Chip said, what a price was paid for our sin. And we don't want to come flippantly, we don't want to come presumptuously and remember the death of Christ all the while we're holding on to sin, all the while we're justifying and ignoring God's holiness. Bernarda, Thirsty Narjuties and Standard