Genesis chapter number twelve, I want you to follow along with me a very familiar passage, verses one, two, and three And if you will allow me, this is going to be very much of a, I'll say a Bible study type sermon, maybe a little bit different. I'm not going to have three points in a poem. And uh the points don't all start with the same letter. I've had some of that. But tonight I'm going to start in chapter 12. We're going to introduce the theme. And then we're going to head back to chapter number four of Genesis, and we're going to kind of work our way through, and then we're going to end up back in chapter number 11. And we're going to end up with the family of Abraham. We're going to find how God used the family of Abraham to be a blessing to all families of the earth. Look at chapter 12 and verse number 1. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And I want you to notice then the last phrase of verse 3, and in thee shall all what's the next word? Families of the earth be blessed. I'd like to give you a message tonight that I've entitled Passing Down a Family Blessing. Passing down a family blessing. I want to help you tonight. I really do. I want you to listen to me. I want you to let the Lord talk to your heart I want you to follow along with me as we will find our way back through some various chapters of Genesis, working our way back to the text to find about how Abraham Pass down a family blessing. Indeed. Wouldn't it be an amazing testimony if someone looked at your family and said, your family has affected every other family that's ever lived? Wow. Now we know prophetically this has to do with Jesus Christ coming out of the loins of Abraham, right? We know that. Galatians chapter number three. We will turn there But we know that through Abraham and the Abrahamic covenant, that's what Genesis 12 is all about, that Jesus would one day come, right? Abraham Isaac and Jacob. We know uh remember Isaac uh um was that that uh picture of the promise seed that was going to come. Remember all of that? And in in Abraham's family would all other families be blessed. So let's look at it tonight about passing down family blessings. God, I I pray that you'll help us this evening. And Lord, thank you for these folks that are here on a what the world may call the Super Bowl Sunday. Lord, I think what we're doing here is pretty super as well I I I sure thank you for that we've been able to meet multiple times today and and multiple sessions and lessons and split sessions and preaching times. And Lord, we know that you promised to to bless preaching, the manifestation of the word through preaching. Help us, I pray tonight, this last session. Lord, give me strength of voice and clarity of mind. Lord, I pray that these folks would hear and would listen. Thank you for this great church and this great pastor and his wife and Lord the many years they've spent here faithfully serving you in Oakland, Maryland. Lord, I just ask you that you'll strengthen the church Through the strengthening of the Christian home and family. Thank you for the weekend. We ask it now in Jesus' name. Amen. My wife and I have such a blessing of having both having had Christian homes and families. I think I may have mentioned that to you this morning and I won't get all into it, but I actually have six generations of independent fundamental Baptist people. Way back my my grandmother who is next month on March the 8th, we're all going to celebrate from coming around the country to come to Charleston, West Virginia. My grandmother is going to celebrate her 100th birthday on March the 8th. And she's attended the same Independent Fundamental Baptist Church in Spring Hill, West Virginia for over 70 years. Same church. Same special, sang in the choir, still lives on her own. She's an amazing lady Her father also went to an independent fundamental Baptist church up in Hundred, West Virginia, up in the Wheeling area. So kind of kind of in this uh section area of the country. That's where all my kinfolk were from. I was born and raised in Charleston. West Virginia as well. That's why me and your preacher get along so well. We're both West Virginia boys, is that right? You're you're a West Virginia girl, all right. Well, I like you because we're from the same state, all right? But uh and and probably we're related somehow way back, you know, but they do say in in West Virginia everything's relative, right? So anyway Uh we'll we'll not get on that tonight. But but uh sixth generations. So my my great-grandpa, my grandmother, my father, who I told you the this morning uh has been a pastor for over forty years and retired now, semi-retired, and and then my generation, that's number four, our two daughters uh who grew up in our Christian home, saved as children and married good godly men, who both also grew up in ministry homes as well, met at Bible college. And then I got two grandbabies. That's six generations Now I understand that may not be your story. I get that. I understand there may be what we call first generation Christians. It may be uh you just found the Lord recently, you know, in the last uh uh few days or or years and And can I say to you, although you may not have the family blessing that's been passed down to me, you can begin to pass down a family blessing to those that come after you So so I don't want you to turn me off to say, well, all right, Brother Bain, it's easy for you to preach a message like that. You you've uh I had someone say to me years ago, you've had a spiritual silver spoon placed in your mouth, you know, and But you know, everybody has to make a choice and decision whether they're going to serve God or not. My daughters, they had to make choices whether they're going to serve the Lord with their lives, and they had to make choices as to who they're going to marry, and and my grandchildren, they'll have to likewise Make a decision to serve the Lord. Now, keep that in the back of your mind. At the end of the message, we're going to come back as we have worked our way back to the family of Abraham. We're going to find that Abraham likewise had to make a choice as well, just like all of us have to make a choice to serve the Lord and to pass down that family blessing. Now, if we were to do a Bible study on the word family, we would find that the word family or families is mentioned over 300 times in our English King James Bible. 300 times. The first mention is back in Genesis 10. So follow back with me. We're going to kind of go backwards here a moment. Genesis 10 and verse number 5. The first time the word families is mentioned By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands, everyone after his tongue, after their Talk to me, church. Families and in their nations. If we were to continue to go back to chapters number five and six, just kind of turn there, we find the family of Noah. And we know that Noah was married and that Noah had three sons. Talk to me if you know what their names are, Shem. Ham and uh and Japheth. And as you will remember in Genesis chapter number six, uh the the world had gotten so wicked that God was going to bring a flood, he was gonna destroy the world But he said, Noah, you have found grace in my sight, and so I'm going to give you some grace and I'm going to ask you to build an ark. Hundred and twenty years. He's a preacher of righteousness and he's building this ark, and obviously we know that the flood came and destroyed everybody else. except those that got on the ark kind of reminds you, watch this, kind of bringing family back into it. There was only one family that got on the ark. Noah, his wife, three sons, and their wives. One family Do you understand that the family blessing that got passed down from Noah was that we're able to sit here tonight? What if Noah hadn't built the ark? What if Noah hadn't believed God? What if Noah hadn't found that grace in the eyes of the Lord? What if Noah hadn't gotten on the ark and everybody got destroyed? We wouldn't be here this evening Do you understand that certain decisions that families make affect the lives of the families that follow after them? Some of you that have children in your home and obviously Mrs. Bain and I our our child rearing days are are are over with and gone and and we miss them just a little bit, but just a little bit. We kind of like being empty nesters as well right now. We like having the grandbabies and spoil them and send them back home. Amen. That's kind of where we are. But we're so thankful that there have been families that have invested in us and now that we have invested in our daughters and and our sons-in-law and our grandbabies. And if the Lord carry his return, I would hope that my family would continue to have an influence for the cause of Jesus Christ. And I want your family to do that as well. Noah had that kind of a family. Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. There's another family that we're going to study here in our message tonight, Abraham. And Abraham, as you know, always typically in the Bible, it talked about three men, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. They were kind of all paired together. Abraham the the father, the patriarch, Isaac the son, and Jacob uh the one who then had twelve sons. You remember that? And from those twelve sons, hey, you talk about a family blessing The twelve tribes of the nation of Israel came from one man named Jacob. Now they weren't all perfect and they made some mistakes and we understand all of that. But but Levi, that was where the family of the priesthood came. Levi was one of Jacob's sons. We think about Judah. Right? And we think about how he had great leadership in the nation of Israel and all of these tribes coming down through. Hey, we can't forget Joseph What an amazing young man. He was the eleventh son of Jacob. My point is families can have such great influence in generations to come. Hey, think about it this way. Had Joseph not been born? And had Joseph not uh been sold into Egypt by his brothers, and that was a horrific story, but God always has a plan, doesn't he? And do you remember How that Joseph ends up in Egypt and years later he's second in command and then the the years of plenty and the years of famine come Hey, what if Joseph had never been born? What if Joseph had never uh uh understood what his purpose was? Do you remember when the famine happened in Canaan and the boy the brothers had to come and get bread for Joseph kept them alive. I'm just trying to say that families have influence on other families that are coming after them. You see, we find that God wants to use families, and the family of God in the New Testament. We mentioned that a little bit this morning, and how the church house is made up Of the families of godly people. And such was the case in the nation of Israel. You remember the twelve tribes I mentioned a moment ago. All of them always had to camp in families And you remember maybe even uh times of when they were in the wilderness and they uh the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night, and they would would would go, and then the pillar would stop and they would set up camp Do you know what they always set up in families? Every one of those twelve tribes, the Bible says, by their families would set up camp. around or encircling the tabernacle, that presence of God for them, that holy place. Uh for them. Oh, what a great story. What a great thought that is. Isn't that what we do? When we come to the house of God, we're bringing our families and we're centering our families around the family of God What a great thought. So families can influence families, and we've seen this over time through generation after generation. Now, that word generation comes to mind. I want you to go to chapter number four of Genesis, and I want you to look at verse 25. So again, we're going to kind of start and we're going to work towards chapter number 12 and the family of Abraham. We're starting all the way back in Adam here, chapter 4, verse 25. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bare a son, and called his name Seth. Now look look at the next statement. For God said, She hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. Can I make a point about this tonight? Isn't it sad that the first generation after Adam and Eve were destroyed? Cain kills his brother Abel. And then Cain is marked, sent out into the wilderness. We never hear much about Cain again. There's no seed as it relates to the generations coming from him And so God said, and doesn't sin destroy everything it touches? You understand Genesis 3 is when sin comes in. Genesis 4 is where the first murder takes place. Sin destroys families. Did you hear what I said? Sin destroys fa sin can destroy your family. Sin has destroyed families that used to sit in these pews right here. Come on now. I've been a pastor long enough to know my heart breaks for families that used to be in Sunday night church and used to uh uh serve the Lord and and then they got sideways with whatever or something things of the world and hey look at me friends just like the very first Two boys were destroyed because of sin. But God always has a plan for that family to continue. And the Bible here, what do we just read? He gave Adam and Eve another seed. Seth. Did you see that? Look at verse 25 again. And Seth, for God said, Seth, hath the point to be another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. Verse 25, a six. And to Seth To him also there was born a son, there's another generation, and he called his name Enos. Now read the next statement, ready Then began men to call upon the name of the Lord. I'm in chapter four, verse twenty-six. You see God was going to use Seth and his son Enos, right? Again, generations. Families, then began men to call upon the name of the Lord. Wouldn't it be great if God could say about our family? Boy, it was in their generation, it was under their influence It was because of the way that they lived that there was such a blessing that was passed down that it affected an entire nation. It affected an entire family. It infected in uh uh affected an entire tribe. It infected uh I'm sorry, it affected not infected, affected an entire generation. Noah was one of those men. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord in his generation. We'll see that in just a moment. Look with me if you don't mind, please, in Genesis chapter number five. And the first couple of verses. This is the book of the generations. Did you notice that? Again, families. Generations. Of Adam in the day that God created man. In the likeness of God, made he him. Male and female created he them and blessed them. And called their name Adam in the day when they were created. And Adam lived in 130 years, and he begat a son in his own likeness after his image, and he called his name Seth. We just read about that in chapter 4. And the days of Adam, after he had begotten Seth, were eight hundred years, and he begat sons and daughters, and all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years And then he died. Do you know some of the names of some of those boys, those men that had families that came out from the the seed of Seth? Well, we saw we saw first of all his name was Enos. The name Enos, the Bible says, then began men to call upon God. There was later a boy named Mahalel. His name means praising God. Then there was a man by the name of Enoch. Anybody ever heard of Enoch? What was it that was so said about Enoch that's in our minds? It was in his days that he walked with God. Just like Noah walked with God. Hey, can I say to church? Don't lose me in the introduction here. I don't care how wicked this culture gets, there need to be some people that walk with God and live for God and say, my family is going to pass down a blessing. It's been passed down to me, and I'm going to pass it down to the next generation. Can I talk to those in the church here tonight? Maybe you say, well, I don't have children. Maybe my children uh uh aren't serving the Lord. Hey, can can you invest in some kids here Some Sunday school kids here, some bus kids here, maybe to pass down your faith to the next generation, they may not have come from your loins, but bless God, you can make a difference in passing down that family blessing to someone else that maybe is not having it pass. Think about those bus kids just a moment. Maybe they don't have a dad that loves God. Maybe they have uh uh don't even know where mama is. Maybe there's a broken home there, but you can pick those kids up on that. That my heart good to see a bus pulling in here this morning on a icy uh February morning. And thank God for the min the ministries and the churches around the nation that are continuing to run buses because they don't maybe have a family blessing being passed down to them, but you can pass it down to them A spiritual blessing, a family blessing. Hey, do you understand? Do you understand that what was maybe never able to be given through their physical family You could give them in a spiritual family that would absolutely change the rest of their life. Do you know that, preacher, you know this. There are pastors standing in churches all across America. They were reached through the bus ministry. It's not because they had a godly mom and a dad, but they had a godly pastor and a godly youth pastor and a godly bus worker. Someone passed down some family blessings to them to allow them to know how to live and serve God. You see, we're finding this generation after generation. Enoch, his name means dedicated, and he walked with God. Lamach means powerful. Then we come to Noah. His name means rest and comfort. And that brings me to chapter number six. Look at verse five. We do know the civilization of the generation in which Noah lived. Look at verse 5, in God chapter 6, verse 5. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. What sounds a lot like America, doesn't it? Sounds a lot like our culture. It's almost like what can we what can we imagine up to do something more evil and farther away from God? That's the generation in which we live. That was a generation in which Noah lived as well Here's my point, church. I'm going to keep making this point over and over. You having a godly family, and you passing down a godly uh heritage to the next generation Has zero to do with the culture in which you live. Don't let the culture steal your influence. Don't say, just hold on my hand, well, no one's living for God. No, there are some people living for God today And I think some of them are seated in these pews tonight. And you're in church on a Super Bowl Sunday night, and and some of you you've been here last night at the banquet and you came to Sunday school and you were here for the morning service and you came back at six o'clock and There are some families that they want to live for God and they want to do right. You're the ones that are going to make a difference in this corrupt culture. Just like Noah made a difference in his corrupt culture as well I'm thankful there was a Noah. I'm thankful there was a man who walked with God even in the midst of a wicked, wicked nation. In fact, look with me at verses 8 and 9, Genesis 6, 8 and 9. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And these are the, here it is, the generations The passing down of the families. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man. Watch this. And perfect in his generations. And Noah walked with God, and Noah begat three sons. Do you know why, and I'm going to jump ahead just a moment, do you know why maybe Shem, Ham, and Japheth got on the ark with Noah? They were grown men. They had families of their own, right? They were married. We know that. No one didn't make them get on the ark. I wonder could it be that those boys grew up watching their dad walk with God? Would you let that sink in just a moment? They saw their daddy, Noah, in the midst of a wicked generation. And Noah lived over 600 years. Noah lived a long life. And many of those generations, while he was building the ark, you know how long that took? 120 years And there was a testimony. They watched Noah do. Do you understand the faith that Noah had to exercise? We could go to Hebrews 11, we won't. But Noah was one of those men in the faith chapter because he just believed God. There's a flood coming, there's rain coming. I don't know what it is. I ain't never seen it before, and I don't even know what an ark is, but I'm going to build it according to the blueprint that God gave to me. And he did that to the saving of his soul and his family And all civilization that would come after that. Boy, don't there need to be some men today like Noah to stand up and say, I'm going to walk with God so that my family can see it as well. I want my Shem and my Ham and my Japheth to grow up knowing that there is a God because of their father's walk with him. You see, there's this passing down from generation I want you to notice this. Let's keep reading. Look with me at verse 18. Look at Genesis 6 and verse 18. God is now talking to Noah. And he says, but with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark. Now I want you to notice the next phrase, thou And thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. The covenant was not just for Noah. The covenant was covering Noah's family. He said, Look, I want you to understand this ark that you're building. Anyone can get on the ark. It was an open invitation. But they chose not to believe God, right? They chose to not believe that destruction was coming. Well, does that sound a lot like America today I mean preachers of the gospel preach. We are closer to the coming of the Lord than we've ever been. Hey, wake up. And they're just going about doing their business, as wicked as they possibly can be But aren't you glad that there's a covenant, a promise that God makes that when you trust him, when you follow him, he will be true to his word Aren't you glad to know that when you ask him to save you, he promises to save you? Come on now. He promises to pass uh the these these blessings down from you and to your family and to uh other families and to others that we can influence for the cause of Christ. You see, it was not just this covenant was not just for Noah, it was also for his home. And for his family. Hey, look at me, church. Don't quit praying for your kids that maybe are away from God. Don't quit praying for them. You've invested in them. Maybe they grew up in a church like this. Maybe they heard the gospel. Maybe they grew up in Sunday school, and maybe they went to the Christian school, whatever it is, maybe they're outlift. Look, every adult makes their own choice. We're gonna come back to that in just a minute. Every adult child makes their own choice Don't quit praying that d don't don't quit whole having open arms ready to receive the prodigal son when they come back And pray with faith that they will, because why? You've passed down the family blessing. You've passed down the spirituality of walking with God for years and years So we find in chapter 7, verse 1, the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house, notice all thy house into the ark. For thee have I seen righteousness before me in this Generation. Noah's passing down the family blessing, and the whole world became the beneficiary. Now, now I want you to follow me to Genesis chapter number 11. Now we're getting close to come to the end of the message here I've laid all of this foundation about families, right? The whole weekend is about families and and uh uh I I wanted to look at the TV to make sure the game wasn't on up there, all right. I'm sorry y'all have had to look at a picture of me uh up there all day long. Now my wife, she's the most beautiful part of that picture. There's no doubt about that. But uh uh and and don't don't check your phone, don't tell me what the score is either, all right? So so don't I d I we shouldn't have even said that and put your thinking about that, right? But now we come to chapter number 11. We're getting back to Abraham's family. That's where we started, right? Genesis 12 But let me just say this. It didn't always start that way with Abraham. Abraham, I'm going to make a statement you may not know. Abraham did not grow up in what we would call a godly Christian home. We're going to find that out in just a minute. I'm going to show that to you biblically. Oh, great, great Abraham. No, Abraham was kind of a first-generation Christian. If you want to say it that way. Even after all of these families and all of these things, generation after generation of the knowledge of God, We find in Genesis 11. Well, let me prove it to you biblically. Genesis 11. Look at verse 26. It says, and Terah or Terah lived 70 years, and he begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Now these are the generations of Terah. Tarah begat Abram, Nahor and Haran, and Haran begat Lot. How many of you remember Lot was a nephew? Right? He was the son of his brother. This is where we find this relationship here. Alright? So Lot obviously is found a little later in Genesis. Verse 29. 28. And Haran died before his father Taran in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. And Abram and Nahor took them wives, the name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife, Milkah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milka, and the father of Iscah. But Sarai was barren, she had no child. And Tarah took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai, his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife, and they went forth with them From the Ur of the Chaldees to go into the land of Canaan, and they came unto Haran and dwelt there. And the days of Terah were two hundred five years, and Terah died In Haran. So look this way. So I read those verses on purpose this evening. Please stay with me. I promise you I'm going to bring the message now to a close See, we're, I wanted to show you that all of these families that have been passing down blessings generation after generation Somewhere along the line we find that Terah, who was living up in the Ur of the Chaldees. Remember, this is where Abraham grew up, and it's from whence he was called to go to leave the land of his nativity, right? To go into a land that I will promise you, right? The land of Israel that we know right now. Everybody tracking with me tonight? Abraham was that one that was given this very special promise that I'm going to give you a land. Can I just say Israel has always had should have had possession of all of the land that God gave to them, the promised land. But we find that Abraham was the first one that stood up and left the Ur of the Chaldees to come to follow God's promise, follow God's blessing. I'm going to show you something about Tarah. Keep your finger in Genesis, and I want you to go to Joshua chapter number 24. Joshua chapter number 24. I'm going to show you a verse that maybe you've never read before, or at least maybe you've never put it Together with this particular story. I told you tonight's a little bit more of a Bible study type message, okay? I want to show you a lot of scripture Kind of coming back to Genesis chapter number 12 without passing down the family blessing. Alright, are you in Genesis 24? Say amen if you are. Alright. I know it's Sunday night at 7. 52. Stay with me now. Look at verse number 2, 24-2 of Joshua. Joshua, what did I say? I said Joshua. See the preacher the preacher's wife is sleeping here. She heard something differently tonight. Now wait a minute. Can I ask you a question? The end of Joshua We're way beyond now the the story of Abraham, right? I mean this is this is hundreds of years later, right? Joshua Uh you remember Moses was in there and the Egyptian uh uh uh 400 years of of Egyptian bondage and and then they let go out of Egypt and then they wandered the wilderness for 40 years. This is where we get to the story of Joshua. This is a long time after what we're reading in Genesis chapter number 12. All right, is everybody with me on that? But he's retelling the story. Alright, so chapter 24, verse 2 And Joshua said unto all the people, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, your fathers dwelt, past tense, on the other side of the flood in old time Even, what's the next word? Terah. The father of who? Abraham. The father of Nakor. And they served other gods. Now let's stop right there. And they served other gods. So we think: well, Abraham must have had this great, amazing, wonderful Bible Christian heritage. His dad was an idolater. Is that what that verse says? He served us, is the word God's capital, or is it a lowercase g? It's lowercase g. He was an idolater. Tarah was not this amazing, wonderful Christian dad. Tarah was one that served graven images. But I want you to notice what verse 3 is reminding us about Abraham. It says, and I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, and I led him throughout all the land of Canaan and multiplied his seed. And gave him Isaac. And of course we know from Isaac came Jacob, came twelve sons, came the nation of Israel. Came out of the nation of Israel the seed that would become the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you ready? Are you with me? So tonight can I speak to some of you that maybe your dad was a Tarah He didn't maybe didn't raise you in in church. Maybe you don't have that Christian heritage that I spoke about that my wife and I have and and are so blessed to have and that all of us should be wanting to pass down from generation to generation. But here's the point I want to make tonight. But every generation has to make a choice on their own whether they're going to serve God or not. And can I remind you that in Joshua 24 is one of the greatest statements about choosing to serve God of any other verse in the Bible. Skip over to verse 14. Joshua 24, verse 14. You're going to remember this verse as soon as I start reading it. Joshua was talking to the nation of Israel, and he says, Now therefore, fear the Lord. And serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods, little G-O-D. Put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood. And in Egypt, and read the next phrase, church, serve ye the Lord. And if it seems evil unto you to serve the Lord. Choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose lands ye dwell, but as for me in my house Say it to me, church. We will serve the Lord. Look at me, every generation has to make that statement right there. This was hundreds of years later. Joshua was making this statement now. Hundreds of years after Abraham. And he said, I want to use Abraham as an example. I want to use Abraham's dad as an example. Tarah was an idol worshiper. He served other gods. But Abraham, when he heard, look at me, church, when he heard the call of God, he got up and he went He obeyed. He left the land of his nativity. He left the Ur of the Chaldees. He went into the land of Canaan. And from that, God began to bless and bless, and then Abraham, and then Isaac, and then Jacob, and then the twelve sons, and all of the great blessings from which Have come from Abraham. Why? Because Abraham made a choice. Just like you have to make a choice. Just like I had to make a choice. Hey, I grew up in a preacher's home, but I I I could have chosen to live in the world I could have chosen to do my own thing. I'm not a preacher today because my daddy was a preacher. I'm a preacher today because God called me at the age of 13 and I said, yes. You see, you have the family you have today, you have the life you have today in so many instances because of choices and decisions that you chose or did not choose to make. So we come back to Genesis chapter number 12 and we'll be done. It's where we started. Verse 1: Now the Lord said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred. And from thy father's house. Do you know why? Did you ever think about why he told Abraham he had to leave where he was from? We just read about it because they were a bunch of idol worshipers He said, I gotta get you out of here. I'm gonna give you a new land. I'm gonna give you a new name. Didn't Abraham get his name? It was Abram, now it's Abraham, the father of many nations Hey, look at me, church. Look at me. I know look look I I've got to wrap it up. I uh you're s you've been such a great crowd, but I don't want you to miss this last point God may be calling you to do something really hard and really difficult for the future generations that are going to come after you Abraham, I'm asking you to leave because I've got something way better for you. Don't get stuck in this old world. Don't get stuck in the land of your nativity. Don't get stuck In the idolatrous nature of what you have always known. Abraham, there's something better for you. And Abraham, I want to use you to do something for all the generations that are going to come after you Look at verse 2, chapter 12, Genesis, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee. And who wants the blessings of God in your life? Don't you? I do. He says, Abraham, you got to get up and move, though. You got to get up and do the hard thing. Hey, hey, Christian parenting, that's hard. It's difficult. But it's the right thing. Hold the standards. Read the scriptures. Teach your children the ways of the Lord. He says, why? Because I'm going to bless you in doing so. But notice the last phrase of verse 2, and thou shalt be a blessing. Wow. Do you know why God often blesses us? Not so that we can just receive it and say, Well, thank you, Lord. I'm sure glad that I've got a great Christian home and family. I'm supposed to bless others with that Christian home and family. What God has given to me I want to use to pass on, to influence the next generation for the gospel of Jesus. Can I say this? This is a little bit of why I'm traveling the country right now. I'll be honest, I've had to make a lot of sacrifices in the last two and a half years to answer God's call. Last calendar year, 2024, I was away from my wife 214 days. That's a lot of travel. All over this country You know why? Because I feel called to invest in this next generation of preachers coming behind me. That is my heart. Thank you for saying that this morning. That is my heart. Someone sometimes has to make sacrifices. Someone has to be willing to do the hard thing. And the call of God upon their life. Why? For the next generation. I want to be a blessing to those coming behind me as well. Don't you? Don't you want to use your family and your influence and your testimony and your faith in God for those that will come after you And notice verse 3, he says, and I will bless them that bless thee and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee, Abraham, shall, here it is, here's where we started, shall all families Of the earth be blessed. Have there been influential families in American history? Absolutely. A lot of families have done a lot of good things But maybe they've not done a lot of godly things. I mean you can look at the inf influential, the political families, right? The money family, the Rockefellers of our day, the political dynasties of our day They may have done some good things, but maybe they have not done a lot of godly things. Oh how we need godly families to say, I'll do what I can do in this generation. I'll make a difference. I'll make a difference in those bust kids, as we said earlier. I'll make a difference in these church families. Maybe my family's all grown and gone, but maybe some of you can invest in some of these little kids running around here. Teach them in Sunday school and in junior church and love on them and show them faithfulness. Why? Because we should take what's been given to us and pass it down to the next generation. Passing down the family blessing. Now it should start in your own home, obviously. Pass it down to your children. Hey, those of you that got little kids here, I know it's hard. Make sure they know the Word of God. Keep them in church. Every time these doors are open, get those church those kids here. Why? You don't know what message may be the life-changing message that your kid will hear And if they're not in church, they may miss that one message that God intended for them for the rest of their life. Can I just say, let's take what has been given? And pass it down as a family blessing, like Abraham did. On and on and on. To even 2025. I want to keep passing down blessings I'm going to keep influencing the next generation. I hope you will as well. Let's pray tonight. Our Father, tonight we come to the end of a very busy weekend. Um multiple messages, I think nine times between my wife and myself and speaking and investing and pouring in Speaking the scriptures and talking to families. Lord, I pray that this would not be wasted this weekend. I pray that this church would be benefited because of your word and of Bible principle Preaching. Lord, I pray that you'll help the families of this great church here to be a great lighthouse to this community. Oakland, Maryland, needs this church. To continue to be strong, to continue to be a gospel witness, to continue to rear godly families and children that are going to serve you with their lives. God, I pray that you would help us all this evening to realize sometimes like an Abraham that has to start in our generation. Got to make a choice. As Joshua said, as for me in my house We're going to serve the Lord. Lord, please let that be tonight. In this invitation, as we as we close this service and before we leave, may we all make good choices, good decisions that will affect the future. I pray this, O. God, in your holy name. Let's stand together, please or hedge your body.