Turn back to Psalms one twenty-three. I'm telling you, Christmas music, some of the most beautiful music in the world. I just Love it. That's a beautiful song. And uh I think Christian music in general is some of the greatest uh music uh that has ever been written. So appreciate that, ladies Uh Psalms 123, what do you call a cow that has no legs? Ground beef. Now that is that came from Mary Gravely, so whenever you see the Graveleys, you see Mary tell her that her joke really stinks. And uh I she sent that, of course, Sarah up in Pennsylvania, she sent that by text to me last evening and she goes, Here's a joke for you. And so I know she's listening. And so um anyway, Psalms 123. What I would like for us to do is uh read number verse number two together in unison. Uh Psalms 123, verse number two. As I mentioned, we have our new sound system. Uh almost every part of it I like very much. One part I do not like is this microphone right here. So uh we'll have to see how it works. And if it gets in the way, I'm just gonna break it off So, but anyway, we'll see how it goes. Psalms 123, if you would, let's read together verse number two, all together unison. Everybody got it there? Everybody ready? Here we go Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress So our eyes wait upon the Lord our God until that he have mercy upon us. I circled two words in that verse. Towards the end, I circled the word wait. And then I circled the word until. Wait until. And this is my message this morning, is patiently waiting. Patiently waiting. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. overwhelming majority of us here gathered together. Your word, Lord, has helped us so much. It's revealed to us your Son Jesus. Your word shows us the way of salvation. Lord, your word has brought light into very dark times in our lives. And Lord, you've instructed us. You've warned us. You've given us tremendous promises. And so I pray as we look for a few moments into this precious book, that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts That you'd open our hearts and minds, that we would receive what you have for us and apply these truths to our lives however you see fit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your spirit. And that you would speak through me and challenge us and help and encourage us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen It's been a number of times over the years when I'm sharing the gospel with people or talking to unsaved people about the importance of salvation, trying to urge someone to trust Jesus Christ their Savior Uh they'll make a statement something like this. They'll say something preacher, I would get saved, but I cannot live the Christian life. I would not be able to live the Christian life. And I like for the young people get their attention up here, please But they'll say something like this, Preacher, I would get saved, but I don't think I could live the Christian life. I couldn't live good enough to be a Christian And my answer to that is always basically the same thing. I'll say, well, you can't live the Christian life. I said, welcome to the club. Because the fact of the matter is, in and of ourselves, none of us can live good enough to be accepted by God. None of us can be good enough. To meet God's standard of acceptance. And so, the Christian life, let me just put it this way: the Christian life is tough. Nowhere does the Bible suggest that the Christian life is a life of ease. It's not there. The Bible nowhere tells us, makes any even a remote promise that being a Christian means I'll never have any more struggles in life. There won't be any more heartaches. There won't be any more sin or failure in my life. If I accept Christ as Savior, it'll be a life of ease, a life of total victory, a life without heartache, without struggle. You don't find that anywhere in the Bible. In fact, Jesus, it seems like sometimes he went overboard to tell his disciples, if you follow me, you're going to have to take up a cross. You follow me, people are going to turn against you. Fathers might turn against their sons and daughters against their mothers and brothers and sisters against each other because of Christ. Without exception, all the great men and women of faith, all through scripture and through church history, all of them faced tremendous hardships in their life They faced tremendous sorrows and trials, and some of the greatest men of God in Scripture had to deal with horrendous failure in their own personal lives. I uh like what Charles Spurgeon said. I actually just read this this morning, and Charles Spurgeon made made this statement. He said, it is better To have Christian days of sorrow than a worldlings days of mirth Better to have Christian sorrows than worldlings' joys. Ah, happier to be chained in a dungeon with Paul than reign in the palace with Ahab. Better to be a child of God in poverty than a child of Satan in riches. What was he saying? You're saying the Christian life is not a life of ease. It's not a life of riches and and uh uh uh without struggle and all of this. In other words, the Christian life is not child's play. The narrow road. The straight and narrow road is filled with some rough places. The straight and narrow roads sometimes go through some deep valleys of discouragement and difficulty and darkness. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, if you're under the sound of my voice this morning or and uh you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven and you're on your way to heaven, uh if you're not sure about that, I cannot promise you. That if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, you'll never have any more problems in your life. I can't promise you that I cannot promise you, if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, you'll never have any more struggles, you'll never have to deal with sin again, you'll never have any more needs. All your needs will be met all and it'll just be uh ease and uh cakewalk the rest of your life. I can't promise you that. Because that's not true. But I can promise you this. If you accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, I can promise you this. God will forgive you for all your sins. God will accept you as his own child. I can promise you this if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior. The guilt of sin can be removed. You can have a home in heaven, and you can know for sure that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. Had the privilege yesterday to uh sit down with a husband and wife in their in their uh living room and open the Bible and go through and show them how to be saved. I thank God that both of them bowed their head and trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. I believe they were sincere. I have no reason to doubt it. They didn't instantly become wealthy. They didn't instantly lose all their heartaches and troubles and sorrows. But trusting they were genuine and calling on the Lord, I have no reason to doubt it, they did instantly have sins forgiven. They did instantly become a child of God. Can't promise you, if you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, there are no more troubles, no more heartaches. Can't promise you that. But I can promise you this, you'll have purpose in your life. You'll have meaning. There'll be fulfillment there. I can promise you this: God's Holy Spirit will move into your body and dwell you for the rest of your life and take you to heaven. So the Christian life is not a life of ease, and anybody that suggests that, and some of these preachers on TV, I they just really get under my skin when they try and imply that if you have enough faith and you're you're a good Christian or all this, then you'll have all the money you want, you'll have all this and everything, and you'll never get sick. That is a flat out lie. Christian life is challenging. It is not child's play. Now there's two particular dangers in the Christian life. A person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior. May 7, 1979, back in Philadelphia, I knelt my knees beside my bed, calling the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. I began a Christian life. And it some of the the some of my greatest heartaches have been since I've been saved. Some of the greatest trials in my life have been since I've been saved. But there's two dangers. We get saved and we begin this new life that God has given to us, and new desires, and a new perspective on the world, and a new understanding of who I am and who God is And God changes us, and we live this Christian life, and as we live the Christian life, we come across difficulties, we come across trials, and there's two dangers One of the dangers as a Christian facing issues and struggles is I can become distracted. Now, if you would, keep your place here at Psalms. I'd like you to turn with me, if you would, to Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4. This is a very familiar parable the Lord gave about a sower. A man went forth to sow, and he talks about the different types of soil that the seed he's sowing falls on. I think many of us are familiar with this. Some of it falls by the wayside where the ground is packed down and hard from people walking on it and oxing and whatever, the pathway. And uh it doesn't take roots. There's and can't get down into the ground. The birds come. and uh fly off with it, it never bears any fruit. And he goes through these different types of soil. Then he comes back and he explains to the disciples. And there's two that I want to highlight here. Verse number nineteen of Mark chapter four. Well let's begin in verse 18. He says this, and these are they which are sown among thorns. Such as hear the word, here's a person, maybe they come to a church service, maybe somebody comes by their house, knocks on their door. Maybe they're invited, they go to a camp or a special rally or something, they hear the gospel, and they receive it. Notice says, these are they which are sown among thorns, such as hear the word. And look what he says. And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches. And the lusts of other things enter in and do what? Choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. What happens here? Here's a Christian, I believe, and this is my take, and others may take issue with it, but uh I believe this person gets saved. Earlier he says they receive the word. And this person, like I said, I believe gets saved. But as they begin the Christian life, they get distracted. Maybe difficulties come and suddenly uh the cares of this world and they see the opportunity to have riches and I'm I don't have riches, I'm struggling financially. And if I would compromise my Christian life and if I would uh neglect my spiritual walk and I can go and do this, I can get some riches. Maybe the the burdens, the the cares of this world, just the struggles of life we come down and and a lust of other things come in and that's getting well. So I would like to enjoy that or I would like to engage in that And they get distracted and they get away from the Lord, they get out of fellowship with God, and they become unfruitful. So that's one danger. I may be talking to someone this morning. You're saved, you've trusted Christ. And there may be things in this world, there may be cares of this world, there may be opportunities that would draw you away from your walk with God, that would draw you away from your fellowship with the Lord, and there's a temptation to compromise my my Christian convictions and compromise what I know is right and get drawn away and what happens become unfruitful. I've been in the ministry for uh over thirty years now And I've seen that happen. I've seen people get saved and get strong and they're living for God, and suddenly the cares of this life and the uh deceitfulness of riches and lust of other things come in and draws them away. And you can't find them. They're not living for God. So that's a real danger. But there's a second danger in the Christian life. And I notice that back up in verse number 17. Notice here, he says this. Let's look at verse 16. These are they which are sown on stony ground, who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness. Now, in my mind, that's telling me they're getting saved. They're receiving the gospel. They're accepting it. Then it says this, and have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time. Afterward, when affliction or persecution arises for the word's sake, immediately they are what? Offended. One danger in the Christian life is getting distracted as I'm walking with God and trying to live my Christian life and be the person God saved me to be. There's these other distractions and I get off track and I get away from my walk with God. I become unfruitful. The other danger is this, is that the difficulty of the way, maybe not everybody appreciates the fact that I got saved Maybe not everybody really is excited by the fact that I'm not living the life of sin I once did. I'm not running with the old crowd. And maybe they'll turn on me. Maybe family members will turn on me And I get discouraged. And I let that get to me, get under my skin, and I say, you know, I really, this isn't what I anticipated, this isn't what I thought. I just walk away from it. That's a terrible thing. I mentioned May 7, 1979, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. Greatest decision I ever made in my life. I was ecstatic. Drugs and liquor and all that lifestyle was dominating me, destroying me. I did not want to be the man I was becoming. And I accepted Christ and God took all that away and he changed my life. And I was so excited about that. And I thought for certain that uh I thought for certain when I tell people what Christ has done for me and they see the change in my life, they're all going to be excited. They're going to think that's the greatest thing in the world. Guess what? That didn't happen. In fact, I had one of my family members actually was extremely upset with me that I had gotten saved and just laid into me and uh chewed me out. I thought that's not what I expected. I went to work and uh came into work. I was a Monday night. I got saved, came into work at the meatpacking plant on Tuesday morning. I hardly said anything, but the guys just saw something about me. They come and say, Leatherman, what's going on? Something's different. What in the world? I mean just a few hours after I got saved, they said, something's different, Leatherman, what's up? And I said, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior last night. I was excited. I would think, you know, they're all yes, that's fantastic. We're proud of you. Well, it was the exact opposite What are you an idiot? Are you some kind of freak? What are you an occult? And for the next year and a half, they just laid into me. Things happen in the Christian life. There's nowhere that God promises us that if we accept Jesus Christ as Savior Everybody's going to love us. All our bills are going to be paid. We're never going to struggle or fail. We're never going to have any heartaches or disappointments or sorrows. And that is not true In fact, sometimes the heartaches are greater. But what I'm trying to say is this: do not allow the struggles in the Christian life to discourage you. Do not allow them to get you distracted. That you don't walk from God. That you walk away from God. Now we come back to Psalms 123. And here we have a prayer of a man that is crying out to God to help him in the struggles of life. Now if you notice this, or if you're back there at Psalms 123, if you would notice, right underneath the number, Psalms 123, has a little title there, and what does it say? A song of what Degrees. In fact, we're not exactly sure what that means. I did a good bit of research and I mentioned this in other messages over the years when we preach from these uh psalms that have this. Uh there's a lot of different ideas. What does it mean a song of degrees? Well, some have suggested that it was when Israel was in uh in uh captivity in Babylon That they wrote these psalms and these prayers and they would sing them and quote them as they were coming back to Jerusalem Could be, I don't think that's the case because, well notice here, some of these were written by David, and David was a long time before Israel was in captivity So that couldn't have been the case. Others have suggested that these were songs that they would say as they went to the temple. They would go up the steps of the temple as they're approaching uh the the foyer of the temple there and they would quote these psalms and sing these psalms. But uh I was reading about that and someone pointed out that the temple at that time didn't have steps. That uh that was could not have been the case. Uh there's been other suggestions, and uh the one that I've kind of settled on, and uh for whatever it's worth is uh it's suggested that these are some sort of musical instructions on how these songs were to be sung, and it's something that's uh obsolete today and we really don't know exactly what it means. So Like most things in life, my answer is I don't know what it means. But nevertheless, there's Psalm of Degrees. There's actually 15 of them if you look there at Psalms 120. It starts, a song of degrees, and goes through Psalms 134. There's 15 of these written that way. Whatever the case. Whatever the issue was behind these, whatever that title means, we do know this. That Psalms 123 was written, was a prayer written and prayed by somebody, we don't know who, that was going through an incredibly difficult time. Somebody that was going through a dark, dark valley. If you would notice there in verse number three, he said, This: have mercy upon us, O Lord. Have mercy upon us. How many people agree with me? That sounds like someone in great duress. Have mercy upon us, O Lord. Have mercy upon us. Then he makes this statement. For we are exceedingly filled with contempt. That word contempt there has this idea of disapproval Of being despised, disregarded. Whatever the circumstances are, whatever the situation is, this person is desperately crying out for help. God, my circumstances, my situation is overwhelming. And I'm looking to you, I'm crying out to you to have mercy on me. It's a cry of great duress. Now, there's a couple things I want us to notice here very quickly, just a few three thoughts I put down from this passage of scripture. I put this one down. I want us to notice that this author, whoever this is, He had a firm assurance of God's existence. He had a firm assurance of God's existence. Look at verse number one with me. Unto thee, lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. Here's a man that's praying to a God that he is absolutely convinced exists. I am glad that I have some people in my life that I can look to. You know what I'm talking about? When we say we look to someone. How many people now? You're right now, you're thinking of someone, when you're going through a tough time or whatever, you're thinking of someone, I can look to that person for help or for guidance or wisdom. Anybody know I got some in my mind I think of a good friend, he's now with the Lord, but uh most of us know Dr. Bill Barrens. He was a man, if I had troubles and difficulties or I had questions, I wasn't sure about something, I could call him up And uh we could talk, I could share my heart to him, and uh he would often give me uh with wise advice, and he would often help me, not always, but often he would help me. I think of Dr. Pat Creed, dear, dear friend. I consider him my pastor in many ways, my mentor in many ways. And situations come up, I don't know what to do, I don't know the answer, I'm not sure the best course of action. I'm glad I can give Dr. Creed a call. But you know what? There are times in life where there's not one human being is able to do for us what we need done. There are times in life, as great as the person may be, they cannot do for me what I need God to do. And this psalmist understands that there was somebody greater than any man that he could go to in a time of need. There was somebody that was higher than any man. Look what he says. He says, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. I'm here to tell you this morning, regardless of how dark the valley is you're in, regardless of how difficult the situation you may be facing Regardless of how confusing life may be for you right now, I'm here to tell you there is a God in heaven that is able to help you and I. We must never forget that. We must never get the idea that I am alone and there is nobody that can help me. That is a lie of the devil. There is a God in heaven who loves you and loves me dearly, and if we will look to him and trust him, he can and he will help us. If you would, take your Bibles. Again, keep your place here. We're going to come back to this, but I want you to notice Daniel. We had in teen Sunday school this morning, Brother Josh preached from Daniel. If you would, turn there to Daniel. I like Daniel. Neat guy. Tremendous faith. Go to Daniel chapter two, and uh I'd like for you to turn there because I'd like for you to see this for yourself and I think some of these passages you might want to underscore in your Bible. I think it's a good good practice to highlight verses and to take notes in your Bible. Daniel chapter 2, and notice with me if you would, verse number 27 Nebuchadnezzar has a dream, and he forgets what the dream is. And so he calls for his wise men, his astrologers, all his worldly wise people. And he wants them to tell them not just what the dream meant, but he wants them to tell them what the dream was. And they say, what? Are you crazy? Nobody can do that. And he goes, all right, I'm going to kill you all. Like uh brother Forney was saying, uh I'm gonna I'm gonna kill y'all. And I had to correct him. We were uh when I was in Tennessee, we had a Sunday school bus route there and those little kids, you know, Chattanooga is the South. And uh one time I said something uh something one of the girls jumped up and says, Oh y'all are crazy. So I started saying, it's not just y'all, it's all y'all So Nebuchadnezzar says, if you guys can't tell me what my dream is, I'm gonna kill all y'all. Well, that includes Daniel. Daniel hears about this, and notice in verse number 27 of Daniel chapter 2, Daniel says this: Daniel answered in the presence of the king and said Oh by the way, how many would agree with me? That's a bad spot to be in. The king's gonna kill all y'all. That's a bad spot. That's tough. Look what Daniel says. Daniel answered in the presence of the king and said, The secret which the king hath demanded cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians. The soothsayer show unto the king. Look at this next statement. I have it underlined and circled in my Bible. But there is a God in heaven. Isn't that good to know? I don't know what maybe you're going through. I don't know what your situation may be. I I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks perhaps this morning. And you're at a point and you're saying, there is nobody on earth that can help me. There is nothing that can solve this problem. There is nothing that can see me through this. I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven. That can and will help us if we will just trust him. Doesn't necessarily mean he's going to do it what we think it should be done. Doesn't necessarily mean he's going to Working out the way we think it should be worked out, but I assure you this, God will work it out in the very best way. But my point is this The psalmist understood that there was help in life. There was something above anything this world has to offer. There is a God in heaven. And we must be assured of his existence. I mentioned to the teenagers this morning, by the way, teen help working in the teen class down there has made me feel young. I'm telling you. I feel like I'm fifty five and uh I don't know why I said that, but um uh Daniel, come with me if you would to Daniel chapter three. And verse number sixteen. Here we have these three these guys are here's the here's the here's the youth in me coming out. These guys are cool. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. How many people here have tremendous respect for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? Man, I want to remind you this is not a Bible story. This is a historical event. These guys existed. They were real, just teenagers that loved God and understood that God exists. He's real. Look what happens. You know the story. Nebuchadnezzar says, oh, we're going to play a rock and roll band. Whatever you do, you bow down to this great statue of me because I'm awesome. I want everybody to worship me Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego says, no, we're not going to do that. That violates that's sin against God. That's blasphemy. You know, sometimes when we say no to that which is wrong, it saves us from a lot of problems. But sometimes when we say no to that which is wrong, sometimes it causes problems. Might cost a job. Might might cause the cost a relationship. Huh? Young persons with a friend, maybe they got a boyfriend or girlfriend, they want engage in something that God forbids, they say no, they lose that friend Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said, no, we're not going to bend down bow down. We're not going to worship your false God. They said, Oh yeah, if you don't, I'm going to throw you in the fiery furnace. And says, I'll give you one more chance. Strike up the band. They said, Well, give us a thousand chances. I'm putting this in my own words, of course. You can give me a thousand chances. We're never bowing down to your false God. We worship the true God. And so look what happens here. Look what they say. I love this. Verse number 16 of Daniel chapter 3. Shagrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar. We are not careful to answer thee in this matter. Now, what do they mean by that? They mean say, listen, this isn't a problem for us to respond to you. We're not struggling with how we're going to respond. It's a settled matter. Look what they say. If it be so, look at this. Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. Look at this. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods. Nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. What are they saying? They saying, Nebuchadnezzar, listen, we understand very clearly, we are absolutely certain there is a God in heaven That is greater than you, and we will not disobey the God in heaven, to worship your false God. They had it settled. Here that would you agree with me? Getting thrown in a fiery furnace is a bad place to be in. That's tough. Worship this or be thrown the fire furnace. Listen, we don't know. We're not in that situation. How many of us? How many of us will be able to say, no, I'll burn to death before I go along with the crowd? I would like to think I would have that faith, but I don't know. I have phenomenal respect for these three men. Young men. A God in heaven, a God in heaven. They were absolutely sure. Let me show you one more real quickly. Here in Daniel chapter 6. And verse number ten. Now this is again, this is not a Bible story. This is a historical event. This is an accurate record of a historical event, and it's probably the one most well known in the Bible, Daniel and the Lion's Den. Daniel's worshiping God. He knows there's a God. He knows that God exists. There's no doubt about it in his mind And they come and they uh these other princes are jealous of Daniel, who's the chief pr uh prince uh in the nation under uh uh the king and uh they become jealous of Daniel because uh his wisdom and how God's blessing them and so they turn against him and they say if anybody prays to anybody for uh what is it thirty days They're going to be thrown in a lion's den, eaten alive by lions. Daniel hears this. How many people agree being threatened to throw in lion's den i is a bad spot to be in? Yeah. That's a little bit of contempt. Remember verse number three there in Psalm 123? Have mercy upon us, O Lord, have mercy. We are filled with contempt. These guys hated Daniel. To the point they're going to kill him. I wonder how many of us, if we went to church Sunday night, we'd get thrown in a lion's den. The government would tell us, if you go to church Sunday night, we're going to throw you in a lion's den Wonder how packed the church would be. That's their situation. Look what they look what Dan says. Dan Dan. I call him Dan Daniel verse 10 of chapter 6. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, this is this law, if you pray to anybody, you're going to get thrown the lines then. When Daniel knew that the writing was signed, He went into his house and his windows being open. I wonder how many else would have closed it. I don't want anybody to see. I want them to know. He opens it. His window being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed. And gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. How many people, if you were threatened to be thrown in a lion's den because of your faith, you would pray? Sure. How many would thank God? Oh, he's thanking God. He's about to be thrown to lines then because of his faith. He prays, that's normal, but to thank God. And then it goes on, and he says, before his God, as he did aforetime. Then these men assembled and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. I want to suggest to you That Daniel was absolutely convinced that God existed. And he was absolutely convinced that God was greater than any king, any prince on planet Earth. And his trust was in God. Now that brings us back to Psalms 123. Here is a person, a fellow. We don't know who he is. We don't know his name. We don't know his background. We don't know his situation. But he's in a bad spot. He's in a bad situation. And he begins by saying this, unto thee, God, I lift up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. He is absolutely convinced that God is. And I say again to you, whatever your circumstance is, whatever your situation is, whatever you're facing that seems overwhelming, I'm telling you, God is. God exists. He is in heaven. He is real. He is all powerful. When no one on earth can help us, there's a God in heaven that can help us So I don't know about you. I read this in my devotions a week or so ago. And I read that and I thought, I'm glad that God exists. There's no doubt about it. If you remember, this summer we did a series on introducing God. And we know that God exists. We step out. Did anybody see that clear sky last night and that moon in the sky last night? I look at that. I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder. All around creation, this amazing creation. And it tells me God exists. God is there. He sees me. Right now. He sees. He's aware of you and I. He's listening to us. He knows us. And he is all powerful. And he was all wise. And God exists. God exists. So, first thing I notice here, this man is fully, has a firm assurance of God's existence. Second thing I notice is this. His focus was attentively on God's actions. Now I didn't explain what I mean by that, but look again at verse number one. He says, unto thee, lift I up my eyes. Verse number two. Thank you, Robin. Verse number two: Behold, as the eyes of a servant look unto the hand of their master. And again, as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress. This is a deliberate action. He says, I know God exists, I know he's in the heavens. And he says, I am going to deliberately put my focus on the Lord This is a conscious decision. Whatever his circumstances were, I don't know. But he says: I am not going to allow my circumstances to get my eyes off of the Lord. I am not going to allow my circumstances to overshadow the fact that God in heaven is and He loves me and I can look to Him. He makes a deliberate decision. This is not a casual glance. Well, uh, oh, maybe God's up there. Maybe oh, maybe God would help me. No, that's not it at all. This is a very conscious, deliberate action. I am looking to God To help me. Focusing intensely on what God is trying to do Now I want to suggest this, and I'll be honest with you, I'm preaching to myself in many ways as much as anybody else. But I'm saying this. The things that God allows to come into our life, the heartaches, the disappointments, even the failures God allows them in our life because He can, and if we let Him, He will use them To mold us and make us into a better Christian, into a better person. He allows them Say, if if if if some good cannot come out of the valley I'm going through, if something cannot come out of this That makes me a better person and brings glory to God. If something could not come out of that, God would never have let me go through it in the first place Old familiar verse. We most of us know it by heart. All things work together for good. To them that love God, who are the called according to purpose, those whose focus is on the Lord, those whose faith is in God, those who are looking to the Lord to lead them and direct them. God allows these things in our lives to mold us and make us and develop us. And our job is just like a maiden looks to that looks to her, just like a uh what is it, a maiden looks to the hand of her mistress. As the eyes of the servant are looking to their master, when I'm going through this trial, this difficulty, my eyes are on God, and I'm watching and looking. God, what are you doing in my life? What are you trying to accomplish? How are you leading me? What are you trying to work out here in my life? It brings purpose to the trials and difficulties we face. I believe God designs the trials we go through for various reasons. Some of them might, number one, I put this down, it might be to correct us. might be to correct us. How many people are familiar with Jonah? How many people agree Jonah messed up? Supposed to go to Nineveh, he goes to Tarsus. He's going the opposite direction. But as a child of God, God doesn't just let him do whatever he wants. God intervenes. And God sends, of course, a storm. And he sa uh Jonah gets thrown over. How many people agree with me? In the middle of a storm where hardened sawers are scared to death, getting thrown over in the ocean is a bad thing. Man, that's tough. That's a valley. Worse yet, a whale comes and swallows you. If you agree, that that's a bummer. That's the youth in me coming out again. Bummer. This is bad. What was God doing? Destroying Jonah? Had he abandoned Jonah? No! What was he doing? He was correcting Jonah. Jonah was out of whack. Jonah was going the wrong direction. Jonah was out of the will of God. And he went through a horrendous trial, horrendous sorrow, horrendous difficulty. In fact, he thought he was dying And he cried out to God, God have mercy on me. And God corrected him. Listen, I don't know. This is Between the individual and God, but maybe the trial you and I are going through, maybe the difficulty we're facing, maybe this value we're dealing with, maybe there's something in our life. We need to look to God. Maybe He needs to correct some things Maybe there are some changes God's trying to bring about in my life, a way of thinking, my values. I don't know. But I know God sends trials and storms and difficulties sometimes, like in Jonah's case, to correct something that's not right. I tell you, I've preached, I've buried scores and scores of people over the years. And I've seen of quite a few folks that stood in an open grave of a loved one buried and teams, tears streaming down their cheeks. And saying, God, I'll get right with you now. You've got my attention, God Sometimes good decisions are made at the grave, an open grave of a loved one. Now I'm not saying that's necessarily the case for everybody, but I've seen that happen. I think of uh we were talking somebody earlier, oh Jim McRoby. How many people remember Jim McRoby? Jim McGroby is diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver. He needs a liver transplant. He goes to the hospital, they're doing some tests, they got to put a stent in. When they put the stent in, they mistakenly puncture his liver. And I guess the cancer got out and they could not do the transplant. It was basically a death sentence. I'd been witnessing the gym for years, cold, hard, didn't want anything to do with God. And through all that, Jim trusted Christ as Savior, and the old boy got saved. About a year before he died. And I mean he was transformed. Sometimes God allows trials in our life to correct something in our life that's wrong. Sometimes God allows trials in our life to convert us. In Jim's case, in Jim, you know what he said to me? I went to visit him just not long before he passed away, and I would bring the CDs by. He bought the church our very first cordless mite. So that we could record the services and he could listen to them at home. He was too sick to come to church. And I'd bring them by and we'd talk and visit. He made this statement to me. This is profound. He said, preacher, getting cirrhosis of the liver and not being able to get this transplant is the greatest thing that ever happened to me. Through that, I got saved. How many people agree with me? Getting a death sentence is a bad spot. But God was using that in Jimmy's life. To bring them to Christ for salvation. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are beginning on your way to heaven. I'm sure of this one thing. God is working in your life. to get your attention and get you to the point where you accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. I'm telling you, dying of liver cancer and going to heaven is better than living a full life and dying and going to hell. So God allows trials in our life sometimes to correct us, sometimes to convert us. You know what I got thinking about was those sailors on the boat with Jonah? You know what happens? They all got saved. Read the book of Jonah very carefully. All those hardened, cussing sailors. I mean, they I picture them, they look like pirates, you know, earrings and all this stuff And man, they see what God does in the life of Jonah with this whale and the storm and all of that. And every one of those hardened old sailors turns to the Lord and accepts Jehovah at that point and gets saved. That amazing thing. So the storm that was correcting Jonah, that same storm was converting those old sailors I think sometimes, I know sometimes, God sends the storms in our lives, trials, difficulties, so that we'll come to Christ, get our salvation settled. Sometimes we need correction. Sometimes it's to challenge us And make our faith grow and be stronger. How many people agree Jo Job was a good guy? Job, God said tremendous things about Job. He is just and upright and perfect in all his ways. Wow. And God sent incredible trials into Job's life. Why? Because Job needed to be corrected? Not necessarily. Did Job need to be converted? No, he knew the Lord. He needed to be challenged. And when it was all said and done, Job's seen this. I've heard thee with the hearing of my ears, but now I've seen thee. I knew about you, Lord. I knew some things about you, but now I understand even clearer. How powerful you are and how good you are. And Job rejoiced. And his faith was stronger after that trial than it was before. His understanding of God was clearer after that trial than it was before. So sometimes God allows trials in our life to Challenge us and clarify our thinking and help us have a clearer grasp of life and God, our purpose in this world. So the psalmist here in Psalm 123 is a firm assurance of God's existence. He knows there's a God in heaven. And then he's focused attentively on what God is trying to do in his life. Just like a servant is watching his master. What is he going to do? What does he need done? What does he need for me? A maid uh watching her mistress, what what does she want? What is she doing? So we're looking to God. God, what are you doing in my life? What are you needing me to do? How do I respond to this? Do I need to repent and make some changes? Do I need to get trust Christ to get converted? Do I need to exercise greater faith and grow in my understanding? How do I respond? Then last of all, and I'm out of time. I notice he has a full, a fixed, a full anticipation of God's mercy. Again, verse number two he says at the end says, Show our eyes wait upon the Lord Now that's kind of where I stopped in my study And as I come back and kept reading it over, I realized that's not all he's saying. So our eyes wait upon the Lord our God. And then he adds this: until that he have mercy upon us. Wait until this is a he fully anticipated That God was going to do something on his behalf. And he was going to keep waiting and he was going to keep waiting and he was going to keep waiting. And he was going to keep waiting until God did whatever it was God was fixing to do. How many people here struggle with imp impatience? Anybody here? How many people are you're impatient for this preacher to get done the message? Man, how many people go to the line at Walmart and it's the ten item line and somebody has twelve items and you're erp. And you're, what in the world? You know what that is? That is impatience. As Americans, we want it, and we want it now. Here's the thing, God does not always work on our time frame. I don't mean this. I hope you don't take this wrong. I don't mean it wrong, but my issues with God Have never been. My problems with God have never been that God let me say this correctly, because I don't want to miss state this. My problems with God are not that God acts too slow. Now how many people have ever felt that way? God, you're taking too long. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Come on. Or that God is too late. God, you should have responded by now. That's not the problem. It's not that God is too slow or God is too late. The problem is always this. I am too impatient. I'm not willing to wait. And waiting on God is really this: trusting God. God, I don't understand. I don't see the solution. I don't see why you are allowing this. But God, I you exist. I'm looking to you, and I am waiting and trusting on you. To accomplish whatever it is you're trying to accomplish. By the way, we're not alone in being impatient. We don't have time, but we could go and look at Abraham. And God promised Abraham he was gonna, him and Sarah were gonna have a child. They're in their upper year, they're older than me. They're going to have a child. And Sarah in particular, but Abraham goes along, they get impatient. And so he has a child in adulterous situation with Hagar. And that was disaster. That was disaster. Impatience. Uh you remember the event with uh Samuel the King saw or Saul the king, Samuel is going to come. He says, I'll do a sacrifice, you wait for me. Samuel didn't get there at the appointed time. Saul gets impatient. And so he blasphemes and intervenes where he has no right to intervene, and he offers this sacrifice, and it ultimately, in the end, cost him his kingdom. What I'm trying to say to you is this. Trust God and be patient. Wait on God. Let him have his way. You say it's hard, preacher. I know it is. But I'm telling you, God knows what he's doing. God is, I've never had God, I've never had God show up early in a situation for me, but it has always been exactly on time. God knows what he's doing. Wait on him. Trust him. Be patient. My biggest mistake I have made in my life, and how many how many folks like me, the older you get, the more you look back and And kind of evaluate your life. Anybody like that? Look back and you think things through. I look back over my life and I look at the biggest mistakes I have made in my life, the biggest regrets I have in my life. Without exception, or not being willing to wait on God and taking things into my own hands, and I've got to fix this, and I've got to do something. I look back and think, man, I wished I'd have waited on God. I wished I'd have just let God do what he was doing I made this statement many times over the years. I say it again. I have never regretted waiting on God. Never. Trust him. Let him have his way. Let me ask you a question as we close. How do you react when the trials come to your life? When you're in that panic situation, how do we react? The psalmist here in Psalm 123 says, I know there's a God in heaven. I'm looking to him and trusting him. Whatever he's trying to do in my life, I want to know how to respond. And I'm just going to keep waiting on him until he does whatever it is he's trying to do. Does that make sense? Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and he shall direct thy ways Lean not into thine understanding, trust the Lord with all heart. Lean not into thy understanding. He shall direct thy ways. You know what that's saying? Just wait on God. Trust him. Let him have his way. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us. Maybe, Lord, these thoughts you could use them to help us in some fashion. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed if there's any here this morning, say, preacher, there's some things going on in my life. Maybe only God knows about it. And you'd say, preacher, it's really, it's it's a tough spot. And I need God to help me. And I need God to help me have faith in Him and trust Him and let Him have His way through this. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? Preacher, pray with me. There are some issues and situations that are just tough. And I'm going to look to God and I'm going to trust in him and I'm going to wait on him and let him lead me and direct me on how to deal with this. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. How about it? Any others? Sure. Let's bring these things to the Lord. Let's cast all that care on him. Because he does care for us. And let's wait until God accomplishes that what he's doing. Maybe you're here this morning and this trial is God's Trying to get your attention and make some corrections in your life. And you know that. We know that when it's happening We know it when God's working in our life that way. And I wonder how many would say, preacher, I know God's trying to change some things in my life. There's some things that need to be corrected. I know that. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me cooperate with him and yield to him and let him make those corrections. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I know that's what God is doing. God bless you. A bunch of hands around Listen, don't resist that. Yield to that. Let the Lord have his way. Trust him. Obey him. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm trying to live for God as far as I know. Everything's good as, you know, as far you know, just being honest. But there's still this trial. And you say, I believe God's trying to strengthen my faith and challenge me. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. That I could trust the Lord and let Him extend my faith and make it stronger. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I think God's challenging my faith. God bless you. A bunch of hands. One last question. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I've never trusted Christ. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. And you'd say, preacher, I think God's working in my life. And I know he is. But God's working in your life to get you to trust Christ and get that settled Is there any like that? Preach or pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I want to settle. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any hands around? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. And I want the Lord to help me settle that. Father in heaven, there's quite a few hands raised. You know our hearts. You know what we're going through. We trust you, Lord, and we're looking to you. And ask that you would help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play the piano. This is just an old fashioned