I entitled the message in the bulletin, uh, Raven and the Dove, but we're never going to make it to the Raven and the Dove, I'll tell you that right now. Um I'm tired and uh a lot of y'all are tired and so uh I just want to look at just that one thought tonight and uh try and zero that in and see if this can help us in the coming week Please the Lord with thy lives. Look at verse 6. Genesis chapter 8, verse 6. It came to pass at the end of 40 days. Let me ask you this question. Those that were here last week, and remember Uh 40 days, what happened 40 days previous to this? The end of 40 days, what happened? Anybody take a shot at it? Okay it stopped raining there was something else there before that that took place. Uh is it the ark rested The ark rested there on the ark. So get the picture now, and I'm trying to talk my way through this, but the ark rests on the Mount Ararat. It stops floating around And then for forty days Noah and his family are sitting in this ark. Okay? So look what it says. Oh verse 4. It says the ark rests in the seventh month on the seventh day of the month upon the mountain era. The waters decrease uh continually attend the month on the first day of the month where the tops of the mountain seen. And it came to pass at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which we he had made And if you read on, he lets forth this raven, doesn't come back, then he lets a dove out, goes out, comes back, lets it out, goes out, comes back, lets it out, don't come back. And so, but I want to look at this idea of him sitting in the ark for 40 days. Let's pray. Father, uh help me, Lord, uh, tonight to uh be true to your word. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit And I pray we'd be encouraged. A lot of times after a great victory, Father, we see uh the devil comes in and and and discouragement sets in sometimes and and we get off track And uh so Lord, don't let that happen. Hedge our hearts and minds about. Help us to uh, as Brother Caldwell said this morning, to man up tonight and go into this week strong. And um fill me again, I pray, and challenge us from your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh Noah, I got thinking about this here. Him setting in the ark for 40 days In Hebrews 11, verse 7, Abraham's referred to, or Abraham, uh Noah is referred to as uh as a man of faith. Twice it refers to him as having faith in God. Um I think you'll agree with me. It took faith to build that ark. Now we had talked about this a good bit before, but you know there was no rain. This is there there was absolutely visibly there was absolutely no reason to be building an ark As far as all appearance concerned, he was acting completely on the Word of God. That's faith. No visible reason to be doing this other than God told him to do this So that's a tremendous amount of faith. I got thinking about this. Getting in that thing and letting God close the door. That would be an element of faith. You know, now I don't know how that closing door business worked, but whether they're in there and that door is just supernaturally you know, or sideways or however it worked. That's taken some faith. Are we going to get out of this thing? Is this just a huge coffin we built, you know? And uh so it exercised that was an act of faith to get his family and get on there and sit there and let God uh take things in control. And um and now uh they're setting here and I think there's an element of faith in believing that what in the world is the world going to be like when we get out of this thing Are we going to get out of this ark? And so the very fact, I believe, that uh he's opening the window of the ark tells me he believes that what God had told him That they're they're going to survive this. They're going to get out of this. And he's acting accordingly. Now, this is what I want us to zero in on tonight, is the patience of Noah The patience of Noah. Hebrews chapter 11 references Noah being a man of faith. Twice I mentioned. I see faith and patience as being hand in hand. Hand in hand. Forty days after the ark rested, they're sitting there patiently. Doing what they do. He doesn't go charging out of the ark. He doesn't say, we've been in this thing 371 days. I need out of here. Go climbing out. He's not doing anything until God he's let me put let me reword that he's not doing anything different until God tells him to do something differently. I like what Brother Caldwell said. In fact, it affected my message a little bit, changed a little bit for this evening. He said patience isn't sitting around doing anything. I agree with that. At first, when he said that, I was sitting there, I said, I don't know. But he said it's aggressive, it's active. I liked what he said, and as he explained it, uh I think it fits in here. Question Noah in the ark for the 300 some days floating around. Then it settles down. 40 days there sitting there. Is he sitting in the ark doing nothing? No, what's he doing? He's doing the daily duties he was instructed to do a year previously that he's been doing every day for all these years. Now, I'm going to try and bring my thoughts together briefly This was a time of transition. Would you agree with me? The whole world being flooded and everybody dying but eight people would be a time of transition? Yeah, that's an understatement In times of transition, it is very uh can be very dangerous times. Where we become impatient. And by that I mean we stop doing what we've always been doing, what the Lord instructed us to before, and we either let it go or we start doing something different. For instance, we have some young people down front here that uh uh in in high school, you have a schedule, you know, you read your Bible, you go to church, you do those things, get involved in a ministry or whatever, but I've seen it so many times A transition comes. They graduate. All of a sudden the ministry drops off. Whatever they were doing before drops off. A transition time. They weren't patient. They didn't keep doing what God told them to do and they became impatient and made changes. Sometimes when marriage takes place Somebody's very active in the ministry, very serving God, and they've got their Bible reading schedule down and their walk with the Lord schedule and they've got all this in place. They're doing what God told them to do. They meet someone, get married, and suddenly they become impatient. And they stopped doing those things that they were supposed to keep doing right on through. You follow what I'm saying? Married, sometimes children come along. I'll tell you another dangerous time, a transition time. Sometimes it's when people move. Go from one place to another. And uh boy, how many times people get out of church. Uh they don't find a good church right away. And uh they're not patient Just keep doing what they're supposed to be doing and they make a change. Retirement. Now I uh I look out, there's a lot of retired people here. I thank God for folks that retire and just stay right on faithful to church Stay right on faithful and serving Lord. Stay right on faithful doing those things. That is the way I view patience. Not sitting around doing nothing. But simply continuing to do what I've been told to do even when things change around me, circumstances change. This is my definition of patience. It's not inactivity, but it's keeping on doing what God has instructed me to do until God says otherwise. Question, has God told us to read our Bibles? So if I'm going to patiently read my Bible, I'm just going to keep on reading that Bible till God tells me otherwise. Uh whether I'm in high school or college, whether I'm married or single, if I have kids or no kids, if I'm retired or not retired, if I live here, or if I live in Kazakhstan, or if I live in um Puerto Rico or Antigua. Uh wherever I live, I just keep reading my Bible. Um or Hawaii, David, and um So uh it's patience, not inactivity, but just keeping on doing what God has instructed me to do until God says otherwise. Take your Bible with me and uh turn to Romans chapter 5 Now this isn't about the flood, it's not about Noah, but I think it fits. Romans chapter 5 and verse number 3 Um, notice what the Bible says. Now I'm thinking in terms of Noah and the flood here, so I'm going to read it through and come back and tell you how I'm seeing this here in the context of our message. Verse three, and not only so But we glory in tribulations, knowing, now here's where I want to pick up. This is something he says we know, we're sure of this, we we we understand this, that tribulation worketh patience And patience, I'm wording it for my sake here, and patience worketh experience. And experience worketh hope, and hope maketh not ashamed. Now, let me try and explain this here. He's saying that when we go through tribulation, if we deal with that tribulation correctly, if we trust God, that will produce in my life patience. That tribulation will. And if I'm patient, then that patience will produce, that's what the word worketh means, will produce experience. And that experience I gain by being patient, by exercising the patience I learned in the tribulation, that experience produces hope And I have hope. Now, let me put it in the context of the flood. The tribulation for Noah was the flood. He went through a great tribulation, lost family, lost everything. His immediate family, of course, was saved. And that was a tremendous tribulation for him. But Noah learned Through all of that to just keep on doing what God instructed him to do until God says to do otherwise. He started out building that ark. Took 120 years, we believe, we surmise from scripture, 120 years to build the ark. He just kept working on that thing and working on that thing and working on that thing and working on that thing Until God says, all right, now it's time to get in. That was patience. You didn't just sit there and look at the pile of wood and say, well, just trust God, that thing gets done. That's not what patience is. Patience is doing what God instructed to do and keep on doing it, keep on doing it, keep on doing it, keep on doing it. They got in that ark? 300 some days And he's taking care of the animals. He's taking care of his family. He's doing what God told him to do in there. Care for these animals. Care for these animals. All of a sudden it quits raining. Here it quits raining. Oh, we'll stop taking care of the animals. No, that wouldn't be patience He keeps on taking care of the animals. It quit raining. How about that? Do you notice that? Mrs. Noah? Yeah, I noticed that. And uh, wow, well, we better feed the elephants, okay. And uh they just kept right on doing it. Suddenly the ark We're on dry ground, ki uh boys, and uh they say, Dad, I know, we're not floating anymore. All right, go feed the giraffes, just like you always do. And he just kept right on doing, kept right on doing. You follow what I'm saying? What did that patience produce? Well, he learned If he keeps doing what God told him to do, that God will do what God said he would do. Follow what I'm saying? That was his experience. He kept building that ark, kept building that ark, kept building that ark. God said, build this ark, I'm going to send a flood. Ten years go by, no sign of any flood. Uh fifty years go by, no sign of any flood. Hundred years go by, no sign of any flood. 120 years go by, he's been working, working, working. Suddenly it's raining He learned by experience if he keeps doing what God told him to do, even when things are changing, even in tribulation time, that God will come through. Do you think that if someone would have gone to Noah after he got out of the ark and said, Does God do what he says he'll do? What's your experience with God? Does he do what he'll say he'll do? What do you think Noah would have answered? Absolutely. He'd say, Man, we went years and it looked like God wasn't going to do what he did, but you know, we just stayed at it. We stayed patiently, kept doing what he said. We found out that God comes through. That was his experience. And then that experience brought hope If I am sure, now here's this is good, I think, if I am confident, if I am convinced that God will do what he says, doesn't matter what I face, I know I can deal with it My experience is that if I just keep doing right, keep doing right, keep doing right, keep doing right, no matter what, whether it's a flood, whether it's stranded on a boat for a hundred year uh uh for a year, uh no matter what it is, if I just keep doing right God will come through, man, there's hope for us. And so, now here's the thing. There's one point where Noah stopped exercising patience. He quit doing what God told him to do and did something, took it in his own hands, and messed up. You know when that was? When he got out of the flood, he did something we don't read that he ever did before He got drunk. He got drunk. Remember, we said patience is not inactivity. Patience is simply doing over and over and over and over and over what God said to do. And just keep on doing it until God says otherwise. God did not tell him to drink wine and get drunk. That Noah took that on himself. He see he quit exercising patience and it was disaster. I got thinking, he's sitting in that arc. After the rain stops, the thing settles. I don't know what his family's saying or doing. I have no idea. The Bible doesn't tell us. I just speculate. But I wonder if some of the boys didn't say, Dad, we've been sitting here five days, you know, on this thing. It's obviously we're on dry ground now. Uh, don't you think we ought to be getting out of this thing? Uh dad, don't if man, alive, how long are we gonna sit here? We're on land, why are we just sitting here? I can hear Noah saying, son, we ain't moving till God says we should Go feed the goats. You see what I'm saying? Nope, we're just going to keep on doing till God tells us to do different. Till God tells us to do different. Now here's how I want to apply it This matter of patience, not sitting around doing nothing, just keep on doing what we're doing. In this matter of Bible reading I want to challenge myself and all of us. We get into the spring months. We get into the busy part of the year, maybe the summer. I want to challenge us. Let's just keep on reading our Bible every day, every day, every day, every day, until God tells us not to. When God tells us to stop reading our Bibles every day, then we'll quit reading our Bibles. That's patience. Just plugging away, plugging away. How about prayer? How many folks here have something you really, really, really in your heart, you have something you really really need God to do for you? Is there anybody here know what I'm talking about? I got my hand raised. I really need God to do for this Listen, let's keep praying about that. Keep bringing that very specific thing to the Lord over and over and over and over and over until he steps in and answers the prayer or he changes the whole situation. Isn't that what Paul did? He had a thorn in the flesh. I besought the Lord three times. I think that means three seasons, three extended periods of time. And he kept on praying about that, kept on praying about that, kept on praying about it until God stepped in and said, Wait a minute, Paul, I'm not going to answer this the way you want. My grace is sufficient for thee. Then he quit praying about it. Follow what I'm saying That's patience. Just keep plugging away, plugging away, plugging away. I put down Bible reading prayer. What about soul winning? My challenge I got in studying this was this. I I want to personally and I want to continue to lead this church to going out in our community, into our neighborhoods, knocking on doors, sharing the gospel with people, giving out gospel tracts. doing everything we can to win souls until God tells us to stop. I learned a lesson a long time ago after I've been here for a number of years. The Bible says go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature We've gone out into the community, particularly here in Oakland, Mountain Lake Park, and I'm telling you, we knocked on every door. There may be a couple that s got through the cracks somehow, but We knocked on every door in this immediate area, time and time and time again. And I got to thinking, I got this in my head. Good night. How long do we keep doing this? I mean I just how many times do I keep on knocking on these same doors And God convicted me. Mark 15, uh 16 does not have an expiration date on it. Go you into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It doesn't say just until you've done it five times. It says just keep on doing it, keep on doing it, keep on doing it, and keep on doing it. Until God shows up and says All right, church, no more soul winning, don't do that anymore. I think we ought to just keep right at it. Just like Noah's sitting in that ark for forty days, kept doing what he kept supposed to do, kept doing what he was supposed to do, kept doing what he was supposed to do until God stepped in So this matter of soul winning. What about this matter of doing right? You know, it is how many folks would testify this? You found it's a struggle sometimes to do right? Good creep. Uh I I I trust you have convictions. Every Christian ought to have some personal convictions Some personal standards based on the Word of God, gleaned from the Word of God. I don't know if this is for you, but I know for pa as pastors, sometimes it's like, you know, I'd man, it would be a whole lot easier if I just dropped some of these convictions. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It'd just be, man, it would be a lot less hassle. Uh, you know, and uh if that if I just drop so you know what? We don't have any right to drop our convictions until God says so. I'm just stubborn enough, uh you know, I s uh my thinking is if it was sin in the year nineteen twenty, it's the sin in the year twenty twenty. If it was right to do 200 years ago, it's right to do now. It doesn't change. And so that's my thought tonight. Let's just keep on going forward. This coming week, let's just determine tonight. I'm gonna pray. I'm gonna keep reading my Bible. I'm going to keep on being a best witness I can, looking for opportunities to share the gospel. I'm going to uh I want to hold my standard high. I want to keep on doing right. I'm not going to change until God tells me to. That, in my mind, is patience. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would challenge us. Lord, it's just so easy to become impatient, to take things in our hands, and make changes that you've not given us. the instructions to change. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed and I how many would say preacher I've gotten a little impatient in my Bible reading. Uh just let it slack a little bit and I want to get back. I want to patiently stick at it. uh in the coming weeks, in the coming months, and uh I want to finish out the year strong. Uh at the end of this year I want to be strong in reading my Bible on a regular basis. How many would say, Preacher, pray with me I don't want to let this slack. It's easy to do. I want to keep that thing up. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Now what about this matter of prayer? Just about every one of us raised our hand that we have something we really, really need God to do in our hearts We need the Lord. Something very specific. I want to challenge us. Let's be patient in praying for that. Say, preacher, I've been praying for 10 years for that. Don't stop until God tells you to You just keep on praying, keep on praying. How many preacher how many would say preacher pray with me? I'm gonna stick to that. I'm gonna be patient in my prayer for that thing. God bless you. It's a decision we have to make. What about this matter of standards, right and wrong? Say, man, you know, it's just that flesh gets at me. Brother Caldwell talked about it this morning. It just draws me away. The world, I just finally just say, you know, I I don't know it's that important. I'll just give in No, no, don't do that until God says so. How many would say, preacher, there are some areas of convictions that I know are right and wrong, and I need to patiently stick to that and not let that fade and change. God bless you, a bunch of hands And then our soul winning, of course, just staying at that, staying at that. Father, you know our hearts. Lord, even Noah messed up. He got impatient and got involved in the the wine there and and how that hurt him and his family. And I pray you'd help us. God just in tribulation in times of change and times of long Tedious same thingness. Help us to be patiently doing what you've instructed us to do in Jesus' name. Let's stand together