2 Peter chapter 1. I want to begin reading in verse 5 again, and we've read these pass these this passage here numerous times over the last several weeks. We're preaching our way through this list. Notice verse 5. Peter writes to these believers, and he says, under the inspiration of God, he says, besides this, and besides this, giving all diligence, putting all your effort into this, making every effort. Add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance And the temperance, patience, and the patience, godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness And the brotherly kindness, charity. Then notice what he says in verse 8. He says, For if these things be in you, these this list he just gave, if they're true in your life, If they characterize you, these things be in you and abound, they make you that you shall be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ So we're looking at this list of eight ingredients of a mature and fruitful believer. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, we thank you again for a good day. And Lord, we just uh rejoice in uh your presence here when we meet in the fellowship. Lord, my heart was blessed, or in handshaking time, just the laughter and the joy that was here. I'm so grateful for that. And I pray now you would challenge us before we go home here in a bit and go through our new week. I pray you'd challenge us I pray we'd you would um help us make good decisions concerning our spiritual well-being and where we're at uh in our standing with you. I yield my will to you, Lord, as thoroughly and as completely as I know how. Lord, I present my body anew. And ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I pray tonight it would be you speak into our hearts and your word. And so have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He gives us list of eight ingredients that are characteristic of a mature Christian, a fruitful Christian. Now, if you want to, if you want to examine, analyze yourself, what kind of Christian am I? How mature of a Christian am I, then I would suggest study these eight characteristics and see how true they are, how evident they are in your life In my life. He says, if these things are in you, if these characteristics, these attributes, whatever word you want to use, if these are in you, Then you're going to be a fruitful Christian. You're going to be a mature Christian. We already looked at the first one, this matter of faith And we said that faith is the beginning point in the Christian life. I have to come to a point in my life where I consciously make a decision to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. For my soul salvation, and then build on that that faith throughout my Christian life. Grow, learn to have faith in God in these various areas. So he says, add to your faith. That's the beginning point. Then we look at this term virtue, this characteristic of virtue. We said it means moral excellence. It means the courage to do what's right, regardless of what the consequences are. How many people agree with me? We could use a little bit more virtue. In our own personalizes, in our churches, our homes, in our community. He says, add to your faith virtue. That's one of the first things you need to do. Then he says, add to virtue knowledge. He says we need to possess the biblical facts, the information God has given to us. We have to have that information. We have to have that knowledge so that I can live the Christian life like I should. Too many Christians are living the Christian life the way they think it should be lived, not the way God says it should be lived. So we need knowledge. And then last week we looked at this word temperance, this characteristic, this attribute of temperance. And it's simply the ability and the willingness to control myself, to control my actions. To discipline my tongue and my thinking, my behavior, and discipline myself to live a virtuous life, to live what I know the Bible tells me how a Christian should live. Now We come to this one patience. And I have been waiting to get to this word patience, and uh just could not wait to get to this thing Patience is not very common, but it is very valuable. Patience, I believe patience is a key component in my Christian testimony. I tell you, I can have the best Christian testimony in a community and lose my patience one time and blow that whole testimony. If I'm gonna have the testimony of a spirit-filled, godly, mature Christian, I have to have patience to be a part of my life. Patience is a key component in our efforts to reach the world with the gospel. I love biographies. I'm reading, I mentioned this a while, it's taken me a bit, but I'm reading a two-volume biography of George Whitfield. What a powerful man of God. That's just incredible. We've never seen perhaps one of the most powerful preachers in all of church history. Phenomenal. And I like to read the biographies of great missionaries. And you know, I noticed something about these men and these women that God used in significant ways. All of them learned to be patient. They learned to be patient in trials, in delays. They'd show up on a mission field, and things didn't pan out the way they anticipated, and support would drop off. And opposition from the people they showed up. They're trying to win to Christ, the people they love. And they learn to be patient. Patient. If we're going to win people to Christ, we've got to learn to be patient. I believe patience is a very key component in having victory over defeat and discouragement. Anybody here ever have a time of defeat in your Christian life? Anybody? A couple honest, the rest of you are defeated right now. Anybody here, discouragement? Ever been an issue? If we're going to have victory over that, we've got to learn to be patient. We've got to learn to be patient. Psalms 27, verse 14, says this: wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. He's emphasizing the importance of being patient God will strengthen your heart. God will see you through it. God will get the victory. You just be patient. Wait on him. Wait on him. Psalms 37, verse 34 says, Wait on the Lord and keep his way. He's saying, Listen, you just be patient. You just plug away. You stay the course. Say, yeah, but it's not playing out the way I want it. But it's not the way I think it ought to be. That's all right. You just stay the course, keep the way, and wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land. Listen to Psalm 40 and verse 1, and this was my life verse for many years, right after I got saved. Says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. You know what that says? Says just keep praying. Just keep praying. Don't do don't lose patience. You just keep praying. Say, preacher, I've been praying this for uh for two weeks and God hasn't answered it yet. You wait patiently on the Lord. Preacher, I've been praying for this for two years. That you wait patiently. I waited patiently unto the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. The importance of patience. To have victory in my life and to overcome discouragement. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 22 says, Say not thou, I will recompense evil, but wait on the Lord. And he shall save thee. Has somebody done you wrong? Somebody you don't like? Somebody got an attitude about? Bible says, listen, you you be patient, you wait on the Lord, you give that to God. Importance of patience We can lose a testimony we worked for decades to establish we can lose it in one day of impatience. One day of impatience. Patience. Patience. The greatest men and women of faith were men and women of great patience. Patience, I believe, as I've been saying here, I believe, is one of the most important attributes in the Christian life Somebody said that patience is the queen of all virtues. Patience. Somebody else said, I came across this quote. They said, the man who masters patience masters all else in life. I think it was uh Benjamin Franklin said, uh and I'm not uh I'm I'm Paraphrasing here a little bit. He said something to this effect. If you can learn to be patient, you can have anything in life Now that may or may not be the case, but it does emphasize the importance of patience. Impatience. Now here this is going to bite Impatience is a telltale indicator of spiritual immaturity. Impatience is the telltale indicator of spiritual immaturity. So a lot of believers have been baptized, been in church, some cases for years and years and years. Heard hundreds and hundreds of sermons, and yet they never become mature believers because they never develop patience. Patience. I want to take things in my own hands. I want to deal with this my way. Rather than waiting on God, waiting on God. Some of y'all have been saved longer than I have. I'm I'm gaining some years, I'm ga I'm establishing some years as a Christian And I learned that when I learned I learned that God is never late. I don't know that he's ever been early. But he's always right on time. And if I'll just wait on him, he'll solve that problem. If I'll just wait on him, that person that I'm having a hard time with that I can't even hardly think about without sneering. I learned if I wait on God, he'll fix that up. He'll make it right. Amen? Anybody, anybody can I get a witness? Anybody know? I learned to wait on God. And I'm not perfect. Please don't listen to her stand. I have not arrived. But I've learned the importance of it. Patience, patience. Many believers never been in church for years, hundreds, maybe thousands of sermons, yet they never grow up because they don't learn to be patient. They cannot develop patience in their life. Peter said You need to add this. You need to add to your faith patience. And if you do that and it abounds, oh, you'll be a fruitful Christian. Your witness will be much more effective. Your testimony will be clearer and crisper and sharper if we can learn to be patient. Learn to be patient. Now let's let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. Number one, I want us to consider the principle of patience. The principle of patience. And by that I'm trying to say what do we mean when we talk about patience? What are we talking about? Add to my faith patience. Well, a dictionary definition is this. It means the ability to accept or tolerate delays, problems, or sufferings Without becoming annoyed or anxious. I was okay with that first part. Then it said, without becoming annoyed or anxious. Sometimes I can endure delays, but I get awfully annoyed about it. And you're all looking at me like you're so pious. But patience is the ability To endure these things, but without getting anxious, without getting worked up, without getting annoyed. Some of us can't go to Walmart without getting annoyed. That's the dictionary definition. I looked at what others have said in different commentaries and Greek dictionaries. I've looked at all up, trying to get as accurate and thorough a definition as I could. This is what I come up with. Patience is to be at peace in my heart and my mind in trials and difficulties. Now that's a little bit different than enduring. Enduring a trial, enduring a difficulty, I can grit my teeth and be as mad as a hornet And be irritated and frustrated and just steaming on the inside, but I endure it and I get through it. That is not patience, that's endurance. Patience is going through it, but having peace in my heart and mind. You see the difference? How many people see the difference? Raise your hand. How many people don't see the difference? Raise your hand. How many people aren't going to raise their hand no matter what I say? It's more than just enduring a difficulty, it's more than just enduring something that's irritating or frustrating. It's having peace in my heart and mind while I'm enduring it. It's the ability, I like this one, it's the ability to maintain my faith in God regardless of circumstances. It's the ability to continue my course in life during trials, delays, and difficulties. In other words, Something isn't panning out the way I think it should, and something isn't turning out the way I anticipated, but nevertheless, I stay the course. I know God's will, I know what God has said, I have that knowledge that I've added to my virtue. And the temperance, the self-discipline, and I am going to stay the course, I'm going to do what's right, I'm going to follow God's will, regardless of circumstances, with a peace in my heart and mind. How many people agree with me? That's challenging. Patience, patience There's a lot of people that are out of church today because they became impatient. Weren't willing to wait on God. And work through something. They weren't willing to do it God's way and stay the course. Something happens and this and then they get out. You look around, they're not here A lot of that's because of impatience, not willing to wait on God, trust God. I'm telling you, I'm speaking, I'm speaking to my peers now when I make this statement, a lot of preachers are out of the ministry because of impatience. Well, I think one of the top things if I whenever I have a chance, I had a meal with a uh young preacher here just A couple of weeks ago, a week or so ago, and we were talking, one of the top things I tell when I have opportunity to young preachers, I say this, wait on God You stick it out. You stay the course. They say, but but Pastor Leatherman, and I I'm dealing with this, and this person's doing that, and these people aren't doing this, and they're doing that. Always ask them, has God called you to that place? And if he has, then you be patient and you wait on God. And you let him lead you and you let him direct you and you stay the course. I'm telling you, there's a lot of preachers out of the ministry because they got impatient. Things didn't grow as quick as they wanted to. People didn't respond the way they wanted to. They didn't have revival when they needed revival. You learn to wait on God. I want to remind you, those that are serving the Lord, and probably many, if not all of us, should be to some degree. Listen, it's not us that produces the results. It's God that produces the results. I just wait on him. I just do what he says. That's patience, patience. I tell the, and I know I'm I'm preaching myself here, but I tell these young men, I said, you get in the will of God, wherever God leads you, you put yourself there, you put your roots down deep, and you don't budge. And if God wants to move you, He'll move you. But you stay put. And be patient. Be patient. Patience, I believe, is a mental condition. It's a state of mind Take your Bibles. I want to look at a few verses, and this isn't far away. Hebrews chapter number 12, if you would come back. You're in 2 Peter, you go backwards, you get 1 Peter, then James, you hit Hebrews Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2, I took as a, that first part of verse 2 I took as the motto for our church when I came here in September of 93, looking on to Jesus But if you would, look at verse number one. He says, Wherefore, seeing we are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, I believe he's referring back to chapter 11, where he listed all these men and women of God. That had faith in God. And they're a witness to us. They're a testimony to us. The importance of having faith in God and waiting on God and trusting Him and being patient And look what he says. He says, therefore seeing ye also are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which thus which doth so easily beset us. Now here's a phrase that catches my Attention. And let us run with patience the race that is set before me. Now, to me, running is not a patient thing to do. If somebody's running, right, they're trying to hurry up. They're not being very patient. But he says, we are to run the race that God gives us, but do it with patience I think what he's saying here is patience is not being inactive. Well, I'm just I'm not doing nothing. I'm just going to wait on God. That's not what patience is. Patience is doing what God tells me to do, but just staying at it and staying at it and staying at it, and waiting on God to give the results. It's a mental attitude. It's a state of mind. By the way, back here in 2 Peter He says, add to your faith, he says, besides this, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. I don't think that order is just arbitrary I think he put them in that order deliberately. Now, what did we say? Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Alright. What did we say temperance is? Talk to me. What is temperance? Self-control, self-discipline. And then he says, add to that temperance, that self-discipline, add to that patience. I think he put it in that order deliberately. I think to be patient I have to be self-disciplined. I have to be able to control my thinking. We're standing there in line at Walmart. It says ten items only, and the guy in front of me has eleven. I counted them while I was standing there. And I'm in a hurry. And my mind are you with me? And there's ninety five aisles, and there's two people And this guy's got eleven pieces. And you know what I need to be able to do, if I'm going to be patient, if I'm going to have peace in my heart and mind, even though a guy in front of me has 11 items in a 10-item row. I've got to be able to control how I think about that, right or wrong? That's where it starts. Patience starts in the mind. And how I'm thinking, how my perspective on a situation. It's a mental thing. Temperance is necessary if I'm going to possess patience, a mental discipline. I think it involves the ability to see my situation from God's perspective. Say, oh, how can anything good come out of this? Well, ask Joseph. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for what? For good. You know what that is? That's patience. He's calm, his brother's calm. And we're going to study that on Wednesday night. The ability to view my situation from God's perspective. That guy's got 11 pieces right in front of me and a 10-item thing. You know, it could be I don't know. But it could be that if you were in front of him, you'd be a little bit down the road, and maybe there would have been a wreck or something take place God may be slowing you down because of something he has in mind. Maybe because you're delayed a little bit, you'll come across somebody that needs a gospel tract. Or needs to see what a Christian is, or maybe there's somebody waiting in line, and they counted them also, and they're really mad, but they know you're a Christian, and they're going to watch, see how you react. You follow what I'm saying? So patience is mental. It's an ability to see view my situation from God's perspective. Patience in a m is a you have to think on this one. Patience is the manifestation of my will in submission to God's will. When I'm being patient in a trying situation, That's a testimony to the fact that I'm submitted to the will of God. This is very frustrating. This is very annoying. This is very irritating. I'm going to be patient. I got peace. Okay. And that's a testimony that my will is yielded to God's will. Are you with me? Everybody alright? You look like you're being impatient. It's it displays a it displays a will that's submissive to God's planning, God's timing John Peyton was in prison hanging upside down in a prison in India. His wife would come and sneak food and they'd give it to him. For hours on end, they'd hang him by his ankles upside down. Trying to get them to break and and one of the guards came in and peered in where he's hanging upside down for hours. They say, John Payton, how's your future ministry look now Without hesitation, John Payton said, My future is as bright as the promises of God. That's patience. He wasn't mad, he wasn't calling COA, he wasn't cussing them out He said, I'm waiting on God. God has given me some tremendous promises. I'm claiming those promises. And God used John Payton in a powerful way to reach hundreds of thousands for Christ. Patience. Patience. It's a testimony to the fact of a mature believer, of someone whose will is yielded to God's will. If things aren't going the way I want and somebody's not acting the way I think they should, I'm all irritated and I'm all mad at them and I don't like them. That is not patience. That is saying my will is ruling in my life, not God's will. You know if that if if that was so harmful for you, God is able to remove them. I don't have to do my part and try and make them bad, make them hurt them. That's self-will. That's flesh. That's immaturity. Mature Christian, but patient Christian says, hey, I'm going to wait on God. You mean it for evil? God means it for good. Patience. Patience. So the concept or the principle of patience is the ability to be at peace in my heart and mind when I'm going through a trying, annoying, difficult delay or trial Number two, I want us to consider the process of patience. You say, all right, preacher, you you convinced me it's important. I understand the Bible says I need to add to my patience God tells me, wait on him, wait on him, wait. All right, all right, I know that. How do I do it? How do I develop patience? Where do I buy it? That's American, right? I went on Amazon, looked up patients. They don't it's not available. It's on backwater, you gotta wait. All right, how do I do it? How do I develop patience? Well, it doesn't come naturally, right? Now some babies, our temperaments are a little different, but I have yet to see a baby that's really very patient when they're hungry. Right? Am I right, Courtney? Chase? It doesn't come naturally. Patience does not come naturally. It has to be developed. I cannot buy it. According to Galatians chapter 5 verse 22, patience is one of the fruits of the Spirit, is a fruit of the Spirit. You know what that how many folks how many people am I talking to right now? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. If that's true, then the Holy Spirit of God dwells inside your body. These little girls down here and the fellas over here and the uh the uh old I mean the uh um the the seniors If I've trusted Christ the Savior, that means the Holy Spirit dwells within me. Amen or not? Yes, we know that's true. And if the Holy Spirit dwells within me then that tells me, and and patience is a fruit of the Spirit, that tells me every saved person is it is possible for them to be patient. Well the way I was raised, my I just I'm just not a patient person. I just well if you're saved, you have the potential of being patient. It is possible In fact, I'll go so far as to say it, it's sin if you're not So, patience is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. It's possible for every believer, but just because I'm saved and the Holy Spirit's in me, and patience is a fruit of the Holy Spirit, doesn't mean I'm patient. I have to develop it. I have to develop the frame of mind and the mindset where patience can be Part of me, patience is is uh is uh developing me. I have to have the mindset. Now let me, I know I'm running out of time. Let me real quickly, Romans chapter 15, would you turn back there with me real quick Paul talks a lot about patience. Romans chapter 15. Are you bearing with me? Everybody alright? Alright. I know you're saying hurry up. You're going to find here in a little bit what I'm doing is I'm helping you develop patience, is what I'm doing. Look at chapter fifteen, look at verse three. No, verse four, I'm sorry. For whatsoever things were written aforetime, what's he talking about? The Old Testament scriptures, all those accounts in the Old Testament, all those events, all that. He says those were written aforetime for our learning. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. Now, the God of patience and consolation grant you To be like-minded one toward another according to Christ Jesus. So there's several things here. One here is that God is a God of patience. Did you know that God is patient? So, logic tells me if God is patient and I learn to develop patience, I am to some degree being godly. So patience is godliness to an extent. Because godliness is being like God in the moral attributes. You with me? But he says through the scriptures, these Old Testament stories, these Old Testament accounts, these Old Testament records. That have been given by inspiration of God and preserved for you and I up until today, they were given to us so that we can learn patience. We can watch and see how God worked when they went through situations. We can watch and see what God did when they dealt with difficult people. We can watch and see how it played out And I can learn from scriptures what patience is. I'm convinced all the Old Testament accounts are simply illustrations of New Testament principles. Bible says something in the New Testament. I go to the Old Testament, oh, there's how it's lived out. Or there's how it's not lived out. And what the consequences are. So how do I develop patience? One, I get my nose in God's Word. You say, preacher, that's the solution. That's how you develop everything. Yeah. The Word of God. So he says that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Come over to chapter 5 of Romans. Look what he says there, Romans chapter 5. And verse number 3. Now we're getting to the nitty-gritty. And not only so, but we glory in what? Tribulations, pleasant or unpleasant? Uh uh nice or yucky. For we glory but we glory in tribulations. What? Why would I do that? Knowing, look at this, that tribulation worketh what? Ah Difficulty, tribulation, heartache, disappointment, injustice, unkindness, all these things I deal with. Physical ailments That is what develops patience in my life. That word worketh, tribulation worketh, patience. That word worketh means to fashion or to develop or produce. You mark my word. You mark my word. The most patient person you know. You go back in their history and there is tribulation somewhere there. There's been heartache, there's been pain, there's been disappointment, there's been failure, but they've been through it. Because tribulation worketh patience. And Paul said, We glory in tribulations because I know what it's going to produce in my life. Now, very few of us, if any, have attained the level of spirituality where we glory in tribulation. Am I right or wrong? How many of us are at the point where heartache comes and fear and disappointment and physical pain comes when we say, yes. Well I'm not there yet. But the truth is that's what develops patience in my life. Um, come over with me. Oh, I put this down. A coddled and pampered Christian does not develop patience. A coddled and pampered Christian does not develop spiritual maturity. Come over quickly, James. I want to wind down. James chapter number one. Some of y'all knew I was going to end up here. James chapter number one, my brethren, verse two. Now look what he says here. He's very similar to what Paul says in Romans 5. 3. My brethren, count it all what? Joy. When everything goes your way. Right or wrong? Wrong. Count it all joy when you get what you want. Wrong. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. You could write in the margin of your Bible beside that word temptation, you could write the word trials. It's not talking about being enticed to sin. We never count it joy when we're tempted to sin. We're supposed to flee that. The word temptation here is talking about trials, tribulations, difficulties. And he says, count it all joy. Yeah. When you have divers, various kinds of temptations, trials. Look at verse 3. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience. Wow. Then he says, look at the next, but let patience have her perfect work. That ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You know what that word, that phrase perfect, entire, wanting nothing? You know what that's talking about? A mature Christian. A grown up Christian. And we need, whether we like it or not We need trials, we need difficulties to develop in us this vitally important characteristic of patience. I don't believe we can learn patience. I don't know that patience can be developed in any type of incubated, trialess, painless environment. Through trials and tribulations, we learn patience. Patience requires faith in God. Patience requires a determination to do right, regardless. of the circumstance, situation. Patience requires knowledge of God, knowing that God is all-wise and God is good and God is all powerful. And God is in control, and I can trust Him through this, and I don't have to get annoyed, I don't have to get worked up and angry and anxious and throw things and cuss and get mad at people Self discipline. Alright, so you say, Alright, preacher, I gotta go through trials to get patience. Yeah. What good will it do me? Alright, suppose I develop patience. What do I get out of it? What benefit is it to me to be patient? Well, the Bible says that there's quite a few benefits. One is I'm an obedient Christian. And obedience is good. Obedience to God is good. How many people and parents here, you liked it when your kids were obedient? Yeah. How many people here you wanted to choke them when they weren't obedient? I don't want God to choke me. Now he wouldn't. But I want God to be pleased with me. In fact, I think, hopefully, if I'm not there, I hope I'm close. I want more than anything for my God and my Savior to be pleased with me. I want to hear God say to Dennis Leatherman, on that great judgment seat of Christ. Well done. Well done. You waited on me. You trusted me. You stayed the course. You stayed faithful. I tell you one benefit of being patient. It's obedience to our God. It pleases God. We don't have time. We go to John chapter 14. Read it carefully. I think it's about five, six times. He says, He that loveth me keepeth my commandments An impatient Christian is a disobedient Christian. And patience is a display of love for my Lord. Say, God, I This isn't the way I wanted it. This isn't the way I would do it. Or I don't understand why you're allowing this. But I'm going to trust you. I'm just going to be at peace. I'm going to wait on you. Number one, patience benefits us in that it's part of being an obedient Christian. Number two, it means I'll receive God's promises. Now again, I'm out of time. I've got to end. But Hebrews chapter 10, verse 36, jot that down. Take a look at it. He says that it was through patience that we inherit promises. Israel's impatience cost them dearly. Remember when they came out of Egypt? That's what the ref the context is of Hebrews there, 10, what I just mentioned. The whole context is Israel came out of Egypt and things didn't go the way they thought they should, and they didn't get what they wanted when they wanted it the way they wanted it. They started murmuring And brother, it costs them dearly. Dearly. All I'm trying to say is this: we're better off to be patient than impatient. I wonder how many Christians are missing out on the blessings of God, are missing out on some promises of God because they refuse to trust Him, they refuse to be patient. Number three, I put this down, I'll be a complete and mature Christian. We saw that in James 1, perfect and entire, wanting nothing. And I'll be a happy Christian. Let me end with this verse. James chapter number five. Are you still there? I'll end with this. I know you've been patiently waiting to hear that. James chapter 5. Let me read to you verse number 4. That's James chapter five and verse four is not the verse I want. Verse eleven, James five, eleven Behold, we count them happy, which what? Adore. You've heard of the patience of Job. And have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and tender mercy, we count them happy that endure. There's a happiness. A patient Christian has a happiness that the impatient Christian does not have. Now I have to be very, very careful about this because I mean the Bible's pretty clear that we're not to make judgment. We have to be very, very careful about making judgment. But I've been doing this a while, and I think I'd picked up a little bit Now when I see someone, I see their countenance, and you pick up their attitude. And I can tell whether they are right with the Lord or not. Not always I'm being you understand what I'm saying? But I found a person that's got an attitude about another Christian, another brother, sister, and they're not being patient. For the most part, they're very unhappy. Oh, they can laugh at a joke, and they're not happy. And I'm tempted to go around and start asking people, are you happy? Are you happy? You know what they're gonna say to me? Oh yeah, preacher, I'm happy. Tell your heart. Tell your heart. A young Christian came to an older Christian. He wanted to grow and he was sincere. I want to be a good Christian. I want to grow spiritually. I want to be what God wants me to be. And he said to the older Christian, he says, I know I need patience. I get so impatient with people and things. He said, would you pray with me that God would give me patience? Older Christians said, sure. In fact, let's pray right now. He said, oh, okay, good. And they went to the altar. They knelt. Young man's there, oh, this great older Christian's going to pray. That I get patience. The older man knelt and he prayed. He said, Dear Lord, my brother here wants patience. I believe he's sincere. God, I pray when he gets up in the morning, send him tribulation. God at noon, send them more tribulation. And God at night, before he goes to bed, send them more tribulation. The young hit him on the shoulder. Wait a minute, wait a minute. No, no, no, no, no. That's not what I Wanted you to pray for. The old man, sincere as can be, he said, son, you're going to learn patience. You've got to go through tribulation. I'm not saying ask for it. There's plenty around. We don't have to ask for more. Amen. You don't have to go looking for it. But when it comes Let's view it as a tool, a chisel, a hammer of God to mold me and make me Into that mature Christian. Amen? You with me? Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us now as we go into a new week. These are hard things. That you're instructing us to develop in our lives. Virtue, temperance, self-discipline. These are not easy things, Lord. Patience. These are hard things. These are deep things in our hearts and soul that need to be developed. But I pray, dear Holy Spirit, you would help us. To get to the point where we're so yielded to you that your fruit is borne out in our lives. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I hesitate to ask this, but I do want God to develop patience in my life. I know I need that. I know it might not be easy, but I want it. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand. That's hesitating. Little hesitation. That's understandable. But God has great things if we'll distrust Him. We'll distrust Him. Now the the prayer isn't that somebody else develops patience. So I give patience. I develop patience. Father, bless our invitation. Make this altar a place of submission and surrender and victory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.