One thing about the victorious, successful Christian life, it is not for the faint-hearted. Jesus never said there would be anything easy. About living the Christian life as it's designed by God. In fact, Jesus a number of times said to his disciples, He said, if you want to be my disciple, if you want to be one of my devoted followers. You've got to deny yourself. You have to take up your cross every day. You've got to follow me. And he put a list of pretty stringent requirements. If I want to be a follower, a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I say again: living the victorious Christian life is not for the faint-hearted. To be a follower of Jesus Christ means there are going to be some times when it's going to we're going to find it difficult to trust God We're going to find situations and circumstances and we're going to say, you know, it's going to take a lot of faith for me to get through this. I find it difficult to trust God. That is a fact. To live the victorious Christian life, I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. There's going to be times where I'm going to have to battle discouragement. We spoke this week, and you're probably going to get a lot of illustrations from the county fair for the next few weeks. But we spoke to a lady this week. She came by and we introduced our materials to her and we engaged her a little bit in conversation and she assured us that she had known she knew the Lord Jesus Christ as her personal Savior. She assured us that she had been saved for many years. She gave a good testimony. In fact, I think she told us that she uh actually attended here back in the Ed Wilt days in the sixties. And as we talked with her a little bit, she said, you know, and I'm paraphrasing what she said, she said something to this effect. She said, you know, there was a time in life. When one deer to me had cancer and fought that cancer and died to cancer, and she said this, she says, you know, it was difficult to see God. In that time. It was it was uh I was asking, where is God when we're going through something like that? And I tell you, that's true in the Christian life. There are times when discouragement sets in. There are times sometimes when we maybe look up to the sky and we say, God, where are you? The victorious Christian life is not for the faint-hearted. There's times of discouragement. There's times when it's difficult to trust God. Hey, there's times in the Christian life where we've got to overcome failure. We've got to overcome failure. And I'll tell you, that's where a lot of people never really are able to get back up again. They do something, they fail, and one way or another, fail the Lord. And for whatever reason, the devil is able to jump all over them on that and keep them down, and they're never able to get back up on their feet and go on and be what God intends for them to be. Failure and take a lot of people out. And so, again, I say the victorious Christian life is not for the faint-hearted. There are two particular dangers that we face when we go through difficult times as a child of God. First one is impatience. Impatience. Maybe a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior and God saves them and He begins changing their life and The old things are pass away and things are becoming new, and I'm finding myself to be a different person than I was before I knew Christ. And I find my I find God working in my life in different things. And then unexpectedly some difficulty comes. Unexpectedly, some hardship hits me. And rather than waiting on God, and rather than keeping my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and just keeping steady And going forward with the Lord Jesus, I'd get impatient. And I think, Lord, you've got to take this hardship away. Lord, I want you to remove this trial. God, I want you to take away this difficulty. And God doesn't in our timing. We get impatient and we get out of the will of God. If you would take your Bibles. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at this verse, we're going to dissect it a little bit. But I want to illustrate my point here by going to 1 Samuel chapter number 27. 1 Samuel, it's towards the front of your Bible there from Psalms. 1 Samuel 27, I think most of us are familiar with King David. At this point, he is not king yet He is a soldier in the army of King Saul, the army of Israel under King Saul, and David has been a tremendously successful warrior. In fact, it got to the point where the people of Israel, and women in particular, were singing the praises of Saul by saying, Saul has slain his thousands. But the second verse was, and David is tens of thousands. Well that got under, that upset the baby. I think Jacob pinched the baby as well, I think that Saul has slain his thousands and David his tens of thousands. Well that got under Saul's crawl. And Saul becomes incredibly jealous. And he begins a campaign, an effort of trying to take out David. He wants David dead. I mean, it's that serious. And so David flees. And God allows David to go through a period of time that is incredibly difficult. He's running for his life. Get this. Now God had already promised David that he would one day be the king. God had already established the fact that Saul would be removed and the day would come when David would be king. And listen, when God says something's going to happen, you can bank on it, it's going to happen. So David had assurance from God that he would one day be king. But Saul is pursuing David. And everything, get this, everything that God had promised David, nothing looks like that's going to come about. None of his circumstances, nothing about his situation, appears that he is one day going to be king. In fact, Saul pursues him with such intensity, David comes to the conclusion, this guy's going to kill me. Now we know that Saul is not going to kill David because God had promised he would be what? King. But David got impatient. And that difficulty, that trial, that circumstance got to him. And notice if you would, in 1 Samuel 27 and verse number 1, and David said in his heart, Now that is a lapse of faith right there. He gets leaning on his own understanding, he gets rationalizing in his mind what happens, and he comes up with his own plan of action. David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. Is that a true statement? No, he's not going to perish by the hand of Saul. God had already promised he would one day be king. But David gets impatient. And he says, I should uh there is nothing better for me than to I should speedily escape unto the land of the Philistines. I'm going to go to the enemies of God's people. I'm giving up On Israel. I'm giving up on God's promises. I'm giving up on God's plan for my life. I'm going to take the matters into my own hands. David got impatient. And you can read the story, and many of you are familiar with what happens. It ends disastrously. David almost loses his whole family. David almost loses his wife and his possessions. And um uh it is not a good period of David's uh history of David's life. And so one danger you and I face when we go through difficulties, one danger you and I face when we're dealing with hardships is the danger of impatience, of saying, you know, I'm not going to wait on God anymore. I'm not going to trust the Lord anymore. I'm going to take matters into my own hands. If God isn't going to fix this, then I will That's a dangerous way to think. A second danger is that of fear. That of fear. Impatience and fear All through the Gospels, you find the Lord Jesus Christ teaching his disciples that they had to overcome fear. In fact, he rebuked them sometimes very severely for being afraid. Why are ye afraid? Have ye no faith? And so the Lord addresses that issue of fear with his disciples. And if they were going to serve him effectively, if they were going to be uh effective in establishment of the church after the Lord ascends to heaven, one thing they had to learn to deal with, and that was the matter of fear. So two issues addressed in Psalm chapter twenty-seven, particularly verse fourteen, is this issue of impatience and the issue of fear. Now we know from our Bibles that David was the penman of Psalms 27, says there at the beginning of the chapter. So David knows a little bit what he's talking about when he's recording this down. Of course, this is all under the inspiration of God, but David is the human pen. And he is expressing his experience and what he knows to be true. Now we don't know exactly what the circumstances were behind this chapter. As I said, this is an incredibly encouraging chapter. And I would challenge you this afternoon or sometime, just sit down and read through this chapter two or three times It will stir your heart, it will encourage you. And David is penning this, and again, we don't know the circumstances. Some Bible scholars, I looked it up and tried to get some insight on the background of this chapter and some suggested it was before he was king that he wrote this, maybe when Saul was pursuing him as we reference. Uh some suggest it was later after he was king and some of the issues he was dealing with and God had helped him through that. Someone else suggested it was written late in his life and after he had been through all this and it's Kind of his conclusion as to that we can trust God. So we really don't know what the story is behind this chapter, but we do know this. God, through David, is encouraging his people that they have nothing to fear. If I am a child of God I have nothing to fear. And God is through David in this chapter encouraging the people of God That there is nothing to be discouraged about. Listen to me. If God is still alive, there is nothing to be discouraged about. If Jesus Christ is still at the right hand of the Father, interceding for you and I, there is nothing to be afraid of. If the Holy Spirit of God dwells within you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior, Almighty God, and the person of the Holy Spirit, dwelling within us, we have nothing to be discouraged about. What a great chapter this is. What a great verse. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. I trust that this verse can encourage us this morning. Maybe there's someone, maybe as I said a moment ago, maybe I'm talking to someone this morning. that is awfully discouraged by the hardships of life. And believe me, there are hardships in life. I get a little I get a little irked at uh well I get a little irked at a lot of things, but um I get a little irked at some of these quote unquote preachers on TV and they give the impression that if you have enough faith and that if you save, then you won't face hardships and all your bills will be paid and you have a ton of money and this, that, and the other, everything will be fine. Listen, they're either incredibly ignorant or they're lying Because that is not life. That is not Christian life. Christian life, we face hardships. And there's a real temptation to be discouraged. And there's a real temptation to get impatient. And there's a real temptation to become fearful. Afraid of what the future holds. Afraid of what this situation is going to lead to. And God says, you don't need to be that way. Don't need to live that way. Let's look at this verse here real quick. Just uh I broke it down into three sections. The first My first point in the message, the three first section I see in this verse number 14, is I see the requirement that is expected of us. The requirements that are expected of us. Look what he says. Actually, there's two given here. He says, wait on the Lord. One. And be of good courage, too. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. What does it mean to wait on the Lord? Well, I looked up that word wait I looked in my strongest concordance in the dictionary. I looked as it's used in other portions of Scripture. And I come to this conclusion. The word wait here. Does not mean simply to sit around with your feet kicked back on the front porch just, well, I'm just waiting on God to work things out. That's not what it's talking about The word wait here has this idea to look to with anticipation Wait on the Lord. Look to the Lord with anticipation. Somebody else had put this definition, I like this one. To look with eager expectation. So when God tells us here, wait on the Lord, he's saying, you put your eyes on God Almighty And you anticipate, you eagerly expect him to work on your behalf Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Hey, God is good to those who will wait on him. God is good to those who look to Him and anticipate and expect Him to operate on their behalf. Now here's where we get impatient: God doesn't work on our schedule. God doesn't operate by our calendar. Alright, Lord, by September 27th, I need you to do this, this, and this. And it's like God says, wait a minute, I'm God, you're not. We'll operate by my schedule. You know what I found out? God's calendar always pans out a whole lot better than mine. I found out God's schedule works a whole I found out, hey, get this. I found out it's better for me to take my schedule and adapt it to God's rather than try and get God to adapt his schedule to mine. Can I get a witness? So he says, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord. You keep your eyes on Jesus Christ. You keep waiting, anticipating, eager anticipation. For him to step in and do something that maybe you and I never even imagined. Waiting on God, I believe waiting on God is one of the greatest acts of faith a Christian can do. To simply stay in my place, doing my duty, living for God, and waiting on Him to work things out and be glorified in this situation. I've often said, you've heard me say it many, many times here. I've never regretted waiting on God I've never regretted that. I look back over my life and I see times when I took things in my own hand where I got impatient. Every time I've regretted that. But those times when I had a little bit enough sense to simply take this matter and put it in God's hands and trust him, wait on him, let him lead and direct and guide me. And just keep my eyes on him and let him deal with it. Let him work it out. Let him bring things around. I found I've never regretted that. Not one time. Not one time. It is a good thing to wait on God. It's a good thing to wait on God. I look through Scripture, and you'll find some of the biggest mistakes recorded in Scripture. Are made by those who refuse to wait on God. Now think about that. We could take all afternoon, just go instant after instant. What about Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden? How many people agree with me that was a mistake for them to eat that forbidden fruit? Anybody agree with me? Absolutely. How much better it would have been simply to wait on God. Wait on God. Serpent comes along. Oh, this is pretty good to eat. God said, No, no, no. I've just got my eyes on the Lord. I'm going to look to Him, anticipate what He's got in store for me. I'm going to keep waiting on God And you go all through Scripture. And you find repeatedly those who made horrendous mistakes, it was made by not looking to the Lord, not waiting on God. So the first requirement that God gives to us. It is to wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. I want to challenge you this morning. I know this crowd this size, there's no way I'm not talking to somebody who isn't a little discouraged. Somebody says a little. Good night. I know there's no way a crowd decides I'm not talking to somebody. Who isn't disappointed? Somebody that maybe hadn't blown it this past week. I'm telling you, God says you keep your eyes on Jesus Christ You wait on him, you do what he says, just let him lead and direct you. Don't get impatient, don't take things into your own hands, and God will strengthen your heart. So, number one, wait on the Lord. The second requirement that's expected of us, one, wait on the Lord. The second one is be courageous. Look again at verse number 14 with me. Wait on the Lord, colon. Be of good courage. Be of good courage. You read your Bible through. Now let me uh let me throw this out at you. I think it's a good idea. for every Christian to read their Bible through from Genesis to Revelation. At least one time in your life. And when you do that, you say, well I've already done that. Then I would suggest do it again. Say, well, I already did it twice. I would suggest do it again. And do it again. I'm uh working this, this is my 35th year as a child of God. I got saved in 79. And I'm working on reading my Bible through for the 35th time. And I can't tell you what a blessing that has been to my life. And as you read, now if you're a new Christian and you just got saved, might be a little better idea. Maybe just read the Gospel of John through and get that down. Maybe the Gospel of Mark and some of these other introductory reading Psalms is good. But at some point we need to get into that habit of reading that Bible through. Now, if you would do that, and many of you that have and are reading your Bible through, you know what you're going to find over and over and over through Scripture? You're gonna find this statement. Be of good courage. Be of good courage. Be of good courage. Be not afraid. Be of good courage It seems like God is repeatedly telling his people, don't be afraid. Be of good courage. Now, what does it mean to be of good courage? Well, the first thing I notice here is I look at it in this chapter, that's a command. It's a decision I make. I can decide to whether to act upon my fears or I can act upon God's promise and overcome that fear and be of good courage. It's a decision I make You say, well, I'm just not don't I just don't have a naturally courageous personality. Well, then decide I'm going to be of good courage. Being of good courage is not the absence of fear. Being of good courage is overcoming fear with faith. Follow what I'm saying? And so it's a decision I make. Be of good courage. That word, be of good courage, that phrase has this idea: make your courage strong. Say, well, I've got a little bit of courage, but not much. Well then make that little bit of courage make it strong. Exercise it Sometimes people struggle with obeying the commands of Scriptures and following God's instructions. And I always try and say, well, listen, if you don't have the faith or the courage, whatever, to go all out and trust it, at least trust God in a little thing. Try God in a little area. And that will build. And you say, wow, God did do that. God does come through. Wow, God does keep his word. And that builds my faith. I have a little more courage to step out in a stronger faith. And then a little bit more courage, step out in a stronger faith. And so, uh make your courage strong. I make I make this statement. Cowards make poor Christians. Cowards make poor Christians. When I am afraid, when I'm fearful to trust God, When I'm fearful to exercise faith in him, it hurts my Christian life. Over and over and over, God encourages his people not to be fearful. You say, but preacher, this situation, I don't know. It's bigger than me. It's uh greater than me. How do you not be fearful? Hey, ask Moses. God told Moses, I've called you to go down to Egypt, and you're going to demand that my people be released by Pharaoh, and you're going to lead them? I don't know about you, but I would be a little fearful of that responsibility. And Moses says, Lord. Who am I? I can't talk. And boy, he throws all these excuses out. And God, in so many words, says, Moses, be of good courage. You just trust me, you do what you say, you overcome your fears, and I'll work this thing out. And Moses could testify today, God kept his word. Moses off the scene. Israel's been in the wilderness for 40 years, came out of Egypt, they saw God do amazing things. And now Joshua is in charge. And they're about to cross the River Jordan, invade the promised land. He's got all this great host of Israelites behind him. He has a nation in front of him that has giants, that has powerful armies, that has walled cities. And God says, I want you to go and take it off. But before he does, you read Joshua chapter 1, and God comes to him over and over and over again. He says, Joshua Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. I am the Lord thy God. He says, Be of good courage, be of good courage, be of good courage. You go down through King David. We're reading his psalm here, all through the Psalms. You find God telling David, be of good courage, be of good courage. Saul, who becomes Paul. He's on a ship. They're going to be wrecked. And he says to the sailors, Man, be of good courage. God appeared to me last night. No one's going to die. You just trust God. I keep reading this, how God is continually telling his people, be of good courage, be of good courage, be of good courage. You know what that tells me? Apparently, fear is a major factor that needs to be overcome in the Christian life. Even his best man had to be encouraged to be strong and be not fearful. Cowards make poor Christians. Well, I'm just afraid to trust God. Um, sometimes uh uh people are fearful I will never be a strong, victorious Christian if I'm constantly afraid that I'm going to lose my salvation. Amen? We talk to people this week. They'll say something like this, yeah I'm saved, but I don't know. You know, I might lose it. I might lose my salvation. I've got to live it or I'm going to lose it. You know, I have never met a good, strong, soul-winning, victorious Christian who did not have the matter of their salvation settled. If every night I lay my head on my pillow and I don't know whether I'm going to heaven or hell, how in the world do I learn to trust God? I've got to get to the point where I say, you know, Jesus is my Savior. He is the one that is forgiving my sin. He is the one that's saving me from hell. I'm not going to fear. I'm not going to tremble. I am trusting him and I am confident that Jesus never fails. And I've got to get rid of that constant fear that, oh, I might lose my salvation. Oh, I might not make it after all. Uh uh uh I was at a funeral and the preacher said uh one time, we were talking about the person that passed away as they were they saved, and they said, well, they had a testimony of salvation said but uh uh just before they died uh what I talked about you know you're gonna be uh you know where you're going he says yup and he went like this. He said the fellow he was passed away later but he said at the time he said he went he said where are you going when you die? He says he pointed up like that. And the preacher said, well, praise the Lord. And the guy went like this. Or he said, what in the world? And here you had a fellow with facing death, and he didn't know whether he's going to heaven or hell. And he trusted Christ, but he never overcame that fear. That he was whether he was really saved or not. That is no way to live. Listen, God wants you and I to be persuaded. That our sins are forgiven and we're on the way to heaven. And if you're here this morning and you have a doubt in your mind whether you're going to heaven or hell, we want to show you from the Bible, and God wants you to know That your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and unto hell. I was telling a Sunday school class this morning. What kind of God? Now think about this with me. People say Well, I don't know if you're going to heaven or hell. You've got to wait till death at the judgment, and then uh, you know, God will find out the judgment whether you go to heaven or hell. What kind of God would do that What kind of God would say you're not going to know where your eternal destiny is until you can't do anything about it? Wait until you die. And then you find out you're on your way to hell. What? Our God is a loving God. And our God says, Listen, this is the way to know the Lord. I am the way, the truth, and life. He that hath the Son hath life He that hath not the Son of God had not life. None of this worrying and waiting and hoping and thinking and maybe someday. No, if you have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you have eternal life. Put away that fear. You know, Jesus Christ, put away the fears of hell. Put away the fears of God's judgment. They're gone, gone, gone. There's no reason for fear. Cowards make poor Christians. Always afraid. Well, I'm afraid to say yes, I know I'm saved. And what you're saying is you're afraid to take God at His word. Because God has promised, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Two two two dangers. One is impatience. Taking things in my own hand, not waiting on God, not letting him work it out. And the other is dealing with fear. Fear about my eternal security. Here's another fear. Fear to afraid to identify with Christ. God doesn't want secret service Christians God doesn't have spies. He wants you to walk in there and say, I am a child of God. You know what he look look take your Bibles Would you real quickly back to the Gospels? Now keep your place here and we're winding down. Back to the Gospels, Mark chapter 8. And I tell you, we will be out of here by two, there is no doubt. And uh Mark chapter eight. Now I hope you take this seriously. Fear. Some people struggle with fear of Just taking God as Word and sin, yes, and knowing I'm saved. My sins are forgiven. Look at this other one. Mark chapter 8. I want to begin reading in verse 36. That's a powerful verse. Mark 8, 36 For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Man, what a verse. There's nothing in this world worth going to hell for. Nothing. There's not one person, there's not one friend worth going to hell for. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Now look at verse 38. For whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation. Of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. We should never be afraid to own Jesus Christ. We should never be ashamed of the fact that Jesus Christ is my Savior. He's my Lord and my King. And he gives a solemn warning. You're ashamed of me. I'll be ashamed of you. Let me ask you a question. What has Jesus Christ ever done that you'd be ashamed of? What is there about Jesus Christ that we have anything to be ashamed of? I look in the mirror, I see lots to be ashamed of. But I look to my Savior and I find nothing to be ashamed of. Put away this fear. Come out and out for Christ. Don't not a show, not blowing her own horn, but I'm not ashamed of the fact that Jesus is my Savior and I'm trying my best to live for Him and trust Him and please Him with my life. I'm a child of God. Fear of Christ putting me away. It's a foolish fear. Fear of being identified with Christ, that's a foolish fear. Fear of acting on faith. Afraid to trust God. Afraid to follow His leadership. Afraid to obey His commands. A foolish. When has God ever not kept his word? When has God never been true to you and I? When has the Lord ever failed us? Why should we be afraid to trust him? Why should we be afraid to follow him? We have no right to do that. There's no justification. We had a little box, uh little display at the at the booth at the fair Polja's going to talk about the fair a lot. And it said, three things God cannot do. Boy, that stopped people in their tracks. What in the world? They'd step up. What in the world? God can do anything. So we say, are you sure? God can do anything. Are you positive? Let's look and see. Door number one, we open it up. God cannot lie. Door number two, God cannot change You're right. Door number three, God cannot let anyone into heaven that's not been born again. You know, after we did that for a while, I realized there's a fourth one we could put on there. Maybe I'll get that redesigned. We missed one. God cannot fail. God cannot fail. There's no reason for me to be afraid to trust Him. There's no reason for me to fail be afraid to live by faith. Let him lead me and direct me? Two dangers we face. One is impatience. Two is fear. Two is fear. You know what? The devil wants me to give up. The devil wants you and I to be impatient. The devil wants us to be fearful. The devil wants us to be discouraged. God says, wait on the Lord, be of good courage. Number two, first of all, that's the requirements expected. Now let me give you the other two here real quick. The results experience. Look what he says here. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. What's it say? And he shall strengthen thine heart. That's the result we can expect If I'll keep my eyes, anticipate God working on my behavior, I'm just going to stay at it. I'm going to stay true. I'm going to be about the Lord's business I know he'll see me through this. I know he'll bring me out of this shadow of death. I know he'll bring me through this hardship. I'm gonna trust him. I'm expecting him. To do what he said he will do. I'm not going to be afraid to own him. I'm not going to be afraid of losing my salvation. I'm not going to be afraid to trust him. I'm going to press on And God says that he will strengthen our heart. That word strengthen there means to fortify, to infuse with strength. You know what I found to be true in 35 years of Christian life? That when I trust God in a matter, I exercise faith, trust God in a matter, I found that God gives me strength to trust Him some more. And then God gives me strength to trust him some more. And that word strengthen is an ongoing idea behind it. God strengthens me and as I wait on him and um and I'm of good courage and he strengthens me some more and I can wait on him even more and be of courage and he strengthens me more and strengthens me more But when I quit waiting on him and I get fearful, then that strength wanes. It's like our physical bodies. If we don't exercise and and do all that, boy, we lose that strength. How do you keep think I keep this incredible physique? Whoa. You've got to exercise it or you lose it. Amen? I knew you were wondering about that. Think about Peter. They're in a boat, they're in the middle of a storm, it's horrendous. The disciples, not only is the storm, I mean these are seasoned sailors, they've been through it And they're in a storm and they are afraid. And on top of all of it, they look out through the storm and the rain and the waves and everything going on, and there is a ghost walking towards them. I mean that makes my hair sin on it. If I had any, it would make my hair sin on it. And these guys are afraid out of their minds. And the Lord says, be not afraid. It is I. And Peter says, Lord, if that's you, bid me to walk on water. How many people here in the middle of a storm, middle of the ocean, you'd be a little leery stepping out on top of water and I'd be a little leery of that. Peter, God bless him. I picture this in my mind. Just put yourself in the situation. Storm, blowing, wave. Peter's climbing up. The other disciples are like, Peter, what are you doing, man? No, the Lord said, come out there. You're nuts, man. That thing's waving. And we always see pictures of Peter walking on the water. You know, it's like the water's as calm as this floor. And he's just walking. That'd be amazing if it was calm, right? And he's walking across there On the water. But that's not the way it goes. This is a storm going on. These waves are going up and down. And I mean I don't know, this is the way I see it. He's running up one hill wave and down the other and good night and and he's got his eyes on the Lord and that thing's blowing around and he's trying to walk on it And as long as he's waiting on the Lord and he's of good courage, he's on top of the water. What a problem came He quit waiting on God. He quit anticipating, looking at the Lord. He quit expecting God to keep him above the water. And he looked at the wind and the waves. And he lost his courage and began to sing. See what I'm saying? When we wait on God. When we are good courage and we trust him, when we expect him to do what he says and exercise faith, God helps us overcome that hardship. The storm was still there, all of that at that point. We get our eyes off of God. And we start, he got lean on his own or say think about what's going through his mind. He sees the Lord, he's waving on, he's got his eyes, he's walking, maybe he's fifty yards from the boat. All of a sudden he stops. What in the world am I doing? And he looks at that. He says, this is crazy. He starts going down. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. The most courageous thing I can do. is exercise faith in God. Listen, I'm telling you this morning, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage He will give you the strength you need to deal with whatever you're going through. There's people all across this auditorium could stand up and testify this morning. I went through the darkest days of my life, and the Lord was faithful to me, and God saw me through it. We've got seasoned saints here, been walking with God for a long time. could stand up and give firsthand testimony that God is faithful. And God will strengthen you. And God will help you if you'll just wait on him. Overcome your fears. Just keep pressing on, and God will see you through it. Then he ends with this. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen their heart. Then David does this under the inspiration of God. Wait, I say, on the Lord. He comes back. And he reiterates. And this is what I think is taking place. David says, When a Lord, be of good courage. He shall strengthen our heart. Then it's like he steps up and says this. Hey, listen. This is what you need to do. I know from experience. He says, wait, I say, on the Lord. It's like David is saying, hey, it's true. Listen, I believe the Bible is God's word. I I I want to live by it. But it's awfully encouraging when I have someone else step up and say, you know, I read that I I did what that says and God came through Right? That's why testimony time is so important. We share with others. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. We share with others what God has proven to us, what God has done in our life, and it encourages them. To have faith in God. I think that's what David's doing. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, he shall strengthen our heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. It's true. Brother, if anybody knows what it's like to go through a valley and see God, see him through it, it's King David. If anybody knows what it means to fail God completely and see God forgive and bring him back up on his feet, it's David. And he says, I say, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. It's repeated. I've been through the valley, David says, but wait on God, He'll bring you through. David says, I faced a giant. And you be of good courage, for God will give you the victory. David said, I failed God terribly. But you trust and obey God. And he'll pick you back up. I read about an Indian tribe years ago. I believe this is documented. And one of the things they would do when they're young boys and become the age to uh to become a man and become warrior, whatever title they had. They would take them out far from the village. And they go out in the harsh, harsh wilderness. And of course, back in the days, it was very, very dangerous, wolves and whatnot. Now we take that young man, maybe 12, 13 years of age, and they give him some weapons, they give him a few materials to last several days. And they would drop him off out there in the middle of nowhere, and his responsibility was to survive the two, three days, whatever it was. Face whatever dangers, whatever attacks there may be. He had to sprounge for his food, he had to do whatever. And if he would do that and survive, then he was worthy to be one of their men in their tribe. And so they would do that. They would take them out, they'd set them all up. And that young man, can you imagine a 12-year-old boy out there in the middle of nowhere? Every twig that would snap would be and that darkness settles in. I'm scared just telling it myself. When finally that old thing went through and that boy had come out, you know what he found was true? The whole time he was there, through the dark night, through the scary things, scrounging, just out of his sight was one of those Indian proven warriors. Bow at hand, weapon ready. Boy never saw him. Boy never knew he was there. As far as he knew, he was going through all that alone. But he wasn't alone. There was someone there to step in when needed. I'm here to tell you this morning, we go through some dark, scary times. I'm telling you, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we're not alone. We're not alone. God is right there. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen thy heart. Let's pray together. Father, I ask that you would help us obey this instruction. Lord help us, some of us are going through it. Some of us are wanting to take things into our own hands. Some of us are saying, I've had enough, no more, I'm going to deal with it myself. And Lord, I pray. That you would help us to stop in our tracks, to humble ourselves before you and say, Lord, I'm going to keep my eyes on you. I'm going to keep expecting you one day. You'll bring me through this. One day Saul will quit chasing me. One day that giant will fall. Lord, maybe there's some here this morning a little bit fearful, whatever the situation may be. I pray you'd help us today to obey this passage. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, you know, I've got a situation, and to be honest. It's tough to trust God. It's tough to see how God could bring this out. It's tough to see what God could do here. And you say, preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me. That I'll just keep my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ, that I'll just keep waiting on him, trusting him, and not give up, not get impatient. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I've got a specific situation And it's really tough. Maybe you've got a loved one you've been praying for and you think I never see it happen. Maybe you have a need that you've had for so long, I never see that need. You say, I'm just going to keep on waiting on God. I'm going to stay faithful to the Lord. How about it? Any others Preacher, the specific situation. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, you know, fear is a factor for me. I just have a hard time trusting God. I just have a hard time exercising faith in God and I don't want to be that way. I want to be a man of faith. I want to be a woman of faith I'm going to put aside fear, overcome fear. I'm going to decide to be of good courage and just trust God and do what He is leading me and instructing me to do. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's some things that God is leading me. God is directing me. I'm fearful of it, but I'm just going to put that fear aside. I'm going to be of good courage. How about it? Any others? Any others this morning? It's a decision. I decide. Now let me ask this. So someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't have that confidence in my heart. I don't have that assurance. I would like to know that I'm not going to hell. And you'd say, preacher, when you pray for all those other folks that raise their hand, preacher, would you pray for me that God would help me settle that? That I can just have that assurance and confidence in my heart that God has forgiven me of all my sin. Now when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. Uplifted hand. Anyone like that? Preacher, pray for me. I want to know. That my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. How about it? Any at all? Just hold it up high. Preacher, pray for me also. Do you have that matter settled? Are you sure about that? It's so important. How about it? Any others? Father, I pray you bless now our invitation. A lot of hands raised. I saw hands, Lord, you see our hearts. I pray you'd help us this morning, maybe at an old altar, to make a decision. I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to be of good courage. And God, this may just be the turning point for some folks in a difficult situation. So give grace, let's stand together heads up