Uh then I want to go to Argentina. Uh you're gonna be Argentinian, not Arj Argentinos. Are you Argentinos or Argentinians? Argentinian. Okay. And last night, I want to go to Mongolia. Last night and tonight But God called me to Papua New Guinea and Australia, and I have ministries there, we'll talk about later. But tonight I want to talk a little bit about uh what is the pattern For faith promise giving. Last night we used the example, and you were saying, oh, you just changed the title a little bit No, no, no. We'll go look at a pattern. All right. You ladies ever make dresses? You still do that? Anybody in here? Nobody does. You still make dresses. How many's ever done a quiltin? Quiltin bee, my mom used to call them call them gossip bees, because she would have about twenty-five, thirty ladies come over, they would do a Bible study, and uh they would go to Quilton Be honest with you, I'd rather watch paint dry or go to Walmart and watch people. But anyway, uh but uh tonight what we're gonna talk about is is a pattern of what God wants us to do. And again, let's go to 2 Corinthians a little bit tonight. And let's take a look at uh we're going to take a look at both chapters 8 and 9 for just a couple of minutes by way of introduction. Then we get into our message. I want you to understand tonight. Let's look at 2 Corinthians chapter 9. Let's look at verse 6 through 8. It says, But this I say, he which so it sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. And every man according as he is purposed in his heart, so let him give not grudgingly, or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. Now watch this. And God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. Now you all know Philippians chapter 4 says this. Paul talking about the Philippians. He said, Now ye Philippians, know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church Communicate with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity Not because I desired a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to whose account? Your account. But I have all and abound and am full. Paul is saying that when you give commissions or faith promise giving to church planning, and it says back in 2 Corinthians chapter eight verse five. But this they did not as we hope, but they first gave themselves unto the Lord. Number one, it's a commitment made to God, not Dan DeLong or Pastor Dennis Leatherman. It's to who? To God. Now you've got to keep that in mind. Now listen number two here. Not only is it a commitment made to God, but number two, it's a commitment to be carried out through the year. through the church. Look at chapter 8, verse 10 of 2 Corinthians. And here all herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. You started it a year ago, keep it up, keep it rolling. Your year ends, last Sunday. Your new year starts, May 1, or May 2, May 3. You do it biblically here. And the thing is, it's been it's a commitment made to God, a commitment to be carried out through the church, and number three, it's a commitment to be given above the tithe And above and over and above the tithe. How do you get that, brother along? Chapter 8, verse 10 again says, I give my advice. Look at verse 11. Now therefore perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. There's the key. God will never ask you to give anything unless you already have it. Stay with me on it. So far, so good So, here it's a commitment made to God, a commitment to be carried out through the church, a commitment to be given over and above our tithe, and it's a commitment to be given with consistency. Verse 11 says Do it. Look at chapter 9, verse 6. He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. He that soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully. Does it ask you to give, or should you sow or not sow? No, it we all gotta sow, amen. Whether we do a little or we do most or do more. Verse 7 says, and you do every man do it according As you purpose in your heart, God will lead you. It's not a commandment. It's not a sacrament, but it's a commitment And God worked on each of our hearts. These boys here, they can't give $100 a month, $100 a week, $100 a day, but maybe some of you people are capable of that Maybe they can only give a dime a week. But God will speak to your heart in what to give. God will speak to your what? Now listen. Last night you saw me come over here, take my old left leg and go up like this. Remember it? I said, now listen to this real tight. Let this hang over every message that I preach this week. God is not after your wallet, but he is after your wallet. Now that's what we're going to stay after that. After the heart. Last night he got the that lady, that widow. He wasn't after the biscuit or the glass of water. He was after her heart. Not Elijah, but God was. We look read in the book of of Luke that God had prepared her heart and God had commanded her And and and and she went and did it, as the Lord said, and she listened to the promise of Elijah and the Lord, and she went over there and did it, and her and her household did eat a long time. God bless that Now tonight, we're going to look at another woman. And I entitled this message. I could entitle it why the Shumannite Woman Was Great. I could have titled it bringing the bread, all right? But I want you to see tonight, and having a pattern for us. Let's see what she did and let us follow her pattern, okay? So far so good. Let's slide her on Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 4 As you go back there tonight, you can keep your hand on the right side of your Bible in 2 Corinthians. You can keep your hand on the left. So we just turned and made a left-hand turn and we went back to 2 Kings chapter 4. And we're going to look at four things about her tonight. Let this thought hover over your thought process. God is after our hearts. First, 2 Kings chapter 4, let's look at verse 8. Now I'll tell on the day that Elisha passed by to Schumann. Now, Pastor Grant, can you come over here and be Elisha tonight? You're gonna be the big version of Elisha. Mostly my Elisha's are skinny and scrawny looking, but you're pretty healthy. Amen. uh young man right there in the blue striped train. Okay. And so as he sits down, he's gonna be Elisha in my program tonight. So I want you to keep that in mind. And I'll play the part of the Shemanite woman. All right, I'll just take a look at this now. And she constrained him to eat bread, and so it was that off as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread. And she said unto her husband, Behold, now I perceive that this is a holy man of God, which passeth by us continually. Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall, and let us set for him there a bed and a table and a stool and a candlestick. And it shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn in tither. Now you've got to understand this is the first prophet's chamber. This is the first missionary chamber, uh or missionary house in the Bible. Okay? Now look close. And it fell on a day that he came tither, he turned unto the chamber, and he lay there, and he said to Gehazi his servant Call this Shumanite. And when she had called her, he stood, she stood before him, and he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for thee? You know, I'm going to ask God just to bless you, ma'am, for taking care of me. What do you want? Go back to Philippians chapter 4 if you'd like. But my God shall supply all your He that stoweth sparingly shall what? He that sowh bountifully shall what? Reap bountifully. It's not rocket science. It's God's Word. So tonight I come up with four D's for her And number one, the Shuanite woman was great because of her determination. Look what it says here. And I want you to see, uh it says as in verse eight, as oft as he passed by, she constrained him. To eat the bread. Now, I want you to see this with me, and I want you to slide back in your Bibles with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 9 And I want you to see this with me. And so, uh uh uh you you walk by back and forth. This is the street, this is the front of the house. Go ahead and walk. And she's watching him, real spiritual servant of God, therefore she'll Once you pick it up on this trip. And she was watching this guy and and and she realized that he was a man of God. And he was serving God. Elisha just, you know, had the same, you know, man with Elijah. And he's doing double the things that Elijah did. And he's going back and forth, you know, and and he walks a little faster because the s things gotta speed up. And he's a you know, he's a regular meatloaf preacher, gets the meat of the word and loafs the rest of the week. And he goes back, you know, and she's watching him Most exercise he's had in years. And so, now stop right there. And so, she's watching this. She's watching this. God began to work on her heart. And she said, I'm going to fix him some bread. And here he comes. She steps out and says, Whoa, whoa, whoa, hey, you're a liar, the preacher. Just say, Yes, I am. Hey, I want you to stop and eat some bread with me. And you're gonna say you're gonna try to get out of this, okay? Say no, I I No, no, no, you didn't hear me You're gonna eat my bread. I gotta get somewhere. Okay, go ahead. Starts to go. Now wait a minute. I told you you're going to eat my bread. Now I want to show you, man, what the word constrained means in the Hebrew And in the Greek, and in English, and in Hillbilly, and where I come from. When my mama said, You're gonna eat my biscuits or the pie I fixed Not only would she make me eat it, she would watch me eat it and watch my facial expression. Let me stop. Let me depart from my message. How many of you folks are made to eat something by your mothers? And you hated it. Mine was liver every Tuesday night. It was like burnt rubber tires Amen. How many's been how many has never served I'll never serve my kids liver? Never, never, never. How many hated that liver? Okay. Oh, how many likes liver? God help you. Okay. Uh uh and so and so uh uh but she would fix her biscuits and she said, Danny, do you like it? Boy, I better liked it. If not, I'd be in trouble. How many men have ever had your wives fetch you something and it wasn't that good? And you saw her watch you eat it, and you weren't hungry, and you wasn't going to be hungry, but it's the best thing you've ever had that day. Amen. Guys, it ain't worth the hassle. Say it's great. Amen. God put that nesting principle in you, ladies. You love to cook, because God knows we love to eat. So uh and so here he's going by back and forth, and she said, No. Constrained means to get a hold up and hold. You're gonna eat the biscuits right now. Down boy, stay there. God's put it on my heart to give it to you. Second Corinthians chapter 8 verse 5 said that God put it on their hearts. to give to us. This they did first. And so as they did this, they not only did it uh according to their power, they did it beyond And they didn't do this because they loved Paul. They did this because it was the will of God. You don't have a choice in it. You're going to eat the biscuits. Take one. Take a bite. Good, isn't it? Oh, good. And he eats the thing and he eats it and eats it and eats it. And says, Thank you, Miss Schumannite. And he goes on his way. And he comes back again next week. He's serving the Lord. And he comes back the next week. Ha ha! Have a peek! Ha ha have a seat and he takes eating case takes another bite he's the fast eater he gets up Are you full? I'm full. He takes off, goes serves the Lord, and he comes back, and she stops him again. Have a seat. As often as he came by. You know, he may have went down a couple of streets to get away from her, but she had the eyeball on him. Number one. Number one. She was great in her determination to please God. Are you listening? You know why everybody's backslidden today? You know why people turn their back on God? They're not listening. Not to the preaching and not to God's word She was great in her determination. The Bible does not lie to us, does it not? As often he would come by, she would constrain him to eat He had he has meal all the time. Now you just kind of keep going back and forth while I'm preaching this next thought As she walks back and forth, I want you to see she was great in her determination because a wisdom was in her determination. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 9. What's the Bible tell us in Second Corinthians nine? She walks back and forth forth. Verse six. But I this I say he was so sparingly, shall read sparingly. Come on, you can turn around. Don't go so far. I'm getting tired watching you. So every time he would come by, he would sit down and see bring the biscuits out. He got so got so good at it, he would go back on his journey and on his way back through, no use to fight it, he'd sit down, she'd bring the biscuits back He'd get up, go on his journey, and on his way back, he would sit down and and and watch it. You listen, she was sowing sparingly or bountifully See, there's some wisdom in that. The Bible tells me that every man according as a purpose of his heart, so let him give and not grudgingly, for god for it's a necessity. For Abnot Nassethi, for God loveth a cheerful giver. She was loving this. Not delicious much. She was just loving doing this. My wife's love language is cooking. And talking after 9 o'clock at night when I want to go to sleep. My love language is buying her stuff and going to bed at 8. 59. Now men, how many of you men like to go to sleep as soon as you hit the pillow? How many like to lay there and talk to one or two in the morning? I didn't think so. How many of you ladies like to sit there and just talk all night long? Yeah, yeah. Look at that preacher So there has to be a balance. I'll go to sleep seven nights and my wife will be talking an hour later. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. But I've learned what her love language is. She cooks for me And the other night she did something for me. She cooked for a banquet for candidate school and she's getting stuff together and it was meatloaf. And I'm telling you, she bought it at the store, thought it was good. They forgot to mix it up inside or something. Worse stuff I ever had So I ate it and and and and I'm looking at it and eating it and she sees me Oh usually man this is good and I went, That's different. She said, that stuff's terrible. I go, I know. Now here's my point. And she said she wasn't cooking to please me at that point. She just wanted to see what it tasted like. But when she fixed it It's her recipe. She'll hit the mark every time. And she'll do what she knows what I like. And I know what she likes. And there's wisdom in that Listening, do you know what God likes? He likes a person that purposes in heart to do what God tells him to do, whether it be sparingly or bountifully, but it pays to do it bountifully There was wisdom in her determination. Number two, there was some worth in her determination. Look at 2 Corinthians 8, verse 8 says, to prove the sincerity of your love. Second Corinthians chapter 8 verse 24. Show the proof of your love. Show the worth. And every time she was coming by, he was coming by. She had a determination that was a witness to him. A witness to Gehazi, a witness to her husband, a witness to her community, and a witness to each one of us in here tonight. She was great because of her determination. Now How do you express your love for somebody? How do you express that? It's sometimes it can't be written in words. A few months ago, my wife had a birthday and and we were married two days after her birthday. And I uh came home from a preaching thing, and my wife loves those salsa chips. Um and she loves the salsa medium, old El Paso, and uh she loves Dove's ice cream bars. And every once in a while, she loves a bouquet of roses. And I'd been running around playing dumb, and that's easy for me to do. But when I came home that day about two hours before she got home with Selena, I had cards written out and had them hit around the house. And I put the dumb bars in the icebox. I put uh a card on her pillow, and I I put the sauce and chips I hid them up I think on her desk or mine, but I had all around the house. And so we sit down to start studying Slins, doing her homework, and I'm sitting there helping to do geometry. I can't even spell it, but I'm trying to help her And I'm sitting there, and we have windows in our house like this, and you can see your reflection at night. And my wife's putting stuff away, and she saw a card. And she opened it up and it said something like, Roses are red, violets are blue. Look for the chips in this room because I really love you. And she went and got the chips and came back and laid them on the counter and walked over to me sitting by Selena and she she did this, man. I'm sitting there playing like John Wayne. What's up? I didn't say anything. Went back to study. She's doing her work and she found another card in the icebox. And they said roses are red, violets are blue. There's ice cream from doves just for you. X is the nose and X is the nose. And she looked at the doves bars and she stayed back over there where Selena and I was studying and she uh put her hand on my shoulder and did this. And I looked at her and I went. And I whispered, There's more. She began looking around the house. Went to my office looking for these cards and she found the flowers. She came back. Selena's sitting there. My wife does this with her eyes. And I go, never said a word. Selena said, Dad, what are you and mom saying? When you don't use word, you all talk with your eyes. What are you saying? Here's what we're saying. We love each other. It takes work. Amen. Let me tell you something. If you love the Lord Jesus Christ, you will go out of your way to prove the sincerity of your love. All God's people said? And that Shumanite woman was in love with God and sh he put that man on her heart. Amen? Not only the What made her great was her determination number two was her I used the word discernment. Discernment. She knew What was needed. Look at verse 9. Look what it says here in our text. Go back to the your left hand to 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 9. It says this, and she said unto her husband, Behold, now I perceive that this is a holy man of God. She had a discernment about her. She discerned that he was a great man of God. holy man of God and he was doing God's will. God had led him, and God was in him, and God was blessing him, and he was an encouragement to her that he was serving God in her area, and she wanted to take care of his needs God wanted to take care of uh of his needs. So God put it on her heart to do this. You know, if we talk about missions. Hudson Taylor was the first man to preach on faith promise giving in England. He'd been over in China for a few years and he had gotten sick and came back and Instead of taking a furlough for a year, I think his was about five years. But he was really sick about dead and while he was laying in bed he took two of those five years. to get healthy but study God's word and he started to find 1 and 2 Corinthians Philippians chapter 4 read the epistles and began to see that some of this stuff was Paul's prayer letters to the churches that support him. And he began to see that this was led by the Holy Spirit. He began to see that it wasn't had to be paid by the uh England Missionary Society as a salary, but these people did it by faith. God put it in the people's heart, as God led Paul, God put it in the people's heart to take care of it. He put this thing together. He called it grace-giving, setting in the crowd was Charles Haddon Spurgeon one night On other evenings George and Mueller would sneak in and listen to him preach. They'd never heard this. And then he got uh a goal to take, I think, a dozen or fourteen missionary couples Back with him to China. And he got ready to go and they had got their stuff together, but he never told those dozen, I believe, missionary couples that he'd wrote the letter to the London Missionary Society that he wasn't going to take another penny from them as a salary. But they were going to go on faith that God would take care of their finances because that's what the Bible says. He never told them that till he got them to China. And they was there about for six months and they ran out of money. They got down to their last couple of fish and last bag of rice for the couples to eat. The guy that was the bean counter in the group, that's a countant, said now, Mr. Hudson, Dr. Hudson, we don't have, we just got this, we've not got any letters from uh the mission uh agency and uh the company there in England and and so what we and he says, Well there's not gonna be any. What? No, I told him as we got going out the dock, I had a letter delivered as we was going out to the ocean to come to uh to China that we don't want you to send us any money. Uh God's going to take care of us. And that accountant said, you said, what? And he went and told the other missionaries and they had an emergency meeting. And they was about ready to skin Brother Hudson Taylor. But he said, have faith. They struggled with that. Three days later they did get a letter from England, and then that letter was a check. It was, I don't know if it was for a thousand pounds or one hundred pounds. English currency, and that was enough to take care of twelve families for one year in that inland China mission group. And the check came from George Mueller. And he did that for I think the next seven or eight years till he died. And while that was going on, I'll tell you more later on in the week, about uh Charles Adams Burgeon's wife. And how he, how she couldn't do much even as an invalid, but how she helped pay, God put on her heart to support his his his ministry. So this woman not only was great in her determination, she was great in her discernment. Hey, he's got it going on. And Spurgeon said, hey, Hutton Taylor's got it going on. George Mueller says he's got it going on. George Mueller never took an offering one time in any of his meetings or for his orphans. But people would he would live by faith. I just want to encourage you tonight. This woman saw that this was a holy man of God. And she discerned, she said, you know what? I want to be a blessing to him. Not only was there the determination and the discernment, number three, there was a dream. Pastors mention it from time to time. Every pastor does. We can't go to Nepal or we can't go here. But can you just think in the future he alluded to tonight, all the souls that's going to be saved what because of what we're doing now? Because of the money you raised last year, support those missionaries. The people got saved in Papua New Guinea. The people got saved in Australia. Just this year when I was there with our churches. You're part of that. I've got about a 10-minute video report. I normally don't show it. But I report to show you what you've done the last seven, eight, nine years in New Guinea and Australia. What an encouragement taking a family by ourselves. First church service, seven, five years later, running over a hundred in Australia. In New Guinea, it's three or four times that amount. I'm not doing that, God's doing it, but I could not do it if it wasn't for Shumanite woman, was a determination Had some discernment. But hey, they're they they got it. They're gonna do it. They're gonna get her done. And it makes us dream a little bit, does it not? Look at her dream here with me. Would you see it? I want to just encourage you. Look at verse 10, back in our text here in 2 Kings chapter 4. And let us make a little chamber, I pray thee. On the wall. Let us set for there a bed and a table and a stool and a candlestick. It shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn into there. That means come in here and rest. And folks, she had a dream to do it right. Now I've been in some places When they see the missionary, they just, well, you're right there above the roadkill. And I'm be honest. I was in a missions conference in Connecticut with my wife and one-year-old daughter. And they put us in a house with a couple on the staff, and the couple on that staff, we never saw them from, get this now, Wednesday night till we left Monday morning, never saw them one time in the house, and only saw them twice at the church. I had to get was on the first floor. I had to get go out the back bedroom window to keep a cooler, to keep our milk for our baby daughter to have food in. They never offered us anything in their home One night I was in a house in Michigan, they put us on the third floor. I I thought it was a test laying on a mattress No walls, a curtain. Uh uh and and we're laid down to sleep. Selena's in a little bassinet. My wife and I'm laying there. It's about uh about uh ten degrees outside, maybe twenty inside, next to that roof. We're bundled up. We didn't say a word. We're there for that missions conference. I'm laying there talking to my wife. She wants to talk all night. I want to sleep. Amen. And right in the middle of conversation, two rats went running across the window seal towards Selena's bed. Man, we jumped up. I threw a shoe at a rat and I broke the window. Didn't break it all the way, but I cracked it. We had to put her between us that night. Never said a word, but they didn't have a lot of discernment. They didn't have a lot of determination. They had no dreams. They were just putting up with the missionary. This lady had a dream not only to build him a place to stay. But she she put all the stuff in there. She put all the furniture in there. Now in today's economy, we would put an air conditioner in there. We put a nic microwave in there We would put an internet in there. We would put a bed in there. We would put some blueberry pop-tarts in there. That's what I like. Amen. And and I like my hey He liked biscuits. I like blueberry pop-tarts. There's no difference. Amen. Now watch this. This lady dreamed. She asked her husband, Could we do it? Same verse. As often as he came by, he stayed at the house. Forget the biscuits. Man, I got a five-star hotel room to go into. Now she dreamed about this, and they put it together. Folks, I hope and pray tonight that you'll have a determination. And the discernment to do what God puts in your heart to do. And do it bountifully. And you'll dream a little bit. You'll have life a little bit to do. Just today doing these Bibles in here I know you all couldn't be here and we're talking and stuff, but I couldn't help but think that these are going to be in somebody's hands in the next twelve months. And you know, we did twenty seven hundred and how many? Where's he at? How many do we do today? Where's he at? He kept a count. 2750. We'd have a lot more if we didn't have preachers working. Amen. Now out of 2,750 Bibles put together in Romans, if just one person reads one of those. And only one that gets saved. And that one turns out to be a Pastor Leatherman or a Grinstead or a Weber or a Grant or Devakota. Just one of them. Turns out to be like that. Or go to Mongol. You listen to me. It's worth it all. Can you dream a little bit with me? Here's a last thought about the lady in our close. She got her, can I say I want to say it right. She got her dues. She got her dues. Ever met somebody that's the luckiest person in the world? And I've never been that way. But have you ever s you ever heard the term, well they got their dues? You know right I how many's ever heard the term left holding the sack? You all know where that comes from, don't you? Snipe hunting. How many's ever been snipe hunting in here? How many's ever snipe hunted? Okay, and you get the kids at the end of the tomato row or corn row about nine o'clock at night standing there with that sack open. How many's done that? I was a catcher at one time. And I've done hundreds of people because they they never there's no such thing as snipe. Well you Google it. There's a little snipe bird that stands about that tall. He comes out at night. You catch him and it's the best thing ever. And I've done my daughter, I've done my sons, and they'd be out there standing an hour later. I'd come back with a flashlight laughing at them. And because we'd be inside eating hot, you know, hot dogs and potatoes. But the thing is They're always left holding a what? Bag. You can only get somebody on that once. I want to encourage you, this lady got her dues, and she wasn't left holding the bag She was left holding the blessings of God in her heart. I want you to see this. I want you to understand it. Look at me about these dudes here for just a moment. She was great because of her dream. Lastly, she was great. Lastly, because of her do. You know what happened here? It says in 2 Corinthians 8, see that you abound in disgrace also. This grace is giving. And this lady had abounded in it. And we look at with me in chapter four. We look at verse thirteen. It says, And He said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is it to be done for thee? And she said, oh, I'm okay. I have no problems and everything's fine. She said, I'm going to tell God what you want. Okay, Hayes, I said, well I heard the clan talking. She'd like to have a baby. You know what she had? Verse 15 called her and said When he had called her, she stood at the door, and he said, About this t season, about nine months from now, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, uh thou thou man of God, do not lie unto thine handmaid And the woman conceived and bare a son at the season that Elisha had said unto her according to the time of life. Now that's far as I want to go in this message because of time. I got more, but I want to stop here. They found out what she really wanted in her heart. And did God give it to her? Huh? It's one of the few times in Scripture. But God give her what she really needed. That lad died a few years later. She went and grabbed Elisha and make a long story short. Elisha brought God through Elisha brought him back to life. The point is this, and her faithfulness. She never lost her faith in giving to God her heart. And it's a great thing to see when you get your dues. He's got his. I've got mine. How many people could say in here, I cannot explain it in English, but God is taking care of me because I have been faithful to him? But you may have a flat tire. You may get a speeding ticket. You may even get cancer. Sugar diabetes. You may get old. Huh? Been there doing that, amen. How many's been in a hospital so sick you didn't know what the answer was for it, thought you was going to die. You had no idea what God was doing to you. You was right with God when you got sick. You made sure you was right with God just going through it. You didn't know you was going to come out of it. Amen. But God brought you through it. I got a t-shirt when I was in Australia in my second round of cancer. Laughter is the best medicine. On the back it said, until you've tried morphine. I've been through some rough scrapes. Then I'll st and I'm tired, I'll talk about a woman. I said New Guinea, you can close your Bibles. Been there for four years. God had blessed our ministry. We run almost 500 people every Sunday morning. Had a Christian school of 150. Bible college of 86 students, training preacher boys, God's blessing in a great way, and I get sick. Thought I had a heart attack. At the age of fifty one. I'm on the floor right what it was was a kidney stone. How many's ever had one of those? Man, I wouldn't want my mother in law to get one of those. Things are terrible. And and they sits like a woman having a baby. Ladies, you can have the babies, amen. But I'm laying on the floor about dying and I think I'm dying, I got a heart attack and Sandy's praying. What's wrong? I said, Oh no, I can't move. I'm over ready to faint and and and and and and she called the the guys from the village and they come to get me. Oh Pastor's dying, he can't die on us And so they wrapped me up in a blanket and put me on the back of a pickup truck and they held me and they drove me to a Filipino doctor. They took me into this lady. He's dying. He's our pastor. Don't you let him die. If he does, we'll burn you down. She said, I'm not going to look at him So they put me back on the truck and they took me to an Indian doctor and and they laid me inside there and he looked at me and Are you a Yank or an Aussie? I mean yank. Are you a Christian? Yes. Do you drink alcohol? No. He said, I'll be right back. I don't know what those questions were about, but I thought I was dying. While he was going, my wife bent over the gurney and said, Dan, can I tell you one thing? Yes, yes, honey. She said, listen, I love you, but I want to ask you, I want to tell you one thing. And I thought it was going to be the greatest thing ever. Here's what she said. I just want to make sure, is the life insurance policy on you paid up? I reached up. Yes. And so she saw my reaction and said, You're not gonna die. Doctor come back in, rolled me over, give me a shot of something called dimmerol. He said, you got a kidney stone, you ain't gonna die. It wouldn't move that was stuck right there at the belt line. And I thought it was big as my thumb. When they took that thing out was smaller than a pinhead. Now watch this. They said you got to go to Australia to get it taken out. I didn't have any money. If you don't get that thing taken out in three days, you're going to turn yellow and die. Now you get on the plane, here's a prescription, you leave tonight. And we'll get and he called ahead, I don't have the money. Put it on your credit card. Do you want to live or die? I want to live. $1,465, I think it cost me. To go down there, get that thing out and come back. And I went down there, took it out one day, laid around, and uh come back the next day. Got home and said, honey, I owe that hospital $1,465. She said, Well, God will provide it. I gotta provide it in 29 days, you know. Next day in the mail come a letter. No, no, it wasn't a letter. A letter had come to B I M I in November the year before. This was February. And the letter on Miss Jackie's desk had dropped off the back of the desk. And they were cleaning the office out and they found a check to me that was sent to me in Thanksgiving 1996. And they found it in February 1997. A week before I had this episode sent to me from a girl that went to school with me that had not seen for 25 years, but God put me on her heart. The day before Thanksgiving, 1996, to send me that check. And in that check it said, you've got a need coming, God put it on my heart. $1,475. I had enough left over to get a basket robin's ice cream coming in a hot dog. Now you listen to me. That woman was in the church service I preached at Christmas time in Bethesda, Ohio. Pastor Brian Lee's church. She came in in a wheelchair. She's the same age. Her third round of cancer She has less than three months left. And I told this story. And she told me afterward, I am so glad I did what God put on my heart. Now you listen. She had a determination. And she had a, can I use that, a discernment. Listen to this. And she had a dream that she knew if she did what God was talking her about in this situation. God was at work. So you know what? She'd better fix the biscuits in Zarephath, and she'd better fix the biscuits in Schumann, because God was at work in Elijah's life and Elisha's life. That all the world may know the God of Israel. This is a pattern of faith promised giving This is why she was great. I don't know how your lives are going to end. I don't know how mine's going to end. I don't care. It's not about money. It's about doing what God puts on your heart. Where put on your heart? How many's ever tried to outmanipulate God? Two of us. Does it work? How he's ever tried to outcalculate God? And Halb he's just trying to say, you know what? God, I'm going to trust you with this. And everything comes out alright. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.