Alright, uh 2nd Corinthians chapter 12. How many folks, you're glad you're not in jail this morning? Say amen. Shoot. Praise the Lord. And uh look with me if you would at verse number seven of Second Corinthians chapter twelve. Paul is writing here under the inspiration of God to a church in Corinth. Now, most of us are familiar. The church in Corinth had a lot of issues, had a lot of problems. It was not a church that you and I would probably really be attracted to to be a part of. However, in 2 Corinthians, they're getting things straightened out. And they're getting that which was out of whack, they got back in whack, and they got they're getting things straightened out. And Paul addresses a personal issue here That was a help to them, and I believe it would be a help to us. Notice what he says in verse 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations There was given to me, now look at this, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Then he expands on that a little. The messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Paul writes to them under the inspiration of God, and he says. I was given a thorn in my flesh. I want to talk about the thorn in the flesh, Paul's thorn in the flesh. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us this morning. Father in heaven, I'm grateful for the Word of God and just the whole spectrum of issues of life that your word addresses. And I pray now, as we look at this particular thorn in the flesh, that you would help us to understand exactly what it is. I ask you would help us to understand what it means to us personally and how to respond. And Lord, I pray that your Spirit would speak through me and bring these truths to our mind. I yield my will to you, Lord. I want my will to be pushed out of the way and your will to take over. I want the words I say and the truths presented would be according to your will. Lord, I yield my body to you. I present it anew this hour for this message. And I ask your Holy Spirit to fill me and that you would speak your word through my lips, my gestures. to all of our hearts and minds. And we could walk out here with a little clearer understanding, walk out here a little stronger in our faith. Walk out here maybe with a little more assurance of our relationship with you. And Lord, for any that would be unsaved, walk out here today knowing sins forgiven on their way to heaven. So bless us now for these next few moments. Speak to us and help us. I pray with all my heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. It's a wonderful thing to be saved. Now, one thing about the Christian life is Christians are not exempt from pain and afflictions. Christians are not exempt from pain and affliction. We face them. You don't have to be saved very long and realize, even though I'm a child of God, even though God has forgiven all my sins, even though I have assurance that I'm going to heaven and not to hell. Even though I'm indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, I'm a child of God now, through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, that does not mean I'm exempt from pain and heartache and afflictions Now some people, particularly on television it seems they're very popular, would try to lead people to believe that if you get saved, if you have a Enough faith, you'll never be sick, and you'll sickness is not an issue and wealth is uh uh you can be you'll be wealthy and all of this stuff I'm telling you one of two things is true about that type of preaching. Either they're gr uh they are gravely mistaken, number one, and I believe many cases they are deliberately dishonest Because the Bible does not teach that, and experience does not support that. Christians are not exempt from heartache Christians are not exempt from affliction and physical pain. We have physical pain. In fact, a bunch of us, even as I speak, are experiencing it at this very moment. Can I get an amen? We experience heartache. You say a child of God? Have a broken heart? Yeah. Our bodies break. And our heart breaks. Now we try all we can. I was sitting here looking over my notes. The choir was singing and service was going on. I got looking at some of the young people down here. And we do everything we can as parents and as a church to try and protect them from broken bodies. Right? How many parents do everything you can to keep your child from being hurt? Sure, if you're any decent parent, you do. I don't want my children to be hurt. I don't want them to be harmed. We try and keep them safe. And we try and protect our young people from heartache. We don't want their hearts broken. We pray for them. As I said, I was thinking of the young people here and our ministries and our teaching and our preaching We're trying to help our young people to be protected and to some extent sheltered from the things of this world that will hurt them. And harm them. And I'm talking to folks, we could stand up and testify of things that hurt us deeply. And we're trying to help the young people avoid that. Amen or not? Now, sometimes they don't appreciate that. Sometimes church folks don't appreciate a church that takes a stand against sin Against certain behaviors and certain attitudes. And every now and then someone will bristle at that And I'm here to tell you, a good church that loves the Lord and holds to that book does not want the church members to be hurt. The one with broken hearts. But it's inevitable in life. It's inevitable in life. Now sometimes we bring that on ourselves, huh? Sometimes we do stupid things and it hurts us. Can I get a witness? I I've uh I overquote this guy, but my uh one of the my favorite theologians, John Wayne, says life is tough and it's even tougher if you're stupid There's a lot of truth in that statement. And life is tough for the believer, and it's even tougher if you're sinful. But nevertheless, Christians are not exempt from heartache. And even when we do our best to live for God, and even when we're very, very careful We still experience physical pain. We still experience emotional pain. Paul, we're reading here, this is Paul pending this under the inspiration of God. And as a great a man as he was, a man of God, I mean head and shoulders above probably any other Christian that ever lived. A man of phenomenal faith. But Paul experienced pain. Paul knew what it was like to have a broken heart. He had been abandoned by some of the people dearest to him. He said in Timothy, and you can almost see the tears in his eyes as he's writing it, demon hath forsaken me. Having loved this present world, Paul knew what it was like to have a broken heart, been lied about, lied to. Left? Abandoned, as I said. Look with me if you would back in chapter 2 of 2 Corinthians. And look what he says in verse number four. Paul's opening his heart here to these believers. He's writing, and he's just being transparent. And notice in verse 4 what he says. He says, For out of much affliction and anguish of heart, I wrote unto you with many tears. Not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly to you. Church at Corinth had turned on Paul and said horrible things about him. Church at Corinth had accused Paul of being phony. And he loved these people. He's the one that won them to the Lord. He's the one that they had they had eternal life because of his investment. These people were not going to hell because of Paul's investment. They turned on him. They said horrible things back in 1 Corinthians. Paul writes to them and he says, anguish of heart and tears. Paul knew what it was like to have a broken heart. He knew what it was like to be abandoned and attacked. Paul knew what it was like to have a broken body. He had been stoned. Now in our context today, he's not talking about getting drunk or anything like that. Paul lived a life of integrity. We say Paul was stone, it means they literally threw him on the ground and take stones the size of your fist or bigger, boulders. and he would throw them on them and attempting to kill them. In fact, they beat him so badly one time to the point they left him for dead. Paul knew what it was like to have a broken body. Can you imagine? Paul knew what it was like to be beaten. And Philippi, they arrested him for no other reason than preaching the word of God and trying to get people saved. And they turned on him. The authorities came in and arrest him for no other reason than being a gospel preacher. The Bible says they beat him. Put him in stocks and in a prison and his hands and his ankles are bound for no other reason. And caring about people and trying to win souls. Paul knew what it was like to be broken in body. He knew what it was like to have a broken heart. If you would come to chapter 11 of 2 Corinthians. And again, he's writing to these Corinthians believers who at this point are getting things right, praise the Lord, and he fully forgave them, and he held no grudges against them. By the way, a Christian, by the way, let me say this: a Christian ought never to hold a grudge against another person. Amen or not? A Christian ought never to withhold forgiveness from another brother, brother, or sister in Christ. God has forgiven us so much And for me as a pit squee and put myself in the place of God and say, I'll not forgive you, what a sorry testimony of Christianity that is. Am I right or wrong? Paul forgave them. God had forgiven him for so much. How could he not forgive them? And he's pouring his heart out to them. And look with him, if you would, in 2 Corinthians chapter 23, or chapter 11, verse 23. He says this. He says, are they ministers of Christ? Now they were saying all these other preachers, they're better than Paul. And he's confronting that. I said, are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I'm more. In labors, more abundant. Now look at this. In stripes above measure. Now stripes is a catanine tails. They're whipping down across. It's a whip. In stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths often. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes, save one, thrice, I was beaten with rods Once I was stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep, in journeys often, in perils of water, in perils of robbers, in perils by my own countrymen And perils by the heathen, and perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea, and perils among false brethren, in weariness, in painfulness, in watchings often In hunger and thirst and fastings often, in cold and nakedness. This is a man of God. This is a man who loved the Lord, whose faith was impeccable. And yet he experienced broken heart, yet he experienced brokenness in his body. What I'm trying to say, my point is this. Christians are not exempt from heartache. We are not exempt from physical pain. And if we somehow get in our heads that somehow we can reach a point in our Christian life where I'll never be brokenhearted, I'll never have physical pain. You're going to be disappointed your whole life Because none of that, that's going to be with us till we reach glory. And by the way, that makes glory awfully glorious. Revelation talks about that. Paul in our text references this thorn in the flesh that was given to him. You come back over there to chapter 12. Now my question is to start out this morning, what was this thorn in the flesh? Well the Bible doesn't tell us exactly. doesn't tell us directly. There's a lot of speculation. Some people question, well, was it a physical Something physical pain? Was it emotional? Was it some sort of emotional heartache? Was it a spiritual? I think a lot of suggestions have been made. Some people have suggested that he had an eye problem, and that's probably the most popular among Bible scholars. He had some sort of problem with his eyes that just tormented him his whole life. And was a problem to him. Some have suggested that it may have been malaria that he had picked up on his travels One Bible scholar said maybe it was migraines that he dealt with. Another one suggested epilepsy. Now, here the answer to the question is we don't know. That's all speculation. But there was something That Paul referred, something Paul had that was given to him, that he referred to as a thorn in my flesh. Now, here's my take on it. The thorn, a thorn is something painful, right? Anyone ever out mowing grass? You run into a thorns behind my house or some wild roses, and they have thorns on them. And every time I go by there, they catch, they reach out and grab me and rake down my arm. I have deep scars from mowing grass. But um They're painful. So whatever this thorn in the flesh was, first of all, it was something that hurt That's my take. It's a thorn, so that means it hurt. It was painful. And then he says, a thorn in my flesh. So that tells me it's probably physical. There was some sort of physical ailment, affliction that Paul had, this great man of God, this man of tremendous faith in God, yet he had a physical ailment that hurt. It hurt. Um so he says this thorn in the flesh was given to him We don't know exactly what it is, but as I said, from my study, I come to the conclusion it was a physical ailment that was very, very painful. Now, three thoughts I want to give real quickly this morning. My first thought is this, my first point is this. I want us to notice the purpose that Paul had this thorn. Whatever it was. There was a painful eye condition, whether it was some other, whatever it was, we don't know. But there was a purpose that was given to Paul. Notice verse number seven. He says, lest I should be exalted above measure. Through the abundance of revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Paul was in grave danger. He was being mightily used of God. He references there, there's been an abundance of revelations. In other words, God was giving uh Paul information, spiritual information that was unusual. A lot of other people wasn't getting. Paul was the human penman of much of the New Testament, and God was giving him this information, and he had an abundance of revelations. And a law, and he was being used of God in tremendous way. He was turning that world upside down with the gospel. He had a profound impact upon his world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he was in grave danger. And that danger that Paul faced is the same danger you and I as believers face Notice he says two times in that verse, at the beginning of that verse and at the end, he says, lest I should be exalted above measure. At the end of the verse, he repeats it, lest I should be exalted above measure. You know what Paul's grave danger was? Pride. God was using him. God was doing tremendous things through him. The world will never be the same because of how God used Paul. And he was in danger of becoming proud of who he was and what he was doing. And God addressed it. The purpose of Paul's thorn was to help him avoid becoming proud. The greatest danger for a believer is our own sinful pride. Say, well, preacher, the greatest danger of a believer is the devil. Oh no. The devil can only do to us what we allow, right? We can resist them. He'll flee from us, the Bible tells us. You say, oh, the sinful world. Yeah, if we let it, this world can influence us wrong But my own simple pride. The world and the devil's greatest ally dwells in the hearts of every believer, and that's our own stinking self-love. Our own obsession with ourselves. We think we're something. Our own sinful pride, our own self-love, our own self-worship. Listen to what Jesus said in Luke chapter 14 and verse 11. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased He repeats himself in chapter 18, and he says, for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. We lift ourselves up, we exalt ourselves, we think we're the Kat's Meow, whatever that is. Um we think uh uh we think we're uh what else? Uh top dog? What? All that and a bag of chips? That's a new one. But what I'm trying trying to say is this, we start thinking too highly of ourselves, you better put on your seatbelt because you're about to get knocked down pretty hard. Paul was in danger of being exalted above measure, getting a big head In Proverbs 11, verse 2, the Bible says, When pride cometh, then cometh shame. That word shame means disgrace and dishonor. Tell you, it's shameful to be proud. Let me put it this way being proud is nothing to be proud of. And Paul was in great danger. And it's the same danger that you and I face. And that's falling in love with ourselves. And I started thinking that we're the end and the be we're the beginning and the end, that we're the center of the universe, that it's all about me and mine. And we live our lives that way. And we allow our mind to get, we allow ourselves to get that frame of mind. My Bible says we're going to be prepared. We ought to be prepared to be abased. And Paul, God is helping Paul. His thorn in his flesh was not just some arbitrary pain. It wasn't some happenstance thing. No, it was a deliberately plan by God for Paul's spiritual well-being. God, of course, being omniscient, knew Paul's danger of pride. Paul was aware of it. And so God deliberately Gave to him a thorn in his flesh, lest he should be exalted above measure. I want to remind you this morning. I'm talking to Christians, I want to remind you this morning, nothing Zero zilts, nada, nothing comes into our lives that does not first pass through the permissive will of God. Now, it does not necessarily mean everything that happens to us is God's will, but it does say that everything that happens to us, God has allowed it at the very least And God can and will use it if we let Him to help us, to make us stronger, to enable us to grow. The sword in Paul's flesh was given to him by God. Protect him from pride. I put this down. It's better to be afflicted in body than to be proud in heart. It's better to have pain in my body than to have pride in my heart. We've been preaching on this for several months now. Our theme this year is revive us again, O Lord. Revive us. The beginning of revival, the starting point for revival is humility on the part of God's people. And humility is absolutely necessary for our spiritual well-being. You show me a proud Christian, and I'll show you a spiritually sick Christian. Humility is necessary for our spiritual well-being. Humility is necessary for our usefulness to God. If Paul got proud, if he got exalted above measure, God would not use him anymore. Pride is our enemy. James chapter 4 and verse 6, the Bible says, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. This past May, it was 44 years ago, this past May 7th, that I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior God saved me out of life of drug addiction and drunkenness and fornication. I was thinking this past couple weeks, for whatever reason, it's been on my heart and mind, and I just bow before God and I thank him. I'm so ashamed sitting in the back of an old beat-up car behind a behind a uh a grocery store at two, three o'clock on a Friday, Saturday night Drinking whiskey and smoking dope and dropping acid and wasting my life away I come to God, God, you gotta help me. Don't let me be this kind of person. I bowed my knees, my daddy's praying for me, I bowed my knees and I called on Jesus Christ, and he took it all away. He saved me from sin and from hell. He gave me a new life, and here I am 44 years later, a 63-year-old Christian. Who thanks God for what he did for me on that night? And there's a church full of people that feel the same way about your salvation. And let me tell you something I learned in these last 44 years. I learned it from studying the scripture, and I learned an experience. This is what I've learned. God is good. And God works on our behalf. And He allows things in our lives that are not pleasant to us, and He allows things in our lives that are not what we might choose. But God, in his infinite wisdom and his unconditional love, says Dennis needs that. For him to be the man I designed him and saved him to be. And that's what God is doing for Paul. There's a purpose for this thorn. He has to go through this. If he's going to be a usable instrument in the hands of God, if he's going to be spiritually healthy, he has to go through this. So there was a purpose for Paul's thorn. Number two, I want us to notice the potential of this thorn. Notice there, if you would, look at verse 7 again. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Now look at this. A meason a messenger of Satan to buffet me. Huh. That word buffet has this idea, it means this, to beat down with your fists. It does not mean to just sucker punch somebody. How many people know what I mean by sucker punch somebody? Just stand there not paying your paying attention, not You know, just mind your own business. Somebody comes up out of the side, just boom, knocks you down. That's not what this is talking about. It would include that To buffet is not simply one punch in the gut or a smack up beside the head. To buffet someone is to beat them and beat them and beat them and beat them down to their incapacitated. That's what the word means. And he says this thorn, this physical pain that has been given to me, whatever this ailment was, whatever this affliction was, was very, very painful. God gave it so he doesn't get proud. And Satan wants to take that thorn and use it to beat him down till he's no more usable. The potential Satan tended to use this thorn to beat Paul down and discourage him, to put Paul out of commission, to make Paul angry and bitter and useless. An angry and bitter Christian is useless in the cause of Christ. Satan wanted to use what God was bringing into his life to help him. Satan wanted to use it to beat him down. Satan did the same thing to Eve. It wasn't a thorn in the flesh, it was a fruit on a tree. And Satan wanted to derail mankind. And so he comes to Eve and he gets her, he buffets her by getting her to doubt God's word. Yea, hath God said. And he beat her with doubts and with questions until she finally folded and disobeyed God. He did the same thing to Job. Job was a man perfect in all his ways, is what God said, not sinless. But a just and upright man, a man of integrity, a man of tremendous faith. Satan attacked him, attacked his motives before God. Sought to ruin his testimony and discredit his sincerity and beat him and beat him and buffeted him I'm glad to report, Job stood the test. And though he went through a deep, dark valley of heartache and pain. And he came out the other side and he said, I'm paraphrasing here, but God is good. God is just He buffeted Jesus. In Matthew chapter 4, he tempted Jesus, tried to get Jesus to disobey God the Father Tried to get Jesus, the bow and worship, tried to get Jesus, and he assaulted him with temptation and temptation and temptation. And I'm here to tell you, Jesus never failed. He stood the test. Though tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Thank God for a sinless Savior Thank God for our Savior who stood in our place and justified us through his righteousness. Satan tried to beat them down, buffet them, buffing them, buffet them. Satan desired to sift Peter, shake him up. I'm convinced that it is our response to the thorn. Now get this statement, please. This is important. I'm convinced that it is our response to the thorn thorns that come into our life that determines whether Satan buffets us or God strengthens us. We all have thorns Afflictions are part of light. Christians are not exempt. We're going to have broken bodies, we're going to have broken hearts. How I respond to these thorns, whatever form they may take. And by the way, that might be why God doesn't tell us what his thorn was, so that we can apply it to any situation in our lives. It's not limited to a specific circumstance. And so, how I respond, I have some thought in my life. I've been disappointed, my heart's been broken, I have some physical ailment, my body's been broken. How I respond to that, I believe. Will determine whether Satan can use it to buffet me or whether God can use it to strengthen me. You with me? It said, there's another familiar way of saying this. It's like this. Your trials will either make you bitter or they'll make you better. Right? Anybody ever heard that before? So how will I respond? The potential for a thorn in my life, Dennis Leatherman's life, the potential for a heartache or a disappointment. Or a physical ailment, the potential for that thorn is for Satan to use that and destroy me. Get me to doubt God and disobey God and get bitter and angry? Or I can say, you know, I don't understand it. This hurts. I don't like it. God. And let God use it to strengthen me and make me a better Christian. Let me give you this, I'm just telling you my experience All these years, been in ministry a long time. My experience is some of the sweetest, dearest Christians I've ever known that love God, that are strong in faith, have had horrendous thorns. In their life, been hurt, disappointed, and yet they let God use that to make them stronger. Make them stronger. Paul Storn had a purpose. Keep him from getting exalted above measure. Keep him from getting in love with himself, thinking he's something, self-worship. Keep him humble, which is what we all need. The potential was for Satan to use it to beat them down and make them useless If we have an incorrect understanding of who and what God is, now get this, if we have an incorrect understanding of who and what God is, Then we're going to become bitter and angry and be ruined by our thorns. However If we see God as He actually is, as the Bible tells us He is, then that thorn I can grow. through that affliction. I can be stronger in my faith through that affliction. I can actually rejoice In my thorn, in that pain, in that heartache, I can rejoice in it. You say, preacher, nobody would do that. Ha ha. I'm glad you said that. Look with me, if you would, at verse number nine. He, that's God, said unto me, now Paul prays, and we'll touch on this later a bit and then we'll quit, but Paul prays that God would take it away three times. Verse 9. And he said unto me, God said unto me, My grace is what? Sufficient for thee. It's okay, Paul. It's okay, Paul. I'm going to get you through this. You're going to deal with it. For my strength, God's strength, is made perfect in weakness. Our weakness. Now look, what's his next look at his next two words. What's he say? Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, my thorns, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, verse 10: I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake. For when I'm weak, then I'm strong. Paul said, Praise God for the sword. It's made me stronger. I rejoice in it. Listen, listen, we can do one or two things. Listen, it's we got free will, amen. I can respond however I want to the thorns God brings in my life. And I can loud Satan's a beat the devil out of Well, the devil won't beat the devil out of me But I can allow the devil to beat me down and ruin me and make me a bitter, angry, useless mess. Or I can say, you know, God has a purpose in this thing. And God is trying to help me, and God is strengthening me through this. And I'm a stronger in my faith because of this. Praise the Lord for infirmities. I rejoice in them. As I said before, the greatest Christians I've ever met have been Christians who have experienced horrendous storms, broken hearts. So the potential for the thorn is stronger in my faith or beaten down and useless? But it's up to me. It's how I see God. It's how I respond to what the Lord allows in my life. I can trust Him and believe what He says, or I can devil beat me up. I can grow in my affliction. I can be strengthened by my affliction. I can even rejoice in my affliction. And then the product of this thorn, and I'll end with this. How did the thorn affect Paul? Now we looked at it a little bit, but I want to back up here and let's just look. Paul gets the thorn. Satan's wanting to use it to buffet him. How did Paul respond? I see three ways Paul responded. Number one, I put this down. This thorn re-energized Paul's prayer life Look with me if you would there, verse number eight. He says, For this thing, this thorn that I have, this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. What's he doing? He's praying. He's asking God, he's making his request be made known unto God, Lord, please take this away. He says three times. Now I don't think it's three times he came to an altar and said, Lord, please take this away. Next service, Lord, please take this away. Next service, Lord, please. I don't think that's what it's talking about. I think it's three extended periods of time. Where Paul is seeking after God. Maybe he's fasting. And he's saying, God, please take this away for three seasons of prayer. He sought the Lord. Then he quits and just kind of alright touch God. Then he prays again for a period of time. Then he prays again. I tell you, the thorn re-energized Paul's prayer life. Paul recognized God's hand in giving the thorn, and Paul recognized God's ability to remove the thorn. You say, what do you do when I get a thorn? When something comes and I physically have some issue, physically strikes my body, thorn. Or my heart is broken. I have this emotional pain. I think the very first thing I ought to do is I ought to run to the throne of God to find grace to help in a time of need. I ought to run to God's throne. You say, preacher, should I ask God to take it away? Yeah, if that's your desire. That's what Paul did. Paul told the Philippians church: let your requests be made known unto God. Tell them, Lord, I'd like these circumstances changed. Lord, I'd like for the situation to be altered. There's nothing world wrong with that. First thing we ought to do is take our request to God. Again, some things I've learned. I've learned to pray in the times of affliction. I learn when people are unkind and unjust to me and they say things and do things that hurt. Rather than lashing back out of them, I've learned, and I'm not perfect this, but I've learned I need to run to the throne of grace, throne of God, find grace to help. In times of heartache. I've learned to pray. And I tell you, we need to learn to pray again Maybe God is allowing you and I to go through some of the things we go through for no other reason than to teach us to pray again. To pray. So it re-energized his prayer life. Number two, it removed his pride. He says, my grace is sufficient for thee, verse 9. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Paul learned that I'm not all I thought I was. I'm not as strong as I thought I was. I'm not all that. In fact, without Christ, I can do nothing. Left to myself, I'm spiritually anemic and powerless. I need God. When I got saved, God changed my life. I touched on a little bit. God changed my life so dramatically, so instantly. I and I can't explain that other than God, for whatever reason, did that. He doesn't other it's not always that way for everybody, but for whatever reason it was me. There was a guy uh it worked at the meatpacking plant there and the whole place was all uh drunks and drug addicts and con ex-cons and some of them were still cons. And um one guy came up to me and says, uh Leatherman, this Jesus stuff is just a crutch for you to lean on. I said, it ain't a crutch for me to lean on. It's a whole cot that I can't even walk spiritually myself. I need Christ to do everything for me because I'm powerless in and of myself. Paul learned that. His humility was reinforced. He removed his pride. It removed his pride. The thorn had the desired effect. He realized it's not my strength, it's not my talents, it's not my holiness. And that when I get out of the way, then God can step in and do a great work. I say this often, God's blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm thrilled to look at the altar and see thousands and tens of thousands of Romans booklets that are going to a lost world so people can find eternal life and escape hell. And I think that God is using us, but we have to remember it's not because we're something wonderful. It's because God is wonderful. When we're weak, he's strong. It's not our talent, our strengths, our holiness. It's God. We get out of the way, God can do something. I like what Peter said to the fellow asking for alms at the at the temple and said, Silver and gold have I none. But such as I have, I give unto you in the name of Jesus, rise up and walk. And the guy performs a miracle. The guy gets up and walks. And his Bible says he's leaping and praising God and he's I was gonna jump and skip, but I choose not to. I don't want to have broken body. Uh but the guy's just uh having a thick And people came and said, whoa, and they came to Paul. And he says, listen, don't you think it's because of our holiness this man is made whole. It's the name of Jesus Christ. Don't you think it's because we're something wonderful that God is doing something through your life or you remember it's all Jesus. Paul said, in me, my flesh, there dwells no good thing. It's Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Don't you ever forget that. It is Jesus that does the work, not you and me. We just get out of the way and let Him use us. So the thorn had its desired effect. It removed his pride and made him totally dependent on Christ, and God powered him, empowered him And then last of all, it realigned his perspective. We already touched on this, but Paul's prayer didn't change his circumstances. He still had the thorn in the flesh when the prayer was all said and done. But it did change his perspective. It did change the way he saw things. And now he says, I rejoice in the Lord. Probably one of the most beat-up Christians you'll ever meet was Apostle Paul. Probably one of the most heartbroken Christians you'll ever meet was the Apostle Paul. Probably one of the happiest Christians you'll ever meet is the Apostle Paul. Midnight in prison, beaten, in stunts, they sang and praise God. He learned that even with a thorn in the flesh, his life could be fulfilled, he could be happy, and rejoice in the Lord. I got studying this and a thought came to my mind. Paul was a periscope Christian. Now this might be corny in your mind, but I think it's profound. Paul is down in these circumstances of a thorn in his flesh. He's in incredible pain. His heart is shattered. He's been hurt so deeply, his body has been broken so thoroughly. And he is able by faith to send up a spiritual periscope And it goes all the way up into heaven. And it looks and it sees a God. That is all wise, and that is all good, and that has a plan and purpose for his life. And God is doing something, and God is using him. And he sh does that was that corny? Little bit. What do you think? It was alright. I think it was great. But here's what I'm trying to say. Let's look above our circumstances and let's see a God in heaven That knows what he's doing, that has a plan, and cares deeply for me. The old song, everything's alright. In my father's house. Sing it with me. In my father's house. In my father's house. Everything's alright. In my father's house, where there's joy. Joy. Joy. Preacher, I got a thorn. Yeah, trust God. Trust God. Preacher, it hurts. Yep. God's working. God's using it. Let him have his way. Don't let the devil, let that devil beat you up. You humble yourself before God. Father in heaven, help us. To learn what Paul learned here and what he testifies. Lord, those thorns come, they hurt, and we don't like them, and we wish they were gone. God, if it's not your will, then we'll take them. We'll keep them and we'll rejoice and trust you. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say