How many people made New Year's resolutions? Anybody at all make any New Year's resolutions? How many people already broke your New Year's resolutions? Yeah, me too. We have our website going on and uh got a report came in the mail, I think it was yesterday. Just we get this monthly report and this one was telling us um uh of the sermons the entire time we've been on the internet uh we have had our website has had thirty-three thousand six hundred and eighty six sermons downloaded off of our website. Isn't that an amazing thing? Just around the world. Now that's overall over all the years we've been online. Um total different I I don't know how their computers figure these things out But total different computers or different people that listen, not like one person might listen to five, but these are total unique individuals. 4,526 different people. Have downloaded sermons off the web. Isn't that amazing? That just stirred my heart. I was reading that. Um it goes through a few other statistics. In the month of December We had 720 sermons were downloaded in the month of December. Anybody want to guess which state had the most sermons downloaded off our website? Not California. Not West Virginia. What? Not Maryland. Maryland's not even Texas. Had the most. So that's what I was thinking there. Uh and then what country has the most? Anybody want to guess what country? China had the most, I think sixty sermons downloaded into China uh in the month of December. Isn't that an amazing thing? I just I love getting that and seeing what's going on And uh you know, you just put that thing out there and you never know how God uses it, you know? It's just out of time. We have no idea. The only thing uh and I don't know what they're able to the people that do this, but the only thing we we don't even know what region of China, we just know it falls under that country. And some of these may actually be sometimes it's one country but it's served out of another country. I think we have one somebody in around Romania Get listens to our stuff a lot, downloads a lot. I don't know who it is, some missionary. But it shows up sometimes in our sort a neighboring country. And so I don't know how all that works out, but Anyway, it's just exciting to see what the Lord's doing. Let's look at the last two verses of uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. Been working our way through here. It's it's really he's just kind of laying the foundation, the groundwork for uh uh the rest of the the book. the letter that he wrote, it's not that long of a letter, but look at verse eleven. He says, Wherefore also we pray always for you. Now what does it what does he pray for then? He says that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. And the work of faith with power, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. So he went through, remember he he he made he made some strong statements earlier about what would hap what's going to happen to their persecutors at the second advent when the Lord comes back and flaming fire, taking vengeance on them. Now it's kind of backs up and he's like uh he's he's putting uh he's sweetening it up a little bit. It was pretty strong. He told him not to worry, and now he says, here's my prayer for you, and this is what caught my attention studying this is there's a fourfold prayer request here. He says, this is what I pray all the time for you as a church. And he lists four different things. We're going to get to two of them tonight. And um and uh but I think it'll be real helpful. So let's have a word of prayer and and look at this. Father in heaven, I ask now you blast our study your word. Lord, I thank you for the Word of God and what it's meant to myself and so many of us here tonight over the years. God, you've impact impacted our lives tremendously through the truths of your word. And I pray you continue to do that I pray, Lord, as we begin this new year, that we would start with a fresh commitment, Lord, and a determination that you have your way in our lives. Bless me and fill me with your spirit as my prayer as I teach this and challenge each of us, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. You read your Bible over and over and over, and I really want to challenge you this coming year to uh just determine to read your Bible through. Schedule that thing down Uh if you don't know how to do it, if you don't know how to read your Bible in a way that you get something out of it, come to our Sunday school class. We're going through some real practical things to help you get something out of your Bible reading. But as you do that, read it over and over and over, you start to pick up things. That you really wouldn't notice just with a helter-skelter type reading. For instance, you start picking up the personalities of the different Bible writers Uh you read uh the epistles that God used Paul to record, and you kind of pick up things he emphasizes in his perspective. You read the Gospel of John and the first, second, third John, and you can tell that's John. You start to pick up his personality. John emphasizes things like love. Truth. Those are two words through John's. Belief. He kind of has his his uh emphasis on his writing. Paul You read through his, you pick up a couple, and they're really evident here in these two books, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, the two letters he writes to the church at Thessalonica. One of them is that Paul continually emphasizes, comes back to, is the fact uh is the uh conflict that we're involved in in our spiritual growth, our spiritual maturity. There is a conflict. In other words, Paul points out very clearly that you and I do not grow as Christians just without effort. And it just oh it just uh it just naturally happens. Uh there are opp there are forces that are opposed to you and I growing as a Christian, being what we ought to be, regardless of what our age, whether we're teenagers or senior citizens, wherever we're at, there are forces opposed to us being mature Christians. What would those forces be Three in particular. Okay, the world's one of them. This world is not out to help you and I be mature Christians. You understand that. There's nothing this world that is going to do that this world is going to do to help us be mature Christians. We need to be aware of that. This world is our adversary. In a very real way. Now we don't we're not involved in uh weapons of our warfare, flesh and blood and all that, it's spiritual warfare. But nevertheless, this world is not out to help us be more mature Christians to grow spiritually. What's the other one? The world? Our own sin nature. The Bible refers to it sometimes as the flesh, the old man, those types of things. And it's our own self, our own sinful nature. Uh how many folks ever found yourself thinking about doing something you know you shouldn't? Some of y'all right now thought about not raising your hand. Uh we have a sinful nature. That is a tendency. Why is that? That sinful nature, if we just give in to ourselves and live for self, it's going to hinder our spiritual growth, our maturity. Spiritual maturity. So we got the world, you got the flesh, the sinful nature, the devil. Satan himself is uh out there and he is very real, just as real as our flesh is. How many people here realize you have a flesh? Yeah, I'm glad you do. But uh the flesh, yeah, the world, and the devil is just as real. So Paul realizes that. And in this reading, and in his writing, we study this, you bring this up. Paul was very much aware of the fact, and he wanted others to be aware of the fact That if we're going to grow spiritually, if we're going to be spiritually mature, if we're going to grow in the year 200 and 2013, we have got to understand there's going to be conflict involved in this, spiritual conflict We're gonna have to overcome the self. We're gonna have to overcome the world. We're gonna have to overcome the devil's assaults if we're gonna grow and be more mature next year this time than what we are now. Second thing Paul brings out, and this is what gets me to our text, first thing is you read what he wrote and go through these books, number one, spiritual conflict. We're going to pick this up here in a little bit later on in the book, we'll see that. But the second thing is the importance of prayer in spiritual growth and maturity. There's conflict. And then there's prayer. And that's what he's saying here. Look what he says. He says, wherefore? Whenever the word wherefore or therefore is there, you always look what it's there for. So he says, wherefore, because of what we said, because of the truths that were already given, that you're being suffering persecution, uh they're trying to shut you down, they're trying to uh uh take you out, the world is, the flesh, the devil, all that. Uh Jesus is going to come back, he'll deal with your persecutors. Therefore, because all of that is true, look what he says We also pray always for you. He's saying here that prayer is absolutely vital in my spiritual growth, in our spiritual growth, for the church here at Thessalonica. If they were going to be mature, if they were going to be everything God wanted to be, prayer was absolutely vital. And Paul was praying for that. If a church is going to be successful, It must overcome the obstacles, and there must be prayer taking taking place. Must be prayer taking place. Now here's my question. How would you define if somebody would ask you what does it mean for a church or for a Christian on an individual basis, what does it mean for them to be successful? How would you define a successful church in the scriptural sense? What does that mean? Alright, scriptural, soul winning, okay. There's that's the you say that church there is successful. What do we mean by that? Okay, they have God's blessings on them. Okay, they're growing. Okay. Uh there will be the word of God. Okay. I want you to think a little bit. If we're going to be successful as Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and we're going to be successful in the year 2013, or you and I as individuals And we want to say, you boy, you know, this year, at the end of the year, we look back and say, uh, boy, my Christian life was a success this year. What do we mean by that? Okay, being prayerful, okay? In the center of God's will. Okay, that's good. Um this is what I'm trying to get at We don't measure the success of our own spiritual growth or a church. We don't measure it by what other people are doing. You follow what I'm saying? And pastors are bad about this, and I I think our movement, the Mount uh the Independent Baptist Churches In the years going by, we're really bad about this, and you know, we have some of the fallout from it, I think, but we got we're constantly comparing ourselves to others Whether we're the fastest growing church in Maryland. Listen, whether we're the fastest growing church in Maryland or not, that is not what determines whether we're successful as a Christian or not. You follow what I'm saying? Um, uh, you know, whether whether another church is bigger than us or not does not determine whether we're successful or not. If that was true, then there's certain cities in Utah that the Mormon church is successful. That's not true. We know they're not successful. So we have to be real careful what we mean by success. Success is uh and we can define it different ways, but this is uh this is what I'm trying to get at. The success of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is very much dependent upon the effectual, fervent prayers of its people. If we are going to be successful, We're going to be what God wants us to be. Be s uh scriptural. And uh you can go down through a whole list of of uh descriptions of what is successful, be soul-winning, be separated from the world, have the joy of the Lord, be uh united in Christ, have the mind of Christ being of one mind, all those types of things. We're not going to accomplish that without prayer. The church at Thessalonica was not going to accomplish that without prayer, and we're not going to either. So Paul emphasized this the important. All through the epistles, Paul repeatedly makes reference to his prayers for the churches he's writing to. In fact, in 2 Thessalonians he mentions his prayer for them four times. in this one book. And so it's impossible to overemphasize this matter of prayer. This is what I want to challenge. This is the challenge I got from this message. And what I want to share with our church and challenge you individually also. is let's make 2013 a year of diligent, consistent, persistent prayer. And really pray and see God do some great things. I tell you what struck me this past year, and for whatever reason, all these years I missed it. In the book of Acts, in the early church, as they're getting established, I always saw and always emphasized preaching of the gospel, preaching of the gospel, preaching of the gospel. Preaching the gospel, getting out of the highways and hedges, everywhere. And that is true. But you know what I noticed this last year in the book of Acts? They spent more time in prayer than they did preaching. And you go through, and prayer is mentioned, and prayer is emphasized more than the preaching aspect. And preaching is the main thing through the book of Acts. And so it challenged me. So when I got to this these two verses here, and Paul says we're praying, this is what I'm praying for. I noticed four things. Let me give you, I just want to get to two of them this evening uh in verse 11. First of all, he prays that they would rise to their calling. That they would rise to their calling. Look at verse 11. Wherefore also we pray always for you That our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. Now that you read that and say. Huh? What's he talking about? He prays that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. What in the world does that mean? Anybody who take a shot? What's he praying for them in in very practical, understandable way? What's he praying for them? Okay, yeah, that's that's what I got. That they would rise up to what God has called them to be. He said that he would count you worthy of this calling, what God has called you to. In other words What God had called them to and what they are should be the same. He's praying that those two things will be the same. Here's the challenge for you and I. What you and I are, what I am as an individual Christian, where I'm at, what I am spiritually, what I am as a Christian. Am I anywhere close? To what God has called me to be as a Christian. And he's praying that you would be everything that God has called you to be that you would rise up to that calling. That's what he's praying for them there. So what has God, this is going to be, this is group participation night at Mount Lake. Let me ask you some questions. In the scriptures, what has God called us to be? As Christians, what does He call us to be? Okay, faithful witnesses. That's true. Okay, calls us to be obedient. Let's look at some verses, okay? Go to Romans chapter 8 and verse 29. And 30. Romans chapter 8, verse 29 and 30. Now we all know what Romans 828 says, right? And we know that all things work together for Good, to them they're called uh to them that love God, to them they're called according to his purpose. According how's it go? You ought to memorize that verse someday. Um All things work together for good. To them that are called according to his purpose. Now look down at verse 29 and 30. I'm not going to do all the work for you. Look at verse 29 and 30 and tell me what do you get out of that that God has called us as Christians to be? Aha, very good. He has called us, you put verse twenty-eight on there, and you look at those three verses. God has called us to be conform to the image of Christ. Now what that simply means is that we be like Jesus Christ. It does not mean that we look like Jesus Christ. My dad was telling me when he was a teenager they had a revival meeting. The Mennonite church put up a tent, three sawdusts down, and he said it was hellfire and brimstone preaching. And they gave invitations and he said it was the the real deal. And uh he said there was a gang, kind of not like we think of gangs today, but just these Uh you know they uh they wear blue jeans and roll the pants legs up, you know, and t-shirts and uh they put cigarettes in there and roll the sleeve over. Anybody remember those days? Yeah you old people. And um Dad said, you know, it was that kind of gang. They were just cool, Fonzie type stuff. And uh he said, Lo and behold, the whole gang got saved. They went out to this revival meeting under the tent And the ringleader, the big shot guy, got saved, got on fire for God, but that said he got off a little bit, and he got in his head that being conformed to the image of Christ meant like you're supposed to look like Jesus Well, one, we don't know what Jesus looks like. So the only thing he had to go by were these paintings drawn by weirdos back years ago. With the long hair and effeminate and long beard, which we know Jesus had beard. But anyway, this guy did all that stuff because he wanted to look like Jesus. That's not what this passage is talking about It's not looking like Jesus. By the way, if this was talking about looking like Jesus, you ladies would be another single. I don't want you to look like Jesus. We don't want you to But anyway, um what is he talking about here? To be conformed to the image of Christ. Alright, to take on the characteristics of Christ. In other words, was Jesus honest? Absolutely. A man of integrity, pure, holy, good. And so God has called us as Christians to have the characteristics of Jesus Christ. Now, the question is: am I where I am as a Christian and where God has called me to be is concerning the image of Christ, the characteristics of Christ, are they the same? And Paul was praying for the church at Thessalonica. I am praying that you guys would rise up to what God has called you to be. And that's a prayer for our church. That we as individuals would be conformed to the image of Christ. When people walk in here, they would think about Jesus Christ. When people meet us, Uh they get an impression of what Jesus Christ is like. So that's one thing we are called uh to be is to be like Christ, be uh In fact that's where the name Christian comes from. Look at First Corinthians chapter one and verse nine. Here's another thing we're called to be. He's praying. That they'll rise up to their calling. Well, what is our calling as Christians? One, be like Christ. 1 Corinthians 1. 9. What's that tell us there that we're called to be? 1 Corinthians 1. 9. Right before second Corinthians. What's it say? Uh-huh. We're called to be in the fellowship of His Son, right? Is that a phrase there? In the fellowship of His Son. In other words, God has called us to be in close fellowship with Jesus Christ. I was talking about this a little bit Sunday morning. You know, Jesus Christ is alive. You believe that? Jesus says that The Bible says that Jesus is omnipresent. He's everywhere. We are right now, this has been gripping my heart for the last several months. We are right now in the very presence of Jesus Christ He sees us, he hears us, he's here. Now we can't see him or hear him. Our sin has separated us from him. Someday we'll come and we'll see him as he is And we'll know him as he knows us, but he is here. And he wants us to live in fellowship with him. If you're in fellowship with someone, what does that mean? You're in agreement? That's one thing. But I would suggest that there's fellowship going on, there's communication back and forth, right? There's interaction. There's joint endeavors. And God has called us to live our lives in fellowship with God. We can't see him, we can't feel him, but he's here. He sees us, he's focused on us right now, and he wants us to be in fellowship with him at all times. Now here's the question. Am I living up to that when I'm called to? And that's what Paul was praying for them, that you will live in fellowship with Jesus Christ. On a continual basis. Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. We're getting back to our text here quick. 1 Thessalonians 4. And look at verse number 7. What God has called us to First Thessalonians four seven Okay, he's called us to holiness. If you look at the previous passages there, he's not called us to fornication or uncleanness, but he's called us to holiness. God wants us to live up to moral purity. Later on in 1 Peter 1:15, we won't take time to turn there, but it says very similar, it says he has called us because he is holy, he has called us to be holy. What does it mean to be holy? You say, Preacher, you're the one supposed to study and tell us. I know that, but I'm asking you to think tonight. What does it mean to be holy? Sinless. Sinless would be true. What's it? Separated word holy comes from the word sanctify, which means to be separated, and it means that he we are to be totally separated from the world, the flesh, and the devil, totally sold out to him. Our total commitment is Jesus Christ That's what he's called us to. In other words, he wants all of us. I mean, all completely. I am to be holy to my wife. Follow what I'm saying? I'm to be completely separated unto her. All other relationships are to be governed by my relationship with my wife. And that's the way it is to be holy unto the Lord. All my other relationships are governed by my relationship with the Lord. I'm completely set apart to Him. I'm His. And so that's what God has called us to. And Paul's praying that they would rise up to that calling. Now we could go through, there's just scores and scores of verses through the Bible what God has called us to. I just pulled a few of them out. 1 Peter 2, 21, we won't go there. But it applies to what the Thessalonians are going for. He says he has called us to suffer for his name's sake. How about that? God says, I am calling you to suffer. For my namesake. Man, that's intense. God, you want me to suffer for your namesake? Yeah My son suffered so that you could be saved, and I want you to. And why would God, let me ask you this, I want you to think tonight. Why would God want his people to suffer for his name say? Why would he call us to that? His son suffered, so he will live right. Okay, his son suffered, so we'll live right. Is he just being mean? Yes, it's part of our truth. How many folks here ever learn raising your kids that sometimes it's best for your kids to go through a tough time. And just let them go and let them go through that because it's good for them and strengthens them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know the best thing isn't the best thing is not to bail out the kids every time Sometimes they need to go through it. I don't like I don't like for my boys to go through a hard time any more than you do, but you know that's part of growing up And sometimes they have, and God sees us and says, I'm calling for you to suffer. It's going to strengthen you. It's good for you. It uh matures you, it strengthens your faith. What does James chapter 1 say? My brethren, count all joy when you fall into divers temptations. Knowing this, that the triumph of your faith does what? Work in patience. Makes you stronger, makes you more mature. And so God's called us to that. Now let me ask you a question. Do we take a stand for Christ at all? Do we ever, and I'm not talking about being arrogant and not suffering because we're idiots. Sometimes we do that. But I'm talking about just doing right, loving God, trying to please the Lord, trying to obey the Word of God, and boy, taking some heat for it. Or do we back down every time there's opposition And I think that's where the Thessalonians, at least some of them, were being tempted to do. They were taking heat. They were going through suffering. Persecution intense. They're trying to witness. They had to witness all through that area. And boy, the heat was coming down, and some of them were saying, you know, maybe we ought to back off. And he says, no, no, no. I'm praying that you will rise up to what God has called you to, that you'll stand true and stay strong. So he prays for them. that they would rise to their a calling. Then he kind of rewords it here real quick. I don't think we're going to get to point number two. But look at uh look how he says it here again. He says, Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling. Alright, that you would rise up to what he's called you to be and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness I thought, well that's a weird way to say that. Fulfill the good pleasure. How many ever went to your kids and said, kids, I want you to fulfill all the goodness of my good pleasure? You know what my boys would have said? Huh? Well fulfill all the goodness of my good pleasure. What What's he saying here? This is what I think he's saying. I got looking up and trying to. I think I want you, he says, I'm praying that you will be everything that the goodness of God finds pleasure in. In other words, let me ask you this. Is God good? Yes. And he says, God's goodness finds, the fact that God is good finds pleasure in certain things. There are certain things that please God. He's saying, I'm praying that you will be in that position and be that person that it brings pleasure to God. That God is pleased. In other words, that you will rise up To what God intends you to be. Ah, I can't remember who said it. I want to say it was Warren Wearsby. I I don't remember who said it. But uh they said something to this effect. He says, uh, we're satisfied with too little of things. In other words, we're satisfied with the pleasures this world can give. We're satisfied with the fulfillment that this world can give. We're satisfied with the price Well is that something that we can't say? Yeah, exactly. And and that's what God's saying here. So I want you to rise up and be living whatever. But but he's he's he we have to watch out that we're not satisfied with what this world feels Give us. And I'm afraid a lot of us are there. We're just content with little meaning, little purpose, little joy, little blessing, and we're just satisfied with that. When God has so much more force. That you'll rise up and you will and that you will be everything that the goodness of God takes pleasure in. In other words, total satisfaction of God with my life Wow. How many of us can say, how many of us can even think that God is completely satisfied with everything I am? Everything I'm doing. He said that's what I'm praying for. Now have we are are are where we at what we are spiritually and where God has called us, are they anywhere close? And he said, that's what I'm praying. I'm praying that you'll rise up to what God has called you to be. That God will be completely satisfied with everything. Everything you are. Wow, what a challenge. Now, I read this, I studied this, you kind of brought it all together, and I thought, you know, that's discouraging. You know, I'm not anywhere close to that. And then I got then I remembered something Paul said in Philippians. He said, not that we have attained. But we press forward. You know what Paul said? Paul said, I'm not there yet either. But I'm pressing forward and I'm praying and I'm working towards rising up. To be what God has called me to be. Here's the danger. Let's not be satisfied where we are. Let's not be satisfied with what we are. Let's seek to be everything God has called us to be. And then we look to God to do that. We look to God. That's the next prairie class. Alright, what am I gonna do? What do I do? What do I do? It's actually God does it. We'll see that in the next one. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord, this coming year. I ask that we would grow spiritually. That of course our influence in this world, Lord, I've been praying so much today for Kazakhstan. That somehow we could have a greater influence there. But Lord, we want to just pray for our actions. God, we want to pray that we would be what you've called us to be. And uh and it would be more than just going through motions, but it would be growing and maturing in our faith and our and our walk with God. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many join me in saying, preacher, this coming year, 2013? I really want to grow as a Christian. I want to be closer to what God has called me to be than I've ever been before, and I need God to help me. And prayer is such a vital thing. There are so many forces fighting that. World flesh devil. We've got to pray. We've got to pray and look to the God to give us victory. Any like that, preacher, pray. God bless you. Hands all around. Good night. Father in heaven, you know our hearts. Lord, we sit in church, and boy, our desire is so strong. Then we get out in the work a day week, and it seems like that desire just fades so many times. We're looking to you, Lord. To keep the fires burning in our hearts and souls. That on Friday afternoon we'd be just as concerned about growing in our faith and being strong in the Lord as we are tonight at prayer meeting Help us, Lord, we look to you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed. Maybe before we go on You just want to kneel at an old altar. Elizabeth plays a little bit there, music. Maybe you just want to kneel at an altar. Say, God, make this coming year a year of growth. God, make this coming year a year of spiritual progress and maturity in my life. God will help us. There's so many forces against us. Let's seek God. Let's look after Him. Make this a year of prayer. Seeking the Lord. Evaluate where am I at spiritually? Where has God called me? Am I is it anywhere close to the Satan?