Acts seventeen. We'll read the last few verses of that again. of that chapter, verse 32. I was talking to someone this morning and I was like, you know, Pastor always tells jokes, and uh, you know, I'm I'm not qualified to do that as good as he is. Um that was not a joke. But um so I was thinking he always tells like you know what we call dad jokes and I was wondering when does a dad joke become a dad joke? Uh but then it became apparent to me. So Yes. Acts seventeen, um we're gonna read verses thirty-two down through thirty-four. And then the message this morning. Pastor last week was saying, What's the title of your message? And I said, I don't I don't really have one. I I don't I don't know. He said, Well what's it about? I said, Well it's about Paul in Athens. He said, Okay, that's a good title So uh that's the title if you're taking notes this morning. Uh that's uh Paul in Athens. Um ver verse thirty-two of Acts uh seventeen It says, and when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. Others said, We will hear others said, We will hear thee again of this matter. So Paul departed from among them. Howbeit, certain men clave unto him and believed, among that which is Dionysius, the Aropagite, and a woman named Demarius and others with them So let's pray, and then uh the message this morning about uh Paul while he's here in Athens. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this day, Lord, I thank you for this church. Lord, I ask that you would speak to our hearts this morning. Help us to not be just a routine-type day or a routine-type Sunday. Lord, I ask that our hearts would be open to your Holy Spirit's conviction this morning. Lord, where conviction is needed, we ask that you bring it But the decisions that need to be made, we ask that we would make them, Lord, and if there's someone here that has never trusted you as their Savior, we ask that they would do that today. Lord, I ask now that you would preach to us this morning, Lord. I just ask that you would use me as a vessel, Lord, and just hide me behind the cross, Lord And I just ask that you would bless this service in Jesus' name. Amen. So Paul is here in the city of Athens. I like the book of Acts. I think every church member, every Christian, ought to be familiar with the book of Acts, something that we ought to read regularly on occasion. A lot of interesting things about as the church is taking off and whatnot. So we see here in chapter 17, kind of a uh in within the book of Acts, a uh a famous uh passage, if you will. Paul's Sermon on Mars Hill. To give a little background here, talk about how he got here. If we're in if you're in chapter 17, and um Verses 14 down through 15 and 16 talk about why Paul is here. Athens was known as The the mo one of the more advanced cities of the time. They were known for their philosophers, uh their their their culture, their education, their architect uh architectural work. Um they were considered one of the more advanced uh cities uh technol uh technologically advanced and things like that. But that's not why Paul was here. A lot of people would travel there to hear about philosophy. A lot of people would travel here to see art. And even still today people people do But that's not why he was here. Paul was here because he was going to meet up with some of his brothers, some of his brothers in Christ. If you look at verse uh fourteen, it says, and then immediately the brethren sent away Paul To go as it were to the sea, but Silas and Timotheus abode there, verse 15, and they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens. And receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him with all speed, they departed. So Paul is waiting here in the city of Athens for Silas and Timothy. Timotheus. And they didn't have text messages or emails or even phones, so there was no way they could know exactly when they were showing up, but they knew that they were going to meet there. So while Paul is here, of course, again, if you study the book of Acts, you know Paul, his side work was a tent maker, and he was in the marketplace. in the synagogues uh teaching and preaching and things like that. And he was um waiting for um the his two brothers to to show up and they could make reports of what was going on at various churches that had been planted. So while Paul is here, we get to verse 16. It said, Now, while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit stirred in him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. His spirit stirred within him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. While Paul is waiting for his missionary friends to show up and discuss things, he notices something about Athens. He notices something about this city. And again, we've talked about and we've mentioned already how this city was known for its philosophers, its education, its architect, its culture. And people would flock to Athens just to see the city. And people still do today today. That's on my bucket list. I would love to go visit Athens sometime. But Paul notices something here that most people don't notice. He doesn't notice the physical, he notices the spiritual. He he he doesn't he he doesn't necessarily notice, and I'm sure he he did actually notice, but what caught his attention the most was not the culture, was not the language, was not the the poetry, was not the the the the architect or the or the um the artwork or anything like this it was the spiritual condition of the city It says he stirred within him. He had a burden, if you will, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. And as advanced as this uh civilization was, and as advanced as this city was, they were stuck with this um concept of idolatry They had a God for just about everything. Everything, every emotion, and so on, and they were really caught up in idolatry, and it bothered him. It bothered Paul. It stirred him up. It gave him a burden. And I think that it ought to. You all understand that sin is not okay. It ought to irritate us. When we hear about sin, when sin comes up, or when we see a nation that is wholly given to idolatry or to some sin, it ought to stir us up. And it ought to give us a burden. A lot of time I thought about our our nation. We're we're we're uh advanced, technologically advanced, and people from all over the world want to want the technology that comes from here, want the culture that comes from here, want the the the the art whatever. And people look to America uh for cultural reasons But I think that there's something we need to look beyond that cultural thing, and we need to see the spiritual condition of our land. Like Paul did with Athens. And it stirred him up. It stirred him up. And sin, like I said, um sin ought to bother us and it ought to stir us up. Now we ought not to dwell on the negative and be a gloomy guss all the time and oh sin's everywhere so I'm just gonna give up. That's the wrong attitude. But it ought to create a burden within us To do something about this sin problem. So, um, Paul had a burden for these people. He understood that there was a solution to the sin problem. He saw the problem. It was the city was wholly given to idolatry. And you can look around any nation, any civilization, you can see there's a sin problem. You can see it. What we need is for someone to have a burden to go to this sin problem and attack it. Now we don't attack it with flesh and blood as as as Paul mentions in But he understood that there was a solution and that was the gospel. And when you see um Uh verse the right after the sixteen he gets the burden. Verse seventeen and eighteen, it says, Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him Paul said, you know what, I'm going to attack this problem. And the way he attacked it was with the gospel. Paul understood that he couldn't do anything in and of himself. Paul understood that no philosopher that was in Athens, which was known for having the greatest philosophers, no philosopher had the solution to the sin problem. And Paul understood that i if this problem is going to be remedied, it's going to be with the gospel. So he starts teaching, he starts preaching with everyone he comes in contact with. There was no prejudice here in this message. He was with the in the in the synagogue with the Jews, in the marketplace, anyone that came to him Anyone he came in contact with. There's another portion where Paul says that he is um that he wasn't he was innocent of the blood uh quoting this wrong, he was guilty of the blood of no man. I'm probably quoting that wrong. But what he was saying was, everyone that he came in contact with that he could share the gospel with, he shared the gospel with Because he knew that was the solution to the problem. And folks, let me tell you, there is a problem, it's called a sin problem here in our nation, in our town, in our world, and the only solution to this sin problem is the gospel. You can take the smartest philosophers, the smartest doctors, the smartest whatever, and they might mean, well, sure, and I don't mean to discredit them, but that's not going to fix the problem of sin. Only the gospel will fix the sin problem. And Paul understood this, so he started uh teaching to everyone he could. His message was the solution to the sin problem. And it was his way of combating the sin problem of the entire city. Now here's the thing. I can't make somebody be good. I can't make someone not sin. Because I have a sin nature. You understand this. The only one person that can and can can influence someone to do good is the Holy Spirit Now we have influence and things like that, sure, but what I'm saying is this, in and of my own self, I I'm not good. And I can't force someone to be saved. I can't force someone to be good. But if I introduce them to Christ, now he can do something with them. And Paul understood this as well. Now, okay, while he's preaching, more background here. This is going to be about 95% background and about 5% application. So just a heads up. So you've got to really pay attention for the first part here, okay? While he's doing this, there's philosophers that come and approach him. While he's in his marketplace or while he's talking with folks here in the city, he's confronted by two very, very, very different groups of philosophers. Now again, Athens was known for their philosophers. They were considered the smartest of the smartest, right? People from all over came to hear from these guys But even within Athens, there was two totally different groups. We see this in verse 18. Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him. Now, many of you have probably heard these before, the Epicureans and the Stoics. A lot of us might be more familiar with the Stoics, but nonetheless, these two different groups of philosophers encountered him. They were two totally different people. The Epicureans and the Stoics did not get along in their way of thinking. The Epicureans, this was their philosophy: to give the flesh whatever it wants. To to live it up, basically. And the way to win at life was to get as much enjoyment as you can. The flesh wants alcohol, drink up. The flesh the flesh wants immorality, have at it. And and we can look at history and see that these were a very immoral group of people. Kinda filthy, actually. But that was their philosophy. Whatever you want, do it, live it up, and then that's the way to win at life. And again, we see this in our world now. It's no different. There's a group of people in our world, a very large group of people, that say, This is it. Live it up. Whatever you want. And we see this in slogans and commercials even Even oh you know, obey your thirst, have it your way. Uh that's Burger King. Well Nike, just do it. And there's all these things and it's like whatever makes you happy, just do it. Live it up. And then Paul understood that the solution to that was the gospel. Now we see a totally different group of people, the Stoics. They were very, very opposite. We would call them religious even. The Stoics' philosophy was to bring the body into subjection, to live by a strict rules of do's and don'ts. We would use the term religious. We would even use the term moral. They tried to do what was right. They tried to pay their bills, you know, look after their family, whatnot. And we would say these were moral people or religious people. And there's a group of people like that in our world today, very, very, very, very religious, strict moral people. But Paul understood something. Both of them equally need the gospel. You can take the most well-to-do moral person means well, but without Christ, they're just as lost as that person that's living it up. Both of these people now I think it's interesting, they team up together and go to Paul. Look at verse 18. Then certain of the philosophers and Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him And some said, what will this babbler say? And some he seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods because he preached unto them Jesus and the resurrection. So two totally different groups of people, they're approaching him, and one group says, Oh, he's just a babbler, but I want to hear what he has to say. Which is interesting. Because people still want to hear what we had to say, even though they say we're wrong, they still want to hear more. And then there's a group that says, well, this seems strange. I want to hear more about this. But Paul took this opportunity to preach to both types of people. People who please themselves and religious people that believe that they that they need to control their own desires and things like that. So in verse 19, they take Paul up to Mars Hill. Look at verse 19. And they took him and brought him unto the Arapagas, saying, May we know what this new doctrine whereof thou speakest is. Listen folks, there's people that say they won they don't believe the gospel. There's people that will reject what you have to say. There's atheists, and I use that term loosely because I don't believe there's any such thing. Because they want to know what you have to say. If they really believed that there was no God, why would they spend so much time trying to prove that there isn't? I think it's interesting that both groups of philosophers here, even though both of them were against Paul, they still wanted to hear what he had to say. Uh verse twenty, for thou bringest certain strange things to our ears, we would know therefore what these things mean. And then verse twenty-one, for all the Athenians and strangers which where they're spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear some new thing. That's all they want to do is just gossip basically. And be witty and come up with something new. So now Paul is in this spot. Let's back up, okay? He starts out in Athens waiting for Timotheus and Silas. He's waiting to meet him there while he's waiting. Of course, he's doing whatever good Christians should do, and he's witnessing. While he's witnessing it, it sends the Sicidian uproar. So the main philosophers come in and confront him, saying, we want to know about this. They take him. Up to Mars Hill. They basically saying, come on, you're going to come up here where all of our statues, where all of our gods are, and we want to hear what you have to say. So he does what every good preacher does is he preaches. And he and he and I I love this. Verse 22 through 34 is what we read for our scripture reading. That was Paul's sermon. Thirteen verses right there It's Paul's sermon. It does not need to be long to share the gospel with someone. One of the things we teach um the teens in the in the Soul Winners Club, and um I'm not the one that came up with this, um I I don't remember who it was, but is we call it the gospel grenade. When someone does not have time for you to sit there with the Bible for a few minutes and share the gospel with them, you don't give up. This is what I taught them, and you can use this. I don't remember who I learned this from. It may have been my youth pastor, I'm not sure. But basically what you do is you have your track. Take notes, this is cool, okay? You have your track. You knock on the door, and then you start talking, you introduce yourself, and then and then here's what you do. They say, I'm sorry, I don't have time to talk right now. That's fine. We don't want to be rude, we don't want to be pushy This is what we do. We say, well that's fine. I'm just gonna leave is alright if I leave this with you. It all it tells you what I was gonna tell you anyway, how Christ died for our sins and how you trust in Him and go to heaven. Okay, I gave him a little gospel there in a little nutshell. There's more to it, sure. But you don't have to be a deep theologian to understand the gospel. That's what I'm trying to say. You don't have to have read the entire Bible to understand the gospel. You don't have to uh um get a PhD before you can witness to someone If you know how you got saved, then you know how to tell someone else how to get saved. So Paul preaches a short sermon here, 13 verses long, and um I like his sermon It's a good one to study if you feel like God's calling you to preach. It's a good sermon to preach. So his sermon, verses uh 20 through uh 31 there. Or 22 through 31, we see the first thing he does in his sermon, I'm still giving background, just bear with me. We see the first thing he does in his sermon is he points out their sin. That's the first thing, before you be saved, you have to know you're a sinner. You have to understand what that means. There's a hell. We deserve to go there because of sin. We have to understand that. Now that's the first thing he points out, and then we do that in verses twenty-two through twenty-three. He says, Then Paul says, Then Paul said in the midst of Mars Marshill and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive then all things ye are too superstitious. He points out their superstition, he points out their idolatry, and he points out something else. This inscriptions that says to the unknown God Like I said, they had uh they had gods of everything. Every every emotion, everything you could think of, they had a god for it. And just to be safe, they had one uh to the unknown god. So Paul uses this as a springboard. He says, I see this one here. There's a God you don't know about. I'm going to tell you about him. And the context here, if you look at it, he says, by the way, it's not him. Because it's not one that's made with hands, he says. You have an inscription inscription here that says, To the unknown God, I'm going to tell you about the one you don't know about, but it's not him. Because the God that the real God He is the one that made everything. He doesn't need someone to make uh make him up with hands Um as we read there in just a just a moment ago. So he pointed out their sin, and then he pointed out the one true God to them. It's a God of creation. We can read that in verses twenty-four and twenty-five. But for sake of time we will not But then he points out who the real true God is. He tells them about the resurrection. And then in verse 30, he tells them to repent, that is, to change your mind from trusting in these idols to trusting in God. The word repent means to change your mind. Now think about this. He's trying to convince the most famous philosophers in the world to change their mind. He's trying to tell the Stoics Who pride themselves on being very disciplined and strict, and he's trying to tell the Epicureans who say, live it up. He's trying to tell them you need to change your mind from trusting in your idolatry to trusting in the one true God. The one that was resurrected. And it says in verse thirty, I believe it's thirty, the times of these ignorances God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. That is to turn from those false gods to trusting in God. So Paul's sermon, first of all, he points out their sins, shows them who God is, and then says, now it's time to trust him. And that's how we witness. That's how we we preach, if you will. That's how we share the gospel with folks We gotta tell them, we gotta understand you're a sinner. Let me tell you about who Christ is and what he's done for you. Won't you trust in him? And that's what he does. Very simple. Love a sermon. Very simple and it's right to the point. Now The results of the preaching we see of his message is in verses 32 through 34. And verse 32 says, And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. So he just finished his sermon to a very, very diverse group of people. And some mocked him, some made fun of him. And we see this. We don't see you don't see this a whole lot when you go out um necessarily door-to-door soul winning, but we've we've had family members make fun of us for what we believe. We've had friends make fun of us for what we believe. We've shared the gospel with co-workers and they've mocked us. That happens. Some mocked I can just picture some of these smart philosophers, if you will, saying, who do you think you are? We never even heard of you. What is this philosophy? And I imagine they made fun of them. Some mocked. Others said, we will hear thee again. Some made fun of him, some mocked, but some said, you know, I'm intrigued about this, I'm interested, I want to hear more. Now, can I say that that's a partial win That's not a flat-out win, but that's a partial win. Because now we might have another chance to win this person to Christ again. There's been times where I witnessed to someone and they don't get saved, but then later on they do. There's been people that have come here to church and they've heard pastor preach the gospel clearly and they're thinking about it, but they don't get saved right away. And later on they do. Some mocked. Some people made fun of him. Some people wanted to hear more. But some believed. Some believed. Verse 34. Howbeit certain men clave unto him and believed. And then this list a couple names there. And it says in others. I might be reading into this, I'm not sure, but from what I see, the the majority was not the ones that believed. The ones that believed were not in the majority But nonetheless, there were people that believed. There was people that believed. Now, I got a few things that I want to use for an application here now. And you know we always finish early, so when I when an attacker has me preach. I feel like I got up here early too. I got up here at eleven oh five. So hey. So here's the way I want to apply this. Paul understood that it was his responsibility to preach, regardless of the circumstances. We have a couple names listed here at the end of the chapter of people that got saved. Before Paul preached his sermon, he had no clue who was going to get saved. Those he for all he knew, those people might have mocked him, might have made fun of him, might have walked out. I don't know It's our responsibility to share the gospel with as many people as we can, and the outcome is not up to us. It is just simply our job to do our job. Why why would we use the excuse, oh well they're not gonna listen to me? We use that excuse, don't we? Uh you know, I thought about what trying to share the gospel with them, but they're not gonna listen to me Imagine if Paul would have had this attitude. Those people mentioned that in verse 34 probably wouldn't have been saved What if he had the attitude, well, I know I'm supposed to share the gospel, I see the sin problem, but I'm just so repulsed by their sin, I don't even want to go near them. Will that have fixed the problem? No Did it fix the problem for everyone? No. But we see a few people who got saved. It is our responsibility to share the gospel. The result is up to that individual and up to God. Um a lot of times we'll go out mo ninety nine percent of the time we knock doors, people don't get saved. We go out every Sunday afternoon. We take the scenes out. Every Sunday afternoon we knock doors. 99% of the doors, people don't trust Christ. Every now and then we have someone that laughs at us and closes the door in our face. Every now and then. It doesn't happen much around here, but every now and then it does. Sometimes we hear people that are interested and we're able to share the gospel with them and they say, let me think more about this. But if we have to go through 99 doors to see one person saved, is it not worth it to go through those 99 doors? I if if we have to share the gospel with a thousand people to see one person saved, is it not worth it? Paul understood his crowd that most of them would probably reject it, but he preached it anyway, because it was the only thing that would help him. Paul cared more about them than he did himself. Paul cared more about the spiritual condition of the people of Athens than he cared about his own feelings. Well, they might mock me. They might laugh at me. I might be embarrassed. If Paul would have had any of these attitudes, there's at least two people here mentioned that would not be saved. It's our job to preach. It's our job to witness. And the rest is up to God. We just need to do our job. One more thing I was going to share. The outcome of the third is worth what happens the first two outcomes. Let me explain. I don't mind getting laughed at. I don't get I don't mind getting knocked or cussed at. It's happened. I don't care. I don't mind that because I know that that's one more time that won't happen. I don't know if that makes sense. One of the things um Please don't judge me for this. I worked for AFLAC for a few weeks and I was a telemarketer. I was the one that called you and annoyed you, okay? Then I got saved and no, I'm just kidding. But um One of the things they taught us was um and I don't remember the exact figures. It was something like one out of a hundred calls you'll get an appointment. One out of three appointments you get a sale. So you make three hundred calls, you get a sale. Like they had all these figures and stuff like that. Which I was way worse than that. But anyway, um what they would always say is don't get upset when someone says no or hangs up on you, like what I do to other people Don't get upset when that happens, because that's one more no on the way to a yes. I know this is different here, and I know this is the gospel, and this isn't insurance sales, okay? But I think the same kind of principle applies here. There might be a lot of people that flat out reject and say, no, I don't want it. There might be some more people that say, I want to hear more, but there will be someone. If not several someone that do believe. Oh, I know, because the Bible says, he that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheeds with him. I am not the greatest soul winner in the world. I am far from it. But I have seen people saved. I have been able to lead people to the Lord. I am not great at it. But if I stay consistent every now and then, someone will trust Christ. You might say, well, I I there's no way I could ever do that. There's no way I could ever share my faith. I mean look at Paul, he was so bold. There's no way I could. Can I tell you I'm scared every time I knock on the door? I'm scared to death. I just do it because I don't supposed to And that's what we're supposed to do. And Paul understood this as well. A lot of people think this There's no way we can make a big enough difference on our own. There's no way I can lead enough people, Lord, to make a difference in our society. There's no way I can share the gospel with enough people To make a difference. If Paul would have had this attitude, again, there's people that would not have been saved. My youth pastor had told me this story once. It might be one you've heard before. He said there was a man on the beach. And there was a whole bunch of starfish that were washed up on this beach. And there was a man just going I mean just thousands and thousands of starfish washed up on this on this beach and he was going down, he would just pick one up and throw it back in the ocean. Pick it up and throw it back in the ocean Man came up to him and said, Sir, what are you doing? He said, I'm trying to save these starfish. Man said, There is no way you could possibly save all of these starfish. There's hundreds and thousands of them. How could you ever possibly make a difference? And he picks up one more, he said, I'll make a difference for this one. He throws it back in the ocean. That's kind of the same concept here. Not everyone you share the gospel with is going to get saved. You can't save anyone everyone if we can put it that way. But you can make the difference in someone's life. If one person gets saved, is it not worth it? Look, I I I think this is cool. In verse 34, we are given two names that I can hardly pronounce. Verse 34, we see Dionysius and Demarius. You know, I'm going to meet them one day. I'm going to meet those two people. And they're going to be able to talk we're we're going to talk about this uh sermon that Paul preached to them Alright, this will blow your mind, but if Paul would have said, you know what, they're not going to believe, this is Athens. I mean look at them. There's no way I can make a difference. Then I would never meet these two people. But I am gonna meet them. Because they did believe, because someone did care and have a burden. Why don't we have a burden? Like Paul did. We see there at the beginning of what we were reading, he was stirred. He saw the sin problem and he was stirred. He had a burden for souls. Why don't we get that burden for souls? For our classmates, for our co-workers, for our neighbors, for our friends, our family. We see sin, we see wicked lifestyles, and it disgusts us, and it ought to disgust us, I agree, but we ought to have a burden for them. And understand what's going to fix them, and the only thing that's going to fix them is the gospel. So heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for for just a moment. Just a couple of questions very quickly. How many of you would say this? You know, uh Brother Man, I've heard the message that Paul preached this morning, about how that he pointed out people are sinners. But there is a God that loved them, died for them, and rose from the dead. And he encouraged them to trust in him, to repent and trust in him. But I've never done that for myself. You're here and you say, you know what, uh, Brother Matt, I'm not- I'm not even sure that I'm saved. I don't remember trusting in Christ. That's you. Could you slip your hand up? No one's looking. I just want to pray for you. If you could just slip your hand up your hand up put it right back down. Brother Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. Will you pray for me? How many of you would say this? You know what? I have not been witnessing like I should be. I've been using excuses like I'm too timid, I'm too scared, or they're not gonna believe, or what's the point, they'll reject it anyway. I've been using excuses like that to not do what I'm supposed to be doing. That's you, would you raise your hand? You would say, Pastor Matt, would you uh pray for me? I have not been living like the Lord, I have not been witnessing like I should be. Maybe put your hands down, thank you. In just a moment, she's gonna start playing the piano. If we can stand to our feet, still no one looking around, heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around. In just a moment she's going to start playing the piano. And when she does, that means that the altar's open. That means if you said, you know what, I'm not sure I'm saved, that Come on up here and we'll find someone who'll take a Bible to show you how you can be. That means if you raise your hand you said, you know what, I have not been witnessing like I should be. I have not been sharing the gospel, but I I really am concerned about that. When she starts playing the piano, that's your time to come up and tell God about that and get that thing right. Our world's in a in a mess The world has a sin problem, and the only thing that will fix that problem is the gospel, and we have it. So let's go share it. Altar's open, should she start explaining, if God sells your heart, you you come and do business with them