Of this chapter and uh of course penned by Paul to the church at Thessalonica. Uh good church there. Not um we don't know the size of it. Uh I imagine probably it several hundred maybe, maybe more than that, uh church there in the city and uh a good, strong church. They had a Tremendous outreach as we noticed in the first letter. Remember the second letter was sh written not a long time after the first letter. Uh some Bible scholars suggest within six months Apparently there was uh either a misunderstanding about some statements he had made in the first letter, or uh somebody had deliberately miss uh misled them concerning the second coming. So that's what the second letter is about. He gets into their persecution in the introductory uh the introductory part. Um addresses that God's going to take care of that. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, and he brings that truth into it. And now he's mentioning one of many prayers. And notice verse 11. He says, um He says, Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of his calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Fourfold uh it's actually a threefold prayer request here. I combined the last two together for tonight's message. So uh it was fourfold, now it's threefold. This is a Evolving prayer here. So um, but let me share some thoughts with you. Let's pray first. Father, bless our study of your word, and uh help us, Lord, to uh incorporate these truths in our lives. We need your Holy Spirit to do that Lord, I need you uh to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask you with all my heart, and uh present my body anew as and uh yield my will to yours. And help us to uh learn from this prayer, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. One thing is obvious is that the Christian life, if you're going to grow and develop in a Christian life, there's going to be spiritual conflict. Has anybody found that to be true in your Christian life? You can't hardly go a day uh without it. Paul makes reference. In fact, uh again, Kathy's song kind of fits in. Paul tells Timothy, he says, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And uh he goes on and says a good soldier doesn't uh entangle himself with the affairs of this world. So Our Christian growth development is a conflict if uh and we're either defeated or we're victorious And we learn here that prayer, and we notice from other statements that Paul makes and teachings in the scripture, prayer is vitally important to having victory In the spiritual life, having victory over the conflict. Our three primary enemies are what? The world, flesh, and the devil. And the way we have victory over every one of those key uh prayer is is a key factor in that. And we have got to pray. And Paul's praying for the believers here. Now we pointed out first of all His prayer request consisted, first of all, that they would rise to their calling. If you'll remember a few weeks ago we looked at that. Look at verse 11. Wherefore also we pray always for you. So he's very diligent, very consistent, very disciplined in his prayer for them, that our God would count you worthy of this calling. Now, it's important to understand he's not talking about their salvation. God doesn't save us because we are worthy to be saved. We understand that, right? We are not worthy to be saved. We're uh we talked about this Sunday morning. We are sinners. So he's not talking about their salvation here. He's talking about he's talking to believers And he's talking about them rising up to live the life that God has called them to live. Here's the thing As Christians, it's important for us to understand this, and I'm afraid a lot of Christians in this day and age do not understand this. I'll take one of those afterward. No, not right now. Is that a lemon head Really? Okay. No. Um it's like it's like I'm back in the youth group, you know? It's just like it. Yeah Um I don't even remember what I was talking about. We are uh Christians as believers, God has called us to a higher standard uh I'm going to use that term not the way the world does, but a higher standard of living than what the world lives by. Now I'm not talking about material-wise, I'm talking about values and principles. We are to live by a higher standard of values than the world lives by. We are to live by higher principles than the world lives by. But the sad thing is a lot of Christianity today doesn't see that. In fact, the whole idea for much of the contemporary Christian mentality is we've got to be as much like the world as we possibly can. so that they won't be offended and they'll fit in and all that. And that is the exact opposite of scriptural teaching. Now we're not to be abrasive, we're not to be, you know, uh ugly about it But God has called us to a higher standard than uh than uh this world is by. Jesus said in the Gospels, he said, uh except your righteousness exceed that of the Pharisees. Now he's talking about they had an outward righteousness, a form. He said it's got to be from the heart. And so I think what he's praying here, he's praying for the Thessalonians That they would rise up to the call when God has called them to. You've heard this statement. Do you ever hear someone say something like this? Maybe to a young person that's uh messing up or whatever, they'll say something like this. Come on, man, you're better than that Anybody ever hear that statement? You're better than that. And that's kind of what he's praying here. Now the Thessalonians were doing pretty good But he's praying that they would rise up to that standard, that level of commitment that God had called them to. God has called us to a with a high and holy calling. above this world's values, above this world's standards, above this world's principles. I've got a book that um I read an article some time ago and in the article they quoted from this book And it was I I don't remember what the exact quote was, but uh it it was it was an excellent quote. And so I went online and Googled in and found the book on eBay. I had my wife order it for me And uh God it and I'm reading this thing. This thing is a tremendous bullet book on missions. It was written back it was written in a previous century back in nineteen sixty. And um uh but uh sixty or seventy, nineteen sixties or seventies around there. So it's a little dated some of the stuff, but it's about missions And this thing is stirring my heart about missions in great ways. But the title is what I thought of as I was reviewing this. It says, Give up your small ambitions. And the whole idea is we have so many Christians who are living for the world, living for the thing here and now, when God has so much greater things for us. And we're so content with what this world offers and the fulfillment we get out of living for the world, we miss the great fulfillment and joy and purpose of giving ourselves to the Lord. Of course, he ties it into missions. But I think that's what Paul's praying for these Thessalonians here. He's praying every day he says, I pray for, pray always for you, that you would rise up to what God is I called you to that you would experience and be used of God in every way that God intends for you. That stirred my heart. What a great prayer for our families. What a great prayer for our Sunday school classes. What a great prayer for our church and for ourselves as individuals. God raise us up. God help me to be the person you want me to be. Back when I got saved, and you've heard me tell this a zillion times, but uh, you know, I just saw my life, it was gone, and I thought there has to be something I know there's more to life than what I'm living. I do not want to become what I'm becoming. This is not the life I want. And I found out that God has a far greater life for me than anything I could produce. And that's what he's praying for them. And even in the Christian life, God has far more for us. Sometimes as pastor And I uh maybe you've seen this also, but sometimes as pastor I see someone, maybe a young couple or uh an individual or whatever, a young person or even uh an uh an adult And I look at them, I think, man, there's so much potential there. And God could do so much for them if they would just take their Christian life seriously. If they would just rise up and let God take them and make them what I believe God intends for them to be. My wife and I have often said over the years, man, that that couple, that person, that individual, they've got such potential for God. But they're just playing around with their Christianity, they're just toying with it. And um, you know, if they just take it seriously, what God could do And so that's his prayer for them, that they would rise to their calling, that they would be what God has called them to be. Then second of all, and I think we got started on this the other week that they would realize their potential. Look at the last part of verse eleven. He says that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness, um uh fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. He's praying that they would uh realize their potential. Then he goes on and says this. This is a phrase I was looking for. And the work of faith with power. Now that phrase caught my attention. The work of faith with power. I looked up the word work. What do you think of when you hear the word work? You think of And this labor, physical exer uh uh physical ex exertion. Is that the word? Uh physical activity. Uh I went down and uh helped Jerry a little bit. He was working a thing and I won't tell you what I helped him, but uh it's a secret. But um I get in there and man he's all sweaty, he's putting that new frame in for the store down there and He's a and he was uh tired and everything. And uh that's what we think of when we think of the word work. But the idea here is it's talking about a person's business Or their occupation. It's not so much the labor part of it as it is the uh what the business is that you're working towards. So the work of faith with power or the business or the occupation of faith. Now that got me thinking. What in the world is the business of faith? We know what it means to exercise faith, but what is it all about? Having faith in God, what is that all about? Anybody take a shot at it? What is the business of faith? Why should I what is the purpose of me trusting God and as a Christian and and uh exercising faith in God? What's all that about? Do we know? Okay. Alright. Part of the business of the Christian life is to Get the gospel to the lost? That's our last commission. That's our great commission. Uh what else is there? What it what is this all about? Why should we exercise faith in our families and trust God and and do all this? Why are we doing all this? Okay. To grow spiritually, to kind of fit in with the first prayer request, to accomplish that and be what God has called us to be. Um uh I I put it I put it down there. The business of the Christian life is to glorify God, primarily is to uh exalt the Lord Jesus, point people to Christ. That's that if if we were if this church was a business What would we be producing? What would we uh be putting out there? What would our business be supplying Exactly. It would be spirit I would say it would be spirit-filled Christians who are have a powerful witness to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh um how many people recognize his name Tom Malone? Anybody remember Tom Malone, great preacher, and I got to hear him scores of times. He used to say he had a Bible college up in uh Pontiac, Michigan, and uh he used to say it was a soul winning factory, and he viewed that colleges, bringing young people in, training them, teaching them, they'd go out and they'd be soul winners around the world And so he says here, now let's let's keep that in mind. With that in mind, he says uh the work of faith with power, the business or the occupation of our faith that it would have power. Um and the idea here is that God is working through us. He's praying that they will be what God intends for them to be, that they will produce, uh become spirit-filled. witnesses for Christ and they would do this through the power of God. That word power there is a neat Greek word. It's dunymus is the word. I think James referenced this in a message One of the last messages he preached. Dunamis, which we get our English word what? What is it? Dynamite. You ever hear you ever hear preachers talk about that? When we were in Tennessee, Dr. Lee Robertson had a radio station. It was the longest running live broadcast in the country back then in the day. And uh it was called Gospel Dynamite And he got it from this word. And the thought here is God gives us power to produce that which he intends for us to produce. Now, the power that God has given to us Comes in many forms. I put down a few of these. We have the power of the Holy Spirit. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen Now if that's for real, and I have no reason to doubt it, if that's for real, you have and I have the Holy Spirit of God living in us. Little Austin up here, eight years old. Eight years old, has the Holy Spirit of God living in his body. Isn't that an amazing thing? God Almighty, the person of the Holy Spirit, Dave up here and uh all of us, uh if we know Christ, we have the Holy Spirit living within us. There's tremendous power available there. Now think about that. We go about our everyday life, we just go through the motions, doing this, that and the other, and here's all this latent power uh within us that could be such a witness for Christ And he's saying, Boy, I'm praying your faith will experience this power so it can go and produce souls and bring glory to God. Uh the Holy Spirit, we have the power of prayer, the power of the Word of God, the power of our testimony. I just asked a few moments ago, how many saved you and know it? And it sounded to me like everybody said amen. You know what that tells me? Every one of us have a testimony that we can share. Now that is a powerful, powerful thing. Do not ever underestimate the power of your testimony of salvation in Christ. That is a powerful thing. All you and I need to do is share with others how Christ saved us. As simple as that may be, as stumbling, however we stumble over that thing, God can use the testimony of a Christian And when they just share what Christ has done for them and saving them, God can use that in a powerful, powerful way. Can you think of any illustration in the Gospels of somebody that shared their testimony And it had a powerful impact on a lot of people. One stands out in my mind. Paul, yeah, Paul definitely, but there's even someone, Paul had extensive training, believe it or not. But there's someone that got saved and immediately shared their testimony and scores got saved. Woman at the well. And as I was studying this word power here and the how God gives us power Oh, what amazing thing. This woman, smart mouthing the Lord Jesus Christ. And he just stayed at it. Of course he's all wise and He shared the right words at the right time. And she believes. And the Bible says she put down her water pots, goes back to the city, and tells them and says, Come out and meet a man that told me everything I've ever done And the Bible says the whole city got saved as a result of her words, of her testimony. She had no training, she had no soul-winning program. She had no script. She didn't know as far as we can tell. She had no verses memorized. All she did was went and told people what Christ did for her and God saved souls. That is a powerful, powerful thing. Now I think if we can f if we can fine-tune our testimony, if we can get some training, of course get some verses to memorize and put them in there, that's all um uh great But just the fact of you and I telling others what Christ has done for us is a powerful, powerful thing, and God can use that. So he's praying for them here One, that they would rise to their calling. Number two, they would realize their full potential. And thirdly, uh I boiled this down, like I said, to three instead of four thoughts, but uh Thirdly, that they would reverence the Lord. Look with me at verse 12. Now this is worded kind of in our minds, at least in mine, as I was reading it, it's worded kind of awkward here a little bit I had to sort it through a little to boil down what he was saying. But look at verse 12. And this is part of his prayer request, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you. And ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ, he says that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you. In you. Alright, how is the name of the Lord Jesus Christ glorified in me? And that's what I stewed over here a little bit, and I was trying to think, what in the world? How do I, how do I, how is Jesus' name glorified in me? I open to suggestions. How is the name of the Lord Jesus Christ glorified in us? Okay, we talk about our testimonies, sharing that. How about other ways? Aha, I have a list here written down. I'll see if you name it any of them. Our behavior, the way we behave ourselves. Can either attract people to the Lord Jesus Christ or turn them away. The word glorify means to honor, to exalt, to draw attention to. And so my behavior, I can behave myself in such a way that people are drawn and they see the Lord in me. What about some other ways? How we treat other people? Alright, that falls under I put our demeanor, that would fit under that, our demeanor and and just our attitude about things. uh can either uh exalt the Lord Jesus Christ or it can make 'em look bad. Um Okay, the place you go, what we do, that falls under our lifestyle. How we live our lives. Can either exalt the Lord or draw. I had a fellow recently, I'm trying to remember what the situation was. Somebody I guess I was out knocking on doors. Oh yeah, it was in Swanton and I was knocking on doors and um fella came this just back before Christmas I think and the guy came to the door and I said I'm past Here's the literature and whatnot. And he says, uh he says, I am not even a little bit interested. I said, Well, do you have a church? He said, I grew up this was his words. I grew up in a Christian home, and he said, I want nothing to do with Christianity. And I said, well, and I started to go and try and get, you know, well what about the Lord Jesus? You know, apparently your parents failed you some way. What about the Lord? And I tried getting that and he goes, sorry, I'm not interested. Boom, the door went closed And I walked out of there and I thought how sad that is. Now, you know, there's a lot of factors there. I got his side of the story, so we don't know what was all involved. But uh uh uh Gandhi, remember Gandhi from India? I mean you heard of him. Um he said uh he studied Christianity. And he said the doctrines of Christianity really appealed to him. He thought they were great doctrines. And he made this statement. He said, I would be a Christian were it not for Christians. Isn't that sad? It's the behavior, the lifestyle of Christians turned him off so that he and he didn't become a Christian. So he's praying here. That the Lord Jesus Christ would be glorified in them, in their lives. The way they conducted themselves, their words they used, their behavior, their demeanor, their lifestyle All of that would attract people, Lord Jesus Christ. Now, don't misunderstand. Just me living a good, godly life isn't going to save souls. They have to hear the gospel. But if Christ is being glorified in my life, when I do share the gospel, it is so much more powerful. I want to give you a few illustrations. There's a few came to mind as I was studying this and go with me if you would to the book of Ruth way back in the Old Testament the book of Euruth right after Judges And Ruth chapter 1. We're familiar with this story. Naomi and her husband Boaz, was it? Elimelech. Uh that's Esther was Boaz, wasn't it? I get women all mixed up. What? Ruth was Boaz. Ruth married Boaz. You guys need a preacher that knows his Bible. Uh Ruth uh and so anyway, Naomi and Elimelech, uh there's a famine, they go off and uh then Uh Elimelech dies and uh their two boys die, so Naomi says, I'm coming back to Israel. I heard that things are good there again. And look at chapter one and verse number sixteen You got Ruth and Oprah Winfrey. I mean Orpah, not Oprah. Um those are the two daughter-in-laws. Let's go to verse 14. So Naomi's coming back. She's got her two daughter-in-laws living with her. Verse 14, and they lifted up their voice and wept again, and Urpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is going back unto her people. This is Naomi talking to Ruth. And unto her gods, return thou after thy sister-in-law. Listen to what Ruth said. Now think about what she's saying and why she would say this. Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee or return from following after thee, for whither thou goest, I will go. And where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. And look at that last phrase. And thy God, my God. Why would she leave her country, her people, her religion, her false gods, and go with Naomi back to Israel. I submit to you, there was something about Naomi's lifestyle. There was something about Naomi that glorified the Lord. And that appealed to Ruth. And she goes and she's saying, let me put it in my words. Listen, I don't want nothing to do with my gods anymore. Whatever God you worship, that's the God I want to worship. However you live your life, that's the way I want to live my life The values you have are the values I want to have. I want to submit to you, God was glorified in Naomi's life. And it appealed to Ruth, and of course we know the story, how God used that in a great, great way. I wonder how many people look at our lives and they say, man. That their faith, their religion, using it the world's terms, their religion. I would like to have a religion like that I would like to worship a God that does for me what their got what their God does for them. I would like to have a faith that produces in me what their faith produces in them. I'm afraid too often we are more like the world than we like to admit. I'm afraid too often we don't stand out. Come to the book of Acts with me real quick. I want to show you two instances here real quick. And this is what Paul was praying for the church at Thessalonica. They had a powerful testimony. Man, they were getting the gospel out. They were a model church, but he wasn't satisfied. He prayed that they would rise up. To be everything God intended them to be. And part of that was Christ being glorified in them. Look Acts chapter 5 and verse 11. Now what happens in the first few verses of Acts 5? Let's see how well you know your book of Acts. First few verses, something terrible happens. And Ias and Sapphira lie to the Holy Spirit, lie to people, lie to Peter, lie to the Holy Spirit of God, and God kills them. So, does that sound like something would attract people to church? So how was church Sunday? Oh not bad, two people died in the offering time. God killed them right in the spot. Nice. I mean, you don't put that on your bus flyers, you know. But look here what it says in verse number, I want to start in verse 11. And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things. Uh yeah, I can see that. Verse 12. And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. So how would you summarize what that verse is saying? You'd say God is doing great things through these people's lives, right? They're on one accord, boy, they're all getting along. God's power is there. Uh they're having a powerful influence. And look what it says Uh 13 and the rest does no man uh join himself, of the rest does no man join himself to them, but the people magnified them. Look at verse verse 14 And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes, both of men and women. There was something about that New Testament church there that attracted people, even when people were being killed uh because of their dishonesty. Yet how those people lived their lives and what God was doing in their lives was such an obvious thing, it attracted people to them Now I'm not against doing treats and giving out uh uh prizes and giving out treats on the bus. Good night. We've been doing that for years. I am all for it. But ideally, it would be people being drawn to Christ, not because they get a piece of bubblegum, but because they see Christ working in us. Because the power of God is upon us. That's the ideal. And it takes prayer. Paul's praying that that would be true for them. I got one more I want to show you real quick and then we'll end. Acts 11. Acts eleven and uh verse twenty two Excellent. Folks are getting saved and uh they send uh Barnabas up there to check things out. And there's an interesting statement here. Verse twenty two. The tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church was in Jerusalem. So they're on this mission they're out there in um uh another city and folks are getting saved. They find out about it. So uh and they sent forth Barnabas that he should go as far as Antioch. Who when he came, look at this next phrase, and had seen the grace of God, was glad. And exhorted them all with purpose of heart that they would cleave to the Lord, for he was a good man and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith. And much people was added unto the Lord. He saw the grace of God And because of the grace of God that he saw in them, people were being added to the Lord. Here's my question: How do you see the grace of God in someone's life? How do you the grace of God, how do you see that? What was he observing that he came to the conclusion this is the grace of God? Yeah, they're changed lives. Christ-like character. They were unique from the world. There was something different about these people that the only explanation is God has been gracious to them. God has done something in them. That's the only explanation. And he came to the conclusion. And you know what was happening? Christ was glorified in them. And Barnabas saw it, and the multitude saw it, and they were drawn to Christ, and many were saved. So that's what he's praying for them back here in Thessalonica. They're very active, they're very faithful, man, they're just getting after it, they're getting the gospel out. He says earlier, I can't go to anywhere in in that part of the world and Boy, they've already heard of the gospel because of you guys' witnesses. I no matter where I go, I knock on doors and there's some of y'all's tracks. Um uh there. And and uh you know they had a tremendous witness and makes makes me remember uh somebody, Melissa's friend or cousin lives in Hagerstown was going out visiting found tracks from Mountain Lake on doors in Hagerstown. You know, that's pretty cool. But he says that's not what I'm praying. So I'm praying that Christ would be glorified in you. That it in addition to all your efforts, your life would be so full of God and so live for the Lord, the grace of God would be so upon you, people would see, and the only conclusion they come is God's all over that That is God's work. That person at on the job, at the workplace, in the market, boy, that's the Lord did that. That has to be God working in their life. There's no other explanation. And that's Christ glorified in him. Now, the last thing here is look what he says. That Christ, Jesus Christ, may be glorified in you. And here he throws a little wrench in there. And ye in him. I can figure out how Christ is glorified in my life. But how am I glorified in Christ? What does he mean that you would be glorified in Christ? This is what I think he said. When we glorify and reverence the Lord, as he's praying for there. God turns around and glorifies or honors us. He says in Luke 14, he says, everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be what? Exalted. You know what he's saying? He's saying, if you'll let me do the work, if you let me take over and just live for me and let me work in your life, I will honor you. Now, question: Are Christians honored here in this world? Very much no. You know, I've been reading more and more all the time: Christians being persecuted. Egypt now is becoming a huge country persecuting Christians. This Christian preacher, the folks who've been in the news are praying for, they're talking about hanging him here now. And um, you know, in this world Christians are not honored. So how does God, by humble myself before the Lord, glorify him in my life, how do I get honored? It's by faith that when we see him at the judgment seat of Christ, He will crown us with many crowns and honor us and reward us. Of course, what do we do with those rewards? We just cast them right as feet because it's he that did it anyway. But think about that. God honors me. Christ lifts me up. That's an amazing thing. And he prays that for him, that Christ should be glorified in you and you in him. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church exists today because in years gone by some people gave themselves for God's glory. We think of Ed Wilt and his wife. They just left all and came to this strange town and just lived for God's glory. But you know it wasn't just Ed Wilt. There was people. One guy doesn't do it all, it's church members Said, you know, we're going to give ourselves. We're going to live for God's glory. We want Christ to be glorified in us. And God established a work here. Now listen, we have a great responsibility. To keep this church going for the glory of God. Amen? We've got to give ourselves to let Christ be glorified in us. We cannot get stagnant in our Christian life. I'll tell you what is my challenge as pastor working on V 20 years now, you know what my challenge is? Staying just as fired up and just as fresh as I was 20 years ago when I came. That's a challenge. Some of y'all have been saved a long, long time. We cannot let that drag us down and become stagnant. We need Christ glorified in us every passing day, every passing year. And whether it's in high school or whether it's uh at the senior daycare center, we want to glorify Christ. And him be glorified in us. There's only one way. Say, all right, I'm gonna glorify Jesus in me. No, it don't work that way. It's come and say, God, I yield myself to you. I give myself put myself in your hands. God, you work through me. And you do a work through me. And then folks will see Christ working. Does that make sense? Father in heaven, please help us to follow this example that Paul prayed for the Thessalonians. I pray that Christ would be glorified in our church. Lord, maybe that folks would come here, visitors and church and city town folk, uh community folk would come and they'd say, you know, God's there. I can see it in the lives of people. I can hear it in their voices, their demeanor and their attitudes, the joy of the Lord and the godliness and their purity and their compassion. Lord, I pray that be true in my life. And in all of our lives, that we would rise up to what you've called us to be. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, you know, I really, really want God to use me? I know I say this a lot, but Say, preacher, I want to pray this prayer. That Christ be glorified in me and God and people would see the Lord working in my life and I'd be everything God has called me to be. Is there anyone like that? Of course we feel that way. My hands raised Let's ask the Lord. Prayer is a vital part of that. Let's ask the Lord to make that so in our lives. Father, bless us now as we have the invitation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.