Second Kings chapter 4 Second Kings chapter 4 little girl was late for Sunday school, she was running along. She said, Lord, help me get there in time. She ran a little farther, and sure enough, fell down, skinned her knee, tore her dress. She said, Lord, I asked you to help me get there quick, but not shove me Second Kings chapter four I'm gonna read the first seven verses. I heard James did a good job last week preaching for us. And uh as I said, my wife and I had a great time. They got away for a couple of days four wheeling. I don't understand. She came back all beat up and I was fine. I don't know. She had bruises and scratches and she's behind me on the four wheelers, so I don't know what happened back there. But uh we had a great time. I think one of the funnest things, uh go and uh we had this big water puddle and uh so we drove through it and I said, Here you stand here, videotape me, I'll drive back and I'll come flying through it. And you videotape me coming through it. And uh she says, Okay. So I went back and she's standing and I come flying down and water goes everywhere and it was this stagnant, stinky water that had been setting there forever and it just soaked me and it reeked and I got up and I said, How'd it come out? She goes, I pushed the off button instead of the record button Do it again, do it again. So I had to go back and do it again. And she just laughed and laughed and laughed. She thought that was funny 2 Kings chapter 4. Actually, I began this message, preparing for this message about oh, a week or two before the missions conference. And Sunday night of the missions conference, Dr. Greg Baker got up and said, turn in your Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 4. And he read this portion of scripture and he preached on this passage of scripture and I was sitting up here trying to think of ways to stab him in the back and but uh he brought a great message on this passage And as I prayed and, you know, just gave thought to what I was going to do, I just felt like this is we're working our way through the life of Elisha. And uh so I'm going to preach from the same passage, different message though, and um uh particularly one phrase, and I'll point it out as we get to it. Chapter 4, verse 1 of 2 Kings Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant, my husband, is dead. And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. And the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons, to be bondmen. Elijah said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me, what hast thou in thy house? And she said, Thine handmaiden hath not anything in the house, save a pot of oil. Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors. Even empty vessels, borrow not a few And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out unto all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, Bring me, bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There are not a vessel more. And the oil stayed Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest. That little phrase there at the verse number seven, pay thy debt. I put in the margin of my Bible, this was several weeks ago, back before the missions conference, I wrote in the margin of my Bible, God provides for us so we can pay our debts. Pay thy debt. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, and thank you for uh the Word of God, Lord, how it applies to our everyday life. Lord, I'm so grateful for this church and the people that uh you've put together, brought together to be the body of Christ here in Mountain Lake Park. I just rejoice in it. I ask, Lord, that you would preserve what you've established here in this church. I pray you'd hedge us about from the world and the flesh, from the devil. I pray, Lord, your Holy Spirit would have such free reign. in this body of believers that your will would be done on every hand without hindrance, without hesitation. God, I yield myself to you this evening I yield my will to yours as best as I'm able. I present my body anew, and I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. And God, you would challenge us, instruct us, help us, encourage. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Elijah's miracles, if you go through and look at the various miracles of different prophets in the, particularly the Old Testament Elijah's are somewhat unusual. If you look at them carefully, there's apparently no doctrinal truth being presented in his miracles. You go to some of Elijah's and other prophets, Samuel, and there's some great truth being presented. But in a lot of Elijah's, there's no apparent doctrinal truth being given. There's no apparent biblical precepts being presented. In fact, on a lot of these, we looked at the one with the three kings going against Moab and digging the ditches. There's no doctrinal truth there. There's no great revelation about Jehovah. Seems like here in chapter 4, you apparently just have a miracle that is performed for no other reason than uh alleviating this poor widow's debt. It just appears to me to be an act of goodwill, miraculous But nothing more than a precious preacher's wife, widowed, in great debt. Elisha, through the power of God, miraculously provides for that and moves on. Now, having said that, I believe there are some life lessons that we can learn from this. Number one, I put this one down. I want us to notice the preacher's widow. Notice the preacher's widow. Look at verse 1. Now I'm trying not to be too repetitious from brut what Brother Baker brought out, but uh probably will overlap a little bit. Look at verse one. Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets. So her husband was a son of the prophet. He was what we may call today a preacher boy. He was studying for the ministry. She cried unto Elijah, saying, Thy servant, my husband, is dead. So the first thing we notice about this preacher's widow is her husband is dead. In fact, she would not be a widow if her husband were not dead. But nevertheless, he's dead. We know nothing about the cause of his death. I got studying what various commentators had to say about this. A number of them suggested that her husband perhaps was the Obadiah of chapter 18 of 1 Kings. And if you remember, Obadiah was a man of God serving in the household of what king? Who remembers? Ungodly, wicked king. Ahab. Obadiah was a man of God, yet he served in the what's the thing, administration of Ahab. Some suggest that that's who this son of the prophet was that this woman was married to. I see no reason to think that that's who that is. In fact, I don't believe that's who that is. Whoever her husband was, he was a preacher in training. He was preparing to serve God. Whoever he was and however he died, we do know this that apparently Elisha knew him. Look what she says, thy servant, my husband, dead, and thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. Apparently Elisha had had him in a class at some point, or had tutored him in one way or another. And apparently, this was a godly young man. He feared the Lord. Nevertheless, he died. Sometimes the good do die young Her husband was dead. One thing that struck me as I studied this says, Thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. Who is saying Who is giving testimony that this man feared the Lord? Who is this? It's his wife. I wondered, fellas, how many of our wives. Would give honest testimony to somebody that their husbands fear the Lord. I wonder how many of our wives would say when describing their husband to another, oh yes. My husband fears the Lord. Would that be their assessment of you and I as husbands? Would that be the impression our wives had in the way we conduct ourselves in the home? By the way we conduct ourselves when the church folk aren't around? My husband fears the Lord. So this widow woman, her husband's dead. Second thing I notice about this preacher's widow is that she was deeply in debt. Again, notice if you would. Verse number one, the last part, it says, Thy husband, thou knowest thy servant to fear the Lord, and the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. I put down she was deeply in debt. The fact of the matter is, we do not know how far in debt she was, but the fact that a creditor was coming. And was going to take her two sons to be bondmen, indicates to me this is not some small debt They're not going to come and take her kids from her over just a couple bucks. She was deeply in debt. She owed more than she could possibly pay back. Now generally in the Old Testament economy, when a father died, the sons would take on the responsibility of the finances and providing for the house and uh paying the debts and whatnot. But if you study this phrase here where it says, uh the creditors come to take him my two sons, that phrase, that word sons there means literally My young boys. So apparently, their children, her two boys, were too young to take responsibility For the finances of the house, they were perhaps small children. And that fits into our understanding of the whole situation Her husband was a preacher boy. He was a preacher in trading, no doubt a young man. They were a young married couple, had two small boys, but they're in incredible debt, she finds herself. And The economy then also allowed. In fact, the law of Moses, as given by God, allowed for a creditor To take family members to come and serve as uh what would you call it? An indentured servant? Is that correct? uh and serve as a indentured servant for them till they had worked up enough time and put enough work in that the debt would be considered paid Then they would be released to go back to their family. So what the creditors are asking for here is perfectly legal There's nothing wrong on the creditors, Anne. May seem somewhat cruel, but again, that tells me she probably was in great, great debt that they would even be willing to do that. They were unwilling to forgive her debt, and they were ready to take her boys We do not know how deeply in debt she was. I think we can safely say it was severe. We do not know the reason she was in such a debt. We can speculate. Did her husband, as perhaps a young man, a young father, a young husband, did he mismanage their finances? The little bit of income that a young preacher boy would make, did he was he reckless with it? Was he not careful? Was he pretty free with the pocketbook and spend it foolishly? Perhaps his wife was reckless with the finances. Maybe he was diligent and worked hard and she was careless on her end. And mismanaged it and run them into debt. Perhaps her husband died. Perhaps there were medical bills Perhaps they had been to the doctors and run the bills up, hoping to spare his life, and finally they were financially in over their heads, but she didn't care, they didn't care, they needed to get him well And finally the worst happened, he dies, and now they have these medical bills hanging over him. The truth of the matter is we don't know what caused them to go into such debt It's very possible she didn't even know that they were in debt until he died and started looking at the paperwork and found out Whatever the case, a person's financial standing, and this is an important lesson I want us to get. I hope I have your attention now. A person's financial standing is no indication of their character or lack of character. A person's financial standing is no indication of their integrity or their lack of integrity. I've known people who were very poor. Who were men or women of great character, great integrity And it was not because of lack of character, it was not because of lack of discipline or integrity that made them poor. It was no other reason than simply it was God's will for them to live at that financial level So, because someone's poor does not necessarily mean they lack character or discipline or integrity. But on the other hand Just because someone is poor does not necessarily mean they're spiritual. The fact of the matter is, it may be because they lack character It may be because they lack discipline and integrity that they have gotten themselves, they've so uh been so foolish with their finances that they've gotten themselves in such poverty. My point is this: just because someone has a specific financial standing says absolutely nothing about their character or their integrity. It could be one or the other. Do you follow me? Same thing with wealth. Just because a person is wealthy does not necessarily mean that they are a person of integrity or character or discipline. They may have gotten their wealth by ill-gotten means. They may have gotten their wealth by swindling people. It may be the very fact that they had no character that they were able to get their wealth because they had no morals, they had no self, uh they had no convictions that would keep them from doing things that were shady or just flat out not right and by doing that they've accumulated wealth. But on the other hand, just because a person's wealthy doesn't mean they're not spiritual Their wealth may be the result of discipline and character and care and uh integrity, and they worked hard and they invested wisely. Maybe they honored the Lord, and God's will was for them to live at that financial level. The point I'm trying to make is this. All we know about this woman is that she was very poor. And she was in debt over her head. And we do not know why. It says absolutely nothing about her character. It says absolutely nothing about her discipline. God does not tell us. Whatever her case, we're not told the reason for her death. So here's the point We can safely assume that the cause of her debt is not a factor in its cure. Did you get that? Whether she went into debt because of foolish financial decisions, whether she went into debt because of sincere efforts to uh save her husband's life Whether it was simply circumstances out of their control that they got into debt, whatever the cause was, it is not a factor in God curing and meeting the need of her debt I don't know about you, but that encourages my heart. Amen? Maybe I'm talking to somebody here that you find yourself in debt And you look back and you look at the trail that's led you to where you are, and you say, Man, I made some stupid decisions. Maybe it's circumstances completely out of your control. But the lesson I learned from this widow is, regardless of whatever got her into debt, that was absolutely not a factor in God getting her out. And I believe she was glad for that. So we look at this preacher's widow. Husband's in debt. Her husband's dead. She's in debt over her head. We don't know why. Second thing I notice in verses 2 through 4 is I notice the prophet's words. Look at verse 2. And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me. And what hast thou in thy house? She says, I am handmaid, hath not anything in the house. Then she remembers, oh, save a pot of oil. Then he said, Go bar thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, bar not a few. When thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee. Upon thy son thou shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. An observation I made about prophets in the Old Testament. I don't know about you. I like the Old Testament stories. Anyone with me out there, I like these Old Testament stories. They're just, some of them are comical. They're just amazing. One thing, as you study Old Testament prophets, one thing that's kind of an observation I've made is that prophets were abnormal. I don't mean the way they looked and acted. John the Baptist, I think we all agree, would be abnormal. Right? What would you do if I came in here eating locusts and wearing goats uh camel skin? You know, uh so they're abnormal some ways, literally. Well what I mean that prophets were abnormal is this they did not have a standing office. Like the priest did. The Old Testament, under Moses, the law of God given through Moses, there was an office of the priesthood It was a standing office. There was a succession, one priest after another. It was an office in the nation of Israel. There was provision made for the priests. God had a set up a certain way where the bring the sacrifices in, a certain percentage of the sacrifice was to go to the priest, and a certain percentage Part of the uh the lamb or the goat or whatever it was was the goat of the priest and that was his sustenance, that's how he was to live off of a certain percentage of the sacrifices coming in And um I kind of like the idea of church giving the preachers T-bone stakes and stuff like that. And uh that was pretty good setup, no, I'm joking. Uh but uh there was an office for the priesthood and there was a uh a system in place to provide for the priest, but not the prophet. There was no office Established for the prophet, there was no system, there was no system in place to provide for the prophet. And so you find Elijah. Out by a little crick. And you got ravens coming, bringing him bread and meat. What kind of food is meat on a bread? That's a hamburger. It's a sandwich, hamburgers. I think in the Hebrew it says something about cheese and pickles on it. But anyway, you don't have some system in place for the children of Israel to bring their things and the profit to be provided for. No, he lives by faith. And so you have Elijah by the Brook Cherith and the Raven's coming, and you have him going to a widow woman and She's uh cooking the last little bread for her son. They're gonna die, give me first, and then you have Elisha showing up and this woman is selling oil and he goes to the Shunammite woman and they have a little place for him to live. A prophet was unusual. In the sense that they only showed up in the Old Testament when there were times of apostasy or great spiritual need, that God would raise up a prophet. In the days of the judges, there was no king in Israel. Every man did that which was what? Right in his own design. And God would raise up a prophet. Samuel, Elijah, and the kings showed up and the mess they got him into. And so prophets were unusual, and a prophet Was in a sense a spokesman for God. The prophet's responsibility was to confront the people of God With the words of God. Thus saith the Lord. And they would deliver the message for God. The priest, on the other hand, would stand before God on behalf of the people, and they would bring the sacrifices. And they would stand before God on behalf of the people, but God would raise up the prophets, and they would stand before the people on behalf of the God. They were God's, in a sense, God's spokesmen They spoke to the people on behalf of God. Now, she goes to the prophet Elisha. And Elisha says to her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me. And before she can answer, she already knows. He says, Tell me what thou hast in thy house. Now notice his instructions to her. If she was going to get provision to pay off her debt. She was to do three things. Number one, she was to do exactly what the Lord told her to do Now again, it's Elisha telling her what to do, but Elisha is God's spokesman. So what Elisha is telling her to do is actually the Lord telling her to do. So if she wants to Pay her debt, as she's told at the end of this passage, she needs to do exactly what Elisha tells her to do. Hey, if we want God's help, we must obey God's word. It's very simple. It's not a complicated precept in Scripture. God says, if you want me to help you, then you do what I say. Now here's our problem. We want to do what we want and then God help us out. Am I right or wrong? We want to do our thing We want to decide whether we're going to obey God or not. We want to decide whether we're going to do it God's way or not. Then When we get in a need, then when we're in over our head, suddenly we come saying, God, you need to get me out of this. It doesn't work that way God says, you want my help, you do what I say. Hey, that's the way salvation is. Amen? We don't get saved our way, we get saved God's way. Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I believe I would. How do you know? What makes you sure? Well I do this, I've been there, I've done that, I've been baptized, I'm this, I'm that, I'm here, I'm that, I'm there Hey, wait a minute. It isn't how you and I think it is. It's the way God says it is. If anybody's going to get saved, they're going to get saved the way God says they get saved. Right or wrong? And if we're going to have God's blessings, and if we're going to have God's help, and if we're going to see God move on our behalf, and we want to see God use Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. To reach strange foreign countries and to impact our community, we've got to decide right up front that we are going to do what God says. We're going to obey him. If I want God's blessing on my home. If I want God's blessing on my business. If I want God's blessing in my marriage, in raising my children, I must determine that I will do what God tells me to do. It's a very simple concept. It's use the word obey describes it Obey. Obedience is better than sacrifice. So if God's going to help her get out of this mess If she's ever going to be able to pay her debt, she's got to first of all say, all right, I'm going to do whatever God tells me to do. Second thing she needs to do is she needs to use what she had. What did this widow have? Talk to me now. What did she have? A lid. Look what it says there. She says, um Not anything in a house save a pot of oil. And that word pot means just a little, like a teapot type thing. It excuse the language, it ain't a lot In fact, she says, first of all, she is that thy handmaiden hath nothing. She says, thy handmaiden hath not anything in the house. Oh oh wait, oh yeah, I do. A little pot of oil. If she wants God to get her out of her debt, She must first do exactly what the Lord tells her to do. And number two, she must use the resources she had. Whatever she had, it was enough for God to use. It may just be a little pot of oil. But if she will bring what she has and do with it, what God tells her to do with it, that is enough for God to meet her needs. You say, Preacher, I don't have much. No, but if you and I will do with what we have, what God tells us to do with what we have, God can take care of our needs. I tell you, this reminds of the little boy. Remember, Jesus by the sea? The people are hungry He says uh he tells the disciples, uh he says, Get them to eat. And the disciples said, We don't have anything, just a little boy here with uh five loaves and seven fishes. What is that among so many Take, he gave what he had, and that was enough for God to meet the need You say, preacher, I don't have much I could do for God. I don't know what kind of witness I could be. How could I ever win a soul to Christ? Hey, do you have a mouth? Do you have a tongue? Some of you do, I've heard it, believe me Take what you have. It may not be much. You may be timid. You may be insecure. You may be uh awfully unsure of yourself But if you will take that little pot of oil that you have and say, God, here it is, tell me what to do with it. And if you'll do what God says, God can meet the need. Number one, she has to do what God tells her to do. Number two, she must use what she had. It is a proven Bible principle. We must give before we get. Give and it shall be what? I think it's interesting in Luke, uh, what is it, 636? Uh, I think it's interesting. Jesus didn't say give and it might be given unto you. Did he? He doesn't say give and it could be given unto you. He says give and it what? Shall be. Hey, listen, I'm not going to doubt where Jesus said it shall happen. Are you? Are you going to come and say, well, I don't know. No, no, no. Jesus said, give and it shall be. She had what she had, she used what she had, and God was able to meet the need. Now let me give you the third thing. The prophet's words to her, three things she had to do if his need was going to be met. Number one, do exactly what the Lord told her to do. her do. Number two, use what she had. And number three, I like this one, by faith, anticipate what God would do. Now do you think when she finished her statement at the end of verse 2 that she had any clue what God was going to do? Anybody here? I guarantee you she didn't. What do you have in your house? I don't have anything. Oh, a little pot of oil. She's thinking, what what is that? Look what he says. Then go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels. Borrow not a few. So she sends the boys out. Go to all the neighbors. Find everyone, just ask them for their empty vessels, empty pots, tuberware. Um You know, anything. Bring it in. Whatever they got. Bring it in. He says, not a few. Go get a bunch, all right. So she's out running around. She could do that. I believe, to this woman's credit, now her husband was a preacher, so I trust she learned to live by faith. I believe when the prophet said that she began anticipating. Do you agree with me? Empty pots, little oils, she's bringing it. God's doing something here. God is going to do something If I do what he says, bring what I have, I can anticipate God is going to do something. Here's our problem. There's a huge Indian tribe in churches in America. They're called Chief Black Clouds. It's the Black Cloud tribe. somebody that's that's a inside joke. But the black crow cloud tribe says this. Probably won't work Amen. Anybody know anybody ever meet any of them? Anybody? They're full blooded. And um But she's this I I see her thinking. Her boys are bringing them in and she's stacking them up. There's a little pot of oil. There's the Elisha standing there. And uh these boys are bringing all this stuff in, and uh her mind is working, working, working. Alright? I think I see what's happening here. God's gonna do something. God's gonna do something You know it's a great way to live anticipating that God's going to do something. What a wonderful way to live life. God is going to do something. You know why so often we don't anticipate anything from God? Because we don't do what God tells us to. We want to run things our way. We want to do it our way. Of course, thank God we don't see anything great from God because we didn't do what he said. If we do what God says, use what we have, we can anticipate God from something. And I don't know about you, but I believe God wants his people to anticipate him from something doing something. How many people how many of you like for your kids to anticipate you doing something for them? I like that. Yeah daddy's going to do something. Boy well I wonder what he's going to do Number one, do exactly what the Lord told her to do. Number two, use what she had. Number three By faith, anticipate what God would do. And we have that in verse 3 and 4. He said, go borrow, verse 4, and when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons. I'll be honest with you I worked that over and worked that over. I cannot figure out for the life of me why he told her to shut the door on her and her sons. So if you figure it out, tell me sometime. And thou shalt set aside that which is pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. Alright, she's anticipating. Number five, notice, number three, notice the widow's wisdom. We have the preacher's widow with the prophet's words, the widow's wisdom. Verse 5. So she went from him and shut the door upon her and upon her sons. Who brought in the vessels to her, and she poured out. You know what her wisdom was? She agreed with Elisha that this was what she should do. She agreed with Elisha when he told her to do, and she agreed with what he told her to do, and she did exactly what he said. That, hey, when we agree with God and we do what God tells us to do, that is wisdom What does Proverbs tell us? The fear of the Lord is the what? Beginning of wisdom. Lord, you told me to do this. I agree with you. You know what's best. I will do exactly what you tell me to do. That is wisdom. That is wisdom. Now let me make some application here. Two weeks ago we had our faith promise. You know we weren't going to drop this that easy. Two weeks ago we had our faith promise. I trust, I believe, that the members of our church sincerely sought God. What God would have us to do. I know God laid on Captain I's heart what he would have us to do. We agreed with God Yes, God, that is what we we hear it, we understand it, we agree with you, we will do what you say. I trust that throughout the church, God's people sought the Lord sincerely, humbly Ask God, what is it you would have me to do? We ask you to do nothing more than what God tells you to do. When we agree with God, And then we do what he instructs us to do. That, my friend, is wisdom. Wisdom this coming October twenty fifth eighty five 2025, 2005, 24 years ago, this coming October 25th, I knelt at an altar at the Highland Park Baptist Church on a Sunday night. And I, God spoke to my heart, and I believe God was telling me, He wanted me to go into the ministry. It was 25 years old, my senior year of college. And I at that point, I God instructed me, I believe, that He wanted me to go into ministry. And I knelt and I agreed with God. That, God, that is your will for my life. To serve you in the ministry. I agree with God. I stepped up and I stepped out and tried to obey Him God speaks to our heart about faith promise, what our involvement in world missions. God speaks to us and instructs us concerning our ministry. We agree with God. We step out and do what he says. This matter of soul winning God has told us clearly in his word that it is his will for each of us to share the gospel with the unsaved. Amen? It's God's instruction. We agree with God. Yes, God, I agree with you. That is your will for my life as a Christian to share the gospel with the unsaved. To do all I can to bring unbelievers to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I agree with you, God. I will obey you and step out and do that. That is wisdom. He that winneth souls is what? Wise. So we have this widow's wisdom. God instructed her to get these vessels and pour the oil out. She agreed with God and she did what he said. Now, last of all, I end with number four. Notice the Lord's wonder. Verse 6 and 7. And it came to pass that when the vessels were full, she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed. What does it mean the oil stayed? Stop. It ended. Shh. No more came out. Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go and sell the oil, and what? Pay thy debt. And live thou and the children of the rest. Every vessel she had was filled Little small jars, big large vases. The Lord had more oil to give than she had vessels to receive How many people believe if she'd have had more vessels, more oil would have been poured out? Obviously. There was more, uh I put it this way. The possibilities were greater than her preparation. She ran out of vessels before she ran out of oil. And I'm here to tell you, we will run out of prayers before God runs out of answers. We will run out of need. Before God runs out of provision, we can never ever out need what God is able to give. The wonder of our God in his ability to give and give and give and give beyond our ability to receive. What a God we have. Small jars, large vessels. She ran out of vessels before she ran out of oil. Now here's the message. This is what God spoke to my heart. This is the message I got from this. Pay thy debt. God's instruction to her was this. Now get this. Use it for what I gave it to you for. What would you think of this woman? If God did all this, give her all that oil, she goes out and starts selling it in little little Things. Little bit, man, she's making money. What would you think of that woman if she took that money and rather than paying her debt, she went out and bought a new dress? Huh? God says, Pay your debt But I've always wanted this dress. It's on sale at Jason at Macy's. It's regularly $1,200. It's only $900. Look at all the money coming in. We never made money like this before. Look what we can do with it. Lord says, wait a minute, I didn't give it to you for that. I didn't bless you so you can have more stuff and go farther in debt. I blessed you so you can pay your debt. And what we have in American churches today is God is blessing us and blessing us and blessing us. We've got entire countries that don't have one missionary in them. We're not paying our debt We have blocks of people numbered in the billions who have no churches, six thousand languages That have no scripture in their languages, and we're spending God's blessings on stealth or not paying our debts God said to this woman, You pay your debt. I blessed you. I miraculously provided for you so you can pay your debt. We all are in debt. Romans chapter 1, Paul said, I am a debtor, both to the Jews and the Gentiles. He says, I've received the gospel of grace. I've been saved from sin in hell by the Lord Jesus Christ. And there are Gentiles, there are people around the world who've never heard that. I am in debt to them. God gives us opportunity and God gives us means and God blesses us so much and instead of using that to pay our debt, we're living for ourselves. We're hoarding it up. We're spending it on things that God did not give it to us for. Am I right or wrong? Am I right? Pay thy debt. Pay thy debt. God's blessed you and I with abilities. God's given us time. We have time where we can invest that time as we want, afternoons, evenings. We can spend that time how we want. God gives us that time. We owe a debt to the Lord. Now I'm not saying every penny and every minute has to be out soul-winning and all that. But I am saying I don't believe we're paying our debts. Huh? I believe a lot of this God has due given us, we're using on ourselves. When there's whole countries, when there are whole countries with not one witness that we know of, something's wrong. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help. Help me. Help all of us, Lord. To evaluate what you've given us and evaluate the purposes for what you've given them to us for. Lord, we're in debt to this world, the gospel. We're in debt to you. For all you've done for us. I feel like this widow, Lord, in over my head. How could I ever live back for you? All you've done for me. And God, you bless us. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many Christians tonight would say, Preacher, I want to agree with God. The time, the abilities, the various resources he's blessed me with. You say, preacher, I want to agree with God on what the purpose of those things are, that time and ability, the talents. Wherever it may be, say, preacher, I need to pay my debt to the Lord.