Luke chapter 2, if you would notice with me, and again keep your place here because we're going to be going back and forth a number of different places, but notice with me verse number 14. Luke chapter 2, verse 14. Of course, this is the Christmas story. as given to us in the book of Luke, very familiar. We'll be reading this on Christmas Eve. We'll read through this whole passage. But verse number 14, I want you to notice very carefully. The angels are addressing the shepherds on the hillside there the night that Christ was born. They say this: Glory to God in the highest. And on earth what? Peace. And on earth, peace and good will toward men Now keep your place there. We're going to come back to that. If you would, come with me over to Philippians chapter number four. Philippians four. I'm going to begin reading in verse 4 to get the context here. He says, Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything. By prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And look at the result. Verse 7 is the result of doing what verse 6 tells us to do. Let your requests be made known unto God, and the what? Peace of God which passeth all understanding. shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ through Christ Jesus. I want to speak this morning. I saw an article this week and it's actually after I had the message for this morning, but I saw an article uh this week in that uh somebody Gallup or one of these big polling um groups did a poll about the mental health of Americans at this time in our history, going through all we're going through, the mental health of Americans. And they noted that every every demographic, every category, every how they grouped people Every single group, the mental health, they felt like their mental health had deteriorated in the last 10 months from what it was a year ago, except for one group. And that one group, that one demographic, that said, no, our mental health is just as good, maybe better than it was ten months ago, that one group was faithful church attenders. People that professed faith in Christ, people that actively sought to worship the Lord. Now this wasn't a Christian organization. And they came out and they said, this is interesting. Of all the groups, all the different categories of Americans, the one group that felt their mental health was as good, if not better, than it was ten months ago are those that claim to know the Lord and worship the Lord. I want to speak this morning on having peace of mind. Peace of mind. Let's pray. Father in heaven I ask, Lord, that you would bless our time in your word. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. It would not be me speaking up here. But Lord, I pray that it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me And to our hearts and minds. And Lord, we do ask that you would help us to get into the position, make the decisions that need to be made that this peace of mind, this peace of God that passes all understanding, Lord, that we could experience that. That that would be true in our lives, our homes, our church. And Lord, I ask again, you'd fill me with your spirit. I yield my will, present my body, and pray you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Christmas time, at least for believers. is the celebration of the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Have you been around a Bible preaching church at all for any length of time? You've probably heard that reference, the incarnation. The word incarnation comes from a Latin word. It means this: the act of being made flesh. Or taking on a physical form, the act of being made flesh, or uh taking on flesh. Um how many people are here anybody here like chili? Anybody here like chili My wife makes some killer chili. She loves chili. I like it, uh I I like it somewhat, but uh um uh chili. Anybody here ever have chili with beans? Anybody like chili with beans? Chili with beans is okay. I would rather have chili concorny. Chili concorny. What is chili concorny? It's chili with meat. It's chili with flesh. And that's where the word incarnation comes from the same word. Concorny incarnation. When we at Christmas time, as believers particularly We are celebrating the fact that our God, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, took on flesh. became flesh. It was incarnated. Uh incarnated you could say. God becoming flesh. Take your Bible. Now keep your place here at Philippians, because we're going to get back here I'm sure of that. But come with me, if you would, to the Gospel of John. The first chapter of the Gospel of John. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And chapter number one And while you're finding that, when we say Jesus took on flesh, Jesus was born of that manger, Jesus, uh the incarnation of Jesus Christ, taking on flesh. We want to be very, very clear, we're not suggesting that that was the beginning of Jesus' existence. Alright, when he was born in that manger, that wasn't the start of Jesus' existence. Jesus is the eternal Son of God. And by that we mean this. He always did exist. He exists now, and he always will exist. And so if you would, notice chapter 1 of John chapter 1. The Bible says this. In the beginning was the word. Now if you study the context here, that word, you see it's capitalized. It's referring to Jesus Christ. So when was Jesus, according to that first phrase right there, when was he? He was in the beginning. In other words, he always was. In the beginning was the word And the word was with God, and the word was God. And so when Jesus was born in that manger, when the incarnation of Jesus Christ took place. That was not the start of Jesus Christ. He always has been, he always will be the Son of God. Now come down to verse number 14 of John chapter 1. It says, and the word, this word that was in the beginning, this word that always did exist, and the word was, what's the next two words? made flesh, the incarnation of Jesus Christ. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now listen, this isn't my message this morning, but I need to throw this out there The Jehovah's Witnesses are wrong when they say that Jesus is not God. These verses are very, very clear. Jesus and God and the Holy Spirit, the great three and one, make up the Trinity. Jesus is God. He shares the glory with God. Can you imagine it being said of any person, individual person, a man, that he shares the glory of God? That would be blasphemy. But yet the Bible tells us Jesus is God, God in the flesh. So the incarnation of Jesus Christ, at Christmas, we celebrate God, our God, the eternal God. Came down and took on the form of a man, took on flesh and blood, and became one of us. Now what was the purpose of that The Bible's very clear. The purpose of the Word becoming flesh, of Jesus Christ becoming flesh, the Bible is very, very clear. Now for sake of time, I was going to turn to all these, but For sake of time, I'll just quote it to you. Matthew chapter 1 and verse 21. Some of you are familiar with it. In fact, you already saw this verse this morning, most likely. When you pulled in here on our sign out front, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why? Why would we call him Jesus? For he shall what Save his people from their sins. Purpose of Jesus becoming flesh. The purpose of Jesus taking on flesh and blood, being a man, becoming one of us, the purpose of our God Becoming one of us was so that we could be saved from our sins. In Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, the Bible says this: For the Son of Man is come to help me, what Seek and to save that which was lost. The Bible is very, very clear. Jesus Christ took on flesh, the eternal God. Took on flesh and blood, became a man, so that you and I could have our sins forgiven, so that we could be saved from the sins and from God's judgment on our sins, so that we would have the opportunity, the possibility of having eternal life, and that when this old body dies, we continue on and live for eternity in the presence of God. That's the purpose of the incarnation. For uh thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from his sin. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Sinners could be saved from God so that we could be saved from the judgment of God, so we could receive a new life, eternal life Because of what Jesus Christ did for us. What a savior. Amen? What a savior. What a God. That would come, become man, and then die the death of a man so you and I can live. I'm telling you, Christmas, I preached a message a number of years ago. I I called it this Christmas is for sinners And that's the exact truth. Jesus Christ, all this is about sinners being saved, about drunkards getting sober, about liars becoming honest, about thieves becoming true and trustworthy. What an amazing God we have. What an amazing event when God became flesh. But the Bible tells us that that's not the only reason Jesus came To save us from sin. The Bible tells us also, very clear, in fact, come back to Luke here, if you would, chapter 2. These angels appearing to these shepherds, they declare very plainly that this child born in Bethlehem The Savior, that's Christ the Lord, was born in order to bring glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. goodwill to men. Jesus Christ came to bring peace on earth. He came to bring peace on earth. I got looking at this statement that the angels made Glory to God in the highest. Now, I'll explain here a little bit what I mean by this, but I think when they said that glory to God in the highest, they were talking about Jesus came so that I can have peace with my God I can have peace with God. We'll talk about that. Glory to God in the highest. Man in proper relationship with his God. Man in fellowship with his God, man in compute communion with his God. Glory to God in the highest. And on pe and and on um what did they say? And on earth peace I think that's talking about peace with one another. God's people get along. You know, Jesus Christ, listen to this: Jesus Christ makes it possible for anybody to get along with others. Amen? He makes that possible. Question, is there peace on earth? No, there's a lot of war fussing and fighting going on. We see a lot of fussing right in our own country. And uh no there's not but Jesus Christ coming, taking on flesh, becoming man, dying for our sins, being buried and rose again, he made it possible that anybody can get along with folks. You say, Well, I just I could never get along with her. Uh oh yeah, through Jesus Christ you could. Amen. Uh uh brother Charles Holmeshire, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, I worked under him for years. Dear friends. And he used to always say, there's no reason two spirit-filled Christians can't get along. Same Holy Spirit in this person, Holy Spirit and that person, they can get along. Jesus makes it possible for anybody to get along. I tell you, before I got saved, I knew some Christians. I thought they were nuts, idiots. I didn't want nothing to do with them. God saved me, put the same Holy Spirit in me that was in them. Guess what? We become friends. We had fellowship. Peace on earth. Glory to God in the highest. That's peace with God. And peace on earth. That's peace peace with my fellow man. And then he says this, and good will toward all men. And that's peace with others. So I think there's three types of peace here that he's talking about. Number one, peace with God And then peace with others, and then here's the one I want to talk about this morning, peace with myself. Peace of mind. Peace of mind. Peace of mind. I got three thoughts here this morning. Number one, I want us to consider the foundation. Of having the peace of mind. Peace of mind. The foundation. John 14. Take your Bibles. I told you we're going to look at a lot of verses. Go to John chapter 14 and verse number 1. How many folks this morning are glad you're alive? Say amen. Well, that's about half the crowd. Amen. And how many folks are glad we don't have ten inches of snow yet How many people wish we had ten inches of snow now? You raise your hand. Curse you all I tell you. John chapter 14, look with me, if you would, at verse number one. The foundation for having peace of mind. Now, don't answer that. Don't respond to this like I just did. Don't respond to it now. But I wonder how many of us wish we had some peace of mind. I wonder how many people I'm talking to would say, Preacher, I would love to have some peace of mind. Just peace of mind. I tell you, I've met folks that would give their right arm Just to be able to have peace of mind. What's the foundation? How is that possible? What has to be in place if I'm going to have peace of mind? Uh John chapter 14, verse 1, look at this. Let not your heart be troubled. A troubled heart is not a heart that has peace of mind. That's not a life with peace of mind. He says, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also what? In me. In me. He says, don't let your heart be troubled like that. You believe in God, good, but believe in me. Believe in me. Come over if you would to uh verse number 27 of John 14, same chapter. Look at verse 27. Look, listen to what the Lord Jesus Christ said. God incarnate God becoming man, taking on flesh. And this is what comes off the lips of this Savior, this God that became man, Jesus. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Would you agree with me? It sounds like Jesus is telling, listen, you can have peace of mind. You don't have to be troubled. You don't have to be afraid. He says, my peace. That peace of mind, now think about this with me. I got thinking of this this week. This stirred my heart. The peace of mind that God has. Wow. He says, my peace I give unto you. That settled, confident, undisturbed peace of mind that God has. I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Oh, the the world can come up with a little oh they can get a temporary peace of mind. If you get drunk enough, boy, you're not worried about nothing, huh? You put enough drugs in, doing up seek pleasure, all this. But God says the peace that I give to you, it's not like the world gives you There's a peace of mind available from God. So we're considering the foundation. What has to be in place? What has to be settled if I'm going to have this peace of mind that we really all want? Come over to chapter 16 of John and notice with me verse 33. John chapter 16 and verse 33. John 16, verse 33. Look at this. I have these verses underscored in my Bible. These things have I spoken unto you. Again, this is Jesus, God incarnate. God in the flesh speaking, these things have I spoken unto you that in me, in Jesus, you might have what? Peace. He says, in me you have peace. Look what he says. In the world, you shall have what? Tribulation, you're not gonna have any peace of mind out in that world. Brother, anybody here ever read the news and get all worked up Anybody here ever boy you have a nice day, you know things are going good, and you're just kinda happy, and then you see a news report and the re the day's shot. Anybody know what I'm talking about It's just you want to go kill something, you know. You're just worked up. Uh the Lord Jesus saying, listen, I can give you peace of mind. This world can't give it to you This world, oh, you can temporarily go vacation and relax, but you come back to reality. Jesus says, I've got a peace of mind that God Himself experiences. that I make available to you. A supernatural peace of mind. In the world you shall have tribulation. I love this last statement. Look at it. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Listen, some of y'all need to quit stressing about what's happening out in the world and get your eyes back on Jesus. He's overcome the world. He say, oh preacher, Washington, oh preacher, let sings, oh preacher, uh hold on a second Jesus says, I've overcome this world. I got peace this world can't do. Here's our problem. We're looking to the world to do something for us that only God can do for us. We're looking to other people to bring peace of mind to us. We're looking for things and material things and possessions and finances and pleasures and circumstances to bring peace of mind. And Jesus said, you're never going to get it from any of that. It comes only from me. The foundation of our peace of mind is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Come over uh well John uh chapter twenty. Don't bother turning there I'll give you the references. John twenty, verse nineteen, verse twenty one, and verse twenty six. Three times the Lord says, peace unto you. Peace unto you. This is after his resurrection Peace unto you. Peace of mind begins first and foremost in a proper relationship with Jesus Christ. That's where peace of mind begins. I put it this way, if you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't have peace of mind. Do you ever see those little stickers? No peace, NO Peace, or or no, let me think back. Um No Jesus Dash No Peace Anybody ever see that? N-O-Jesus, no peace. And then underneath it it has this, no Jesus, K-N-O-W- K-N-O-W piece. Anybody did I just make sense in that at all? Okay, good. I got confused. I didn't know what I was talking about there for a moment. What I'm trying to say is this without Jesus Christ, there'll never be true lasting peace of mind. But in Jesus Christ, God Almighty Be an incarnate, coming down, and becoming a man and taking on flesh. And he says, in me, you have a relationship with me, and I can give you peace that this world can never give. The foundation of peace is the Lord Jesus Christ. Turn with me if you would. Again, Romans chapter number five. Romans chapter 5. These are all verses. Be good to highlight some way in your Bible and unscore, become very, very familiar with them. Romans chapter number 5, verse number 1. The foundation of having genuine, lasting, heaven-sent peace of mind It's through a relationship with Jesus Christ. John or Romans chapter 5, verse number 1. Look what it says. Are you there? Everybody there? Hey, you guys at home sitting on the couch. Get your Bible out. Look it up. Here it is. Romans chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through what? Our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, there's an important word in that statement, in that verse. Anybody want to guess what word I'm thinking about? Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Anybody want to guess what word I'm thinking about With very good. Man, sharp crowd this morning. You guys are on the bowl. Peace with God. You know what peace with God is having a proper relationship with God, having peace with God. You have peace of God, that's peace of mind But before I can ever have the peace of God, I need to have peace with God. Follow what I'm saying? Peace with God. The most important issue in life. The most important issue in life is having peace with God. You say, preacher, how do I make peace with God? Anyone here ever get out of sorts with someone Anybody nobody has ever been oh really? Is that right? Anybody here so none of y'all are married, apparently. Uh yeah, you get out of sorts with uh your spouse or someone at work or something, and uh and uh and you think, oh man Uh we're at odds, we're at enmity one with another, and uh and uh you say, I gotta go make peace with them And so I mentioned Wednesday, and this is embarrassing, but I keep saying it. I went to the MBA this week And um I may I wasn't at peace with the MBA when I left. Uh I got got there and any uh Y'all looking at me like you're all pious and everything. I went to the MBA, there were some issues, and I kind of lost my cool and I snapped at the girl and I walked out of there and I felt so bad And I thought, you know, that wasn't right. I'm a preacher, I'm a Christian. That wasn't a good testimony. And so Thursday I went to Foodland and I got a big stack of sugar cookies and uh MM cookies And I got about uh whole several dozen of 'em. I guess got boxes of 'em. And um and then I gave a couple to the ladies there at the MBA. No, I gave 'em all to them. And uh I went by and I said, Listen, I just want to make things right. I just want to be a peace with you. And I got to witness to him a little bit. And uh, but to be at peace, uh I don't like to be out of sorts with another person. Follow what I'm trying to get at here. I want to be at peace with my brothers and sisters in Christ. I really do. But I have to be at peace with God. You follow what I'm saying? It's one thing to be out of sorts with uh uh another person, my fellow man, and I don't want that to be. I don't want to be out of sorts with my fellow man, but I'm telling you, more important than that is not being out of sorts with God. Not being out of sorts. Peace with God. I will never have peace of mind. Until I'm at peace with my God and my Creator. That's what I'm trying to get at. Having peace, having uh uh, therefore, um being justified by faith, we have peace with God And it's through our Lord Jesus Christ. There's only one way to make peace with God. There's only one way to make peace with God. It is not through church membership. I was down in uh Piedmont yesterday giving out gospel tracts and hanging uh uh Christmas door hangers on the doors and trying to talk to people. I'd made a visit down there, so I just stopped and went through that little town there And uh lady was out, she's walking down, went over, I said, uh, I had one of our things. I said, Can I give you one of my Christmas cards? Oh, a Christmas card, thank you And she smiled real big and uh gave it to her and and uh said a few words. She looked in the back, she goes, Oh, it's the Baptist church. She says, uh she says, I was raised in a Baptist church And I said, well that's wonderful. I said, uh I think that's a good church to be raised in. I said, but more important than that is knowing for sure our sins are forgiven on our way to heaven. Well, I was a member of that Baptist church. I said, well, being a, and this is the point, being a Baptist isn't going to necessarily give you peace with God. You can join every church in the county and still be at enmity with God. Being a member of a church doesn't bring peace with God. Hey, getting baptized doesn't bring peace with God. I think every person, when they get saved, they ought to get baptized. Amen. They ought to. First thing. They have to get saved. You ought to get baptized. God bless you. But that's not gonna what's going to bring peace with God Uh I I like when folks give offerings, big offerings. I love it. Praise the Lord. Helps us build buildings, support missionaries, helps us run buses when w We can. And uh helps us do all these things. But I tell you what, you can put all your money you got in the offering plate. It's not going to buy you peace with God. Only one way, peace with God, is through faith in Jesus Christ. You see, you and I, we're all born sinners. We've broken God's law. We are guilty before a holy God. We're at enmity with God, is the way Romans puts it. But we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God incarnate, who gave himself on that cross, suffered the judgment for my sin and your sin. The sufferer, the wrath of God, took responsibility for the sins you and I have committed, for the shortcomings we've had before our God. Took responsibility for it, took the judgment for it, was buried, rose again. He says, you'll put my your faith and trust in me. You will have peace with God. I don't know about you. It's an awful thought to think that God would be my enemy. Isn't that something? God, to be at enmity with the creator of the universe. I don't want that. I want to be at peace with God. There's only one way to be at peace with God. That's through trusting Jesus Christ. My personal Savior, finding forgiveness of sins, a new life, eternal life, eventually accepted by God into heaven So there's no peace of mind. There's no way to have peace of mind until I have peace with God. Until I make peace with God. Until I make peace with God, I'm lost in my sins. I'm under God's judgment. I'm doomed to eternal separation from God in a horrific place called hell But when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, by faith, what he did for me, my sins are forgiven, and I'm at peace with God. I'm at peace with God. I read about a retired couple back during the the Cold War. How many people are familiar with the Cold War? Some of you all have been around, so many kids born since then. The Cold War. The Cold War with Russia. Communist Russia. The USSR. And boy they had all their nuclear bombs armed and and missiles ready in their launch pads, just all they had to do was mash a button on nuclear bomb, come to New York and Baltimore and uh Teralda and uh they had it targeted all the big cities of our country and um uh nuclear bombs and then we had all our missiles out in the Midwest and we were targeting them and everybody was living under the fear of nuclear warfare. And I read about a couple that uh in the United States got they retired and they were very, very fearful of nuclear war And so they did a bunch of research and studying. They wanted to find the safest place on the planet that would probably not ever see war or have nuclear warfare be a factor. And uh they found out, they came to the conclusion the Falkland Islands down off of uh South America would be the safest place in the world, so they sold all their belongings moved to the Falkland Islands. It's about 1981. 1982, Britain invaded the Falkland Islands and it became a war zone. And they were trying so hard to flee nuclear warfare and they moved to a place that became a war zone. What I'm trying to say is this: this whole world is looking for peace of mind. And they're in a war zone, and there's only one place to find peace of mind, and that is when I have peace with God. Peace with God. Let me ask you this. Are you saved? Are you at peace with God? Have you, do you know for sure your sins are forgiven? Do you know for sure that God in His grace and mercy has given you eternal life? And if there's a doubt about that, if there's uncertainty, I talked to you guys some time ago, probably back in the summer. Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? He says, I know I'd go to hell. I know I'd go to hell. I'm telling you, you and I can know for sure Our sins are forgiven. We have a home in heaven. We have peace with God if we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. Without peace with God, I'll never have the peace of God. So the foundation for having peace of mind is knowing Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, having peace with God, my sins forgiven, my sins cleansed Accepted, justified in the eyes of God. Number two, my second thought is this: the formula for peace of mind The foundation is knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, being accepted by God, having peace with God. That's the foundation. But what's the formula Not everybody that is at peace with God has the peace of God. I know a lot of Christians. I know a lot. I'm talking. There's no doubt in my mind. I'm talking to some Christians now. You're saved. You know you're saved. It's settled. Biblical salvation is not an issue. But you don't have peace of mind. You know a peace, man, you're stress you're stressing and worried and fearful and upset and angry and frustrated. You'd say, preacher, I know I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but I I can't say I have peace of mind. You know, there's a formula God gives us. We get saved. God makes it possible for us to have peace of mind. Peace with God does not necessarily bring the peace of God, peace of mind. Then I have to do some things. Come back with me if you would to Philippians. We looked at this at the beginning of the message, Philippians chapter 4. And I'm calling Philippians chapter 4, verse 4, down through around verse 8. I'm calling it God's therapy for peace of mind. Everybody, it seems like nowadays you're not cool if you don't have a therapist. Now I'm not trying to be critical or anything, but I'm telling you, uh I've got a therapist that is greater than any therapist this world can come up with. That's God Himself. And the Word of God. And God gives us some therapy in Philippians chapter 4 on having peace of mind. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 4. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Here's the first step in this Therapy, this formula for peace of mind. Number one, rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. Now look at that verse very carefully. You'll notice it's a command, it's instruction It's not something that's the that is the byproduct of doing something. It's something I decide. Rejoice in the Lord. Satan has effectively convinced many Christians that they have to rejoice in circumstances. Oh, if I could just, oh if this dumb virus would just go away, then I could be happy, then I could Oh, if we just uh uh we if we had different type of government, then I would be happy. Oh, if only I had better income, if I had a nicer house, a fancier car, if I just had a pickup truck, then I would be happy. Satan's convinced us that the only way we can rejoice and have any happiness or peace of mind is if circumstances are favorable to us. But look at the verse very carefully. He doesn't say rejoice in your circumstances. He doesn't say rejoice in your financial status. He doesn't say rejoice in the form of government you're living under. He says, rejoice in what? Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. As long as I'm looking to circumstances or political situations or financial standing to have peace of mind, to have any kind of joy and peace in my heart and mind, I will never find it. Because those things are all fluctuating. Those things are all fluid. You know, I've been to a number of countries around the world, mission trips and whatnot. Some of y'all more than I have, guys in the military travel a lot You know, I've been some places where uh down I'm thinking down in uh in uh Dominican Republic, I was with Josh Wesson, Joy he's with the Lord now, I was with Josh Josh Wesson for a week teaching in his get a a seminary there. And um we went out to visit we went out to visit this fellow that's a member of the church. The fella is blind and he's deaf Imagine that. You say, oh, preacher, if I was blind and deaf, I'd be miserable. Oh, I'd be so unhappy. I would be so miserable. This guy comes out. We went to visit him home. Josh said, I want to go visit. I forget the fellow's name. He said, I want us to go visit this fella. I said, okay. And I saw him in church. You know how they did, I've talked about them before, but the way they did that somehow He's blind, he can't hear, he's deaf. And so the way they communicate with him is he takes his hands and he lays them on top of the interpreter, sign uh sign language interpreter And he feels how they move their hands, and then he can tell what they're saying. And I've seen it a number of times when I was down there, Josh, or I would be preaching. I was preaching for him one time. And it always said over here, and Joy had a chair set up in front of this blind, deaf, and blind fella, and uh he would lay his hands on Joy's hands, and she would sign And he'd just he'd respond. I'd say something and she's signed a little bit later, he'd respond. And uh when they're singing, he would just be feeling he'd be making noise along with them And Josh said, I want you to come with me and let's go visit this guy. I'm telling you, we went into some of the dirtiest, poorest nastiest neighborhood I think perhaps I've ever been in my life. We had to walk down these little narrow things and to be honest with you, I was a little anxious. I was holding Josh's hand and um It's a dangerous area. We got down there and finally he said, here's the house. I wasn't really holding Josh's hand up. So uh but uh we got down the house and we went up the side street little narrow stairway up to the top parts, all cement buildings there, and got up top and uh he yelled in some of the families there, this guy came out And uh they're sitting on a little table out on this little uh like a balcony type thing. They're sitting there and I I don't know sign language and they're going, I don't know Spanish And they're going on, and uh they'd be going and he'd do it. And then Josh would just start laughing, and then he'd go on, and then that guy would just laugh, and and I'm sitting there just like, whatever, you know You know, I I learned something. This old guy's living in poverty. Unbelievable poverty Blind and deaf. But he had the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Josh had led him to the Lord He's one of the happiest people I ever met. Just as happy and joyful as can be. I'm telling you, you and I can have peace of mind. If we'll just learn to quit rejoicing in this world and start rejoicing in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Just rejoice in the Lord. You say, oh, but preacher, my car is. No, rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. Peace of mind. The formula for peace of mind, number one, is rejoice in the Lord. Look at the next verse here. Then he says this Let your moderation be known unto all men. The second stage in this formula for peace of mind is to restrain myself. Let your moderation be known to all men. That word moderation means this. Don't react. Be patient. How many people, something said or done, you hear read an article, and man you reacted to that thing, got all worked up, and peace of mind is gone. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Well the Lord's saying here is restrain yourself. Don't react to every little thing you hear. Don't react to every little news article. Don't react to everything everybody somebody says I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said a a preacher, and it applies to all Christians, needs to have one deaf ear, one blind eye, and the hind hind uh uh the hide of a rhinoceros I say amen to that. You know what he was saying? Don't react to everything. I think it was Winston Churchill said, if you stop at every if you s if you stop for every dog that barks, you'll never make make it anywhere Yeah, does that make sense? I think so. In other words, don't react to everything you see. Don't react. Just let your moderation be known. Just be patient. You know what I found out? I found out if I wait on God, God works things out. I don't have to get worked up and all upset and stressed out and fret over evil. I just trust in the Lord. Wait on God. I have never regretted waiting on God. That's what he's saying. Let your moderation be known unto all men. Number one, rejoice in the Lord. Number two, restrain yourself. Don't react. Wait on God. Number three, I see here in verse 5, the last part, the Lord is at hand. Remember the Lord's presence. Peace of mind begins with the presence of God. We're not alone. We're not alone. How many people would say, how many people would say, well you would agree with me, that if uh if Jesus was right there physically with me in a situation, I wouldn't worry so much? Anybody agree with me? Yes, Jesus was right there. A man alive. Oh, Jesus is here. Oh, well, I'm not worried then. I can be in a storm and sleep. If Jesus is here, he'll calm the storm. Well, I'm here to tell you, you might not see him physically, but he is just as much with us in reality as if he was physically with us He said, Lo, I'm with you always. He said, I'll never leave you nor forsake thee. We've got the presence of God as believers in Jesus Christ. Why are we worried? Wait a minute, Jesus, I'm here. I can take care of, I can calm that storm. I can feed those hungry. Remember the presence of the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. Restrain yourself. Remember the Lord's presence. Here's another one. Look at verse six and seven. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication With thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God and the peace of God. Number four, put this down. Request with thanksgiving. Prayer is unfailing. That's where I would say amen. Prayer is unfailing. The most powerful resource you and I have is prayer. Coming to God. Pray. Thanksgiving is unfailing. I put this down: a praying mind is a peaceful mind. A thankful mind is a peaceful mind. You know, I found out when I learned to be grateful, I worry a whole lot less. I found that when I pray, I mean genuine, sincerely pray, with Thanksgiving, my worry my worry uh level goes down. Can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I worked out uh in Colorado when I first got out there. Um I knew God had called me to preach, and um I was working Bible time And um but uh the circumstances where I ended up in the back room printing ribbons. Anybody here have any Bible time ribbons? Anybody have any by anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here have any in your Bible right now? I've got a whole about 25 of them in mind. I printed ribbons. Maybe one of the ones you had. I printed, I counted one time. I am confident I printed over a million of those ribbons on an old letter press one at a time. I'd printed them just for days on end, weeks and months. And I tell you, I was sitting back there printing these ribbons. I'd praise the Lord for the ribbons, I pray, but I got a little discouraged I knew God called me to preach, and here I am for three years printing these ribbons, printing ribbons, printing ribbons. Day in, day out, printing ribbons And finally, God convicted me, and I decided one day I decided, you know, God, you're in control. I don't understand everything why I'm in this situation. I mean, it's not bad, I'm thankful for it, but God, you called me to preach. And finally, one day I just made a decision. I'm going to start thanking God for the disappointments he allows in my life. I tell you what, you start doing that, and it'll change your whole mindset. And I'd say, thank you, Lord, for the privilege of doing this. Thank you, Lord, for the delay in my ministry. Thank you, Lord, for whatever you're preparing me for. And I tell you, there's a peace of mind came to me where I was so stressed and upset. God brought peace of mind. We learn to pray and be thankful. That is a formula for peace of mind. Let me give you one more real quick. Verse 8 in pro in Philippians, finally my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever honest, whatsoever just, whatsoever pure, whatsoever things are loving What's everything's a good report? Any virtue, any praise? Think on these things. I put this down. Regulate my thoughts Think on these things. Isaiah 26, 3 says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. Dr. Robertson said, you can only have one thought at a time, make it a good one. The difference between a peaceful mind and a stressed-out mind is how we think. And just this sermon, I'm going to think on these things, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are true. Let me give you some suggestion. Why don't we start meditating on the Word of God as much as we listen to the news? Think how many people think that might settle things down? You watch, people that aren't all obsessed about everything going on in the world, they tend to be more peaceful in their life than people that are all caught up in that. You follow what I'm saying? Think on these things. Think on these things. I'm telling you, there is more good news in this book than bad news the world can ever come up with. This book, the good news in this book outweighs the bad news of this world ten to one. I'm telling you right now. Think on these things. Think on these things. Then last of all, I've got to end look real quickly. What's the fruit of having peace of mind? The foundation is faith in Jesus Christ and being at peace with my God. The formula is re is rejoicing in the Lord and restraining my thoughts and and uh be uh r prayer and uh uh request with thanksgiving and then the fruit what happens when I have peace of mind well I put this down number one peace comes that that's unlike the world's peace The world's peace is temporal. God's peace is permanent. The world's peace is circumstantial, pleasures, wealth, liquor, whatever. Oh, if I had that, then uh God's peace is transcending. Doesn't matter what happens out in the world, doesn't matter who's in the White House, doesn't matter what the how much money's in the bank. I've got peace of mind, I've got peace with God, I'm at peace. Number two, it's stabilizing. A person that has peace of mind is grounded. They're not chasing after every fad. They're not looking for something all the time. Oh, they got to have the latest of this. We've got to get caught up on that. Listen, I'm worried the thing that concerns me are these churches Bible-believing independent Baptist churches running after every fad that comes up in the religious world. And I tell you, that is not a church that's stable. That's not a church that's consistent. You get peace of mind. When I get the peace of God and I'm not dependent on this world's acceptance and what people think of me, I'm just at peace with God. I'm rejoicing in the Lord. You're not going to chase every little fat. It's going to be stable, consistent. The fruit of the peace of mind is, unlike the world's peace, it's stabilizing. It brings contentment and calmness to life, and it improves my relationships with others. It improves my relationship with others. Peace with others. How many people like to be around someone that's all stressed out? Oh, I just love being with her. She's always worried sick and all stressed out and mad about everything. Oh, it's what a blessing to be with her. Nobody says that. Oh, he's such a joy to be around. He's mad at the government, he's mad at his boss. He's He's all worried about this and he said nobody says that. But you get around somebody that has peace of mind and they're just calm The presence of God is in their heart and life. The joy of the Lord is there. Doesn't matter what's going on. You say, boy, I like to be around that person. I've told you about the dear lady down in Chattanooga, Anna Nixon Tate. He's been with the Lord, no doubt, many years. Here black lady down in the projects, wicked sin, dangerous. And we go by there and she you'd think she lived in a mansion on a paradise island in the Caribbean. He was just the most peaceful, happy lady ever can be. And I just, every time we go visiting, I want to go by Mrs. Tate's. I want to go by there. I tell you, peace of mind. It helps my relationship with others. When we forget how big and how good God is, we lose our peace of mind. I was reading, I've got a book this week. I've been sharing it with Pastor Matt, it's a thick book, the record of people who are being persecuted for their faith in years going by and currently all around the world. And this morning I was reading about a fellow, I just picked it up and looked through it again this morning, came across this fellow, he's Chinese. His name is, I think you pronounce it, Li, L-I, Li or Li He's a Christian preacher in China. And says this: just as Pastor Li, or Lai, however you say it, Pastor Li began his sermon, the doors of the house church burst open. And armed officers of the Chinese Public Security Bureau poured into the room, threatening everyone present and grabbing Pastor Lai to arrest him. Wait, please allow me to grab my bag, he shouted as they grabbed him. And as always, the pastor's the pastor's tone, as always, the pastor's tone with the officers was polite yet firm. The offers were surprised at the request. What's in there? They demanded, grabbing the black zipper bag Lee held and ripping it open. The bag contained a blanket and a spare change of clothes. Lai told them because he expected to be arrested at any given day. Pastor Lai had been arrested many times. Twice the police had beaten him to the point that he vomited blood. At one time, his face was beaten with his own Bible. Lai was warned that the police were watching the village where he held his Tuesday meetings. He knew if he showed up to preach, he would be imprisoned. Today, Chinese citizens can be sent to labor camps for up to three years without a formal trial. The risks were great, but here's what got me. But Pastor Lai's bag was packed He knew exactly what was going to happen to him. He knew if he got up and preached the word of God, he was going to be taken. He's going to be beaten. Probably taken to a camp. But his bags were packed. Do you know what that is? That's peace of mind. Peace of mind. I know God loves me. I know what God wants me to do. I'm going to live for him, I'm going to serve him. Doesn't matter what other people do. peace of mind. How many people would say, I'd sure like to have that peace of mind? This world can mock me, this world can be all the mess it is. I can just have peace with God. Peace of mind. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help. I ask you'd use these thoughts to help us. Get us eyes off of this old world. Get our eyes off of ourselves and one another and just look to you. And God, you would help us. Put aside worry. Fret not ourselves because of evildoers. The Lord rejoice in you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really need that peace of mind. I need to learn to rejoice in the Lord. I need to learn to pray. I need to learn to just meditate on the Lord and the things of God and not let this world get me turned inside out. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, I need that. God bless you. My hand's raised. I tell you, we can let it get to us. We have a God in heaven that loves us and accepts us. Maybe there's some you say, I don't know for sure. My sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure. I have peace with God. I need Jesus Christ to be my Savior. Is there any like that here or online? Please let us know. We'll show you from the Bible how you can settle that. But let's determine. We're going to rejoice in the Lord. We're going to pray. We're going to restrain ourselves. We're going to think on these things. Control our thoughts. Let the Lord use us. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.