Boy, take your Bibles, turn to Second Thessalonians chapter three. And man or yeah, chapter three. And I tell you, we get working our way verse by verse through these books. And you're just plugging away, at least I am in my study, I'm plugging away, plugging away, and then all of a sudden, boom, it's done. You come to the last few verses. And um that's the way I kind of feel tonight. We're looking at the last three verses of Second Thessalonians. Chapter three. Try and get wired up here. And uh I don't know if anybody else got anything out of this series. I sure did. This was a blessing to look at that church here. I feel like I Uh I know the church a little bit and uh would love to be able to go back in time. Wouldn't that be something go back in time and spend a few services in the church there at Fascel Maica? What a great church Paul says that they were an example, an example for other churches, a model church, and something we can uh pattern ourselves after Good to see Brother Chip back in town. God bless you. They're separatists. And uh they're over there. Or else they didn't or else he didn't shower before he got up here. Did you get the uh million door hangers printed? Wow, isn't that something? Million door hangers for Brother Fox and they're out putting them out now. What's that? Yeah that's not in separate. Revival is breaking out. Fellowship is restored and revival is breaking out. Well you blew that. Second Thessalonians chapter three, I'm going to begin reading in verse number sixteen down through verse number eighteen. Again, this is the final inspired words of Paul to the church at Thessalonica. Now, the Lord of peace himself give you peace always, by all means. The Lord be with you all. The salutations of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle, so I write. By the grace of our Lord Jesus Chr the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. I've just entitled the message Peace from the Lord of Peace. And I was really, I'll be honest with you, I was really tempted to take each of these verses and break each point down into a sermon But uh I think we're going to finish up our uh study here tonight in this book. Let's pray together. Father, I'm so grateful for the church at Thessalonica for Paul's faithfulness to your call to go into that town And preach the gospel, establish this church. And here we are, Lord, 2,000 years later. And this church is still a testimony to us. And I pray, God, that you would help us glean from this letters to this church and incorporate into our lives and our ministry here, God, not for our name's sake, but that we can be an encouragement to other churches and We could be an example to some degree, maybe of of uh what a good church is. We want you to use us, Lord. And so fill me with your Holy Spirit is my plea. I present my body anew, I yield my will to yours Speak through me, and uh I pray that you would help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You come to the end of this letter to the church at Thessalonica And uh Paul makes these statements that he makes in a lot of his letters uh as you read through the New Testament. And it's tempting to just look at these statements here as just some sort of uh ritualistic, polite things you put at right things you write at the end of a letter and uh you really don't mean it. You really don't even give it any not that you don't mean it, but you really don't give it any thought. You just write You know, you sign a letter, sometimes say, God bless you, best regards or whatever, and you're just writing it. You don't really give it any thought. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh but I I I don't see it that way. I just can't believe that God would record for all eternity just a trite, meaningless statement. I believe there's significance behind these, and the Bible says in Timothy that all scriptures given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine reproof. So as we look at this I see here a genuine prayer on the part of Paul, who was used of God to start this church, establish this tremendous Ministry. Remember he says earlier that he says, I can't go anywhere in that part of the world without running into people that you've witnessed to, that you've had a testimony to. He says there's no area here that we you haven't already covered And so Paul has a has a love for these people, for this church. And this is, I'm convinced, a genuine prayer. On the part of Paul for these believers here in Thessalonica. Go back to chapter one with me, the same book. And he begins In the second letter with very much the same statements as he ends it with in verse 2 of chapter 1. Look what it says: Grace unto you and peace. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. That is a prayer He's making. That they would have the grace and the peace from God And so as I got looking at this and I noticed at the beginning of the letter he uh makes this prayer. At the end of the letter he makes very similar prayer. He begins and ends this very important letter with earnest prayer for these believers. That tells me something. That tells me that Paul understood that these believers needed something in their lives and in their ministries that he himself could not give to them. That only God was able to give to them. And so he's praying that God would give to them peace and grace. Paul understands, I can't do that for you. The world can't give you that peace and that grace. Only God can do that for you. Um when I do funerals, particularly if I do a funeral for an unsaved person uh or a family that's unchurched or whatever, uh I'll always try to incorporate into the message that in their grief and in their dealing with the loss of a loved one, there is a peace and a grace that God can give them that the world cannot give to them. That only God can do that. And I try and urge them in their grief and in the loss of a loved one to look to God and look to the Lord for that peace that they need. And of course that only comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul is praying for the believers here. And hey, our church has needs that only God can meet for us. We praise the Lord for good programs. We praise the Lord for good people and teachers and pastors and preachers that come through. We're grateful for all of them. But these men and these individual Christians cannot do for us what only God can do for us. And so that makes the midweek prayer service, that makes our prayer time so vitally important as we look to God to help us and lead us and empower us and meet needs that man cannot meet. And it's not insignificant that we have a service on Wednesday night. Paul began and ended this letter with prayer, as he does so many of his others. And uh very, very important. The longer I live, the more I am realizing, beginning to realize in many ways, how much I need the Lord. Now I mean I knew that from the day I got saved I needed the Lord. But as time goes by, thirty-four years now, I f I feel like today I need God Uh uh my understanding, I guess I should say, of my need of the Lord is greater today than it was the day after I got saved. And we need the Lord. We need God's grace. I'm beginning to understand as I'm in the ministry now longer that others need what I can't give them. I used to feel like to some degree when I first started out that I had to meet these people's needs, and I was the one that had to do that. You know what I found out I can't. I can't save a soul. I can't give bring peace to a heart I can point people to the one that can. I can pray for them. I was visiting in the hospital this afternoon and a and a fella that um uh some real spiritual needs there, physical needs of course, he's in the hospital And uh I began talking to them and witnessing to them, and you know, um I got to be able to go through the gospel very thoroughly with them. He didn't trust the Lord and and uh it's just kind of an unusual situation, but uh as I was witnessing to him, the thought kept going through my mind, you know, he needs you, Lord. He needs you, God. He not what I I can't save him. I can't meet his spiritual needs. And that was Paul's approach to the church there at Thessalonica. They needed something that Paul couldn't do. That Paul could not provide for them. Every aspect of the Christian life begins and ends with prayer. There's no doubt about it. Our salvation began with us what? Calling on the Lord. Looking to Christ. Trusting in Christ We grow as we pray to the Lord and call on the Lord. We have God's power as we seek Him prayer is so vital in in our service, our ministries. Hey, God forbid that anybody, myself included, stand behind the pulpit or stand in a Sunday school class or work on a bus route or even sing in the choir without seeking God and saying, God, here I need your help. I need you to fill me and work through me and and use me. And so prayer is so vitally important. There's three things Paul prays here for this church. Now, he doesn't word it specifically as a prayer, but it is prayer. And three things I notice here. The one is the one that I caught the attention and will spend the most time on, and the others we'll look at. And verse number sixteen he says this now the Lord of peace himself Give you peace always by all means. So the first thing he prays for them is that they would have the peace of God. That they would have the peace of God. They had peace with God already. That takes place the moment I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Peace with God is established. I'm no longer an enemy of God as Romans talks about. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. You know what that means? That means you have peace with God. God is no longer You're no longer under the judgment of God. We are no longer at enmity with the Lord. There is peace been established. But just because I have peace with God is not necessarily I have the peace of God. A person can be saved and yet still have tremendous turmoil in their heart and life. A person can have peace with God, but yet be tremendously vexed. in their heart and soul. I thought of uh uh Lot. You all know are familiar with Lot's experience. And um You know, my thinking is if I would come to the Bible not knowing anything about Scripture, not knowing anything of its contents, and I would read through the Bible and I would look at the experience of Lot and what's recorded for us. Me personally, I would have no idea that that guy was saved until I got to the book of Peter. And there Peter tells us that his righteous soul was what? Vexed. What does that mean? There's no peace. There was turmoil. There was restlessness. He was miserable in Sodom. There was no peace of God. Now he had peace with God. He's a righteous soul. He was saved. But he had no peace of God in his life. And that's true for many Christians that uh though we're saved yet we do not have peace of God. And Paul was concerned For the church there at Thessalonica. They had peace with God, but he was concerned that they would have the peace of God. Now what do we know in our previous studies of this? What do we know uh was true, was going on in the church there at Thessanah that might steal the peace of God from them. That might ruin the peace of God. They were under tremendous persecution. They were taking tremendous hostility, and that comes out more so in the second book than it does the first book. And he says, some of you are troubled by this in chapter one. The persecution was getting so intense. I mean it was getting hot that they some of them were losing the peace of God in their heart. They were getting upset. Some of them were looking to walk away from their ministries and uh looking to shut up. Rather than speak up the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, listen, I'm praying that you have the peace of God. In your heart and life, in spite of the tremendous hostility that's coming down on you, the tremendous persecutions coming down on you, you just, I'm praying that God gives you a peace that that persecution cannot take away. And I'm telling you that's something we need too. I I'm I'm maybe I'm too obsessed with this or something. I'm not sure. I uh I I don't want to be get unbalanced But as I look at our world, particularly our country, I see nothing but increased hostility coming towards Bible believing Christians. And there's just so many factors on every hand. And I'm hearing seasoned men of God who have been in this a long time saying the very same thing. And what we need to be sure we do is that we stay close to God so that we can have His peace as the hostility towards our faith in Christ increases, we don't lose that peace. of God in our hearts and lives. And so that's what he's praying for then. What does the word peace here mean? He says, now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always. Both those words peace come from the same word, exact same word. It simply means this. This word here means tranquility, to have the absence of turmoil, to be calm and settled. When I first looked at this, I try to uh as I study through, I go and I look at the word, and I go to the definition that I have preconceived. And then I look up the word itself and go to the dictionaries and how it's used other places, and I find out what it actually is. My preconceived definition of the word peace here was the removal of hostilities. Was the idea of two armies being at war and they sign a peace agreement. And uh This is my political view seeping through, but um I was reading today how John Kerry is probably the guy that's going to bring peace between the Palestinians and the Israelis. And when I got up off the floor and finished laughing, um, you know, they're trying to remove hostility between these Arabs and these Jews. And that was my idea, the word peace. Now the hostility be removed. But Paul is not praying here that the persecution that's coming down on the hostility of the world, he's not praying that that be removed He's praying that in the midst of that hostility there's tranquility in your heart. That there's peace in your heart. Years ago I'd love to see this picture. I've never seen it, but I've heard read and heard the illustration many, many times, no doubt many of you have also. But an artist was given the responsibility of painting a picture that that was a picture of peace And so they had all these ideas and different suggestions, and he came up and his picture was a horrendous storm, like a hurricane, was hitting this these trees and everything, and highlighted in a corner was a little bird. on a nest, sitting down in a corner, just the the horrendous wind and rain and lightning, but that little bird was sitting there just as happy and as content and safe as can be, and that was his definition of peace. Tranquility in the midst of hostility. And that's the idea of what Paul was praying for the church there in Thessalonica. They're going to take eat. Jesus says, in the world you will have trouble. Says, don't be surprised that the world hates you. That's gonna, that's the way it is. But in the midst of all of that You and I can be at peace. We don't have to get worked up. We don't have to uh uh be all uh uh turmoiled Now, this peace fluctuates. It comes and goes, it ebbs and flows. My peace with God never changes. Aren't you glad? I can never lose my salvation. Heidi said, I got a couple folks need to be on the salvation prayer list uh again. We need to oh she said I gotta we gotta put them back on the prayer list. I said what they do, lose their salvation So we're praying again that they but what happened was they inadvertently got taken off and so they didn't lose their salvation. Aren't you glad? My peace with God is not dependent on my behavior or my actions in any way. That is dependent upon Christ's blood applied at the altar in heaven. That never changes But my peace of God that fluctuates. How many folks have ever in your Christian life, and I'm talking folks been saved most of your long uh fairly fair good while. Uh in your you found in your Christian life your walk with God fluctuates. Yeah, hourly. And um Uh, you know, sometimes man, it's just we're so close to God and his presence is there and the peace of God is there, and then we go to work and we say something stupid or we act dumb or we get in a fuss, and man that peace is gone. Can I get a witness? Y'all are looking at me like I'm Uh it fluctuates. So Paul is praying that they have this peace of God. This peace of God. The world cannot give genuine peace in the heart of a person. Only God can do that. Take your Bibles, keep your place here. Turn with me the Gospel of John. And verse number 14. Jesus speaks throughout this chapter about peace in our hearts and lives. John chapter 14, look at verse 27. Christ speaking, he says, peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid Paul is praying that God gives them this peace. Listen, your reasoning, your abilities to argue and out-argue that other person is not going to bring peace to your heart. It's only as I look to Christ, it's only as I look to the Lord that peace is going to come in my heart and life. So this peace fluctuates. Now here's a question. How Alright, he's praying, Lord, that I'm praying that the Lord of peace, uh how's he word he says, that the Lord of Lord the Lord of peace himself Give you peace always, by all means. Now, how does how is this peace that God gives, this tranquility? And by the way, this peace does not mean I don't care. It's not a, oh well, who cares? So what? It's not that at all. We care intensely, we just don't get worked up about it. Follow what I'm saying? I'm preaching myself as uh I hate it when my wife sits right there and I'm preaching about stuff and and uh Next week I'm going to preach it her. But uh not really. But um it doesn't mean we don't care. It simply means we're trusting God. How is this peace dispensed in my heart? How does God give us this peace? I put three ways down. Number one, I put this down. We trust God completely. Just trust God. We can't see God. We can't feel him, can't audibly hear him, but he's there. And I can trust him, God, I'm depending on him. To take care of this, to meet this need, to work this out, see me through this. I was having breakfast with a fella that uh was fairly new Christmas, a number of years ago And uh he said a lot of questions, I was trying to disciple him a little bit. And um he says, you know, he says it's just kind of weird That I'm trusting in someone that I can't see, I've never physically met, they're just there, out there somewhere. I said, that's exactly what faith is. We walk not by sight, but faith is trusting that God is there, He is aware, He is active, He's able, and I'm simply trusting Him. Depending on him. John 14, 1, Jesus says, Let not your heart be troubled. Absence of peace. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God believe also in me. The word believe there means trust in, depending upon. And God can work this out. And so, number one, how does this peace dispensed in my heart? Number one, I trust God completely. Number two, here's a factor, it ties right in with trust. Obey God thoroughly. A great song. Boy, there is so much truth in this song. Trust and obey. Boy, that is the crux of the Christian life. Trust God and obey. Trust God and obey. And so, do I want to have peace? Trust God, obey Him. You know what I found out? When I do it God's way, it goes a whole lot better. Anybody ever find that out? I say this often. I never regretted waiting on God. It's a whole heap of times I took things into my own hands, and boy, I wish I could go back and undo that. But uh just trust him, obey him. What he says, do it. If he says don't do this, then don't do that If he says wait, then wait. If he says go, then go. But just trust him and obey him thoroughly. Number three, I put this down: draw near to God sincerely. Number one, trust him completely. Number two, obey him thoroughly. Number three, draw near to him sincerely. I'm telling you, that personal daily time with the Lord. is so important in my Christian life. Where I just get alone with God and I get read the Bible and let Him speak to my heart and give me directions and give me some promises. Boy I read today Psalm 27 about waiting on God this morning. And uh man, what a great verse. I had it memorized until I got up and walked away, then I couldn't remember it again, but I was trying to memorize it right then I me I had it memorized while I was looking at it, but um But that time of drawing close to the Lord, you know I found how how many folks here There's been times in your Christian life where you're closer to the Lord than you are other times. Come on now. Yeah. You know what I found out? When I'm close to the Lord, boy, there's a whole lot more peaks in my heart and life. I get away from the Lord, suddenly that turmoil creeps back, starts boiling up. Then I get close to the Lord. Boy, the closer I am to the Lord, the more peaceful my heart becomes. So look here. He says, Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means. So he prays for them that they would have the peace of God. Then he prays in the last part of verse sixteen that they would experience the presence of God. Look at the last part. The Lord be with you, be with you all. Now, as I read that and I thought, all right, what's he saying here? What's he praying for them? Was God not with them? And he was asking God to show up? Did they not have the presence of God? And he was praying that they would have the presence of God? Well, if you go to other passages of scripture We find that Christ said that he will never leave us. It says in Matthew 20, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the world. Hebrews 13, 5. For he has said, I will never leave thee, nor what? Forsake thee. So when he's praying here for the presence of God in their life, Is he contradicting these other clear verses? The answer is what? No, he's not contradicting these other verses. That's why it's important, as I always point out, as we study Scripture. that we always compare scripture with what? Scripture. If this is all we had as far as information about the presence of God, we could come to the conclusion that sometimes God is with us and sometimes he isn't. But that would be a wrong conclusion, because other scripture teaches the contrary. So what is he saying here? I think he's saying this. This is my take. He is praying that they would be aware of the presence of God continually. That they would experience that. God, May 7, 1979 did I ever tell you May 7, 1979, I trusted Christ this here. Did I ever mention that to you? It's 10 30 at night. I didn't. Uh right after the burn. I'll just call that illustration number one, and so I'll just say, alright, illustration number one there, and you guys know what it is. But from that moment on, Christ in the person of the Holy Spirit has been in my body, has never left me one time. And whenever you got saved, from that point on, Christ has been with you. He has never leaven, he has never left you. He's been present there all the time. But here's the thing: I'm not always thinking of that. Sometimes I don't think about it. And when I'm not thinking about that, you know what I end up doing sometimes? Saying stuff I probably sh wouldn't say if I was thinking about Christ being right there. Am I right or wrong? I think one of the keys to victory in the Christian life is the continual awareness that I am in the immediate presence of Christ at all times. That would change a lot of things. You know what I found out as pastor, just taking that title pastor, it changes the way people behave around me. I kinda having fun with it, Brother Brian. You know, there'll be a group of people standing there talking here at church and I'll walk up and also get quiet. I love it. Um I told you several times there was one years ago, shortly after I came pastor, I called someone and um uh the the doll the child answered and said, Hello, I said, uh is your mother there? And uh she she said, yeah, just a minute. And she goes, Mom, the telephone's for you. I could hear it in the background. Mom, telephone's for you. Well, who is it? You're supposed to ask a mood! And mother is just laying into this gal And I'm thinking, Lord have mercy, God help this little girl. And um and Pi says, It's the preacher. Oh. Oh hi, preacher! I love it. The presence. There was a guy. And everything. I said, Hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church. He goes like this. And I was like and then I'm standing there talking to him and introducing him trying to get the gospel and smoke is coming up the back of his head here. I thought so many things I wanted to say to him at that point. But the presence of the preacher changes the way people behave. How many tim how many folks here I wonder uh you're on the job, they know you're a Christian and somebody cusses and they look and say, Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't mean that You didn't sin against me, you sinned against God. And so if we would live our lives In the continual awareness that I am in the presence of God at all times, day and night, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. That's what he's praying for. He's praying that they would the Lord be with you all And then uh then you come down to verse 18, he has his third prayer request. He prays this. He prays, one, that they would have the peace of God, two, they'd uh expi they'd experience and be aware of the presence of God. Number three He prays that they would have the powerful grace of God. Now we skip verse 17 for a reason. Look at verse 17. He says this: this this the salutation of Paul with mine own hand. Which is the token in every epistle, so I write. He's injecting in the midst of his closing statements and this things he's desiring for them, he injects this strange statement. He says, uh, he basically says, hey, this is written with my own hand, this salutation, these final statements here. I'm writing with my own hand, and he explains why he's doing that Which is the token in every epistle, so I write. Now you have to do a little research here to figure out what he's talking about and why he's saying that. We believe in studying scripture, we believe that Paul had problems with his eyes. Can't verify that, but it appears that way. We do know that he had some of his assistants and some of his associates would write these letters for him. And he would perhaps dictate them or he would write them out the best he could and they would write them over so they're legible. And then they would be sent out to these churches. But Paul, there was a situation where a dangerous situation. There was men, for whatever their motives were, would forge letters to these churches as if it was from Paul, and they weren't really from Paul. These were malicious people. Who were trying to influence these good churches that Paul had started in their own particular doctrine, their false doctrine. So they would write a letter. And then falsely sign it as if it was from Paul. And to counter that, what Paul would do was he had a token or a code, you could say. And these churches knew it, that he says, listen, if a letter comes from me, I'm going to sign every one of them myself. And you know my signature, you can see it, and you will know if it's from me. If the signature is anything different than mine, and no doubt with Paul, what we believe he his eye problems, his signature was probably very unique. And uh that was his way of verifying that these letters were actually from him. So what does that mean for us today? That means What that tells me is, hey, folks trying to change and alter the Bible is nothing new. It's been going on from 2,000 years ago. False prophets and and uh men being used of the devil to try and alter church doctrine and alter the word of God and deceive God's people. It's nothing new and it's going to continue on until the Lord comes back And things get established. And so that's what verse number 18 is about, verse 17. Then we come to verse 18, and he picks up his request for the church here again. He says, The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. So the word grace here, what do you think of? When you hear a preacher use the term grace, what verse comes to mind? What aspect of grace comes to mind? Grace for salvation. That's what we associate grace with. Ephesians 2, 8:9. For by Grace, how you saved through faith. Hey, we're saved by grace. We're outwitnessing. You know for sure if you die now you go to heaven. Oh yeah, I think I would. How do you know? What makes you sure? Well, I give my offering and I've been Sunday school superintendent for forty years and I do this and I don't do that and I do this. What verse do we say? Hey, we're not saved by our words, we're saved by grace. But the grace of God has far more applications in the Christian life than just the salvation of my soul. It is God's grace that makes the Christian life possible from beginning to end. We're not saved by works and we're not kept by works. We are saved by grace. I'm kept by God's grace. God uses me because of His grace. God doesn't use me because I'm some great guy. God doesn't use you because you're some wonderful person. He uses us because He's gracious. It's his grace on us. And so Paul is not praying for grace for them to be saved. We already established the fact these people are saved. Then what's the application of God's grace? The application of God's grace, the word here means this: the loving kindness of God. I like this definition. The divine enablement. God's grace for me as a Christian is God enabling me To live for Him and to serve Him. Listen, we have two forces in our being: the flesh and the Spirit. One of those two forces is controlling me at all times. Either the Spirit of God or my own flesh. If I have a sin I'm struggling with, you know what I found out? My flesh resists conquering sin. Right? The flesh won't do it. So I can, in my own ability, my own strength say, I'm going to beat that sin, I'm going to beat that sin, I'm going to beat. You know what happens? I fail every time. I need God's grace. I need God's divine enablement. That comes through the Holy Spirit. He gives me victory. I had a family I've told that this is illustration number seven. I had a family come in years ago. They got saved and and genuinely got saved. I just they were doing great and growing. But they're having some struggles. They say, we need to meet with you, Pastor. We sat down. And they told me and I showed them some verses and said, hear this. And uh the wife says, Pastor, she gets his face Pastor Lederman, we are not gonna sin anymore. We are determined we're not gonna do it. Well, I knew what how that was going to turn out. They're setting themselves up for total failure. And I tried to tell him, I said, Listen, I'm glad for your desire intensity here. You scare me. But um if you think your enablement is going to give you victory over sin You need God. You need to be looking to the Lord and humbling yourself before the Lord. And it went long. They were out of church and the whole thing fell apart. And um we need God's grace. We need God's grace. And that's what he's praying for them, that God would enable them. I like look turn turn here with me to Philippians. I want to go to two verses and we'll quit. Philippians chapter two. I hate to end this study of Thessalonians, and Philippians chapter two and verse thirteen What a great verse for the Christian life. Philippians 2, 13. Notice what the Lord says here. For it is God that worketh in you, both to will and to what? Do of his good pleasure. I need to look to the Lord. You know what am I praying to God? I need you to help me desire that which is according to your will. I have prayed for years. I started this when I was back in Bible college. Back, I think it was the year Abraham Lincoln was killed. Back in Bible college. Um that was a joke. I pray, Lord, please make my desire to do right greater than my desire to do wrong. That's God's grace. God make my desire to please you and do right greater than my desire to please myself and do wrong. That's what He's talking about here. God enables us to do that Lord help me to do that. Go out soul winning. I I enjoy soul winning. Once I get up and running, I love it. But you know, it's usually the first hour before it's like, God, now stir me up, Lord You know, give me this boldness. And I get out there and I knock on a couple doors. I always feel bad for the first door or two I knock on each week. Because it's like, you don't want to get saved, do you? No. Okay. By the time I get warmed up, then it's like, hey man, you know. But I need God to enable me. I need God to put that in me. That's the grace of God. One more, 1 Corinthians 15, 10. First Corinthians fifteen, verse ten Verse ten says, but by the grace of God I am what I am. Now, if you put that in the Southern version, it's I is what I is. By the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was in was with me. What's he saying here? He's saying the grace of God that enables me and puts the desire in my heart and enables me, that does not mean I don't have responsibility. I do have responsibility. Paul said I worked as hard as anybody. I I I I I gave my whole self a man. Read the life of Paul. You talk about intensity. But you know what he attributed all that to? God's grace in my life. Our God is amazing. He saves us for free. And then he puts in us and enables us the desire to live for him. And then if we respond to that in humility and trust and obey him, and he uses us, we get to the judgment seat of Christ, and then he rewards us. For doing something, he's the one that gave us the opportunity in the first place, and he's the one that enabled us to do in the first place, and then he rewards me for it. And you know, when we get to the judgment seat of Christ, it's going to dawn on us. You know, I didn't deserve any of this. I didn't deserve to serve God. What are we going to do with those crowns, those rewards? Lord, you did it all. You did it all. I like what the disciples said in Acts. They rejoiced in that they were counted worthy To suffer shame for Christ. That is grace. Praise God, we're able to go to jail for the gospel. Isn't that amazing? So that's what Paul's praying for this church. They're taking it. They are under intense persecution. And he says, I'm praying, one, that you just keep peace in your hearts. You don't get all worked up. Just tranquility there in your hearts and lives. You go about serving God. Two, I'm praying that you recognize and remember Christ is with you. He's right there. Everything you're saying and doing 24-70 is right there. You're in his presence. And number three, you understand how desperately you need God. Even as a believer, we need his grace working in our lives. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that we can learn from this great church here and Paul's love for them. And under the inspiration of God, these statements he made. And Lord, we pray that you would give us peace in our hearts. Help us to trust you and just do what you say and not get worked up. We need you to do that for us. Lord, we need to remember of your presence. We go out of these doors, we don't leave your presence. We're in your presence 24-7. And Lord, I pray that your grace would stir us to serve you with our whole hearts. Just to give you every ounce of our being. And that you would use us. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, Lord, say, preacher? I need the Lord to give me grace in my Christian life. I've got some struggles. I've got these areas that I know they're not what they should be, and maybe you've tried and tried and tried. Tonight you say I'm going to look to God to give the grace that I need to serve Him and be what He intends for me to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Good night. Of course we would feel that way. We want God to use us. Now I know this is maybe a little more personal, but between you and the Lord you would say, Preacher, pray with me. I need the peace of God in some areas. There's just some real turmoil in my heart. And that can't be, that's not the Lord's will. And you say, I'm pray with me that God that I would have this peace of God in my heart and life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. Sure. It's part of life. We have to deal with that. Then the presence of God. We just need to consciously keep ourselves aware that we're in his presence all the time. All the time. By chance, would there happen to be someone tonight say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? Say, I don't want to go to hell. Christ doesn't want you to go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, when you're praying for all those other folk Would you remember me also that God would help me settle that in my heart, that I can know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell? Is there any like that at all this evening? Say, preacher, pray for me That I can know that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Anybody at all? Father, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. You know where we're at in our Christian life. We want to please you. We want to live for you. And so help us, Lord, as we go into invitation. Help us to humble ourselves before you and seek your face and trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.