I've been praying uh since I think Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, the Lord laid this on my heart for tonight. And uh I've really been asking God to use this this evening. to uh Acts chapter eleven, I think is where no Acts chapter eight, I'm sorry, Acts chapter eight. And uh really something that every one of us uh can be a part of world missions. And um it's it's And the Lord just used this to stir my heart. While you're getting there, Acts chapter 8, verse 4, and I'm just using that for a springboard. We're going to jump around a bunch of other verses here in a bit. But I came across this statistic. I was sharing this with my wife last evening and uh I tell you it just burdened my heart and uh made gave me a more sense of an urgency on what we're doing. I came across, and I think this is a legit, you know, here are these questionnaires and surveys But uh I tried to do some documentation on this. I think it's legit. They they surveyed 10,000 preachers or just across the board, every anything that calls itself a preacher And uh the question was this, do you believe the Bible to be God's inspired word? Now the answer to that is very simple, in my mind. Do you believe the Bible to be God's inspired word? Now this broke down. Of the Episcopalians, 89% said no. Eighty-nine percent of the pastors, preachers, said no, they don't believe the Bible is an inspired word of God. Get this, this is the one that surprised me. Methodists. 82% of the pastors they surveyed in the Methodist denomination said they do not believe the Bible is an inspired word of God. And that's something. Presbyterians, 81% said no. They said the Lutherans and the Baptists were very close. And uh 57% of the Baptist preachers they surveyed said no, they did not believe the Bible is the Word of God. Ain't that an incredible thing? And it goes on down through there. And in digging this up, I got looking up different things. And um Uh I found another survey that was done by uh Francis Schaefer's organization, which is a legitimate. They're they're they've uh they're they're uh uh they have integrity and so uh it's pretty reliable. And uh they did they broke it down even a little more so among the Baptists. They had the black Baptist churches, white Baptists, and then they had the Southern Baptists, different things like that. But one I thought that was outstanding Uh 51% of white senior pastors of white churches, Baptist churches, fifty-one percent said they believed the Bible was God's Word, but only thirty percent of the black Baptist churches Only 30% of the pastors said they believe the Bible is the Word of God. 70% said no, they don't believe it. Isn't that something? Doesn't that explain the condition of our country a little bit? If that's coming from the spiritual leadership of our country, good night. It's no surprise that we're in the condition we're in. So We're not in the my we're not in the majority anymore, Bible believers, uh, and so we've got our work cut out for us. Look at eight, look at Acts chapter eight and uh verse number four, and I'm just going to share this with you uh as quickly as I can. The Bible says uh in chapter eight and verse four. Let me get here. I got talking. Therefore they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word. I hope this morning we impressed upon us. I hope God used that to challenge us. on the urgency of missions, that this as we as a church, this is urgent, this is has to be very, very important. Now tonight I want to talk about the people of missions Where do we fit into this as individuals? So let's ask the Lord to speak of hearts. Father, bless now. Lord, I don't want to rush, but God, I don't want to belabor the point either. So I yield myself to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. And uh challenge us now, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. We're thinking about missions. We need to understand, first and foremost, missions is people. Think about that. It's people. It's not money. It's not programs. It's not mission agencies. It's people. It's simply saved people going to unsaved people and telling them about the Savior That's all it boils down to. It's not complicated. It's forgiven people. People who have been forgiven by God for their sins, going to people who need forgiveness and introducing them to the one that can forgive them. That's what missions is. Nothing more than that. It's people whom Jesus changed their life telling other people how Jesus can change their life. By trusting him as their Savior. That's what missions boils down to. Now when you come to the book of Acts and the New Testament, particularly the Acts and the Epistles You find there how God, at least this is what I came across, how God used, how the Holy Spirit used individual people in different ways To accomplish that goal of getting the gospel to the unsaved. So I just want to go through and list a few of these people. Number one, I put if you're taking notes, jot this down, a missionary deacon A missionary deacon. Look with me at Acts chapter 8. And we read verse 4. Now I'm going to read verse 5 and 6. Notice what it says. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the m miracles which he did. Philip, what do we know about Philip? Somebody tell me. We're just uh not the biggest crowd we've ever had uh tonight. Tell me, what uh what do we know about Philip? He was a deacon. He was one of the first seven deacons from Acts chapter six that were chosen out to help in the in the uh administration of the church there. So he held the position in the church of a deacon. He would not, in today's setting, he would not have necessarily been a s paid staff member of the church. He was somebody that was a leader in the church, was involved, but apparently uh somewhat influential. We find reading here that he was an active personal soul winner. He would go, it says here verse 8, he went to the city of Samaria. That would be on the outskirts of Jerusalem. Now, at this point in time, you basically have the church at Jerusalem. Phillips a deacon in that church. He's an active soul winner, apparently, and he takes it upon himself To get out of the city and go up to the city of Samaria and go up there and start telling them folks about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's doing personal soul winning In a little town on the outskirts of Jerusalem. It's nothing more than that. He's not being sent by the church in an official capacity, as far as we can tell. He simply goes of his own accord Goes to this town, he starts telling people about the Lord Jesus, sharing the gospel with folks, and lo and behold, people start getting saved. And God is doing amazing things here Now if you come down to verse twenty-six, God takes this deacon that's on fire for God, winning souls, and God directs him in a different way. Wait, look at verse 26 of the same chapter. And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert. And he arose and went. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority, under Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure and had come to Jerusalem for to worship, was returning, and sitting in his chariot, uh was returning, and sitting in his chariot, read Isaiah, the prophet. Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself unto this chariot. And Philip ran thither to him, and uh her boy, some of our deacons have a rough time running, but um uh anyway, uh None in particular. But um and Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he, the Ethiopian eunuch, said, How can I accept some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. The place of the scripture that he read was this. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter. And like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so he opened not his mouth. In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and who shall declare to his generation? For his life is taken from the earth. And eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh this uh the prophet that this? Of himself? or of some other man. Look at this. And then Philip opened his mouth and began the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. Then he goes on, the Ethiopians get saved, gets baptized, and he goes on his merry way. Here's a guy that is involved in world missions. He's not a staff member of the church, quote unquote. He's not sent out in any official capacity But he's simply on fire for God, sharing the gospel, takes it upon himself to go up to Samaria, starts witnessing there, sees people say, God does amazing things God directs him down on the road down to Gaza. Now Gaza, uh if you're looking at Israel, Jerusalem's here, Egypt's down here. Gaza's about halfway between Jerusalem and Egypt, down when you get around the corner there And so it's probably a 50-mile trip. And he makes this trek down there, and he comes across this Ethiopian eunuch who just happens to be reading Isaiah 53 And he goes up and he leads them to the Lord. And God uses a church member, a deacon, who's on fire for God. Now, we don't know anything about this Ethiopian eunuch. The Bible tells us nothing about it. After this, he goes on his way. Philip gets transported back miraculously, and we hear nothing more of this Ethiopian eunuch in Scripture. Now Tradition tells us he went down to Ethiopia, started a bunch of churches, started witnessing down there, and became a great witness down there. If that's true, then Philip, as a deacon soul winner, had a powerful, powerful influence in world missions. What I'm trying to say is this. You don't have to be in some official capacity sent out. Just get on fire for God, God will use you. Here you have uh Ethiopia. And by the way, later on in chapter twenty-one and verse eight, for sake of time we won't go there Here you find Philip again mentioned, and this time he has Paul and some sent missionaries, and he takes care of them in his house. They stay at his house. Here he's called an evangelist now. I mean he's just a soul-winning on fire for God. And that evangelist wasn't, I don't think, the title evangelist, necessarily the office. He was just out winning souls, and he got that name And so he's taking care of genuine, official missionaries. He's taking care of them house. Here's the lessons we learned from a missionary deacon. One, God directs those who are active. God, you get out and be busy for the Lord, and God will lead you to greater things, open up other doors. I have yet to see God use someone greatly who just sits around and does nothing But somebody gets up and says, I I don't know what all I can do. Maybe I can't do much, but what I can do, I will do. You know what I found out? God uses that person. And then God opens up other doors. God uses ordinary people. We don't find nothing about this guy that's extraordinary. He's a man of God. You know, he's filled with the Spirit. He loved the Lord. uh had integrity and God considers individuals to be important. Think about this. God transported Philip all the way down to the Gaza Road out in the middle of the desert because there was one guy there that was seeking the Lord and uh needed to be saved. Did you ever, now let me let's get personal here. It's a Sunday night crowd. Did you ever, were you ever out somewhere, and maybe you drove by a neighborhood Or you went by a house, or maybe a town came to your mind. You thought, you know, it'd be good if somebody would witness down in that street there. Or be good if somebody go over that town. Does anybody ever anybody know what I'm talking about? Help me out now. So not great. If that ever happened to you, raise your hand. Alright, good Bunch of folks. You know what I think? That may be God directing you. We were down at a little party for the little twins yesterday down in Western Port. Kathy and I were driving back. When we were driving down there, there was a couple of houses on the left. I could see them through those blinding white out s uh slake offech snow that was coming down. I saw these houses along the road. They're only about forty yards away, but you can make them out through the snow as we were driving down there. And uh that was supposed to be funny. But anyway Uh we got down there and the sun was out and it was beautiful and we had a nice little parade and you know the whole time uh not parade, we had um it wasn't a parade, it was a party. And um we had this party and we were partying h party down there. And uh we're coming back the whole time we were there, those houses that I saw through the blinding snow kept bothering me. And so we're coming up and I told my wife, I said there are a couple houses on here I think we ought to stop at and witness And so we did, didn't we? Uh well I did, you stayed in the car, where it was nice and warm. She prayed for me as I went up to the doors And uh nothing spectacular happened, but you know what I felt like? I felt like that was God prompting me, maybe stop by there. Who knows what a literature on the door would do. Uh wizard I got to talk to one young lady And so I think that's what's happening here. So you have a missionary deacon on fire for God, winning souls. He leads this guy to the Lord. Tradition tells us he ends up starting churches in a foreign country. You never know. Let's look at another one real quickly. Not just a missionary deacon. How about a missionary businessman? Go to Acts chapter 4. Here we're introduced to a guy named Barnabas. I like Barnabas. If there's anybody in the book of Acts that I would like to be emulate, I would like to emulate Barnabas. What a gracious man. Look at chapter 4, real quick, and verse number 36. We're introduced. Barnabas is here. It says, and Joseph, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which by which is being interpreted the son of consolation A Levite of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. Now we don't know a lot, or very little, if anything, about the personal life of Barnabas. I think, and I've studied this, and my impression is, and others have suggested the same thing, that he apparently was a successful businessman. He had some sort of means In that he owned apparently a significant amount of property. He sold that property and gave it to the church for the work of the church If you study his life, you find he was very kind, a very compassionate church member. He was very mature He had a heart to help and encourage others. You read the life of Barnabas and you find him taking new believers under wing. And discipling them and mentoring them and helping them grow in their faith. And I love that idea. He was uh he had a part In the first organized mission effort in Acts chapter 13, he and Barnabas were set uh called by the Holy Spirit, and the church sent them out. Uh he and Paul, I should say And they go out. And as it develops, it starts out, Paul, you know, is a fairly new Christian, Barnabas, everybody respects him tremendously. But after they're out there a little bit, it becomes obvious that Paul is the leader. And Paul begins to take the forefront, becomes the spokesman for the two. And Barnabas is okay with that. And he's fine with being playing second fiddle to Paul and simply helping him and working along with him. And here you have a businessman who is willing to give to the cause of Christ, willing to go on this trip and serve as an assistant, basically to a missionary and uh and uh is used of god in tremendous, tremendous ways. Just a businessman I think, I've seen, my experience has been that some of the most effective witnesses for the gospel have been ordinary folks that just give of themselves and their means to the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, I'm not a preacher. I can't preach and I can't do this. But I say to you, God can still use you. You say, I could never go to Kazakhstan, I could never go to Inner Mongolia, I could never go to Belarus and start a church and do any of that. No, but you still could be used of God to help those that do. He still could assist and help in some ways. And so here you have a missionary deacon, a missionary businessman, then number three, a missionary prayer warrior. By the name of Epaphoras. Go with me if you would to Colossians chapter 4. Colossians chapter 4. And uh you have this fellow mentioned by Apostle Paul, uh verse number 12, Colossians 4, 12, says and Jesus, uh uh which not Jesus, the Savior, just a guy named Jesus, which is called justice. Who are of the circumcision, these only are my look at this, these only are my fellow workers under the kingdom of God which have been a comfort of me. Verse 12, that was eleven. Verse 12. Epappris Are you there? Everybody there? Alright, good. I'm rushing. How many people notice that I'm rushing? Alright, good. Epapyrus, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you. Look at this. This is powerful. Always laboring fervently for you in what? Prayers. Laboring fervently for you in prayers If you'll study this guy Papras, you'll find that he was a very key person in the missionary work in Colossae In starting this church, getting in there, preaching the gospel, getting people saved, discipling, getting them a church started. No doubt he was involved in surrounding areas uh winning people lord getting churches started we know ne little or nothing about him other than this He labored fervently in his prayers for those involved in the gospel ministry. Now you don't generally associate laboring fervently with praying. Praying you think is more of a relaxing type thing, and time of get alone and quiet. That's not the way Papyrus prayed Brother, his prayer, laboring fervently, that phrase laboring fervently has this idea, working with intense zeal. I mean when he is praying, every ounce of his being is behind it. Oh God, Paul needs your power. Lord, that's That city of Thessalonica needs a gospel witness desperately. God raise up somebody. God show me what to do And the whole idea behind the word picture here, laboring permanently, is a man giving every ounce of his being into getting a hold of God and seeing God do things in missions around the world. A missionary prayer warrior. Fact of the matter is, missions is the beginning, prayer is the beginning of missions Jesus said, he said, the harvest is great. He said, look under the fields that are white under harvest. The harvest is great, but uh Labors are few. Boy, we're finding that out true here, aren't we? Be honest with you, in our children's ministry, that Mark just presented, we are trying to do more than we have the manpower to do We really are. We don't have the manpower to do what we're trying to do. But that's the way it's always been. If you wait till you have enough workers to do something, you ain't never going to get nothing done. That's good English right there. And so Jesus said the harvest is great, the laborers are few. The answer is have a big conference and sign up new laborers. No The answer was what? Pray ye, therefore, the Lord of hearts, that he would send forth laborers. Missions begins with prayer. Hey, listen, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church desperately needs people who are prayer warriors for world missions. Praying for our community, that people in our community would get saved. I mean lives changed. Praying that God would break down the spiritual strongholds of Kazakhstan and open that thing up and let missionaries get in there and start churches and see God do a work and save souls in that country And scores of other countries like it. Missionary prayer warriors. Uh in Acts chapter two, when the Spirit of God moved up came upon the disciples. Uh uh Peter got up and preached and uh people from eleven different countries heard him preaching the gospel. People got saved. But you know what they were doing the night that that happened? They were in an upper room. What were they doing in that upper room? Praying. God give us prayer warriors for missions. Um in Acts chapter thirteen, the first two missionaries, Paul and Barnabas, are called of the Holy Spirit. And uh they're sent out by the church. You know what they were doing? They were fasting and praying when God called those missionaries out. Listen, we may we're not we're not that big of a church, we don't have that much resources. But you know something God can raise up in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to have a profound impact around the world is raise up some prayer warriors. And I'm talking about more than just saying, now God bless all those missionaries and Brother Jua over there, God just take care of them. It's not what we're talking about. We're talking about prayer warriors laboring fervently, getting the list out, like Helen said, finding out what the needs are, and applying themselves to really pray for these missionaries. I'm telling you, prayer is a powerful, powerful resource. Prayer can do more than a dollar can do. Come on now. Prayer. And so here you have a missionary prayer warrior. How about a missionary supporter? Uh in uh we'll we'll save time, but uh you have a guy named Gaius, G-I- D-A-I-U-S, however you say that name, Gaius. I just call him Guy. And uh but in 3 John verses 1 through 8, you have him mentioned. And there, John, in rating to Guy, points out that he was helping missionaries get to the field. He'd bring them by their house, he'd feed them, he'd load them up with stuff that they needed, and uh he'd help them get out on the field. Uh he'd take care of them by their house. He says this way, he says about God, he says, uh, hey, they don't have to be a burden to the Gentiles because of what you're doing for them In other words, they don't have to take from the unsaved folks. They can preach to them because of your help you're giving them. We can support those who are going to missions We can do stuff. Brother Frey gave a tremendous testimony how he shared his little scooter with them, and God used that thing in a great way. You know what he was doing? He was a missionary supporter. What about those young people that are preparing to go to the mission field? Hey, what about getting behind them and supporting them Uh we're not showing favoritism. God calls different people and leads people different ways, but hey, the commission for our church is getting the gospel to the unsaved. When somebody says God has called me to do that, let's rally behind him and help them. Missionary helpers. Get them out there. Man, we whine and complain because we don't missionaries are coming off on the field and none are going out. But what are we doing to support and help those that are gone? Missionary helper, God does not provide for us. I put this down. God does not provide for us to live in luxury or to hoard our finances. God provides resources to us to glorify God. And so you have Gaius, a missionary supporter. Let me give you a couple more here real quick. A missionary couple, Aquila and Priscilla. Can ever read about them? Neat couple, I would like to meet them. If they would come to our church, I'd take them out to lunch I would. You believe me? I would. Um uh what a neat couple. Uh Aquila and Priscilla. Apparently they were financially independent. They were tent makers, they had their own business, and apparently it comes across to me that they were able to work and get enough money up and then they could go travel and do something Then they've worked there a little bit and just kind of financially independent. And what you find them doing is traveling town to town. Preaching the gospel, winning souls, finding some believers, bringing them under wing, training them. They got Apollos and they took him and trained him in the gospel and taught him a little the way of the Lord more perfectly. They helped Paul uh visited Paul in prison, uh they would train workers, and they just gave themselves to advance the cause of Christ. Uh uh able to travel. How would you put that into today's uh situation? I view it this way, folks who have the means and are able to go on missionary trips, spend some time, a couple weeks, a month with a missionary Work with them, help them in any way they can, help them soul winning, maybe doing some uh building projects or whatever, teaching classes for them for a while, and then come and get some more means, and they go to another missionary, another place and They'll work there for maybe a week or two or three weeks, maybe spend a couple months and work with that missionary and help them any way they can, and then they come and get their means away, and then they go and do it again. What a tremendous ministry that would be Do you know what it would do for a missionary on a foreign field that's trying to teach, maybe train some nationals, trying to run a Sunday school program, trying to get a bus ministry started. He has no workers, just some nationals he led to the Lord. You know what it would mean to him to have a couple come for about two, three months and just help him teach Sunday school, help him get a bus route started, help him disciple some believers. You know what that would do The strength that would give to a missionary. And that's apparently what Aquila and Prisilla did. They traveled around. Teaching classes, maybe, building buildings, helping canvas neighborhoods. And then and there's about eight others I could come up with, but let me end with one more. A missionary. We have prayer missionaries, we have vegan missionaries, we have missionary businessmen, we have missionary couples. But what about a missionary? Apostle Paul. Probably the greatest model, example, of biblical missionary that has ever walked this planet. He was called of God, and he gave his life to advance the gospel in places where they had not heard the gospel. And in fact, he said that. He said, my ministry is to go where the preacher where the gospel has not been proclaimed. What a great calling. Is it possible? Is it possible in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that God's Holy Spirit would reach down and touch someone and say, I'm calling you to go to a field where the gospel's not preached, I want you to go there and do that. Is that possible? Sure it is. It has to be God doing it. It's God does the calling. We don't do that. Pastor can't stand up here and appoint you and you and all right you're going to be missionary to Kazakhstan and you're going to be a missionary to Belarus and you're going to be a missionary to Philippine. I can't do that. That's God's job. But God does do that. God does touch people's heart. Let me ask you this. Is God still calling missionaries to the field? Sure he is. Why is there so few missionaries going? Has God backed off on new how many he's calling? You know what I think? I think people I think God's calling now is as much as he ever has. But we've gotten so wrapped up in our lives and our plans and what we want and our dreams and all of that. When that Spirit of God does touch our heart, it's like, quit. You know, leave me alone. I've got my plans. And so, and and like I said, there's about five other people in here have different roles. This is what I'm trying to challenge us. Whether it's going to the mission field or staying here, Every one of us can play a part in the machinery that's called world missions. Every one of us can be a peace. In the cog a cog in the wheel. That's world missions. Whether it's taking a missionary trip and going and investing the time and effort and resources To go out and help for a little bit, or it's being a prayer warrior, or uh we all should pray, amen. We all should give what we can, what God directs us financially to get it out there. But what about helping missionaries? What about taking them in? What about going that extra mile? None of these, I mean every one of these just did as God directed them. This is what I'm asking our church to do, and I'm preaching it myself. Let's just do as God leads us and directs us in this matter of world. Maybe he's taking a missionary underwing. Maybe it's somehow they have a need and I can meet that need. Preachers have a tendency To say, oh, we need money and stuff for missions. And that has its place. But as I read about these people, there's a ton of other stuff On top of it. Now here's my challenge. I wrote it down. Let's, in this coming months and years, let's give ourselves to the Lord. That's every one of us as Christians. Let's just say, here I am, Lord, you've given us this incredible commission. It's urgent, it's desperately needed in the world. Taking the gospel. Lord, I'm giving myself to you. And however I wherever I fit into this scheme, whatever you see fit to use me, whatever you've created me for. I'm yours to use me and fit me in wherever I fit. You may be a Gaius, you may be a Barnabas. We didn't talk about Lydia, a couple women who were key factors in world missions. But whatever it is, let the Lord have his way. That's my challenge. Going, helping, going on mission trips, supporting those who are gone, being a local missionary. Uh Philip, that's what he was. You know what? God may not call you to go to a coordination field, but get this. God may use you. to lead someone to the Lord that he calls to go to the mention field. How about that? Betty mentions Sean Lundy. What a neat story. Do you know how Sean Lundy got saved? A church member had no idea who it was, left a gospel track on his windshield wiper. He came out from Walmart or whatever it was. store, got the gospel track, took it home, a couple weeks later, read it, got saved, went to church, uh the uh Jim Vineyard church here in in uh Oklahoma City When the church said, uh I read this track here, I got saved, is this a ticket for membership, or what exactly is this? They said, Well let's tell you that. They got same baptized Bible college they had there. Now he's down in sh in uh Brazil. We need people who were planning churches. Now didn't Paul the person go to Brazil Let's put the track on there because God's sure enough use them to get a missionary to Brazil. So let's just give ourselves Next week, when Brother Travis preaches to us about missions and shares what God is doing with and through him, let's say, Lord, here am I. What what role do I have? What part do I have? And God will use you. God will use you. Everyone. Of these folks that I mentioned started out, had one thing in common when they started out. They were simply faithful to the Lord. They simply were faithful. What God said, they did it. And you find God using them in various ways. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. I Brush through it a little bit here, but I pray that this would be a real challenge. You'd help us see missions in a little different perspective, that maybe we have a role to play that's more significant than we really consider considered before. And I just pray that each of us has our individual personalities you've given us, our individual abilities you've given us That we would just give that to you and let you fit us in where we fit in perfectly. Just like you did to all these other men and the women mentioned in Scripture. Have your way. My prayer is, Pastor Lord, for myself and our church, that every one of us would accept this challenge and just give ourselves to you for you to use us as you see fit. Bless our invitation now, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Listen