I was reading this past week about um uh James Irwin. Does anybody recognize the name James Irwin? Anyone recognize James Irwin was an astronaut with Apollo fifteen. He was the eighth person to walk on the moon. Uh he was the backup guy Uh do you remember that little um Dune Buggy they designed and they took up there and they tried that? He was the backup driver for that thing in case they'd get out away from the landing spot and something what happened to the driver, he was able to drive it. And um uh uh so he had tremendous experience Apollo 15, eighth person to walk on the moon. This is what I found out. I'd never known this before. I don't think it was real well known. He actually had a heart attack while they were on the moon Uh they um was up there and uh they picked up down in Nassau, they picked up, you know, they had monitoring on them and all that, and they picked up that something was going on in his heart And they began communicate back and forth, and they came to the conclusion he was in heart failure, he was having a heart attack on the moon Of course, they're very limited what they can do. And one of the head doctors said that they said, you know, in that capsule, they're in 100% oxygen. They're completely monitored more than he would be in any ICU. He says, I think he's going to be okay. He's like he's in an ICU where he's at now. So the incident passed, they were able to come back, they didn't announce it or anything. They didn't necessarily make it public at the time But he did, some months later, I think maybe a year later after he got back, he did have an actual heart attack, and then he had a third heart attack in 1991, in August 91, in which he passed away. Now, James Irwin was a devout Christian. He wrote a book about his experience on the moon It's a fascinating book. And he made this statement. Now I want to read. It's a fairly lengthy portion of what he said, and I believe it'll set the tone for what we're trying to preach on this morning. James Irwin said this about his time on the moon. I felt very special when I looked down at my footprints on the moon. The scientists said that they would be there for a million years. Looking up, I could see the earth, the size of a marble. It was so beautiful and so far away, and yet I felt strangely at home on the moon. The days I spent on the moon were very exciting. Not because I was there, but because God was there I could sense his presence. When I was on the moon, I was inspired to quote from Psalm 121: I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. I knew my help was coming from the Lord who had made heaven and earth. He had made the moon and made it possible for Jim Irwin to place his footprints there on the moon. And he made this statement. Listen to this. I believe Jesus Christ walking on the earth is far more important than any man walking on the moon. Just as surely as he walked 2,000 years ago, he wants to walk today in your life All you have to do is call upon him. Turn to him and invite him into your life by faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me Yield your life to the Master and let him guide your footprints. Isn't that a neat statement? James Irwin understood, even on the moon, the peace of God and the presence of God. We look at Psalm chapter 26 here in our Bibles. We notice verse number one, we find out that this chapter is actually a song to be sung by Israel. This song is written on the occasion of a great event. Israel is singing about their return to the promised land. Now, uh most of us here no doubt are familiar with Israel's history and how they ended up in the Promised Land and the different events that took place. If you recall, uh they were uh there in Egypt and there were slaves in Egypt. God raised up Moses who led them out of Egypt and through the wilderness for forty years. Moses passed away. Joshua comes on the scene. And he leads Israel into the promised land and they possess the land finally that God had promised to Abraham and to his descendants. In that land they experienced God's blessing. In that land where God would have them to be, where they were where God wanted them to be, they experienced God's protection. They experienced the presence of God. But over a period of time, Israel's, as a nation, their heart hardened against God. They became uh they became what we would call backslidden as a nation. They got away from the will of God. They disobeyed God in their daily lives and the administration of their country And uh uh they actually got to the point where their heart as a nation was so hardened against God that God would send prophets. warning them that they needed to turn back to God, that living in sin as a nation would destroy them. Living in sin takes away their joy and brings sorrow and sadness with it The more God warned them, the harder they hardened their hearts. The more God worked and tried to bring them back into fellowship with him, the stiffer their net got, and they absolutely refused To trust God and follow his instructions. It got to the point where God finally said, Okay, Israel, I gave you this land. I promised you this land. You do not appreciate it. You will not trust me. You will not obey me. I will take you away from this land. And God sent Israel as a nation into captivity For seventy years they, rather than submitting to God, they were forced to submit to uh Babylon and foreign kings And um so God began to work. And then eventually God says, I will send you back. I'll allow you to go back to the land. And that's what this song is about. When Israel had humbled themselves and turned back to the Lord, God allowed them to come back into the land and re-establish them. After years of backsliding, after years of a hard heart and disobedience and rebellion. God stirs things and he brings them back into the promised land. You know what's interesting is you read through your Bible and we study the experience of Israel as a nation. It often parallels our experience as individual Christians. Many times we will respond to God in similar ways that Israel as a nation respond to God. Many times we will allow our hearts to get hard. Many times we'll take things into our own hands and we'll run our lives the way we feel it should be run, and we won't trust God and we won't follow his instructions. Inevitably, that type of thinking, that type of living brings the chastisement of God. Here's the point: God loves us too much to let us go on our own self-destructive way. He will intervene. He will bring chastisement. He will bring correction. Not to be vengeful and hateful, but because he loves us. And he wants us to experience his blessings and his presence in our life, and so he chastens us. So that's where we're at with Israel. They're coming back into the land. They are singing this great song On this tremendous occasion as they come back. If you'll study Psalm 26 and actually 25 and the surrounding chapters are also tied in with this, it's a song of praise They're praising God for his goodness to them. They're praising God for the fact that he saved them and he's providing security for them. You see this through the chapter. It's a song of trust They had leaned on their own understanding. They had lived their lives the way they wanted to, and it was disaster and it was failure. Now they're coming back and they're trusting God again and they're singing about the fact that, Lord, we will trust you. And we will follow your instructions. It's a song of praise, a song of trust. It is a song of submission. For years they had been forced to submit to pagan kings. For years they have been forced to submit to uh hard, uh ungodly rulers, and now they're coming back and they're submitting to the Lord Jesus Christ. They're submitting submitting to the Lord Jehovah, they're submitting to God And they're experiencing his blessing. So this is a tremendous song. Did you notice that there in verse number one? In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Israel. Now we get down to verse 3 and 4. The Bible is full of some priceless promises. Do you ever notice that? You go through the Bible, and every now and then you come across a verse, or you come across a promise of God that is absolutely outstanding. I want to suggest this, and I highly recommend this, that uh if you've been saved for any length of time at all, you ought to establish reading your Bible every single day. Now, if you've been saved for any length of time at all, you ought to do this. You ought to read your Bible from cover to cover. I think every Christian ought to read from Genesis to Revelation. Doing it in a year's time is a good system And uh we have things set up and we'll announce here in a little bit some uh calendars we have and Bible reading schedules for this coming 2016 And I want to challenge everyone here that uh try and read your Bible through in the year 2016. Now, if you're a new Christian, you've just been saved in recent months, it might be a good idea to read maybe the Gospel of John. Gospel of Mark, Psalms, Proverbs, some of these others to get a feel for the Bible and uh to get uh get uh some basics of uh what the Bible is teaching. But at some point I said this in the Sunday school hour. At some point, every Christian needs to start reading their Bible through every book, every chapter, every verse of the Bible. Now as you do that If you begin reading in Genesis and working your way through the book through the Bible, you will come across verses that stand out in your mind. How many people know what I'm talking about? Can I get a witness? Anybody ever get through there You say there is a verse. That's an amazing verse. What a tremendous statement. And sometimes I recommend this. You underline that or highlight that in some way Well, Psalm uh Isaiah 26, verse 3 and 4, I believe, are one of those verses or a couple of those verses that just stand out. from Scripture. I have them underscored in my Bible in red ink. I actually have them bracketed and circled because of their significance. This here, verse 3 and 4, is one of the great passages in Scripture. Millions of people through the years have been blessed by these promises, have been challenged by these promises. Look at them with me again. That will keep them in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength What is perfect peace? It's a promise of perfect peace here. I want to suggest to you perfect peace is not the absence of trials. When God promises us that we will have that He will give to us perfect peace, He's not suggesting you and I are never going to have any trials, that we're never going to have any difficulties, that we're never going to have any heartaches Perfect peace is not dependent upon the absence of trials. In fact, we have a year coming up, 2016, beginning a new year next week, this coming week. Some of us are going to go through some very, very difficult trials this coming year. Some of us are going to face some difficulties that we did not anticipate. Some of us are going to face some heartaches we did not anticipate. On the other side. There's going to be some great blessings this coming year. There's going to be some great victories, I have no doubt about it. There's going to be some joys, perhaps, that we never experienced before in our life. We don't know what the future holds, but I do know this. That if we will trust God and we will follow His instructions, regardless of what this coming year holds for us, we can have perfect peace in our heart and soul, even in the midst of the most difficult storms. God has promised to us perfect peace. Perfect peace doesn't mean an absence of trials. Doesn't mean an absence of difficulties. Doesn't mean an absence of heartaches. I've seen people, there's Christians in this auditorium that have gone through some difficult, difficult storms, yet through it all. They had perfect peace down in their heart and soul. I've seen it. They can testify to that. Perfect peace. What is perfect peace? How do you describe that? How do you define it? attempts are perfect peace is inner tranquility, uh uh a contentment down inside my heart and soul that is not dependent upon certain circumstances or conditions. But a peace and a contentment and a confidence that God loves me and God is in control and it's going to be okay. And that peace settles down Even in the midst of a storm. A lot of people, a lot of people's lives are uh this peace is absent. I've been working with people now since 1985, really before that, but I consider going into full-time ministry, as I call it, and uh began in 1985. And over these years I've known people, Christians, whose lives have been characterized by anything but peace. Some people, their lives are a constant conflict There's constantly some drama going on. There's constantly some issue going on, and peace just seems to elude them. Some Christians, their lives are characterized not by peace, but by frustration. And they're constantly angry. At every little thing that comes along. And I say this often, you have to see it. We live in a country that is so angry anymore. Everybody is angry about everything Offended by the most ridiculous things. That is the exact opposite Of the peace that God promises us and that God wants us to have. Some lives are just filled with conflict and drama and frustration and anger. Some lives, even Christians, their lives are characterized not by the peace of God, the perfect peace of God, but their lives are characterized by bitterness and such a short temper and just fly off. That is not the way God designed us to live. That is not the way God saved us To live our lives. God saves us and His plan and His purpose and desire for us is that we have peace in our hearts. A perfect peace, regardless of our health. Some folks have this idea. If only I had more money. If I had a bigger income, if I had more money on hand, a larger bank account. Boy, then I would have peace in my heart. Listen, I'll be the first to admit money can cause a lot of disturbance But I'm suggesting you, God says that we can have peace regardless of our financial situation. Some folks have this idea: if only I had a nicer house If we had a bigger house, a fancier house, if only we had a nicer car, if only I had nicer clothes to wear, boy then I would have peace in my heart. I'm telling you, peace of God, the perfect peace of God, cannot be bought with money. It is not found in a car or in a house or in a certain style of clothes. Peace of God. Some folks have the idea, you know, if only I had better health. And I thank God. God has blessed me over these years with tremendous health. I'm very, very grateful for that. I don't want to take that for granted. But I want to suggest to you, I've known Christians for many years. Who have lived in tremendous pain and had tremendous uh physical challenges, and yet in the midst of all of that, they displayed the peace of God. The peace of God We could list names of folks. Some folks say, if only I had a better marriage, if only I had a different spouse, if only I had different parents, if only this, that, and the other. I'm here to tell you the peace of God is not dependent upon my circumstances. It is dependent upon my relationship with my Creator. It's where that peace comes in. We don't take time to turn there. I would love to, but for the sake of time we won't. But in Job chapter 3, verse 25 and 26, Job Job, in the midst of his trials, got his eyes off of the Lord. And if you'll read that passage carefully at some point, you'll find that Job, for a period of time, lost the peace of God. His family was killed. Do you know the story? All but his wife was killed. He lost all his possessions. He lost his own health in tremendous pain. And for a period of time there he got his eyes off the Lord, and he got it onto his circumstances and his condition and his situation, and he lost the peace of God. But thank God if you read to the end of the book, he got his eyes back on the Lord and the peace of God settled down. And uh God restored that to him. If you would, I'd like you to take your Bible. And we're going to look at a few passages this morning. Keep your place here in Isaiah. We're going to come back. But go with me to the Gospel of John for a moment, if you would. John in chapter 16. Now stick a marker in John, because we're going to come back to John a little bit later in the message. But I want you to notice some statements the Lord Jesus Christ made. In John chapter 16, and with this idea that we can have peace in spite of trials, in spite of difficulties. In fact Not only does the Lord promise and make available to us peace, but Jesus in this chapter, if you'll see here in a moment, he promises tribulation. He promises that we're going to have heartaches. He promises we're going to have difficulty. John chapter 16, and come down with me if you would to verse 33, the last verse of the chapter. Verse 32 he says, Behold, the hour cometh, yea, and now is now come that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. Now look at verse thirty-three. These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. Now look what he says. In the world ye shall have what? Tribulation. That's a statement. In the world, ye shall have tribulation. I'm telling you, we live in an old sinful world. How many folks have noticed that? You can't hardly watch the news. You can't hardly read a newspaper article and not see very clearly this is an old sinful world. This world has problems. This world has heartaches. And as long as you and I are living in this world, we are going to face tribulation. There's no point. When I was young, I thought, boy, when I get older, it's going to be easier. You know, you're 12, 13 years old. Man, I get out of this house, it's going to be great. You know what I found out when I got out of the house? I had to pay for stuff. I had to work full time. I had to cook my meals. And then you think uh you're in Bible college and you think man I get out of Bible college, it's gonna be awesome, no studying all the time and no other I got out of college, I went in the ministry. Guess what I do all the time? Studying all the time? I love it. And we think, well, when I get older I'll retire. And uh oh, it'll be awesome. And uh you get old and retire, my dad says, I go two places now that I'm retired, the doctor and the pharmacy. As long as we live on this old sinful world, we're going to face tribulation. We're going to deal with it. But you see what the Lord says? But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Even in a world full of sin and sorrow and heartache, the child of God, we can have the perfect peace of God in our heart and soul. In our heart and soul. God promises tribulation, but he also promises peace. God's perfect peace is given into the heart and the soul of men and women In spite of external conditions, in spite of whatever 2016 holds, you and I in our heart and soul, we can have the settled, perfect peace of God. Now, I don't mean to put them on the spot, but I tell you, I admire this couple so much. I was thinking as I was preparing the message, I thought of Paul and Mildred Harvey. What a testimony they have been to me for the last 22 years. I've seen that couple go through some horrendous heartaches. I've seen them stand beside the grave of their oldest son. I've seen them shed tears And I'll never forget, till my dying day, I'll never forget sitting in their kitchen after Sherman was called home unexpectedly to heaven. And Paul said this to me. He said, Pastor, We just trust God. We just trust God. What a testimony. There wasn't anger and throwing things around and it wasn't cursing God, but there was a settled peace of God. And we're going to trust him. When I don't understand what God is doing, when I don't understand why my heart is so broken, I'm just going to trust God. That's what he's talking about. Peace. In the world you're going to have heartache. In the world you're going to stand beside graves. In the world you're going to be in ICUs. In the world, you're going to have financial headaches. But be of good cheer. I have overcome this world. Even in the midst of all of this, if you will just trust God, if you'll just put your faith in Him, follow His instructions, God says you can and will have perfect peace. in your heart and soul. Perfect peace of God. The perfect peace of God. If you would come back here to Isaiah. I want to break this couple verses down here, this passage, this tremendous promise from God. I want us to notice, first of all, while you're making your way back here to Isaiah, I want us to notice the promise of peace. This promise of peace. Look at verse number three with me. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. That is an absolute promise of God. The certainty of this promise. I hate to say this. I hate to say this, but there are some folks, whenever they promise something, I'm very, very skeptical it's actually going to happen. Anybody can I get a witness? Anybody know anyone like that uh throughout the years? You meet somebody, man, they'll promise you the moon Especially here we're coming into an election cycle this year. We're gonna hear all kinds of promises. Uh this is my advice. This is just your preachers, whatever it's worth, I'd be very, very skeptical a lot of these promises you hear are going to be made. Well they promise the moon and back. Some people when they promise, eh, it may or may not happen. Some people, when they promise, it ain't never gonna happen. But I'm here to tell you, when God promises something, you can mark it down. It will happen. God's promises are sure. God's word is sure. When God promises that He will save the person who turns to Him and from their sin, they'll turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, accept Him as their personal Savior. God promises that person salvation. You can mark it down. That person has salvation. You'll come to Jesus Christ, acknowledging him your sinner, turning to him in repentance in faith, accept him as your own personal Savior. Trusting Jesus and Jesus alone. You don't have to wonder whether God saved you or not. You don't have to wonder whether he's forgiven his sins or not. You don't have to wonder whether he s uh did what he promised he would do in his word or not. God keeps his promises. I love John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Listen to this That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's a promise of God. And God's promises are sure. When God promises salvation to those who turn to him, he keeps his promise. When God promises eternal security He keeps that promise. I love John ten twenty-eight, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. God promises that the people He gives eternal life to, they will never perish. Perish means die and go to hell Listen to me. If a person genuinely accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they genuinely get saved, and they eventually somehow end up in hell, God lied. Because God promised that the people he gives eternal life to should never perish. Romans 10. 13. We're familiar with that. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If a person genuinely, sincerely, with all their heart calls on Jesus Christ for salvation from sin and judgment, God promises that person will be saved. Did I ever tell you this? On May 7, 1979. 1030 at night, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior, 19-year-old kid. My dad and I were talking the other day, and uh he says, um, he goes, I just, he's crying, he says, uh, he says, I just can't believe what a miracle you are. I said that's what I've been trying to convince people for years. But he's talking, he says, he says, what God has done in your life I tell you, I just stand back, I don't know. You know, just a just a messed up kid. And accept Jesus Christ and God transformed my life so dramatically, so instantaneously. But I'll be honest with you, for a month or so, I I really didn't grasp this idea that God had actually saved me. And that my sins are forgiven, and I would be I'm accepted by God because of what Christ has done for me And I struggled with that, and I didn't fully grasp it. And one day I was reading a sermon in the Sword of the Lord. It's by John R. Rice. It was Romans 10, 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Romans 1013. And as I read that, it dawned on me. There's no doubt. I absolutely called on the Lord Jesus Christ on that Monday night. With all my heart, I was desperate. I called on the Lord Jesus Christ. And this thought went in my mind. You know, if I die and go to hell, God lied to me. Because he promised that whoever calls on him shall be saved. And I know I called on him. And if I end up in hell, then God's a liar. And I came to this conclusion, God is not a liar, therefore I must be saved. And that settled it in my heart and mind all these years, thirty-five plus years now. It has been settled in my mind. God keeps his word. When he says he'll save us, he'll save us. When he says he'll keep us safe. He will keep us safe. Hey, when God promises that He'll meet our needs, you mark it down, God will meet our needs. For my years through Bible college, I claim Matthew 6. 33, but heek first The kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these things, the needs of life, food and clothing and raiment, all that all these things shall be added unto you. If I simply do what God says, God will do what he promised. He says, you put me first, and I'll take care of your needs. You seek me first And I'll make sure you've got clothes on your back, I'll make sure you've got grub in your gut, I'll make sure you've got a place to live. I will take care of you. When God promises to take care of us, you mark it down. God will take care of us. You say, Preacher, I just don't see how it'll be met next week. Listen, you put God first, God will see you through it. God will see you through it. It's a promise of God. It's a promise of God. He'll meet the needs of those who put him first. He keeps that promise. As we go into a new year, and I'm excited about this coming year As we go into the year 2016, I pray that every one of us will get a hold of this one simple concept. God keeps his promises. God does what he promised to do. Now look here with me. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. The promise of God. That word that phrase there, keep him, has this idea to secure him, to preserve him. I like this, the one definition I found as I was studying that, thou shalt keep him, has this idea. of putting a armed guard around him. Sometimes a general or somebody will tell some of his soldiers in the midst of a battle they've taken a city and they'll say, you guys station yourselves and you keep that city. In other words, you guard it, you make it secure. Don't let anybody don't let the enemy come in and take it back. You you garrison that city. Put a blockade up around it Notice what he promises. Thou wilt keep him. God will put a blockade up around us. God will protect us in perfect peace. Now notice again, he says, that will keep him in perfect peace. Not just peace. Doesn't just say, oh, I'll give you peace, but he gives us perfect peace. How do you define that? Perfect peace. It's a double promise of peace. Not just peace, but perfect peace. Absolutely thorough, complete. I want to suggest to you it is a supernatural peace that only God can give. You know There'll be folks this coming Thursday night. They'll be out drinking, rocking and rolling, partying Carrying on. You know what they're looking for? Looking for peace. People are looking for peace. Going to drugs, sex. Fulfillment, work, workaholics, doing all this stuff, trying to find some peace, trying to find fulfillment. I'm here to tell you this morning. This world will never, ever, ever bring peace to the heart of man or woman. This world cannot do it. Every one of us have a God-shaped vacuum in our innermost being, and only God can fill that vacuum. Only God can give that peace. That's why we look out in the world, we see such frustration, such people grasping at the most bizarre things, trying to identify who they are. We got white folk think they're black. We got uh men think they're women, we got I mean this world is so confused. What are they trying to do They're trying to find some peace, trying to find out who I am, trying to find where I at where I'm at. What am I? What am I? I'll tell you what you are. You and I were people created in the image of God that desperately need Jesus Christ to fill that vacuum in our hearts It's a peace that only God can give us. A perfect peace. A heaven-sent peace. A supernatural peace. I referenced John chapter 10, where the Lord said, verse 28, he says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And he goes on. For sake of time, we won't turn. But he goes on and he says this neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. He says, I am my father one, neither shall they pluck them out of my father's hand. When God says that he will keep us in perfect peace, I think Jesus is kind of alluding to that to a degree. And where he says, when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, Jesus Christ takes a hold of me. And then around Jesus Christ, I'm in the hands of Jesus Christ, then it's almost like he's saying, then God's hand comes around Jesus' hand. And I am secured and safe twofold. In the hands of God. Does that make sense? You follow what I'm saying? And so God gives us a tremendous promise here that He will keep us in perfect peace. In perfect peace. I referenced Paul and Mildred, but I'm telling you there's people all across this auditorium that could stand up and testify that God gives peace in the midst of trials. Young and old could stand up and testify, Oh, I grew up in this type of home and it was tough. We had this poverty, I'm dealing with this sickness. And in the midst of all of that, God gives peace. Listen to Psalm 29, 11 The Lord will give strength to his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. Psalm 119, 165, our memory verse. Great peace have they, which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them So the first thing I notice in this passage, I've got to move quickly, is the promise of peace. God promises us that. The second thing I want to notice is the power behind the peace. He says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. The word thou refers up to verse 1 where it says, Salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwark. It's referring to God Almighty. The thou is the Almighty God. God Himself gives us this peace. Look at verse 12. Lord, thou wilt ordain peace for us, for thou also hast wrought in all our works in us. Listen, a politician might promise you and I peace, we may or may not get it. But I'm telling you, when God promises peace, we have the sovereignty of Almighty God behind that promise And God can perform. God can carry it out. God is able to settle our minds. God is able to calm our doubts and fears. God is able to dissolve our worries and struggles. Remember when the disciples were with the Lord Jesus out on the boat in the Sea of Galilee and the storm blew up, and they became sore afraid. And the Lord was asleep. And though they came and woke him up and said, Lord, carest thou not that we perish? I'm telling you, they had lost peace. There was no peace in their hearts. And they were scared to death. The Lord stood up and he looked at the storm and he said, I think with tremendous authority, peace, be still. The Bible tells us in that moment that storm stopped. And that sea became calm. And the power of God Almighty was behind that command. Peace. Be still. And the winds and the storms obeyed Almighty God. Disciples react, they get up, they said, what man is this? They worshiped him I'm here to tell you, the God that calmed those storms on the Sea of Galilee is the same God that calms the stores in your storms in your heart and my life. He is the one that's bringing us this peace. Almighty God. He can change fear to peace. One way God keeps us in perfect peace is by changing our perspective. Notice what he says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. The peace of heart, the perfect peace in my heart and soul is closely related to how I think. The way my perspective on life, my perspective on the future, my perspective on my circumstances. When I get to the point as a Christian Where I recognize that God is more powerful than anything I'm going to face in life, I can have peace in my heart There's some people scared to death about what 2016 holds. Listen, I'm here to tell you, I don't know what 2016 holds, but I know this There is an all-powerful, almighty God in heaven that can handle whatever this year throws at us. The power behind this promise God is more powerful than any circumstances we are. But it's our thinking I have to have the right perspective. All right, God is more powerful than this. God is wise. God is good. I like these three thoughts. In fact, I almost preached on this. I like these three thoughts. God uh wants what's best for me because he loves me. Isn't that good? He wants what's best for me because he loves me. Listen, I'm glad God loves me. I'm glad he wants what's best for me. But not only that, not only does God want what's best for me, he knows what's best for me because he's all knowing. How many people here, you ever wanted what was best for your child, but you really weren't sure what it was? Well, I don't know what to do. I want what's best for them, but what do we do? What do we do? You know what I'm talking about I love them. I want what's best, but my understanding is limited. I don't know what's best. That's never the case with God. He always knows what's best for us. But not only that He loves us and wants what's best for us. He's all powerful, and he's all-wise. He knows what's best for us, but I like this one. He's all-powerful, and he can do what's best for us. Sometimes we love someone, we want what's best for them. We know what the best thing is, but we're powerless to do it. And I'm unable to. That's never the case with God. He loves you and I. He knows what's best for us. He's all-knowing. He knows what's best for us. And he's all powerful. He can perform it. He can make it happen. So we have the pro the power behind this peace. We have the promise of this peace. Last of all, the prerequisite. And I've got to end with this Notice what he says. There's a condition here. There's a requirement if I'm going to experience this peace that will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is what? Then verse 4 he kind of summarizes, he says, trust ye in the Lord forever. For in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength, whose mind is stayed on thee. That's a fascinating study there. The word mind has this idea. It kind of has to do with our perspective on things. That will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on the whose whose perspective on the world And on life is stayed on the Lord. It has this idea. In fact, I wrote this in the margin of my Bibles. The word mind has the idea of our plans and our purposes. All my plans for 2015, all my purposes I've laid out for this coming year. If I'm going to have perfect peace, I've got to keep all those plans and purposes, my perspective, my mind for this coming year. I need to keep it stayed on the Lord. What does it mean to stay it on the Lord? It has this idea to lean on, to trust in. To be upheld by, to be sustained by. I like this definition, whose mind is stayed on the Lord. It has this idea, taking my plans and my purposes and what I see for the future, and taking all that. And placing it in the hands of the Lord and say, God, it's not my plans anymore, but it's your plans. It's not my purposes anymore, but it's your purposes. I'm taking my mind and letting it be stayed on thee, trusting you with my future, trusting you with lies ahead. He says, if you'll do that. I'll keep you in perfect peace. Perfect peace. Says, because he trusteth in me. The word trusteth there has this idea to have complete confidence in. To be totally rely upon him, here's a tremendous thing. I look at my future I look at my circumstances, my situation, my health, my finances, my relationships, my home, my marriage. I look at everything that's important to me in life. And I see the future and sometimes I'm overwhelmed with fear and worry and doubt. But I take my mind and I think, you know, my plans, my worries, my f pla my uh uh uh future and all of this, my purposes. I'm going to take them all and I'm just going to put them in the hands of God because I am absolutely confident that God knows best I'm absolutely confident that God can and will work this out according to His will, not necessarily mine. Am I making sense? He says, if you'll do that, if you'll do that, stop leaning on your own understanding. Stop following your own plans and purposes. Put them in the gut hands of God. Trust him. And you'll put peace in your heart and soul that this world cannot give. It's total submission, it's total surrender, it's total dedication. Lord, no longer I that liveth, but you. I'm gonna live for you. I'm gonna live for you. The best thing I can do in my life for my own well-being For the good of my family, for the health of my church, is to learn to simply trust and obey God. And if I can go through 2016, trusting God with all my heart, with all my needs, Lord, I just trust you. God says He'll give us perfect peace. Husbands, You know the best thing you can do you and I can do for our wives? Listen to this. The best thing I can possibly do for Kathy is for me to learn to trust God and do exactly what He says. Be the best thing in the world. A wife, best thing you can do for your husband to make your marriage what God intends for it to be, is learn to trust God. And follow his instructions. Do what he says. Trust him completely. The best thing a parent can do for a child in 2016, you love your children, you want what's best. Get to the point where you trust God completely and say, God, I'm going to follow your instructions, I'm going to do it the way you say to do it, and not lean on my own understanding. Kids, you know what the best thing you can do for your parents? The best thing you can do for your parents is learn to trust God and do exactly what God says for you to do as a child. And it'll bring God's blessing, bring God's peace. It's true across the board. The best thing I can do for a friend, the best thing I can do for my church, is to keep my mind stayed in the Lord and trust Him. And follow his instructions. When he says to do something, trust him and do it. When he says don't do something, trust him and don't do that. And let the Lord direct you and lead you. I like what James Irwin said. It says, more greater than a man walking on the moon. Was the day that God came to earth and in the person of Jesus Christ walked on planet Earth. And he made it possible for you and I to find forgiveness of sins and to have the peace of God. Perfect peace that this world cannot have give in our hearts and lives. Did I make sense this morning? I trust that God will challenge us and help us so we go into a new year. Trusting the Lord, lean not leaning on our own understanding and saying, Lord, let your will be done in my life. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, it's the most important thing d in your life is that you get that settled. Don't go another day without knowing that you've been saved by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Those of us today that have trusted Christ, let's make a decision here on this last Sunday before the new year, is I'm just going to make this coming year a year of faith in God. A year of keeping my mind stayed on him and leading him, leading me and directing me and fully trusting him. I'll tell you, we'll find the peace of God. And next year, this time, wherever we are, whatever the situation is, we can look back and say, God kept his word And God gave me peace. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. As we finish up this year and look to the new year, I pray you'd help us as Christians to humble ourselves before you and put our mind, our plans and purposes in your hands. and let you have your way. Their heads bowed up