Chapter 7, we're looking at the Sermon on the Mount, and we've been in here quite a while, and we've come to verse 7 through 11. And uh we have kind of parked it here for a little while. We're probably going to be here for a little bit more. This is such a powerful subject. Verse 7 says this. Of course, this is the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. And he's speaking not to unsaved people, he's preaching to his disciples. Now, at this point, there's multitudes of them. They've accepted him as Savior, and they are seeking to live for him. They're disciples. And he makes this statement in the sermon. He makes this statement, ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Then he elaborates, for every one that asketh receiveth. And he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. He's being very emphatic here. Then he goes on and he illustrates what he means. Or what man is there of you whom, if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Of course the answer is no. If he asks a fish, will he give him a serpent? No, of course not. If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask them? What an amazing passage of Scripture. I think maybe if you look at this and meditate on it, you understand why I want to park here for a little while. And uh so I want to speak tonight. We're breaking down different aspects of prayer I want to speak tonight on one of the, I think, key aspects of prayer, and that is persistence. Persistence in prayer. So let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us about this matter of persistence and prayer. Father in heaven, Lord, it is good to be back home and uh, Lord, with our family. And I ask now, as we've all assembled together here this evening, in your name We have our Bibles open before us, and we're looking at this phenomenal passage, Lord. And I'm asking, dear God, that you would please teach us from this passage on this matter of prayer. Or we feel like we're one of the disciples sitting there on the side of the mount listening to you. And uh we're asking you to to help us and teach us Lord, I I can't, I don't have anything to offer myself. So Lord, I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours. I ask that you would speak through me and you be our teacher on this matter of prayer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think this passage here, and I've probably said this before, I'll probably say it numerous times again, but I think this passage here is one of the most significant passages in Scripture on the subject of prayer If you ask somebody, just ask Christian randomly, you ask them what is a verse about prayer? What would be a prayer promise? I venture to say That a lot of people would say Matthew seven verse seven through eleven, Ask and it shall be given to you. Seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you So this is a tremendously uh significant statement in Scripture on this issue of prayer And without a doubt, one of the most important aspects of the Christian life is having a healthy prayer life. If my prayer life is not what it ought to be, I've found that I'm not what I ought to be as a Christian. If a church is not, if if it the prayer life of a church Is not what it ought to be, then that church is not going to be what it ought to be. Prayer is so vital to having a healthy, strong Christian life. And if we neglect prayer, we neglect it to our own hurt. And it hurts us spiritually. I believe in new believers, if a person is just recently saved, one of the first things they need to learn to establish is a healthy prayer life. If a person's been shaved a long time, maybe 40, 50, 60 years, that person needs to have a good, healthy, consistent prayer life. It is so vital to Christian life. You and I are never going to get to the point in our Christian life where we do not desperately need prayer. We're never going to reach that point. And um it's so important for a new believer, a longtime believer, a young person. I want to suggest to you, these young children downstairs in master clubs, the teens here with us tonight Every one of them, regardless of their age, desperately needs to know how to pray. And needs to pray. And the oldest senior citizen here We're not going to name names, but um the oldest senior citizen here desperately needs to pray just as much as that child does All points in between. You get what I'm trying to say? Importance of prayer in our Christian life. We can have scores and scores and scores of verses memorized, but if we don't pray We're hurting ourselves. We can have the theology, we can understand theology inside and out. Be the greatest theologian. I don't pray. We don't pray We're not strong spiritually. We're weak and anemic spiritually. I believe there ought to be prayer in our homes. I believe strongly husbands and wives ought to pray together. Want to pray together on a regular daily basis. You say, well, I know how men are sometimes. Uh you know, we get well, I'm just not comfortable praying with my wife. Well I tell you, you better get over that Better get over that and you better learn to pray with your wife. Hold hands and bow your heads and hearts together and pray that God blesses your marriage, God protects us God blesses your home. I think in the home, parents and kids ought to pray together. I tell you, mom and dad, you're hurting your children if you don't pray with them You're hurting them, you ought to get together on a family time and get that family together. I believe a child ought to learn to pray from their parents That would be where they learn how to pray and they learn the importance of prayer. So prayer in the home with the children and parents. By the way, it's not bad for brothers and sisters and brothers and brothers to pray together Um, uh that's not a bad thing for the kids to get together and brother and brother and sister pray. They might have a knockdown, drag out fight, but when they're done they ought to get together and pray, amen. Or pray before they fight and then fight and then pray and Churches ought to pray. Uh how about praying on the job? What about that? I'm wondering if maybe our country would be a little stronger than what it is if Christians wouldn't be afraid to pray on the job or out in the place. Uh we've never had an issue. Uh uh when Kathy and I got married a long time ago. Uh no, thirty years ago we got married and uh we had our honeymoon. Uh we got married on Saturday, j uh um February fourteenth, and then uh we were going up to Pigeon Forge. I had a beautiful, exotic, romantic uh uh um motel reserved for us. I mean it was something. And uh we got up there and they sold our room out under us. I was curious And so um anyway we stopped at uh Best Western along the highway. And uh we stopped there and lo and behold we got up the next morning, Sunday morning, we were going to go to church. It was a Saturday, we were going to go to church, we had found a church in the area, we were eating breakfast And uh here my mom walks in. She was driving home for the wedding, just pulled off of that exit, stayed in that motel that night, and uh stayed in there. She goes, Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know you were here. That has nothing to do with my message, but what what does have to do with my message is that morning we were eating breakfast. You remember this, Kathy, and uh we got our meal at the restaurant and we We bowed our heads and prayed. And uh we just wanted to start things outright. We're going to eat a meal, we're going to pray, we bowed our heads and pray. This fellow over in the corner came over. He says, Hey, I saw you young people. He called us young people. And uh He said, uh so you young people, pray. And he said, What a blessing, what a testimony. We I appreciate that. So what I'm trying to say is this we ought to pray on the job and out in the uh in the restaurants in the different places. We ought to pray everywhere. We ought to pray everywhere. I tried real hard with my oldest son, well both my boys, but oldest son was into it more hunting and all that and we tried very, very hard. Or we'd go up in the woods in the morning, we'd stop and say, Let's pray together. Ask God, give us safety, get us a nice big buck, and uh but we'd pray And I believe to this day he still uh uh does that uh uh I guess all the time. I know he does often. But we ought to pray, we ought to pray, ought to pray. I was thinking um of uh three most influential ministries that I know of, that I've been exposed to, within the independent fundamental Baptist circles. One of them is the sword of the Lord. What a phenomenal ministry. Going on 80 years. That thing has been going out. Printed press just around the world. What a phenomenal ministry that has been. What an influence on our world that ministry has been. Then I thought of Neighborhood Bible Time. Going on two million children through the ministries of neighborhood Bible time for over 70 years. That's a whole generation. has been influenced by that ministry. I thought about FBN, that little church reaching out, 214 something Countries around the world. I asked Brother Dave, he would show me stuff. I said, Brother Dave, I said, there's no way to know this. But how many people do you think at any given time are tuned in to this station around the world everywhere all the stations all the affiliates everything how many people are tuned in he says we have no idea I said do you think a million he said that's a very possible number At any given time. Five hundred thousand. What a ministry. And I got thinking about those three ministries that at least that I've been involved with to some extent uh are so influential that every one of them was started by a man of tremendous prayer. John R. Rice, what a phenomenal man of prayer, started the Sword of the Lord, that great book. And I want to order this and get this for everybody. Prayer, Asking and Receiving by John O'Rice. Everybody ought to read that. That's phenomenal. Charles B. Holmescher, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, one of the most praying men I've ever met in my life We just prayed and prayed. His whole life was saturated with prayer. And then of course Dr. Eborne, Brother Clyde Eborne, what a man of prayer. First time I talked to him, we talked on the phone. He goes, Well, Brother Leatherman, we were talking about getting the radio and translator had questions He said, before we were done, uh we were finishing up the conversation, he said, Tell you what, he says, Let's pray together. Over the phone we bowed and prayed. And every time I've been with him, every time I've talked to him At some point we stopped and prayed. In fact, we were down there, we went out to dinner uh with him and uh his nephew, and uh every time we got in the car he said, before we drive, let's Let's pray. Oh Lord, let's bless our trip. Lord, help us be safe. And I can't help but think the blessings of God on those ministries are the result of some men that understood the importance and the power of God. power of prayer. So we're looking at this here, and the Lord makes this tremendous statement on prayer. And so far, we've noted this great promise of prayer. The first time we came across this in our series, we stopped and we took note of the phenomenal promise of prayer. And then if you remember, it's been some time ago, but we looked at our approach to prayer, and we said when we pray, we ought to be submissive. Remember that We ought to be submissive to the Lord, not my will but thy will be done, yielded to the Lord. And we noted throughout Scripture where prayer, uh one of the our approach our whole approach to prayer isn't coming and demanding God to do something, but coming very submissive to God. To God, understanding He is wise and uh much wiser than we are. Then we pointed out, if you remember, before we, Kathy and I took our great adventure, Um we noted the uh the problems hindering our prayer. And of course, sin and unbelief and squabbling and skepticism, the whole little list we went through there of problems. Now tonight, I want to take uh just a few minutes and notice persistence in prayer Another aspect of prayer that we need to understand. You see, I want to, my goal in studying these verses of Scripture here is not only know what they say, but I want us to understand what the Lord needs. And know more about prayer than just some facts about it, fully understand what prayer is and how it how uh uh I need incorporate into my life. So persistence in prayer. I want us to notice and we're probably going to take at least one or two more lessons, uh messages on this. But tonight I want us to notice the principle throughout Scripture on this matter of persistence in prayer. We see here, he says, ask. Seek knock. And then he reiterates that again in verse number eight, for everyone that asketh, receive it. Seeketh not and knocketh. And to me, the implication here looks pretty clear. He's talking about being very, very persistent. Seeking, I'm seeking, I'm knocking, uh-uh, I'm asking, I'm asking, I'm asking, I' Seeking and seeking I'm not in anaki And you just get this idea of a real persistence here. Not satisfied with just asking, I'm going to start seeking. I'm not content just seeking. I'm going to start knocking and just getting after this, refusing to give up, and just pressing the issue. And I think that's a principle throughout Scripture. If you would, we're going to look at a couple verses here. Go to Luke chapter 11. Luke chapter 11. And you hear you have the Lord reiterating some of the statements he's making here And Luke chapter 11, Matthew, Mark, Luke, get over there, verse chapter 11. I want to begin reading in verse number 1. I'm going to read down a fair number of verses here just to get the whole context Then I want to zero in on a few statements the Lord makes. In Luke chapter 11, look at verse number one. It says, And it came to pass, look at this, that as he, who's he? Jesus, as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. As John also taught his disciples. Now let me ask you a question here. What prompted these disciples to make that request? Jesus praying, I would like to submit to you that it was more than just him praying. They saw how he prayed I kind of get the impression, now I might be reading into this, I'll allow for that. I might be reading into this a little bit, but I kind of get the impression that when they saw the Lord praying and they heard the Lord praying They kind of came to the conclusion, man, compared to his praying, I'm not even praying. Compared to intensity and the consistency and the persistency of his prayer, it's like I'm not even praying. Lord, teach me to pray I have a hard time believing these guys didn't pray to some extent before. But they saw the Lord and it stirred a desire down in their heart. That is how I need to pray. And so they make this request. Lord, teach us to pray. Then the Lord goes into what is commonly called the Lord's prayer. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven How would be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done done as in heaven, so in earth. Give us this day, day by day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And he goes on and he gives this illustration. And he said unto them, Question, who's the them? Disciples. It's not a salvation statement. He's teaching his disciples about prayer. And look what he says. He says unto them, which of you shall have a friend? And shall go into him at midnight and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves. So what's this guy doing? Going to his friend and he's doing what? He's he's making a request. He's praying to his friend. He's asking his friend for something. It's a It's in the strict definition of the word, he's praying. And so he's asking his friend, lend me three loaves He gives the reason for a friend of mine and his journey has come to me and I have nothing to set before him. All right, that's a fair question. That's a fair request. Nothing wrong with that And he, the fella inside, the friend from within, and he from within shall answer and say, trouble me not. Lord, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give to thee I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his what? Importunity He will rise and give him as many as he need it. Now we'll come back to that. Let me finish the context here And I say unto you, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open to you. Everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth. To him that knocketh it shall be open. There you have that statement again If a son shall ask bread of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or shall he ask an egg? Will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more And so there's the context. This is an extended statement on prayer. But I want to come back to this Incident here, the Lord's using an illustration. He says the guy shows up at night, uh, he doesn't have any food for him, so he goes to his neighbor, it's his friend, and he says, Hey, can I get some loaves of bread? I have a friend come by, I don't have anything to give him, can I get something And the guy says, basically, no. The first part. I'm in bed. The door's locked. The kids are in bed with me. And I can't. But because of his importunity The guy gets up out of bed, goes gets some bread, and gives it to the fellow. Now, my question is, what does he mean by that statement because of his importunity? What does that mean? Well, I got looking it up. All right, what what do you what do you because of his persistence but he's desperate because of the desperate situation he's in. Anybody else want to take a shot at the word importunity? I got looking it up and how it's you, Cindy. Because of his intensity, his passion behind it. I got looking it up and um the word itself, it comes from the word that means shameless. So l the most strict literal definition is kind of like shamelessness I thought, huh, I don't know how if it's then I got looking at it, and then it expanded on the definition and has this idea, shameless persistence Another definition I came across is to persevere without regard to time, place, or circumstances. He doesn't care what time it is, he doesn't care what the situation is, he doesn't care where he's at, he is not going to quit asking, making this request. He is pressing it and pressing it and pressing it and pressing it. And it's kind of like the idea the guy inside finally says, All right, already All right, here you go. And I think what the Lord is emphasizing here is persistence in prayer. Pressing the issue and pressing the issue. I believe the Lord is clearly teaching here that we should be persistent in our prayers I don't know, but I would venture to say, looking out in a crowd tonight, I would venture to say there's a good number of people tonight that you have something you really need God to do. You have something you are really, you're like this friend, this fellow that's got a guy show up. I have nothing to give him, and maybe your situation, I don't know what it is between you and God, but you're saying, I really, really need this. And the Lord is saying you need to be persistent, shamelessly persistent. And I'll try and explain what I believe he means by that. So here we have a very clear teaching. The Lord is very obviously emphasizing persistence in prayer. Let's go to another one, Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18. And verse number one again. And this here is a classic statement on prayer. I have it underlined and read in my Bible. Luke chapter 18 and verse number one. And he, again, the Lord Jesus, spake a parable unto them to this end. That men ought always to pray, but he doesn't stop there, it's not the end of the statement. Men ought always to pray, and what? Not and not to faint, and ought always to pray and not to faint. And he goes on, and he gives uh a great illustration here, I think, saying there was in a city a judge. Now this judge is hardcore. He doesn't fear God, and he doesn't regard man. It's feareth not God, neither regardeth man. How many people here would agree that sounds like a hard cookie right there? This guy ain't messing around. All right, so that's the the picture we have of this judge. And there was a widow in that city. I mean, I don't know about you, but I don't picture a widow being a real No, just a meek little lady here, you think. I don't know, I met a few widows that were pretty hardcore, but uh there was a widow in that city, and she came to him saying, Avenge me of my adversary And this judge that doesn't fear God doesn't regard man, he would not, verse 4, for a while. But afterward he said within himself, though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow Is driving me nuts, is pretty much what it means there. Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her what? Continual coming she weary me. Saying this woman's wearing me out. She's driving me crazy. She's troubling me. I just every time I turn around, it's avenge me of the adversary, avenge me of the adversary. And finally he says, Ah All right, already. And the Lord said, verse 6: Hear what the unjust judge saith. Shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry? Look at this. What's the next statement? Which cry. Day and night unto him, though he bear long with them, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Evert, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on earth? Now remember the opening statement. He said men ought always to pray and not to what? Paint. And he goes on, he illustrates this widow is just driving this judge crazy. She won't quit. She won't quit. She won't quit He says, all right, or he says, God is going to avenge his own. He's going to hear and answer them. They come to him day and night, day and night, day and night. He's going to take care of them. That word faint there back in verse number one has means just exactly what you think it would mean. Be exhausted, to become weary Maybe someone says, Preacher, I have been praying year after year after year after year. Every single day I've been praying. I'm getting tired of it. Spiritually, I'm just, it's, I'm ready to quit. The Lord says, don't do that. Don't think. Don't get tired of the prayer. Don't get exhausted in this request. And then he gives this This uh this illustration that we just worked our way through, verse five, uh I put down relentless. This woman was relentless She is just at it and at it. And then verse seven, she is crying day and night, day. Well, I mean he's saying uh the the The elect cry unto God day and night and day and night and day and night. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse seven, beside verse five, persistent Oh, quit. And so obviously the teaching the Lord has given us here, at least one in this statement, is that our prayers ought to be persistent. Just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. Tempted to have you respond, but uh won't, just in your own heart. But how many of us have something that we really, really need and want God to do? God says don't faint on that. Stay at it day and night, day and night, day and night, day and night. Turn with me if you would to Romans chapter 12. I'd probably guess, I've been in this long enough, I'd guess there's a bunch of folks right now you've got something in your heart and mind you're thinking about. And I say there's something you need God to do. I know I have in my heart and mind Romans chapter 12, verse number 12. He's going through a list of things here that ought to be true in a believer's life. In verse 12, he says, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation. That's tough. We could preach about that. But then look at the last part of verse 12. He says, continuing instant in prayer. Now that's not a statement, a phrase that we would use very often, continuing instant in something. But it's a tremendous statement, and it's used in various places throughout Scripture. And it has this idea, the phrase continuing instant in prayer. It actually comes from one word, and it means this: to persevere with courage. It has this idea, I am not afraid to keep on uh to keep after this And it is the idea, it kind of refers over into Hebrews where he says, let us come to the throne of God with boldness. Has kind of that flair to it where we are coming to the throne of God persistently, boldly and persistently. Sounds a little bit like that widow coming to the judge, doesn't She wasn't coming fearfully, she wasn't coming timidly, she was coming very boldly and refused to give up, just tenacious And he says, continue instant in prayer. That is an instruction from God. Not suggesting we do that, he's telling us to do that. Come over to Ephesians chapter 6. And uh he kind of reiterates this here in Ephesians chapter six. And I want you to see this isn't just a few little Off-the-wall statements here, and all we need is one really from the Lord, it'd be enough, but he reiterates it over and over and over in various places of scripture in chapter 6 of Ephesians And verse number eighteen. And he's going through the armor of the Christian He says, verse 17, the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Now look at verse 18. Praying always, with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And watching thereunto with all what? Perseverance and supplication for the saints The whole emphasis, the whole implication of that verse is that we are coming to God and coming to God and coming to God, persevering, supplicating There's an in an unrelenting intensity in this prayer. Let me give you a couple more here real quick. Colossians chapter 4. Just a page or two over Colossians chapter four and verse number two. He says that verse 1, Masters give your servants that which is just. Then he then he comes over and he's given the, again, he's given a list of things, do's and don'ts. He says in verse 2 of chapter 4 Colossians, continue in prayer. Doesn't say just pray. He says, continue in prayer. And again, that word continue has the idea of steadfastness. In fact, the one definition I came across was a steadfast devotion to something. Somebody's devoted to something. What does that mean? They're all out, they're locked in. And he the he is devoted to that cause He won't quit. He won't walk away from it. And that's the whole idea here. Continue in prayer. Steadfastly devoted to this prayer Prayer. One more, and this is a familiar passage, Second Thessalonians, or I'm sorry, First Thessalonians chapter five And verse number 17. No doubt, it's a bunch of folks you memorize this, maybe early in your Christian life or early as a child or whatever. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 17. Going through another list here. And in verse 17, he says this. And he says it very clearly, very simply: pray with what? Without ceasing. Now we have the idea, and I think it's included in what he's saying here, we have the idea of praying without stopping. Getting up in the morning from the moment I wake up, I just pray all day long until I fall asleep. I don't do anything else. I just pray all day long. That's not what he's saying. I think part of the what he's suggesting here is that we be in a spirit of prayer all day long. How many ladies, ever you're cooking, you're working in the kitchen, you get a phone call and it's a friend or a family member, somebody, and you prop the phone up on your shoulder and your ear, and you're cooking away with the phone like how many of you ladies ever done that? Anybody Five of you. Uh how many fellas ever got a job, you're working something, you get a phone call, and you got the phone there. A little harder with cell phones, but back in the day Anybody know what I'm talking about? You had that thing propped up and you're working away. I think that might be kind of the idea here he has where you're praying while you're going about your business. I just got my phone to heaven on. You know what I'm saying? I'm just kind of praying and talking to the Lord. I tell you, if you get to the point in your Christian life where you're just talking to God all day long, that's a good thing. He's talking to God all day long. Now the Lord is here and Lord and uh you know wherever you are, whatever, you just got that prayer. So that's part of the idea. But the other aspect of what he's saying here is praying and not quitting Not giving up. I put I wrote this down incessantly. We got a little granddaughter, of course, Kenley, and s when she's in. She's gotten to the point where she's pretty much just talking nonstop. Incessantly. And it's great. We love it. But uh that's the idea. Don't quit. Persistence, persistence, persistence, persistence. persistence. Persistence in prayer does not mean it does not equal unbelief It doesn't mean I don't believe. Why do you keep pressing it? Do you think God's not going to answer? No, no, no, no. It doesn't, I don't believe it implies that God is unwilling to answer my prayer You have to press it and press it and press it and press it. What is God like to judge? Is he hard and uh doesn't regard you at all? No, no, no. God loves us. He's eager to answer our prayers. So it doesn't mean that we're not believing God and we have to just keep working this up. It doesn't mean God is is uh unwilling to answer our prayers, it doesn't imply unwillingness on God's part But persistence in prayer is simply obeying what God has told us to do. He has told us that in our prayers we are to be persistent. Now, we can speculate as to why God wants us to be persistent. I found that the men, I mentioned three here with the great, great ministries. I found that the people that see God do great things in their lives are not sporadic in their prayer life. I found people that God does great things and they see miracles and they see the power of God on their ministry are not people who just pray a little bit and then drop it and go on. I found it is people who persist and they pray and pray I'm telling you, when I was with Brother Holmeshire on Neighborhood Bible time and I was on staff there, the ministry had been we celebrated the 50th year of Neighborhood Bible Time. While it was on staff, we made it had a big meeting And I'm telling you, that guy prayed every day as if this ministry was just starting. And it desperately needed the blessing and power of God. He understood he could not run on what had already happened. He needed God today. I think that's what the Lord is telling us. We have got to get to the point where our prayers are absolutely persistent. And and and in tenacious I'm gonna ask God and ask God and ask God. Um Several years ago, Brother Charles Keene asked me to come over to Mongolia with him. Some of you all remember, we went over there for like ten days or so. Mongolia? It's like the end of the world. And uh we got over there and we had the meetings and we had one day, like a half a day before we were coming back, so we're gonna go down to the marketplace, down the city. The capital is called Ulan Batar, is the name of the capital. We're gonna go down to downtown And uh we're gonna go to this old marketplace and get some souvenirs before you go home. Who goes to more Mongolia don't get a souvenir So he said the four we left a bunch of the national pastors were there about four or five and several American missionaries about four or five. They got us all together before we loaded up to go down, we were renting these little uh Jeep type or a little taxi type things. And they said, listen, when you get down there, we're going to tell you what's going to happen. You get out of the vehicles, there's this big plaza you're going to go across, and you're going to go up in the marketplace. He said downtown is filled with what they call the sewer children. He said there's upwards to 10,000 of these little orphans, homeless children and adults. And they live literally in the sewers. Very, very cold there. The warmest they got when I was there was fifteen below. The average in February is like Um I think the average is like twenty-five below the average temperature, a lot like Garrett County uh normally. But um it's intensely cold. So what happens is all these little orphans and these homeless people in the winter when it gets so bitter cold They crawl down in the sewers, there's hot water pipes and steam pipes down there, and that's where they live around these. You can go online, look them up, look up the sewer kids, sewer children in Mongolia. It has pictures of them And so they said when you get there, you get out of the vehicles, you're going to go across this plaza up into the marketplace. These sewer kids are going to come out, they're going to see you, they're going to know that you're either they're going to think you're European European, or they're gonna think you're American, and they're gonna think you're rich. And they're gonna come after you and they're gonna beg you to give them something. And they said they are gonna be relentless. They told us, all of them, the national and the and the uh American pastors, they all told us, do not give them anything. Said it would be terrible. You would have riots. They would come out of nowhere. They said, you cannot give them anything. And it seems heartless. They said, but you can. It would be total K, it would be terrible. And lo and behold, we got out of there and we started walking across there, and out of nowhere, little kids come up. He was exactly right. They were out of Absolutely relentless. I don't know what they were saying, a couple of them knew English words. They were just right there and they'd pull on your jacket a little bit and they were all over Sorry. Yeah, they weren't allowed to go inside the building. It was plantless. Studying this is the picture in my mind about UI I think we Watch out for sin and the other things that hinder it. Are you getting a picture in your mind the intensity that God wants to us and the persistence that God wants us to use. My dad has on his kitchen a poem. Had it for years. It just meant so much to me. End with this. The title of it is Don't Will. When things go wrong, if they sometimes will And the road you're traveling seems all uphill. When the funds are low and the debts are high. You want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learn, and many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow, you may succeed. Often the goal is nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up when he might have captured the Victor's cup, learned too late when the night came down how close he was to the golden sound. But sex's failure turned inside out. Silver tin. In the clouds of doubt. You never can tell how close you are. It might be near when it seems so far. So stick to the flight when your heart is hit. It's when things seem worse. But we must not quit. I think that's what the Lord is telling us about prayer. Whatever that request is, whatever that need is, don't quit. You come to God, you come to God, you come to God. Yes. Make sense? I don't know. For a lot of us, our needs seem almost overwhelming. Some of us have been praying a long time for some things, Lord. Know you love us. Know you care about us. Or we're just going to keep right on praying. So you either answer or you change our desires. Help us to be persistent. With our heads bound, eyes closed, I'm going to say, Preacher, art stirred tonight. I want to be a persistent in my prayers after this thing. In place. Praying to God. Is there any like that about it? Bless you. Maybe it's a soul safe. Maybe it's a need met, maybe a loved one, family member. I don't know. Important to us. God says so. Father bless now our invitation I ask. Still in us this tenacity that I believe to teach us to be