Luke chapter number eighteen. And um I would like for us to read together verse number one. Luke eighteen, verse number one, we'll read together in unison. And if you would join me, ready all together. And he spake a parable unto them, to this end, that men ought always to pray. and not to faint. I want to speak this morning on persistent prayer. Persistent prayer. Let's let's pray ask the Lord to bless this little message. Father in heaven, it sure is a joy to be in your house and together with your people. What a blessing. And look forward to this all week long, to Sunday mornings, Sunday nights. So now we ask that you would bless us as we look into your word I ask, Lord, that your presence would be here in a very evident way that we could sense your presence and you're moving in our hearts and minds as we look into your word I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that it would be you preaching through me to each of us that are listening in. I pray that I yield my will to you and I present my body anew. Just want to be a tool in your hands now, Lord, for the next few moments. And uh Lord, if there's any li listening, any part of the service here this morning, uh in person or wherever, if there's any that do not know for sure That their sins are forgiven. They go to heaven when they die and not to hell. I pray that would be settled today is my prayer. And then those of us that have that assurance that our sins are forgiven on our way to heaven, I pray you'd teach us to pray. Teach us, Lord, to be persistent in our prayers. And we're looking to you, Lord, to do great and mighty things, to change lives, to meet needs. to uh change our community and draw it to Christ, see people say. So again, fill me with your spirit. It is my earnest prayer. In Jesus' name, amen Jesus, we believe, was crucified at about the age of 33 and a half years. That's what we figure in that range. About 33 and a half years. At about the age of 30, Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist, and he began what we call his earthly ministry. his public earthly ministry. And uh he began at that point, he began teaching. In fact, shortly after, right after his baptism, the Holy Spirit of God came upon him Matthew gives the record there and a couple other places. Holy Spirit of God came upon him. And he began teaching and preaching and performing miracles Now, that 33 and a half years of his public ministry, where he was teaching, preaching, doing these miracles up until he was crucified. uh was primarily focused on his disciples. Um his last three and a half years of his life, he was ministering with his disciples. They followed him everywhere But I want to suggest to you, as we read the Gospels, Jesus' ministry was primarily focused on these disciples. With two things in mind. First of all, he was training his disciples what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. What it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. If that's true, then God wants you to be one of his disciples. First, I accept him as my Savior by faith. I receive the gift of God, eternal life. Then from that moment on, the Lord wants to work in my life, the Lord wants to develop and mold me and change me and and developed me to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, a follower of His. And uh this three and a half year ministry, much of it was training these disciples what it means to be a disciple. Not just the twelve, but many, many others that were uh following him like that. And if you'll notice most of his teaching and preaching was on discipleship type thing uh type things. Uh his longest sermon recorded in Scripture, the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7. It's all disciples. It's all discipleship. Now he had some evangelistic messages. He had some evangelistic uh conversations and things recorded. But he's developing these disciples and he's basically teaching them this. This is what it means to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is how you'll think. This is how you'll react to different scenarios. This is what disciples do. This is what disciples don't do. And so it's very important we study the gospels, where we learn to be disciples of Jesus Christ. Things we do, we don't do, say, we don't say, and that type of thing But there was another aspect to Jesus' ministry, particularly with his twelve disciples, and that was preparing them or training them For a future ministry after he's crucified, buried, rose again, he ascends to heaven, and he's preparing these twelve fellas. Of course Judas was a betrayed him, uh, but he's preparing these twelve fellas. to establish his church and to carry out the gospel after he ascends to heaven. That's where the book of Acts comes in And we see how these disciples uh went into all the world and established churches and preach preached the gospel and trained others to do the same. You come down through the years to today. And so Jesus, three and a half years of his ministry, was training disciples, but also training these guys to serve him. I like to consider Jesus ministry there, that three and a half year period. I like to consider that Jesus the advan I call it this, the Institute of Advanced Christian Training. And these twelve disciples enrolled into the Institute of Advanced Christian Training, and they had the greatest teacher there ever was, the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, when did they enroll in this institute of advanced Christian training? When they forsook all and followed him. Remember he called them Follow Me? Boy, they signed up at that point Say, when did they graduate? When God called them home to glory, some of them martyred, Peter crucified, others beheaded. When they called home to glory, they graduated. Let me ask you a question. Have you enrolled in the advanced, in the Institute of Advanced Christian Training? In other words, have you made a decision? I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm not just going to believe in him, I'm not just going to accept him as my Savior, but I'm going to commit myself to be a follower, dedicate myself To be a follower, a disciple of Jesus Christ. Forsake all, follow him, deny myself, take up my cross. I'm going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so I believe that's primarily what the Lord Jesus Christ's three and a half year ministry was. When we get to Luke chapter 18, our passage for this morning, Luke chapter 18 begins Luke's account. of the final events of Jesus' ministry. Jesus, this three and a half years is winding down in Luke chapter 18. We're at the end of that three and a half year period. If you would, notice over there in verse number thirty-one of Luke chapter eighteen, notice what the Bible says. Then he took unto him the twelve. Now he's been working on these guys. He's been teaching them. That's chapter 18. He's talking to these twelve. He took unto him the twelve, and he said unto them, Behold, We go up to Jerusalem. Now, what's going to happen in Jerusalem? He's going to be betrayed. He's going to be taken before the Pilate, the high priest, and then Pilate. He's going to be scourged. He's going to have the most unjust court sentencing in the history of the world. He's going to be condemned and he's going to be crucified. So this is the end of his ministry. He's coming up to his crucifixion. Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. He's referencing crucifixion, burial, and resurrection. So in Luke chapter 18, Luke is beginning, he's recording these final events before the Lord Jesus Christ crucified, resurrected, and ascended. These final events In the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think it's interesting that he begins this final phase of the Lord's ministry. He begins it This ministry with the sin, with the disciples, by emphasizing the importance of prayer. Now it's all winding down. We're coming to the end of his earthly ministry. Things are not going to be the same in just a couple weeks as they had been for the last three and a half years It's going to be a dramatic change in the lives of the disciples. It's going to be a lot of change in uh in the world, really. And so it's winded down, and the the thing the Lord emphasizes As he's bringing his ministry to a head, so to speak, is this matter of prayer? This matter of prayer. Look with me again at verse number one. And he spake a parable unto them. To this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. He's about to tell them a parable, and he's telling us, before he tells the parable, he's telling us what the point of that parable is. He's telling us what the object lesson is, what he's wanting us to get a hold of. His ministry is winding down. He's not going to be with these guys very much longer. He's going to ascend to heaven in just a few weeks, a week or so, and uh the Holy Spirit's going to come upon them, and they're going to operate in the power of the Holy Spirit. And he's saying this: one thing, one thing, you have got to learn. You've got to learn to pray. You've got to learn to pray. I'm not going to be here with you much longer. I'm going to send to heaven. I'm going to send the Comforter, the Holy Spirit from God, the Father. He's going to be with you always. He's going to dwell you. But you've got to learn to pray. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. Now he's emphasizing that. And he's going to give this parable to illustrate what he's trying to for them to get a hold of. And not just prayer, but he's emphasizing to them this matter of persistent prayer Persistent prayer. Now I got studying verse number one there, and um I got looking at this, spake a parable unto them to this end. Now here's the point of the parable that men ought always to pray And not to faint. Now, I was always told, and I always thought, and I taught and preached, that what he was saying there was this: that we ought to pray nonstop 24-7 Men ought always to pray. I mean just pray. And you know, you you think, well, how in the world do you do that? I've got to do some other things. I can't be on my knees 24-7, always praying without stop, no interference, uh no interruptions, just pray, pray, pray. How in the world can I do that? Well the answer was always this, is that, well, then you uh we can't be on our knees praying before God twenty-four seven seven days a week for sixty-five days a year. We can't do that So you need to always be in a spirit of prayer. Anybody here ever hear a preacher say that? You just need to be in a spirit of prayer. And I agree with that. We ought to be in a spirit of prayer. Uh, hey, did you know you can pray while you're preparing breakfast in the morning? Just when, Lord, help me not to burn this stuff. Uh and uh you can you can pray while you're on the job working, uh in the office there, whatever you do, under a under a vehicle working or whatever your job may be, driving down the road You can pray while you're doing that. Lord, I pray that truck stops up ahead there. And uh how many people here pray while you're driving? Any here? How many people pray while your spouse is driving? Yeah Lord help us. So I was always told, and I always thought, well this just means I need a constant the Lord's telling us I need to constantly be in prayer, in a spirit of prayer, no matter where I am, all the time, day or night. You can wake up in the middle of the night and pray Instead of worrying in the middle of the night, we can pray. So that's true. That statement, we need to be in a constant Attitude and spirit of prayer. I need to keep my heart right with the Lord so I have access to God 24-7. And thank God we can do that. Man, it'd be rough if we could only come to God at 8 o'clock on Monday mornings. What if that was the only time we could pray? That would be bad. Because I would need him about 840 uh Monday mornings and the rest of the week. We can pray any time, any place, we can come to the Lord. But I don't think that's what this statement is teaching. I agree with that truth, and it's taught throughout Scripture, and it would be implied here perhaps. But if you look at the parable itself and you look at the context, I think what the Lord is saying is this. I think he's saying men ought to always keep on praying and praying and praying and don't quit until you get an answer. I think that's what he's saying. I think he is teaching persistent prayer. You just stay at that and stay at it and stay at it until God responds one way or another. Now, let me give you my reasons for thinking that. As I always do, I got looking up words. I like to do that, meanings, how they're used other places. And I notice here he says to this end that men ought always So I got looking up that word always, and it means exactly what I just suggested to you, persistently, without ceasing And then he says there that men ought always to pray, persistently pray, and not to what I want to make sure you're with me here. Everybody say it with me. And not to faint. Now, when we faint, we think of somebody passing out. The word faint here has this idea: to grow weary You become exhausted, or this, quit. And always to pray, persistently pray, and not faint, not quit, not give up, not get exhausted. I think this is what the Lord's saying. I think the parable following bears this out, supports my thesis here. Is the Lord saying, Listen, fellas, I want you to learn something. You need to pray. When you pray, you keep praying and you keep praying and you keep praying and don't you faint, don't you quit Don't you get up, get discouraged and weary until God gives some sort of response to your prayer. You just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. And then he goes into this parable of this widow, Pastor Matt read here a few moments ago, to make his point. He says here, and here's the parable, verse 2, saying Now you guys always always to pray, not to faint. You get a prayer request, you have a need, you have a prayer, you bring it to God, you stay at it, you stay at it, don't you get exhausted, we're weary in it, you keep praying until some sort of response comes by. And then he says, here, let me illustrate basically what he's saying. There was in the city a judge. Now listen to the how he describes this judge Which feared not God, neither regarded man. He didn't fear God, and he didn't fear man. Would you agree with me? That sounds like one rough dude. He don't fear God. He doesn't fear man. He's a judge. He's gonna make judgment, whatever he's gonna do, what he wants to do, he's gonna judge the way he wants to judge. He don't care what God says He don't care what man says. I put in the margin of my Bible a hard-boiled judge. I mean, this is a tough guy. And so the Lord's telling the parable, he says, all right, here's this judge. And then he brings into the parable another character. We have the judge, a hard-boiled judge. And then verse 3, and there was a widow in that city. So now we're introduced to the second character in the Lord's parable. We have this judge, don't fear God, don't fear man, hard-boiled. And then you have this widow. Now we're not told very little, we're told very little about this widow. We don't know anything about her circumstances. We don't know how she became a widow. We don't know what the scenario was behind us, but I don't know about you. When I think of a widow in the Bible, now there's all different, and this is stereotyping, no doubt, on my part But I think of a widow of the Bible, I think of somebody that's pretty dependent. They didn't have the support system that we do today is financially and all of that. So, you know, she's dependent on family and whatnot Uh, you know, not somebody you think as a hard-boiled person, just a sweet dear lady Heart's been uh broken, or uh her life has been turned upside down, perhaps. We don't know what age she is. And so this dear lady, this harboil judge And this dear widowed lady, now there's a third character in here. I don't know if you noticed him. Notice it says, There was a widow in the city, and she came unto him, this judge, saying, Avenge me of mine what? Ah, here's a third character involved in this parable. Tardboiled judge, dear sweet widow. And an adversary out there. Now we're not told anything about this adversary. We don't know why he was a dear widow's adversary. Let me throw this out. I'd be very, very careful about being an adversary of a widow. God gives special promises and special blessings and special protection for widows. Some of the widowed ladies are going to agree with this. Don't mess with the widows. Amen? And so this dear lady has an adversary, and we don't know anything about it. We don't know what he's done to her, what he's doing. Now, my mind gets working a little bit, and I start thinking, what in the world? How would this dear lady have an adversary? I wonder I wonder if this guy isn't responsible for this woman being a widow. Maybe he did something. That brought about the death of her husband, I don't know. We're not told anything about it. Maybe he took advantage of her in her widowhood Maybe she got an inheritance or whatever from the husband or whatever. And this guy swindled her out. But whatever the case is, he's described by the Lord Jesus Christ As an adversary to this dear lady. So she comes before this judge. And She makes this plea, avenge me of my adversary. This guy did me wrong. This guy hurt me, broke the law, or whatever he did, and he's coming to the judge. And of course you read down through there, and the judge doesn't, he could care less about this woman, he could care less about her adversary, doesn't fear God, doesn't fear man. You know, who knows what the reasoning was. He was uninterested. Maybe in his mind, this was just a petty little thing. We've got bigger fish to fry than this. For whatever reason was, he was indifferent and he just pushed her off. And here's the point. And she just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. And I'm getting way ahead of myself here in my message. But in my, this is my this is the Dennis Leatherman paraphrase. She drove him nuts Fellas, you ever have a woman drive, just drive you nuts. Don't answer that. She is driving him nuts. She's just coming. Careful. She's just coming at him and coming at him and coming at him and coming at him. Finally says, uh and it's interesting later on he says, she is it the word what the word literally means is she is beating me up with this. And he grants her her request. And so the point the Lord is trying to make is that when we pray, we ought to pray and pray and pray and stay at it. until we get some sort of response back from God. Now he takes this story, and this is, you know, it's kind of a a difficult situation, a cold-blooded judge and a dear sweet widow and an adversary that would do wrong to a widow And that whole scenario uses that to teach us something about God and to teach us something about prayer. Now he's using a technique that we call from the lesser to the greater. And his point is this: if this unjust, cold-blooded, hard-boiled judge would give in to this widow's persistent prayers. Then surely, that's the lesser, then surely the greater God will pay attention when we come and pray with the same persistency You get the point? If we don't get anything else out of the message this morning, you could walk out of here and say, you know, God wants me to pray persistently until there's some sort of response from God. That's the message. That's the message. Now, I got four observations from this I want to give to you very, very quickly. The first one is this: I want us to notice the courage of persistent prayer. The courage of persistent prayer. Look again at verse number two. There was in a city a judge. He feared not God, neither regarded man. There was a widow in that city. She came to him saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. Now, I don't know about you, but the boldness of this dear lady impresses me. The courage of this woman coming to this judge, who has this reputation, who's known to be this type of person. And for her to come in into his presence and make this request, the boldness of this widow, the courage of this widow, impresses me. There is nothing timid about this dear lady coming to this judge. She works her way in there one way or another. She gets an audience with this judge, and she makes her case known. She makes her request known. Now I've been in court a few times, not as a defendant. I've been in court a few times helping deacons get out of prison and stuff like that and trying to help them. No, not really. Just once. But uh no, never at all. But if you've been into a courtroom for whatever case, whatever scenario, everything about that courtroom is designed to intimidate. Am I right or wrong? Everything about it Judge is his his uh his uh not throne uh his seat is always up higher. Usually it's up uh lifted up. When the judge walks in, what happens? All right. It's respect. It's honoring the law. It's respect for the judgment. It is designed to intimidate. It is. And this dear lady is not intimidated. And she is going to come right into the presence of the judge, and she is going to let her request be made known. And I want to suggest to you that we as believers, as a child of God, we ought to never be timid about coming to our God with our requests. We ought to be bold. We can, as a child of God, as a bloodbought, bloodwashed believer and saint of Almighty God. You and I can come boldly to the throne of God and let a request be made known unto him. There's no reason to be timid about coming to God in prayer. Now let me give a caution out We ought never to be cocky about coming to God in prayer. We ought never to be proud. Come in belligerently. to God in prayer. We ought never to come in self-righteous or demanding in our in coming to God to prayer. We should never be arrogant When we approach God in prayer. But neither should we be timid about it. Is there a place for humility in prayer? Absolutely. We ought to humble ourselves before God. In fact, we're praying for revival, desperately praying for revival. Listen, let me just throw this a little aside. Pray for our country, but I'll tell you where we need revival. It's in our church. You can fix all the country, but if there's not revival in the church, we're just going to end up back right the same place. Follow what I'm saying And so we humble ourselves before God, but we are not timid about coming before God in prayer. Keep your place here. Come with me back a little farther back in the New Testament, the book of Hebrews. Book of Hebrews. Maybe some of y'all were already thinking of this passage. Hebrews chapter number four. And verse number 16. Hebrews chapter 4. Now this is a good passage to underscore in your Bibles. Say, preacher, can I just come right to God in prayer? Yeah. In fact, we are to come to God boldly in prayer, confidently, courageously. I could give you illustration, illustration of new believers when they learned that they could come directly to God in prayer. There's certain denominations, the Catholic and a few others, that teach that you have to come through a priest. You go down at a certain time, you do your confessional, and then you pray to a priest, and that priest will bring that prayer to the Lord. Or you pray to Mary, and then Mary goes to the Lord on our behalf. I'm telling you, that is as unscriptural as you can get. As a child of God, a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I can come directly to the throne of God with boldness and courage And make my request be made known to God. You say, preacher, I can come right to God. Yes. Look here. Look at Hebrews chapter 4. Actually, I want to begin reading in verse 15. For we have not a high priest that's speaking of the Lord Jesus. We have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He knows what we've been through, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Jesus faced the temptations of the devil Yet without sin. Now look as a result of that, look at verse 16. Let us therefore, suppose we have this high priest, this advocate. Standing on our behalf before God, therefore, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. And come to God. I need this. Dear Heavenly Father, help me. We can come boldly to the throne of grace. I put in the margin of my Bible there beside that verse. I put where to go in the time of need Come boldly to the throne of grace. So the first thing I notice in this prayer, persistent prayer, praying uh not fainting But always praying and not fading, I notice the courage of prayer. Come back here to Luke 18 with me. And I have a second observation here. The first one is the courage of persistent prayer. Number two, write this down, the commitment. Of faithful prayer, of persistent prayer, the commitment of persistent prayer. Number one, the courage. Dot these down. The courage of persistent prayer. Number two, the commitment Of persistent prayer. Look at verse 4, Luke chapter 18. And he, this hard-boiled judge, would not for a while But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. Um the commitment. Now I want you to notice, first of all, I put it this way, the judge's posture. In other words, his response. to this woman coming to him. And she says, every day he comes into the court, uh courtroom, he's got his briefcase, he's got his suit on, he gets up, he gets his robe, he sets out, sets on his thing. And it I'm sure it didn't play out exactly this way, but in my mind. And um, all right, what's the first uh case on the docket? Uh the widow wants to be avenged of her adversary. She was just here yesterday. Yep, she's back, judge. Get her out. Throw her out. All right Next day he shows up, walks in, sits down. What's the first case on the agenda? There's a widow here, wants to be avenged of her adversary. What? She was here the last two days. Yeah, she's back again. Throw her out A whole week goes by. Throw it out! Finally, after about a month, sets down. Uh, alright. First case, let me guess. Widow wants to be avenged her adversary. Right. He says, this woman's driving me nuts. She is wearying me. The first thing I put down, his response, he's indifferent. He's indifferent. He would not for a while. He would not. He's unwilling. He had no interest in this. He could care less about this woman, this widow. I don't what in the world? Get her out of here Indifference. Maybe he thought it was too petty. We don't know what the situation. We don't know what is going on in his mind. But he was he would not for a while. And then I noticed not just indifference, in action He wasn't going to do nothing. For a while. I got it's interesting. I looked up that phrase for a while. Does that mean a couple days? You know, maybe it was a week or so. It's just That word for a while means for an extended period of time. Now we're not told this, we're not given a lot of details here, but my impression Was that this woman was coming in? We're talking about months and months and months. Can you imagine every morning the same woman shows up Pestering this judge to avenge me of adversary week after week after week, month, maybe six, eight, ten months And finally he throws his hands up and exasperated. And in fact, that's my third notice here. He's indifferent, the inaction, and then the irritation of this judge. He gets irritated after a while. Anybody here ever get irritated? I don't mean just today, I mean at some point in time. Notice what it says. I'll venture lest by her continual coming, persistence, She weary me. Um uh she weary me. That word weary there has this idea to bother to cause sorrow. It has this idea to it it's used in a uh sometimes it's used in a boxing scenario. Now I personally I like bo I think boxing is terrible to be honest with you. It's brutal, it's violent, it's It's vicious. It ought to be illegal. But until they outlaw boxing, I want to watch every boxing match I can possibly see And it's using a boxing term and it means to be just beaten down. I mean bloodied and bruised and s Eye is swollen and lip is bleeding and eyebrow is cut and ears are colorflowered out. He says, this woman's beating me up. She's wearing me out. And he's irritated with her. He's irritated with her. So that's the judges. That's we gotta picture this hard-boiled judge. He don't care, he could care less, he's putting it off. He is irritated. Then we have this woman, this widow. Notice her persistence, her continual coming. That phrase continual coming means unending, relentless. Jesus there and there and there and there and there. Notice her focus, I put this down, her focus is on this judge answering her request. I would imagine a widow would have other things she needed to take care of. Maybe there's kids, maybe there's grandkids. I don't know. It's home, different things. She's had some sort of income. But all of that is secondary to getting this judge to avenge her of her adversary. That is her focus. Everything else is secondary. For whatever reason, whatever the scenario is, most important thing in her mind, the single focus of her mind is this judge Avenging her of her adversary. So she's very focused. And I notice, I believe, this woman had faith. As hard as this judge was As fearless as he was of God and man, something inside the heart and soul of this fair widow convinced her he will eventually give in. She had faith that at some point this guy is going to answer my request. At some point, this judge is going to avenge me of mine adversary. She had to have that faith to keep her pressing on, pressing on. Persistent prayer is being committed to getting a response from God one way or another. I'm talking to some folks, maybe more than I realize. I'm talking to some folks that you've got some issues in your life that are the most important thing in the world to you. Some needs, some requests. And I believe what the Lord is teaching us here, when we get to the point, we get to the point where really nothing else really matters except God doing this for me. God, I need this. God, everything else in my life is secondary to you meeting this need and answering this prayer. And day after day, and week after week, and month after month, and maybe year after year, God, I believe that you can solve this, I believe that you can correct this, I believe you can meet this need. There is a commitment on the part of this woman to have this prayer answered from this judge. And there needs to be, in the life of the child of God, And those events in life and those situations in life where everything becomes secondary to God answering this prayer. God responding to this request. So the first thing I notice is the courage of persistent prayer, coming right to God's throne, boldly, as Hebrews tells us. As a child of God, by the way, if a person's unsaved, you don't have access to God's throne. You're without God, without hope in the world. You need Jesus Christ as Savior. But once I trust Christ as Savior, I have access to God's throne. I can come with all the courage in the world right directly to God. And then there needs to be this commitment of persistent prayer. I'm committed to this. I've got to have this answer. Let me give you a third one very quickly. The concern. of persistent prayer. Look at verse number six. And the Lord said, hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, look at this, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. Now I'm not God. There's a lot of things about God we don't understand. And maybe someday we'll get to heaven and we'll know as we're known, the Bible says. We look back and maybe we'll understand why God responded the way he did. But this verse tells me that sometimes God bears very long. With our prayer or with our requests. Sometimes God doesn't answer our prayer right like that. He bears long, goes on and on and on. In his wisdom and his understanding and his purposes. Sometimes he bears long with our prayer requests. There must be concern on our part. Now notice there's a word in verse number in there's a word there in verse number seven that caught my attention. And I circled it in my Bible. And shall not God avenge his own elect, that's believers, saved people, which, I circled that next word, cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. That word cry means to lift up the voice, and this definition really caught my attention. A strong plea for help. Crying out, Oh God, there is passion behind this word cry Whatever this situation was, this dear widow was passionate about it. God, you've got to help me. Oh God! Crying out, a strong, loud, lifting up the voice, plea for help. I want to suggest to you passionate prayers get God's attention. When we mean business When it gets to the point where God, this means everything to me, we get God's attention. I want to suggest to you indifferent prayers. Are not getting no attention. If we're just, oh Lord, ah yeah, God, if you would, do that. You're not getting God's attention with that kind of praying. I'm telling you right now Um anybody here raise kids, little kids? Yeah. Notice a lot of times when they're big, they're still little kids. I figured I'd get a response on that one But Jeffrey uh when they were little, uh we uh we lived uh our boys were born in Indianapolis, they were real small, and then out in Boulder, and there wasn't a back then, there wasn't a whole lot of Walmarts around You know, anybody remember back before there was a Walmart around too much? There was a few. You heard about them. You know, that was back we still had horse and buggies, you know, and uh So we go to the Kmart. Anyone remember Kmart? Yeah, blue light specials. And so we go there and the boys are small and we'd be gone. We'd have our little list. Now I was in the ministry. I was youth pastor and then I was out with Bible time. We didn't have a whole lot to work with. So we had our little list there. And we go down the aisle. And inevitably we'd end up going down the toy aisle. Right? Just had to do that. And the boys would walk down and they'd see this little bright little toy, a ball or whatever, and they'd want that. And they wanted it until they took about four steps later and they'd see another bright toy, then all of a sudden they wanted that one And then they go a little bit, and there'd be some other little something, toy gun or something. Then they wanted that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They really weren't passionate about any of them. They just whatever tickled their fancy that that moment, that's what they wanted. You follow what I'm saying And guess what? We didn't buy that stuff. We'd be broke. We'd have lived under a bridge if we'd have bought everything. They point out, oh I want that, I want this, I want that. And uh they really weren't passionate. But every now and then Every now and then boys get a hold of something. Boy, they want that. They don't want this. And it would go on and on and on and on and on And then that got our attention. Does anybody know how I'm trying to illustrate this? Boy, that got our attention. They really wanted that. And I think that might be a little bit the way God is. We say, oh God, I'd I this. Oh God, oh, we sure like that. Lord, if we could uh get this, and we really don't need business I tell you, when that need comes, that heartache and that situation, and it means the world to us. We say God and we begin to cry out to God for that. For getting God's attention. Do you notice what it was that got that judge's attention? This woman's refusal. To give up. And then Jesus says, God, though he bears long with him, he hears that cry, that passion, that intensity. Boy, then God get that gets God's attention. So I see this concern, this passion. The Bible's clear, persistent and passionate prayers are important to God. Let me give you my last observation here real quick. Number one, the courage of persistent prayer. We can come directly to God the commitment, uh, we're not going to quit, we're going to stay at this, I'm going to pray, and I'm going to pray, and I'm going to pray until God does something one way or another, till I get God's response. And then I'm passionate about it, this concern And the last of all, I put this down the confidence of persistent prayer. Look at the verse eight. I tell you he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when a son of man cometh shall he find what? Faith on earth. Is there anybody that really believes? I think as we approach the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, Brian and I were talking this week, we don't know when that will be. We have no idea. Brother, you look around, we know this, it could be today, could be this week, could be this year, 2021, we don't know. I know the Lord says this. When the Lord does show up, when that rapture does take place, is there going to be anybody that really believes that God answers prayer? Is there anybody that really has faith that if I come to God, that He will hear me and He will respond? My prayers. You say, preacher, are you saying that if I if I persistently and passionately pray, I'll get whatever I want? Not saying that at all. The Bible doesn't say that. But it does say this, God will give his attention to it. I know this, uh God God's not going to answer the prayers, uh, God's not going to answer prayers that are out of his will, no matter how passionate or persistently we pray. Amen? It's not going to answer it. Some young girl gets a hankering for some unsaved, wicked young man. Oh, I went, oh God, let him be my boyfriend. Oh God. And he cusses and he takes God's name in vain. He drinks and he carries on. He doesn't go to church. He's unsaved. I tell you what, I don't care how passionate and persistent you pray, God's not going to answer that prayer. What I'm saying is this, when we pray passionately and persistently, and it means the world to us We come to God. We'll get God's attention. He'll respond according to His will. And if He doesn't grant the request, then He'll change my heart's desire. For that request. Paul had a thorn in the flesh, in 2 Corinthians 12, he had a thorn in the flesh. And he sought the Lord three times for three seasons of time. He was persistent, persistent, persistent. Finally, God said, No, I'm not taking that thorn of the flesh out. And Paul said, though most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my infirmity. You know what he said? It changed Paul's attitude towards what he was asking. God answered Not in beginning the requests he had, but in changing the desire of Paul's heart to be conformed to the will of God. You follow what I'm saying? And so the courage of persistent prayer to come right to God. The commitment of persistent prayer. I'm not going to quit. I'm going to keep praying and praying and praying. The concern or the passion of persistent prayer. God, this means everything to me. And then the confidence in persistent prayer. If you would, I want to end with Hebrews chapter number 11. If you would come back there again with me. Hebrews chapter 11 is the hall of faith, I like to call it. We call it sometimes. Chapter of the Bible, all these great men and women that exercise tremendous faith in God. And the things God did with and for and through those that had faith in him. But he begins the chapter in verse number six with this statement. But without faith, Hebrews 11, verse 6, but without faith, it is impossible to please him. Now look at this. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, persistently, passionately. Come to God. The Bible says, you have faith in God. You believe that God will hear and answer, and God's able to do what is best for you. God will reward those. God will answer. God will respond to those that come diligently, diligently, diligently. I want to point something out. God is not like this judge. This judge was reluctant. This judge was indifferent. Our God is not reluctant. To answer prayer. God is not indifferent to our requests. God is not hard-boiled. God loves us God has compassion for you and I as His children. We come to Him persistently and passionately. God, we can be confident. That we get his attention. Now, sometimes he'll bear long for whatever reason. He may not answer that the day we pray or the week or the month or even the decade. He may bear very, very long with us. We know this. We stay at it. Don't walk away. Don't grow weary. Always pray and not faint. Stay at it. Don't give up until God responds. We can be calm for that. I was reading an article just the other day, came in the mail, a little paper about some different things, but they had a little article in there about a girl named Charlotte Moon. Charlotte Moon. Anybody here ever hear of Charlotte Moon? Lived in the 1800s, late 1800s, early 1900s. Charlotte, she actually went by the name of Lottie. They called her Lottie Moon. Anybody recognize that name? There's a few. Lottie Moon was a young girl, grew up in America, and She grew up in a godly Christian home, Baptist. And um parents loved the Lord, faithful to church. Bible was read, prayers were made in the home every day But Lottie was a rascal, a little girl. He was naughty. I can't imagine a little girl being naughty Hmm. But she was naughty, she was ornery, and she was just a real piece of work. The parents were very concerned. They prayed for Lottie Finally, she grew up never trusting Christ, became very antagonistic to Christianity. Did not believe the Bible, ridiculed those that believed the Bible, went off to college in Virginia. I believe it was Virginia. When she got to college there, she had a couple of roommates, and they were devout Christians. They loved the Lord. And they saw all Lottie's attitude and they saw Lottie's spirit about the Lord and about Christianity and how bitter she was and antagonistic for whatever reasons. And they would invite her to revival meetings, revive holder services, and she would never go. She mocked them and criticized them and ridiculed them Her parents and those roommates banded together. They were going to pray for Lottie's salvation. And they weren't going to quit praying until Lottie got saved. And they began to pray, pray, and pray passionately. One day one of the girls said, Lottie, would you come to church? We're having a revival meeting. Would you come? And lo and behold, Lottie said, Okay, I'll go. Guess what? Anyone want to guess what happened when she went to revival meeting? She got saved. Not only did she get saved, God got a hold of her Wasn't long until God called her to the mission field to China. She went over there as a single woman, young lady. And she went over there and she found that the the male missionaries had little influence with the women. There was just a divide there, and they had little no ministry with the women. And Lottie showed up. Boy, she had an open door. And they called her the cookie lady. She would make these little what they call biscuits, little cookie type thing. She would take them to these poor Chinese slums. She'd give them out. And at one long, Chinese women started getting saved by the dozens, by the score, by the hundreds, by the thousands. Forty years, Body gave her life to reach these Chinese women. Won many, many thousands to Christ. Finally, she was laid in age, her health was failing. They said, Lottie, you need to go back to America. They said, okay. Her frail body, I forget what they said. She was down to almost nothing. She was just four foot some inches tall. I think if I remember it said she was like fifty pounds. Not much left of her. She got on a boat, head back to America. They were outside Kobe, Japan. They'd stopped in the harbor there. She passed away on the ship out in the harbor. You know how many thousands dear Chinese women were saved or in heaven, not in hell today Because a group of people decided we're going to pray for Lottie. We're not going to quit praying. We're going to pray and we're going to pray and we're going to pray until God gets a hold of her heart. I don't know who it is you're praying for. I don't know what that need is or what that struggle or sin might be that you're pleading with God. What the Lord is teaching us here, you ought always to pray and not to faint. You keep on praying and keep on praying. And don't you grow weary, exhausted, and quit praying. You keep on praying. And if the day of your death comes and that's not answered, you have that prayer on your lips as you enter heaven's gates. I'm telling you, we get God's attention. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you teach us to pray. Lord, if this old world ever needed praying Christians, it's now Lord, we have loved ones. That we need you to do a work. It just takes they need a miracle of God. Lord, we have needs and struggles. We need revival. I ask your Holy Spirit would provoke us to pray and not quit, stir a passion in our heart, help us stay focused. Lord, help us to pray. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I do have a request. I do have a situation in my heart that means the world to me. It's so important. I need to pray, and I want to commit myself to pray as this dear widow did, as the Lord taught us here. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher. I have something so heavy on my heart It consumes my heart and mind. I'm saying, let's bring it to the Lord and pray and not quit and not quit. Have faith in God. Have faith in God Now, if you're not saved, if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, your greatest need at this point is to come to Christ as Savior. If a person dies in their sins, the worst thing can happen, separated from God for all eternity. The only hope is coming to the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting Him as Savior. Honestly, I don't believe God answers the prayers of the unsaved. I think he's waiting for that calling on him to trust him. And then the throne of heaven's open to the believer. For any here say, preacher, any online Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want God to be my Savior. I want Jesus to be my Savior. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord to forgive me and save me. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Teach us to pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.