Of Galatians chapter number two, I would like for us to read together verse number twenty. Galatians chapter two and verse number twenty. I think uh am I on here, Jamie? I think so. I'd like for us to read this all together in unison. You got it there, verse 20, all together with me. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I want to speak this morning on personal Christianity. Personal Christianity. By the way, I wanted to make this statement also. I just praise the Lord and rejoice in the fact that we can meet together and we have no credible fears of being harmed. for getting together this morning. I don't know. I just caught the new uh headline news this morning. I don't know if anybody saw it, but apparently over in Egypt there's a bunch of quote unquote Christian churches were blown up and a lot of people um killed, I believe, and injured And uh and I don't know anything about the church as it's Christian, you know, uh denomination. But uh nevertheless, my first thought was this. I don't have to worry about that going to church this morning. We're We're relatively safe. And so I think we ought to be grateful to the Lord for that. And so let's pray. Father in heaven, we are grateful this morning, Lord, as we've assembled together in your name. And Lord, you blessed our land so much and the freedoms we have and the security here I know we take for granted we don't really even comprehend how unique our situation is. And so we ask you to give us grateful hearts. For that one thing, the freedom and privilege to worship you without fear. Lord, we are looking into your word now, and we're asking you to speak to us. We're asking you to challenge us, encourage, and direct. I pray, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I have nothing in them but my own mind or my own self that can be of any lasting or spiritual benefit So it needs to come from you, Father. So I present my body anew to you, and I ask that I could simply be a conduit, Lord, that you speak your word through me to our hearts and lives. And I pray as Christians we would be victorious. Lord, I need revival. We need revival. And so we're asking you to give us victory in our Christian lives. Help us to live the Christian life as you designed it to be lived. Lord, if there's somebody with us that's not say, maybe somebody listening in. That does not know for sure their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. I pray, Father, that you would use your word and convict them and challenge them. They make that important decision to trust Christ as Savior. And Lord, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I did overlook Tom Gravely's back in town. How about that? I pulled out the driveway. I was over at the thing, he was pulling out the driveway. He said, I'm back I said, oh no. No, I didn't think. We have a little survey we put together a number of years ago that we've used in canvassing neighborhoods and I want to say it is a tremendous survey, but um uh the survey goes down and it's designed to get people's ideas and their perspective on God and the Bible and heaven and hell and how to escape hell and go to heaven. And uh we've used it for many years now. It's been very, very effective. One of the questions on there is along these lines. We ask them, what do you believe a person has to do? To go to heaven. What does a person have to do to go to heaven? Now that's an interesting question, and I tell you, you get out in the neighborhoods and streets and stuff, you talk to people, you get a lot of interesting answers What do I have to do to get to heaven? The majority of the answers are along these lines. Well, you have to do good. You have to do good things, be a good person. We'll get answers like this. Well, you have to live right. You have to live a certain standard. You have to live a certain way. You have to live in a way that God approves of. If you're going to get to heaven, so you've got to do good. You have to live right. Sometimes people say something like this. Well, you have to keep the commandments. You have to keep God's commandments. Now this isn't in our survey, but uh well it is but a different part, but uh I'd like to ask them Well, can you list the commandments for me? If I have to keep God's commandments to get to heaven, can you tell me what the commandments are? And the overwhelming majority, I think I've had maybe two people in ten years have been able to list to me the Ten Commandments accurately. So they say you have to keep the commandments, you have to do good, you have to live right. Some people say, well, you've got to go to church. Sometimes they'll say something, you have to be baptized. If you're going to go to heaven. That's what a person has to do to get to heaven when they die, to go to heaven when they die. Now, there's a common denominator in all those answers, and it is basically this. I have to live up to some standard for God to accept me. Now that standard varies in people's minds. How you know what that standard consists of. You have to I have to live up to some standard Be good, go to church, keep the commandments. There's something I've got to live up to before God will accept me. Now there's a term for that. It's a theological, I guess, term for that, and it's called this. It's called legalism. It is the idea of I have to keep the law to some extent. I have to keep the law, I have to obey the commands, I have to do good, I have to some sort of Legal fulfillment, I have to meet before God will accept me. Legalism. Now, that word legalism is sometimes used in an incorrect way. Uh sometimes if a church or a Christian has some biblical standards, the Bible teaches this is right or this is wrong or this should dress this way and not that way or uh you know you shouldn't go to these certain places and avoid these others and do that or you ought to if we if if you have some standards of right and wrong, sometimes we say, well you're legalistic That's an inappropriate application of that word. Legalism has to do with my salvation, trying to keep the wall to be saved. Or somehow keeping a wall makes me acceptable to God. The Pharisees were legalistic. Jesus rebuked them sharply in the Sermon on the Mount And we studied this in Wednesday nights about a year or so ago, how they had an outward form of righteousness. They kept a the law, but it was simply things they were doing. Well, if I'm doing this, I'm not doing that, I tithe of this, and I don't do that, and I this and I don't do this and they had all this outward uh observance of the law and they said, well that makes me acceptable to God. And Jesus made the statement. He says, Except your righteousness exceed that of the Pharisees, you will now wise enter the kingdom of heaven. What he was saying was simply an outward form, an outward observance, an outward conformity to the laws, even the laws of God. Do not get me to heaven. That is legalism. I have to keep a law, I have to keep a standard, meet a standard for God to accept me. Now, this is nothing new. As I said, the Pharisees dealt with that. We go out and knock on doors. And I'm not suggesting the people that say, oh, you've got to do good, you've got to keep the command. I'm not saying they're Pharisees, but I am saying They have the same m uh same uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh idea of what salvation is as what the Pharisees held to. I've got to keep a law, I've got to keep a standard, I've got to live up So, like I said, this is nothing new. It's been around since Jesus was on earth. And so we come to the book of Galatians, and Paul is addressing that idea. He's addressing that misconception that I have to keep the law or a law for me to be Saved, for God to accept me. There were certain Jews that were in this area of Galatia There's numerous churches there. And they were going around to the Christians, these Jews, and they were saying, you have to be circumcised, or God won't accept you. You've tr you trusted Christ, that's wonderful, and he's the Messiah. They didn't have a problem with that. These were, you know, professed to be believing Jews, but you have to Keep the law, you have to be circumcised and various other aspects of the law. They were teaching that these Christians had to do or they wouldn't be accepted by God. They would be lost. And Paul was confronting that And that's what the book of Galatians is. In fact, these Jews that were teaching this quote-unquote legalism, they were so adamant. And they were so persuasive and they were so influential that it's interesting, even Peter was intimidated by them. Now, what I understand of Peter, you know, he had his he is a tremendous apostle, tremendous man of God. He had his faults, but I never pictured Peter being somebody who's intimidated. But nevertheless he was. In fact, if you think back there by the fire when Jesus was before Pilate, he was actually intimidated by a little maid. Who challenged him and said, You're one of them. Oh no, I'm not. But look with you, if you would, earlier in chapter 2 of Galatians, we find that Peter gets caught up in this to an extent. In verse number 11, chapter 2, look at verse 11. But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to his face because he was to be blamed. Wow. Here's Paul confronting Peter. And he says, verse 12, For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles. All right, these are non-Jews. These are fine with it. These, you know, they're not circumcised. They're not keeping law. We're saved by grace. We're all saved by grace. We'll get to that But when they were come, these Jews from Jerusalem, he withdrew and separated himself from the Gentiles, fearing them which were of the circumcision. Peter was intimidated by these guys that were saying, you want to be saved, you want to get to heaven, you want to be accepted by God, you have to keep the law. And Peter got intimidated by that, and when he was with these Christians who did not keep the law, at least the outward aspect of it, weren't circumcised, and that, he's with them. When these guys showed up, he separated himself. By the way, that's unscriptural separation. One of the most neglected doctrines in the Bible is separation from ungodliness and from the world. But here you have a case of unscriptural separation. Where he separated himself from genuine believers, right, with God, love God, but because of the influence and the uh the the these Jewish uh fellows teaching have to keep the law, he got intimidated and he was unscripturally separated from. Paul goes on here in the letter and he writes verse 13, and the other Jews dissembled with them. So Peter influenced others Insomuch, look at this, that Barnabas was also carried away with their dissimulation. When I saw that they walked not upright according to the truth of the gospel. I said unto Peter before them all, Thou being a Jew, livest after the manner of the Gentiles and not as the Jews. Why compelest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews? And so even Peter got caught up in this, and Paul rebuked him sharply. And look in verse number 16. Look at his answer to these Jews teaching you have to keep the law for God to accept you. Look at his answer to it. Verse sixteen, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For look at his statement, he summarizes. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. And so this whole idea That I have to live a certain standard of life, that I have to keep a D or A law For God to accept me, for me to be acceptable into heaven, for God to be pleased and accepting me, I have to keep this standard. Paul rebukes that sharply. He says, we're not saved by keeping the law. We're not made acceptable to God by keeping the law. We are made acceptable to God by faith in Jesus Christ. I'm getting way ahead of myself, but this is what he's saying. We're not saved by keeping the law. We're not made acceptable by us keeping the law. We're made acceptable by us putting our faith in Jesus Christ, who kept the law for us. Perfectly. God's not discarding the law. He's not saying there is no standard that is required to be acceptable to God. He's not saying there is no a law that needs to be fulfilled to be acceptable by God. He's saying you don't and can't keep that. You put your faith in the one who did. And can. You follow what I'm saying? And so he's making a strong rebuke here to Peter, and this whole concept of this legalistic keeping the law to be saved was nothing new. And this book, primarily the book of Galatians, is addressing that and refuting that. Now we come to verse 20. Verse 20 is, in my estimation, the greatest verse in all the Bible on the Christian life On what it means to live the Christian life. It was very early on in my Christian life that uh I had two fellows, and I've mentioned these guys off and on over the years, Terry uh Musselman and uh uh or Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox and these two guys when I walked in that church at first Day of Estate these guys just came like flies on sugar and I was sugar I'll tell you that And uh I mean they latched on to me and they started teaching me scriptures and they were such a blessing to me and they mentored me and discipled me, and one of the first verses those guys had me memorize was Galatians 2. 20. For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. And I'm telling you, this verse, again, in my estimation, is one of the greatest verses that tells us what the Christian life is. Not odd. But Christ. Not what I can produce as a Christian, but what Christ lives through me. The last 2,000 years, since Christ was crucified, buried, risen again, ascended to heaven, in the last 2,000 years, how many people have been saved? Hundreds of millions. A billion? I don't know. We don't know what the number is. But millions and millions and millions of people have trusted Jesus Christ and found forgiveness of sins and assurance of a home in heaven through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And not one of them has been able to live the Christian life. Only one person in all of history has been able to live the Christian life, and it is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the only one that's even capable Of living the Christian life. So it is not you and I. Alright, we get saved by grace through faith. We understand I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Now I'm going to live the Christian life. God forgave me. He saved me. He's given me eternal life. When I die, going to heaven, I'm not going to hell. I'm here on earth. I'm in the flesh. The life I'm living now in the flesh, I'm going to live as a Christian. It's not a life That I work up. It's not something I do. I had a couple and I've mentioned them over the years. Early on in their ministry here, they came in and got saying they're growing. And they were absolutely, I believe their heart was right, but they had some issues and we sat down, we're talking them, trying to work them through them, showing them some scripture. And when we were done, I said, well, let's pray. And she said to me, she said, Pastor Leatherman, we are gonna live for God. And that's good. And I said, that's wonderful. But she went on, we are determined. And as she explained herself, I became a little concerned. And I thought in her mind, she was thinking, I'm going to do this. I am going to have victory. I am going to be. The Christian God wants me to be. Now, the desire is great, but I cannot make myself a good Christian. Not by grit or determination, or I'm gonna keep I'm gonna I'm gonna get these walls and these standards and I'm gonna live up to them and if I do this and don't do that and I have this listen I do that then I'll be a good Christian Now, good Christians do some things and don't do some other things. I'm not discarding that. But it's not your strength. Do you follow what I'm trying to say? It's not me. The life which I now live in the flesh, Paul said, as a Christian, and he was one of the best. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith Not in my abilities or my standards that I'm living or the walls that I'm keeping. I live by the faith of the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. So again, I think this is a tremendous verse that explains to us what the Christian life is all about. It's not something you and I live up to. The Christian life is this. And sometimes we grasp this in our mind, but it's difficult to express. But the Christian life is this: Jesus Christ, the risen Christ. living in me and through me. Him living the Christian life through me. I've said this many times over the years, I believe with all my heart, the Christian life is a supernatural life. It's not something you and I can produce, it's something Christ does in us. Did I ever tell you about May 7, 1979? A Monday night, I trusted Christ as Savior. My life was a mess. You know the story. That night when I bowed by my bed and I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior, there were no bells ringing. There's no angels blowing trumpets. There's no lights flashing. I didn't speak in tongues. When I said Amen, you know what I did? I crawled in bed and fell asleep. When I got up that next morning, even before that, when I said amen and crawled in that bed, I knew, listen, I knew something was different. Something had changed. When I got up that next morning, I did not comprehend it, and to this day I can't fully explain it. But I knew and I know today, when I got up that next morning, I was living a different life. This was completely something completely brand new was true about me. Something completely different was true about me. Something had happened. Something had happened. And over the next days and weeks, my life began changing. The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Oh no. There's a great change took place. And things were changing, and the way I saw things was now I didn't see them the way I saw them before, and the priorities I had now just Within days were not the priorities I had before. My priorities changed and my perspective on the world and life and God and me changed. The attitude about things changed and altered. And what was happening? I'll tell you what was happening. Christ had moved in To my life. Christ was now in me. My hope of glory. Christ in me And it wasn't Dennis Leatherman changing my life. If somebody would have come up to me, I'm telling you, if somebody would have come up to me and said, Boy Dennis, you're really changing your life I would have said immediately, No, it's not me changing my life. I tried desperately to change it before Christ came in. It is Christ doing this in me. Christ in me The hope of glory, the life which I'm now living in the flesh. It's not me living it, it's Christ living it in me. It's a supernatural event. A supernatural event. My life was changing, but it wasn't me changing it. Christ was living in and through me. It's no longer I living, but Christ living in me. And that is the essence of what the Christian life is. I put my faith in Jesus Christ, He forgives my sins, He cleanses me from all unrighteousness. He gives me eternal life, and Christ comes in and produces a new nature in me, and it is Christ in me now living through me. Paul said, In me, that is, my flesh dwelleth no good thing So it's not me living the Christian life. It's not something I'm producing. It's Christ doing it in me. Salvation is all Christ, and Christian living is all Christ. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. I have a number of books that I brought up That have had profound impact on my life. And Brother Pastor Brett and I were talking, oh, it's been a couple weeks ago. And he said, What's your favorite missionary book? Favorite missionary biography. Without hesitation, I said Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secrets. Now I've had this for years. I've read it a number of times. The covers tore off of it. And when I was studying this verse, I thought Hudson Taylor understood what this verse was teaching. You read this book and he explains, it's not me doing this, it's Christ living through me. It's not my power that's impacting China for the gospel, it's Christ doing it And he, like few others since the Apostle Paul, grasped the fact that it is not I, but Christ. Not I, but Christ. It's a tremendous book. I got some other books that have impacted me. Another one is by a fellow Elie Maxwell. He was a preacher up in Canada back in the mid-1900s. Dr. Lee Robertson recommended this book to me. I asked him, I said, Dr. Roberson, God's called me to preach what would be one book you'd recommend without hesitating. He said, Reborn Crucified by L. E. Maxwell. This whole book explains it's not you and my ability to live the Christian life. It's not my strength that overcomes sin. It's not my strength that gives me victory in my life. It's not my ability. to make me a quote unquote good Christian. It's Christ. It's not myself. You know, the biggest problem with Dennis Leatherman is Dennis Leatherman. You know who messes up my Christian life the most? Not Ed It's the guy standing on the platform. And Ellie Maxwell grasped this truth of that verse. And I'm not trying to promote books. I'm trying to I'm trying to say this. There are people throughout history that grasp what this verse is saying. And God did great things because it wasn't them There's Christ living through them. Andrew Murray, anything you can read by Andrew Murray is tremendous. He has a book, Abiding Christ. You know what this whole book is? Saying you've got to get yourself out of the way and let Christ live through you. Let Christ live through you. Um book I've taught and preached for years. When we had Bible time, I trained a Bible time evangelist for 10-12 years. Every year I teach and preach this book, The Calvary Road. Tremendous book. You know what this whole book is? Galatians 2. 20. It's not I, but Christ. And Roy Hessen really grasped what Paul is teaching here. And what I'm trying to say is this, the Christian life is not you and I. I'm one of the Christian. The Christian life is you and I dying and getting out of the way. Let Christ live through me. Let Christ live through me. You know what happens? When I die and get out of the way, and it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. He's living his life through me, given victory. He's directing my thinking and my uh my um uh actions, my behavior, my lifestyle. Christ is doing all that. You know what that produces when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ? And he gives me crowns and rewards me for living for him as a Christian life, and he puts this all on me. And I'm standing there, and I'm no I'm minimizing this, but I'm standing there and I'm thinking, you know, I didn't do any of this. It was all Christ did this through me. And you know what we're going to do with those crowns and rewards? We're going to cast them at the feet of Christ because He's the one that gave us the victory. He's the one that produced that life in me, not me. I don't deserve the credit And so, again, I think Galatians chapter 20 is one of the most profound passages in Scripture on what the essence of being a Christian, living the Christian life, is. It's not I but Christ. Not I but Christ. None of us, none of us can brag as to how good of a Christian I am. We cannot legitimately do that. Paul said, I'm the chief, he's probably one of the best Christians, humanly speaking, from a human principle, probably one of the best Christians that walked this planet. You know what he said? I'm a chief of sinners. I, me. He said, I'm the least of the apostles. And Galatians says, it's not I that live, it's Christ that liveth in me. Christ. He's the one doing it I had a fella another church I was in before we came here, they had a a special husband and wife came in and sang. And it was it was godly music. There was not even remotely anything wrong with the music. It was tremendously godly. But this guy didn't like the style for whatever reason. And the next Sunday he's in the lobby and it's between Sunday school and church and I'm running around and he's standing back there and it's packed. It's a pretty good sized church and lobby's packed. And he says, just out loud, everybody could hear him He's griping about this singing that was the week before. I mean just loudly griping and you know he finally made this statement. I'm probably the best Christian in this whole church I was going by. I said w I said to myself, well, we know who the worst Christian is in this whole church And I'm not trying to make fun of the fellow, and he's with the Lord now, and you know, I'm I'm sure God dealt with him and you know. But here's my point. Nobody can brag about how good a Christian I am. Because it's not me. If it was me doing it, I'd be a terrible if it was me doing it, I'd lose my salvation. Like that. It's Christ in me. It's Christ in me. That is the essence of the Christian life. Let me give you a few, a little outline of this verse here And and then we'll quit. The first thing I notice, number one, is the Christian life consists of a personal relationship. A personal relationship. Look at verse Now if you look at this and analyze it, one thing stands out almost immediately. One word stands out almost immediately. I, I, I, me, I, me, I, me, me. Eight times Paul uses a personal reference. I, I, I, me, me, I, me, me, I, I, me. Paul is not talking about somebody else's experience. He's not talking about a group of people's experience. Well, they're all crucified with Christ. He's not making a general just general well. He says, no, this is what happened to me. This is my personal experience. With salvation and with the Christian life. Paul's dealing with himself, his own personal relationship. This is not selfishness on Paul's part. This is not being self-absorbed. Paul is not taking it selfie. No, no, no. He's talking about how Christ, that I am nothing and Christ is everything. This is a personal experience. Christianity is distinct from all the religions in that it is first and foremost a personal relationship Between an individual person and their creator, their God, their savior. It is a personal thing. It's not some external outward keeping the laws and conforming and taking part in religious rituals. That's not personal. No, this is a personal thing between Paul and God. I am crucified with Christ. I am. Nevertheless, it's not I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. He's saying God loves me. Christ died for me. Christ now lives in me. Christ is living through me. He's done this for me personally. The gospel truth must first be personalized. There's a lot of people die and go to hell, believe John 3. 16. They believe God loved the world, and that whosoever believeth in Him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. They believe that, and they die and go to hell. You know why? Because they don't ever personalize. They never get to the point where for God so loved me that if I believe in him, That he gave his only begotten son that if I believe in him, I will not perish, but have everlasting life. Let me ask you a question. Have you come to the point in your life Where you have personally accepted Jesus Christ as your own Savior. So, well, I've done this and I've done that, and I go to church, and you know, I hope I am and I think and I'm trying. No, no, no. That's not personal. I've got to know that I personally have accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior, and I have now have a living relationship with my Savior, my God, my creator. I'm afraid for a lot of people, and I'm afraid even in our Baptist churches, people have an outward form of godliness. We have this outward quote-unquote religion. We don't have a personal relationship with God. We don't know him as my personal savior. What that means. And the Christian life is not some external, as I said a little while ago, it's not some external conformity to rules and laws. That's not how I get saved. That's not how I live the Christian life. He says, as ye receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. How did I receive him? By faith, he did it all for me. How do I walk with him? By the same way, by faith, he lives it through me. He gives me victory. I keep myself out of the way. I die to self. I humble myself before him. I was thinking this morning in my devotions, I read uh Psalm 85, and he makes this statement. He says, Wilt thou not revive us again? That thy people may rejoice in thee. The word revive, you know what it means to make alive again. And I got thinking about that in context of this morning's message, and I thought, you know, revive. I get saved, Christ saves me, He comes in my life, He lives in in me, and as time goes by I start living my life again, and myself gets in the way, and this life of Christ that's in me kind of gets pushed aside and clinched and I take over again. And revival is Christ living again in me. And I'm humbling myself before God. I'm acknowledging my sins and I'm confessing and forsaking and I'm yielding myself. And then Christ lives again. Am I making sense? That's the Christian life. Christ in me, Christ living through me. So this was an intensely personal thing on Paul's part, and the Christian life is very personal. So the Christian life consists of a personal relationship. Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? If you know that you trust him as your personal Savior, is he living his life through you? Do you see evidence? Is there evidence in your heart and mind that Christ is living through me? Are the things that please God being produced in my life? Not that I'm working it up, but I'm simply dying and yielding to Christ, and He's stirring and moving and prompting me. It's a personal relationship. The second thing I notice in Galatians 2. 20 is there, and I'm going to have to explain my wording here, but I notice the Christian life consists of a proxy standing. Proxy standing and you're like, huh? You don't know you know what a proxy is? If somebody votes by proxy, I have the privilege to be on the board with Neighborhood Bible time, a couple others, speaking of truth and things, and I try to get to the meetings and try to play a role and have an influence. Sometimes I can't make the meetings, particularly the Bible time, I missed the number of them over the years and I can't get there. And before we go, I always talk to Brother Koontz, say Brother Koontz, I'm not going to be able to be there. We've got a mission trip or whatever, something like this can't make it, I'm sorry He says, well, I'm going to send you a proxy. You sign that, you okay it, and the president of the board will vote in your place. They're going to cast the vote for you. And you're giving them the authority, and whatever they decide, they'll vote, but it'll be on your behalf. As if you were there, as if you were voting, but they're doing the voting for you. And on the record, it'll be recorded as if you voted. But they did it for you. You know what Christian life is? It's a proxy life. When Jesus Christ died on that cross, He was my proxy. He was dying for me in my stead. Did you catch what Paul said there? For I am crucified. What's the next word? With Christ. I've been crucified with him. This is almost mind-boggling. But if I understand this correctly in other passages, it's like when God saw Jesus Christ hanging on that cross being judged. For every one of my sins, taking responsibility. For every sin I've ever committed, every ungodly word I've ever said, every impure thought I've ever had, Jesus taking responsibility for that and being judged for me. When God sees that, it's almost like I'm hanging on that cross And I've already been crucified in God's mind for my sins. I've already suffered the full payment of hell for my sins. Now I didn't. Christ did it in my stead. Paul said, I am crucified with Christ, this matter of sin and living the Christian life and salvation, living the Christian life. Christ did all that for me. When he died on the cross, it was as if I was dying there for my sins. He did it in my stead. And by the way, that applies to the life of Christ. For thirty-three years, so about approximately, Jesus Christ lived a sinless, faultless, perfect, holy life, completely pleasing to God. Absolutely holy. But when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, that became my proxy, so to speak. And when God looks at Dennis Leatherman, he looks as a man that's living a perfect, sinless, godless life. In Christ. Christ did that for me, but it's put to my account. You follow what I'm saying? And so the Christian life is not some standard I've got to live up to, or I'm not. No, no, no, it's not that at all. It's Christ. He's already lived, he's already fulfilled the standard for me in God's eyes. It's already done Now what I need to do is get myself out of the way and keep this sinful nature, mortify the deeds of the flesh and crucify this sinful nature and die to self and put off the old man and let Christ live through me That Christ lived through me. So it's a proxy standing. When Jesus was crucified, as far as the heavenly records concerned, I was crucified. You look at the notes from the meeting a year ago, January of 2016. I think uh I was St. Lucia, I think we were down there suffering, suffering in St. Lucia on a mission trip in January. And um If you look at the minutes and the records, oh Dennis Leatherman voted for that, oh Dennis Leatherman voted for that. How about that? I didn't know he was there. I wasn't. But somebody did that for me. Oh, Dennis Leatherman was crucified on the cross. He was already judged and his sins completely judged already. Eternal hell already paid for. Well, no, he wasn't there. Christ. Did that for me. Dennis Leatherman's a perfect Christian without flaw. Without fault is amazing. I know the guy. He didn't live in that way. Oh, you're right. Christ already did it for me. Am I making sense? So there's a proxy standing here before God. I think baptism is a picture of that. Baptism does not save, baptism does not take away my sins. I'm not crucified. My baptism is not my crucifixion with Christ, like the Church of Christ teaches. My baptism is simply an object lesson. Of a truth that took place when I accepted Christ as my Savior. How I was crucified with Christ, buried with him in baptism, and raised to walk in newness of life, life of Christ. And nudes of life. It's a picture that I have my association with Christ. One of these guys in one of these books, they refer to it as the great transaction, the transferred life. It's Christ living in me, not my life, Christ in me. So baptism is a, I believe, a picture of that. This proxy. I have been crucified. I've already been crucified, buried, and risen in the person of Christ. Then last of all, I'll give you this one. The Christian life consists of a practical expression. And Paul ran into this, and in fact he addressed it a little bit in the passage that Mark read in other places in scripture in Romans. He gets confronted with this. He says, if that's true, then hey, we can live however we want. If I don't have to live up to a certain standard for God to accept me, well that's a license that's in. It's already done. I'll just go out and That mentality does not comprehend what Christian life is. The new nature that God gives me, Christ in me, this hope of glory, does not want to sin. Wants to be pure. There's a new nature in me. There's a new desire in me. There are new cravings in me. Be clean and pure and holy and be everything that Christ is. And so it's not a justification to go, oh well Christ already did it for me. Live it up. That's not it at all. And by the way, if we get messed up in our thinking and think that's what it is, Hebrews tells us God will deal with that. Hebrews 12 tells us that So there is a, it produces the Christian life consists of a practical expression. And this is where I get that from Galatians 2. 20. For I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Christ liveth in me. I now live. I live. He's talking about his life. And how this truth impacts his life. This truth had a profound impact on my own life. I didn't understand it. I still am grasping to try and fully comprehend When I got saved that Monday night, that night, and then especially the following days and weeks, there were changes taking place in my life that there's absolutely no human explanation for. It was Christ. And trust still to this day, all these 38 years now. Christ living through me. Christ living through me. Not me trying to get some standard. It's Christ living through me. And my responsibility, stay out of the way. Stay humble. Die. Put off the old man. It's not me changing my life. I didn't change my life. I tried desperately before I got saved to change my life. I tried desperately, and I could not Christ in me. Not me living my life. Christ living the life through me Only one person has ever lived the Christian life, only one person has ever been capable of living the Christian life. It's Jesus Christ, our Savior. It's not something I work up. It's not something I produce. The Christian life is lived the same way it's received by faith in Christ. We are hopelessly unable to save ourselves, and we are hopelessly inadequate to live the Christian life. We need Christ to do that through us. Our problem is we try to please God in ourself, in our own power, in our own ability. We try to live the Christian life. What we need to do is die to self. Every day, I die daily, Paul said. Just get yourself out of the way. Let Christ live through me. That may require being broken I think it was F. B. Meyer, I may be wrong on who quoted made this statement, but one of those great preachers of years gone by, they said God has never used a man greatly. Until he's hurt him deeply. I find that to be true. I gotta get self needs to be died, needs to die. That self needs to be put in place. And sometimes that takes pain. Sometimes God lets us fail miserably. So that I can learn I can't do this. I'm incapable. I need Christ to live this life. Sometimes he chastens us very sharply. We think it's me. It's me. It's not me. It's Christ. I was trying to think, how can I illustrate this? And I thought of a glove. You know what makes gloves work? They don't have any mind of their own. Right? That'd be bad. This glove is useless. It's powerless to do anything. But when I put my hand in the glove and it submits itself to the hand that's in it, this glove does amazing things. It can pick stuff up, it can move things, it can carry thorns, do a lot of things, but the glove in and of itself Without the hand, the glove can do nothing. Hmm. Seems like Jesus said something along those lines. Without me, you can do nothing. You can do nothing. So, what am I saying? We're all gloves We need Christ. We need Him to save us. We need Him to live through us. And we need to yield ourselves and die to self and just say, Lord, here I am. Isn't that what being filled with the Holy Spirit is Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I don't know. This is what we need, Lord, and I ask that you would help us, those of us that know you as Savior. Help us to see the fact that our biggest problem is ourselves, our own pride, our own sinful nature What we really need to do is die to self, put ourselves on the altar, present our bodies as living sacrifice, and let you live in and through us and fill us, and that you give us the victory so that you get the glory. Every one of us here, Father, I know, is struggling with sins, struggling with self, struggling with pride, every one of us I pray that those of us that know you as Savior would recognize that we're powerless, that we need to yield to you and let you live through us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've trusted Christ. But this struggle is real. And I see how I beat my head against the wall trying to do and be what I know I should do and be, and I fail. And I see now I need Christ. I need to get out of the way. I need to die to self. Let Christ live through me. Let Him be the victory. Faith is the victory, faith in Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I know there's areas I need to struggle. I need Christ to give the victory. I need Christ to lift the hand. How many like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around You know what we need to do? Every one of us, whether we raise our hand or not, every one of us, we need to die to self. We need to get ourselves that way. Let Christ live through us. Confess our sin. Deal with it, put it on the altar, forsake it And let Christ take over and send revival in our lives. Is there someone here this morning saying, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure my sins are going on my way to heaven. You say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to get that settled. Any at all God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. Maybe this altar would be a place where we die to self, where our bodies are presented as living sacrifices. And God, you live through us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And God spoke to your heart this morning, whatever the need may be, whatever the area of Christian life, that you need God to give you victory. How about let's find a place in the altar as the piano plays? How about it? Why don't you come on here? And I know the struggle's real. I know the battle with sin and self and the world is real. And we get beat up and we try in our own power and our own will