Jonah chapter number four, if you would turn there. Jonah chapter four. You come in, we apologize. There is no water at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church or any of its satellite buildings. And uh I usually take a shower right before the service. Oh Sunday and Wednesday I always just like to take a shower versus I jump in the shower and nothing. And so uh we're not sure what the problem is, but um we have our crack team back there working on it I don't mean our team that's on crack, I mean our crack team. Uh so Lord will them by the time we're done here, I just told them I'll keep preaching until they get water back. So We're gonna adjust our schedule a little bit tonight also. We uh the teams leave Saturday for their trip to Puerto Rico, their mission trip down with Brother Jimmy Shelton. And so I want to have a special time of prayer for them before they go. And so we're going to do that. And then also we have a very, very brief business meeting at the end. So if you would uh Just bear with us here a little bit. We'll have to adjust for that. Jonah chapter four. I I I don't know about you, and I got you know, of course God is all wise, so we don't question him, but I really wish he'd have ended Jonah at the end of chapter three. I don't like chapter four. It's like, man, things are going so good. And you know, it's one thing to start out good and strong, which Jonah did not do. It's another thing to finish strong. And Jonah did not do that either Look with me if you would. We preached on verse 4 the other week. Now I want to pick up at verse 5. So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth. and sat under it in the shadow till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord, God, prepared a gourd. and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered. And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a behemoth east wind. And the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted and wished himself to die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. I've titled the message Persistent Selfishness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we're grateful for the record of Jonah here. In the Bible. I pray, Lord, that this last chapter here is a little disturbing. Lord, we wish Jonah could have finished out a little stronger, but um I pray you'd help us to learn from this. And Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and help all of us to be open to what your Holy Spirit has for us as individuals from this passage. Challenge us, challenge me. And I pray we could learn from Jonah's um situation here. Again, fill me with your spirit, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. When we began our study of Jonah, I as I began studying this and preparing for the series and now that we're getting into it, my initial thought of the book of Jonah was that it is actually a manual on missions. This is God calling Jonah to the foreign mission field. And so I approached it from that perspective. Now that we're winding down our study of the book, we're into chapter 4, I agree with myself That's always good. Uh I agree with my initial um uh conclusion. It's a missions manual, but I want to tweak it a little bit. I've come to the conclusion the book of Jonah is a missions manual on priorities, which is where Jonah had things out of whack. And so Jonah, I believe, is a classic example of a believer who has his priorities completely out of whack. And he's in the ministry and he's got his priorities completely out of whack. You know, folks, preachers like myself and people in the ministry, they can get things out of whack sometimes. I had a preacher, friend, uh, I I'd say friend, he was probably more of an acquaintance, and uh uh he loved fishing, and I loved fishing as much as anybody. Uh I'll tell you that. I mean I just I I'm into it. I like it. But he was just so into fishing, he would Sunday mornings, he would get up Sunday mornings, fish to the last minute And then complying into church and uh have church and go that. Then the afternoon you go out and fish a little bit and uh go on like that Now you say, well, there's nothing wrong with that. I don't know. To me, preaching the Word of God in the church service is the most important thing in the world. In my world, that's the most important thing And to me, I want to keep my priorities right, I want to keep my focus on that. Now, you know, maybe I'm being a little judgmental there on them, but I just felt like, man, to stand behind the pulpit and preach the word of God You need to prepare your heart and be ready for that. And so it's what I'm trying to say is this. It's possible for someone even in the ministry to get their priorities out of whack. And that's what Jonah did, I believe. I think he would fit right in. To much of Christianity in the year 2014. Here's an entire city is facing the judgment of God. And Jonah is sitting up here under a plant whining and crying about not having shade on his head He's worried about getting sunburned when you have a whole city here that's on the verge of spending going to hell for all eternity. And um that bothers me. Jonah here is an extreme case of persistent selfishness. From chapter 1 and verse 3, when God says go to Nineveh and he heads the Tarshis. To chapter 4 and verse 8, where he's whining and crying over a gourd that uh God allows to wield over his head. I get the impression Jonah was a spoiled man. Sometimes what do you picture in your mind? You say if you say you talk about someone being spoiled, what do you picture in your mind? I picture a little kid at Walmart. Yeah, screaming and hollering, going on and yelling. I went this and f swinging things around and and uh when they come out the cart's full of whatever that little kid wanted. Right, that's my picture. Fact of the matter is you don't have to be five years old to be spoiled. You could be fifty-five years old and be spoiled And I think Jonah, I think Jonah was a spoiled uh preacher, to be honest with you. Uh I said I was going over my message before the service we're at the house there and um I said to Kathy, I said, I said, who do you who comes to mind when I say a spoiled preacher? And we both thought of the same person. There's nobody don't try and figure out who it is, but we both thought of the same person right away So here you have Jonah, a prophet, a man of God, and he's being so selfish, on the verge of, I'm calling him spoil. One of the hardest character flaws to overcome is that of selfishness The flesh, the flesh will never be able to conquer the flesh And it is hard to overcome selfishness. A person can be lazy, and the flesh, for fleshly reasons, they may be able to overcome laziness. The flesh can maybe conquer that. The person may be somewhat dishonest. And the flesh could maybe overcome that for selfish reasons. But for the flesh to overcome selfishness is very, very difficult. And um and if that was and if uh and if that selfishness was fostered as a child by the parents, um, I all of a sudden got a lot of volume there, Dave. Uh it makes it even more difficult. How do you overcome selfishness? How do I overcome selfishness? I believe it has to be the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit has to break my will. That is often very painful. That is often very humiliating. But to break that character flaw of selfishness, we need God to step in and break that because the flesh is never going to do it. The flesh is never going to do it. I don't believe Jonah ever did. Now we don't know beyond verse 11 of chapter 4. We don't know what happens. But as far as our record of Jonah here, I don't believe he ever did conquer the selfishness from what we're told He never got victory over this. I mean, think about it. He spent three days and three nights in the belly of the whale. God spared his life, and he still comes out of that thing so whining and selfish That um I don't know that he ever got over it. I got over it. More often than not, persistent selfishness leads to outright foolishness. The more selfish I am, the more self-absorbed I become, the more foolish my actions become. And here we have Jonah whining and crying over a little plant. When there's a million plus people in desperate need of Christ. How foolish. How foolish. I got three points in my little outline here in this passage that we read. Number one, I put this down. I see Jonah's stubbornness. Jonah's stubbornness. Look at verse number five with me. Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth. And sat under it in the shadow till he might see what would become of the city. Now that last phrase there is what's interesting to me. What would become of the city? Now back up, chapter 3, and we find Jonah, he shows up and he preaches God's message. Yet 40 days Nineveh will be destroyed. How did Nineveh respond to God's message? They repented thoroughly. Classic example of biblical repentance. You're not going to find anywhere in the Bible a more thorough or biblical example of repentance than what Nineveh did. And uh verse number 10 there, look at verse 10 of chapter 3. And God saw their works that they turned from their evil ways, and God repented of the evil that he had said that he would do unto them, and he did it not. Now think about, now think with me, let's use our imagination a little bit. What is the spiritual state of the people of Nineveh at the end of verse 10, chapter 3? Where are they at spiritually? Let me put it this way. Would you say they are hard-hearted against God? No. They're just the opposite. They just got saved. They have humbled themselves, they have thoroughly repented, they've cried out to God, hoping that God might have mercy on them, and lo and behold, God completely withdraws his judgment. Now I'm assuming, the Bible doesn't tell us this, but I'm assuming that they would be right to be taught about Jehovah God that's just spared them, right? In my mind, they would be open to who is this God that has shown us such incredible mercy? What would he want from us? How should we now live? After he's done this amazing shown this amazing mercy and granted us this amazing forgiveness, how should we live? What I'm saying is this: what an opportunity Jonah had To come into that city and say, hey, let me tell you about this God that's just forgiven you. Let me tell you what he's like. Let me tell you uh how we should live as believers, as forgiven people. What an opportunity Jonah had to take them to another level. But what does he do? He leaves the city. He walks out in a huff Seventy years later, we're told that judgment does come on this city. They turn back. The next generation turn back to their pagan. Can I suggest to you, and again, speculation on my part, but can I suggest to you maybe if Jonah had stuck around, did a little teaching, got a little word of God in there, did some discipling and working with them, that could have ended up a different story. But he's stubborn. He has got in his heart and mind, these people need to be judged. And rather than being gracious, and rather than being merciful, and rather than working with rather than getting in on what God was doing, He stuck to his own agenda. And he leaves the city. And notice the Bible says he went to the east side. Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city. I thought, what's the significance of going to the east side? What's it matter what side he goes to? So I did a little looking up. I found out that Nineveh was on the east bank of the Tigris River. So here's the Tigris River. Let's see, east is that way. Here's the Tigris River. Nineveh is on the east bank of the Tigris River And Jonah goes out of the east of the city. So what's happening? As you get farther away from the river, what's happening? The elevation is getting higher, right? So he's no doubt he's going uphill. What Jonah is doing is a very strategic uh uh act on his part. He's getting up to high ground. And he's positioning himself in such a place that he can look down on the city. And the verse says, because he wants to see what's going to happen. Now my question is this: what's going to happen to the city? Nothing's going to happen to the city. God's forgiven them. No fire is going to fall from heaven like Sodom and Gomorrah. No judgment's going to come on this place. They are forgiven. They're going to get up the next day and they're going to go about their lives and uh there's no they're not going to be destroyed But Jonah is so stubborn in his agenda, so set, and it doesn't matter what God says, he is convinced that this place is going to be destroyed. He's out there to see what's going to happen. God already said what's going to happen. But Jonah doesn't, this is my point here. Jonah doesn't care what God says Jonah's going to do what Jonah wants. And that has been his testimony all through the book. God says, go to Nineveh, Jonah goes to Tarshus. All through this, we find Jonah over and over again absolutely stubborn. He's not going to submit to God, he's not going to get in on God's program, he's not going to cooperate with the Lord. He's gonna do his thing. So my first thought my first observation here is that Jonah's su uh stubborn. Second thought is this I noticed God's sufferance or God's patience is what I mean by that. Look at verse number six again. And the Lord God, and I'll be honest with you, when I first read this, I thought, God, what are you doing? And the Lord God prepared a gourd and made it to come up over Jonah that it might be a shadow over his head to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. I tell you what I would have done. I would have hit him over the head with the gourd. And I'm I'm reading this and I'm thinking, you know, I don't I don't want to be irreverent here in any way, but I'm thinking, God, what are you nuts? Why are you worried about this guy being in the shade? You don't have a gourd. So uh so it uh notice how he words it there so uh over his head to deliver him from his grief. I thought man you're just spoiling him even more Oh, poor little Jonah, you're up here on the hill waiting for judgment to come on a city. I promise there wouldn't be any judgment. I'll shade you. And I thought, what in the world? That doesn't make sense. Several things. Number one, God is very compassionate even to the worst of sinners. Aren't you glad for that? God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God sends rain on the just and the unjust, and God lets gorge I found out that some of the most wicked, perverse, foul mouthed, dishonest people have great gardens. Anyone knows that? They have gourds, they have all this stuff, and God is very merciful and very gracious. He does those things But the more I got studying it, I began to see there's more taking place here than meets the eye. Um, look at it again. Jonah went out of the city, sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, sat under it the sh sat under the shadows to see what might become of the city. Stubborn And the Lord prepared a gourd and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head. Now look at this, to deliver him from his grief. What grief is Jonah experiencing? He's set, he's determined, he thinks he's got in his head what's going to happen. I don't pick up any grief on Jonah's part at this point. So you know what I did? I got my concordance out and I looked up. What's that word grief? And I looked how it's used in other places in the Bible and I found something out. The word grief there isn't him just being sad and just grieving over God's mercy and forgiving The word grief means this evil misery. Evil misery And I thought, well, how is it used other places? And I found that back when God told Adam and Eve not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and Evil, exact same word. And then it gets worse. Turn with me if you would to Genesis chapter number 13. Genesis chapter thirteen and uh Here you have Lot and and Abraham are going their separate ways. And uh verse 11, Genesis 13, verse 11, look at verse 10. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan. It was well watered. everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom Genorah, even like the Garden of Eden, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest to Zor. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. Lot journeyed, and uh they separated themselves one from the other. I think you could say Lot was selfish. Took the best for himself, at least material-wise. Abraham dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plains, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. Now look at verse 13. But the men of Sodom were wicked. Guess what? Same word as Jenna as Jonah chapter 4. And verse number six, to deliver him from his grief. You know what's happening here, I believe? God sees Jonah's selfishness as wickedness. It is ungodly as the actions of the Sodomites. And God wants to get Jonah out of that mindset. God is trying, I believe, to change the attitude of Jonah. He does not want him to stay this way. Now, if it is me, whap, Jonah would be done. But God is very patient. God is very gracious And just like God spared Nineveh from his judgment, he's trying to deliver Jonah from his stinky, wicked, miserable attitude. And so when it says that God brought up the gourd, put a shatter on his head, deliver him from this grief, this misery that he was bringing on himself. This ungodly misery that he has got in his head, in his heart, God's trying to deliver him from that. God's trying to set him free from his selfishness. I think you'll agree with me. The most unhappy people in the world, would you agree with me, are selfish people. Living for themselves. Everything is me, mine, I, what I want, when I want it, where I want it, how I want it. And they're miserable. They're miserable. And God's trying to deliver Jonah from this selfishness. He's very, very, very gracious. No, look, look, go on. God's kind of exposing Jonah to himself. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered. And it came to pass, when the sun did rise, that God prepared a behemoth east wind. Would you say God's working on Jonah? He prepares a gourd, he prepares a worm, and he prepares a behemoth east wind, a hot wind blowing hard. And the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, and he fainted, and wished himself to die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. God's exposing Jonah's selfishness to himself. He's trying to get Jonah to stop and think about what he's doing. I'm convinced that's what God is doing here And God does that for you and I. He lets things happen so that we can stop and take a look at ourselves and say, all right, where am I? What kind of person am I? What kind of Christian am I? Is there areas that need attention and need help? I think that's what he's doing to Jonah. Now sadly, Jonah's selfishness produces foolishness. And he never catches on to what God's doing. Now we'll notice, Lord willing next week, the last few verses. That uh God confronts him again, this time a little more bluntly. But first thing we have, I notice in verse 5 is Jonah's stubbornness. He is locked in to what he thinks should happen, doesn't matter what God says, doesn't matter what's happening around him. He's sitting on this east side hill on the east side of the city. He's waiting for judgment to come God begins working on them, saying, Jonah, you're miserable. Look at yourself. Look at how you're acting. Look how miserable you are. You've got to change your attitude. You've got to get rid of this selfishness. But the last thing I notice in verse number eight, the last part of verse eight, is Jonah's shallowness. Look at this. And this is frustrating to me. And the sun did beat upon the head of Jonah that he fainted. Look at this. And wished in himself to die. And said, it is better for me to die than to live. Now think about what he's saying here. A plant died that gave him some shadow, and he says, oh, it's not even worth living anymore. My thinking is, give me a break, man. There's people that are going through a whole lot harder stuff than a plant dying and then being a little uncomfortable when being out in the sun. And he becomes so shallow. His life has gotten so shallow that all it consists of is his immediate comfort. That's all he's living for. His whole life consists of, I need to be comfortable. Never mind the fact that the entire city that God has just spared from hell. Never mind the fact that God has gone to incredible lengths to get Jonah here, and because he's not comfortable in this one little setting, oh that's all that's all he's living for. His life had gotten so shallow. You could write this down. I put it in my notes. Selfishness equals shallowness. What an empty, shallow life that has just lived for me. Just lived for me. I tell ya, anybody here ever had to deal with selfishness in your life? I got both my hands raised. It's not much to that type of living, is there? Not much to that. But you ever step out of yourself and die to self? You say, you know, I'm going to invest my life in someone else, and you really work with someone, you really give yourself, maybe sacrifice. And when that's all said and done, you walk away and you say, you know That was good. That meant a lot. To give of myself to another. To give of myself to the Lord. I was going to use this illustration Sunday and I couldn't remember her name and I've referenced her a few times. My wife reminded me the other day, Carla. was a in Bible college when I was down at Temple, huge bus ministry, 42 buses. And we worked down there. Carla Was a young lady, very attractive, sold out to Christ. I mean just sold out. Very quiet, meek, not in front of people's anything like that, but just soul winner Carla, we worked in the inner city projects. I had a afternoon Sunday school division and ours was all the inner city projects. Um you couldn't get them in the mornings because they were none of them were up and you Couldn't get them in evenings because they were all their parents were on drugs and it was dangerous. So we got them Sunday afternoons. And we bring 'em in and teach 'em. Uh we'd have uh eight or nine hundred kids we'd bring in They were all from in your city projects. I mean nasty. There was some of the ladies on our route, uh some of the homes on our route I should say, that were absolutely so filthy. There's one I'm thinking in particular. That hot summer sun down in Chattanooga, a hundred some degrees, we'd go knock on that door and she'd open her door to this woman. And we're trying to win her to Christ and her family. And I'm telling you, I could not go inside. It was so rank. I just, I'd get sick. One day we found out something about Carla. She went around one Saturday afternoon. We said, Where's Carla? She went out to Miss So-and-So's house. She's cleaning her house for her. And she had spent a whole day out there and scrubbed that lady's house down. She gave of herself. I thought, man alive. Sunday mornings, Carla'd be up early before the buses, I mean at daybreak and she'd be out, she'd be cleaning all those buses so that they're nice and clean and ready to go pick up the kids in the morning. She didn't have to do that. Her whole life was given. She never married. She ended up last I heard from Carla, she was in Suriname. Reaching the nationals, the natives there in Suriname down south, and trying to win people to Christ. Man, what a life! What a life. I hear some other folks that I went to Bible college with. They're just out there partying, living up, having a good time, and just nothing. Who would you rather be at the judgment seat of Christ, Carla or one of the party heads? I'd rather be Carla A whole lot more meaning to it. What a shallow man Jonah was. All he lived for was his comfort. Here's a whole city. He never saw the opportunity To get in there and give of himself to those people and train them and teach them about Jehovah God just walked away from all of that. I was reading about the French have a disease, a name for disease. Now, hard in my French here, but this is the word. La malade du moi. Anyone know what that means? I have no idea. I don't even know if that's that's how you say it. But what it means is me sickness. This guy says the disciples were troubled with that same disease, me-sickness. They were too much concerned with themselves. Jonah had me-sickness. Despite all the strides science has made, it has offered no vaccine to combat knee sickness. The only remedy that has ever been effective is that which was offered by the great physician His love engenders selflessness for selfishness in the heart of man. And basically goes on and says, when we die to self and we understand the love of God that's shed and brought in our hearts, selfishness vanishes away. And we can give of ourselves to others. Someone else said this. If you wish to be miserable, think about yourself. About what you want, what you like What respect people ought to pay you and then do nothing and then to you nothing will be pure You will spoil everything you touch, you will make misery for yourself out of every good, you will be as wretched as you choose. And when I read that, I thought of Jonah. What a miserable, shallow man living for himself. Do you see what I mean when I say I wish it ended at chapter 3, verse 10? I wish I didn't know this about Jonah. I wish we weren't told about this. Now God gives them a stinging rebuke in the last few verses, and we'll look at that But this is my prayer tonight. I prayed when I was done the message. I said, I prayed, Lord, help me to die to self. Help me to live for others. Help me to live for Christ. And um we need the Lord to help us do that. We need the Lord to help us do that. Let's pray. Father. Grateful for Jonah. It's not a pleasant illustration example, but um some ways it's very convicting. And I pray you'd help me as pastor of this church and all the way down to every single member throughout every part of the body of Christ here, that you would convict us and challenge us to die to self To put away selfishness and live for Christ and for others. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, along with me, preacher, my focus is on myself far too much? My concern is for myself far too much. I need God to help me get my eyes off myself and on others and the opportunity to invest my life in others. Any any like feel like the same way with me? Any at all Tell you what, let's tonight ask God to help us to be that way, to be dead to self and to live for others. Father, you know our hearts, you know how powerful this flesh is. And we pray for victory. We pray you do whatever you need to in our lives. That we could die to self and live for Christ and not have this attitude Jonah had and be so miserable. Help us, Lord, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand.