I just want to read verse number six. And uh let me get my mic on here. I think I'm up and running. Uh There's verses in the Bible you come across them and uh you understand what they're saying. You look at it and it makes sense, but you really don't Grasp how does that apply? In what way? I agree what he's saying, I say what he's saying, but what what does that have to do with the Christian life? How does it apply to me? I think this is one of those verses. Look at verse number six. Again, this is the Sermon on the Mound. The Lord's preaching not to unsaved people. He's talking to saved people, disciples. And he says this, give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine. Lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you. How many people agree it makes sense you wouldn't throw something that's holy to a bunch of dogs? That makes sense Uh you wouldn't you ladies, your husband gives you a pearl necklace. It's beautiful, very expensive. You wouldn't throw it out to the spa uh swine. That makes sense, right? What he's saying here makes sense But the question is, well how what does that mean? Well how does it apply to me? So that's what we're going to try and figure out tonight. I called it pigs and pearls pigs and pearls Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now or study this word. Lord, these are your words. And so we're asking you to teach us what you mean by this and how it applies to our lives. Lord, to do that, I need to yield myself to you and present my body and Lord I need you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. Be our teacher tonight, Lord, that we can uh leave here tonight grasping what our instructions are here. and what we are to do and not to do. So please fill me with your Spirit and help us here to be better disciples and more effective witnesses for you, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The first five verses of chapter 7, we spent a fair bit of time on that where he says, judge not that you be not judged. Then he goes on and explains that, and everybody likes that verse, you know, judge not, don't judge me, don't judge me. And if you remember, we pointed out that uh it's pretty obvious here he's not talking about making judgment as to whether something is right or wrong. Obviously we need to do that in every area of life. We need to be able to make a judgment, judgment calls of whether something is right or wrong. It's not what he's talking about And if you remember, we pointed out very clearly what he's talking about here is not using what we call discernment. What he's talking about is bringing personal condemnation on people And he gives a very somewhat sarcastic illustration. And he says, uh verse number three, he says, Why beholdest thou the moat the moat, a little tiny speck that's in thy brother's eye, and considerest not the being that is in thine own eye? Of course, that's a ridiculous exaggeration. Nobody would walk around. I'd like for the young people to get their attention up here when God's word is being preached. But nobody walks around with a beam in their eye. So he's using a little bit of sarcasm, he's exaggerating a little bit, but he's trying to make the point Anytime you and I go around and we want to start condemning somebody else for something they've done, we need to stop and consider the fact that we no doubt have some issues in our own life that need to be dealt with Now, just a brief reminder, he says in verse 5, he says, take the beam out of thine own eye, then shalt thou be able Then shalt thou see clearly and cast the moat out of thy brother's eyes. Not saying we shouldn't ever try and help the brother with the if they have a fault or some issue. We do need to help them if we can, but we need to first of all uh straighten things out in our own life. And so he's uh verse one through five is he's uh uh uh he's uh He's forbidding us to call down damnation on other people. Now verse number six, I believe is loosely tied to what he says in the first five verses. I don't think it's a direct I don't think it's a direct process. He's going through here and then you get to verse 6, ties directly in there. I think there's a loose connection here. And I think what he's telling us in verse number six is he's telling us, verse one through five, don't bring damnation on people, but do use discernment about people. Follow what I'm saying? On one hand, I should not condemn others for faults or sins in their life. Condemn them personally We all have sinned and come sure of the glory of God. If we're going to condemn someone else for sinning, then I'm condemning myself because I'm a sinner myself So he says, don't judge people, don't bring condemnation on them on the one hand, but on the other hand, do use discernment in your interaction with other people. Verse 1 through 5, don't be hypocritical. Going around with a beam in your own eye, and you're worried about a moat in someone else's eye. And by the way, I found generally when we get all worked up about something in someone else's eye Generally, there's a pretty big issue in our own eyes somewhere. I found people with motes in their own eyes usually aren't getting worked up about motes in other people's eyes It's usually the people with the beam that are worried about the moats. Follow what I'm saying? So anyway, we preached all that before. But now he's saying Don't go to seed on that. He's kind of like, listen, I'm not saying don't use any discernment at all Don't condemn the people, but be very, very discerning in your interaction with people So we're all the difference between hypocritical condemnation and biblical discernment. And that's what he's Can we just turn that off? You're not allowed to watch TV while I'm preaching. There. Let's just leave that there like that. It's possessed I'm using discernment on judging what's up on that screen. I'm not condemning anybody There's a world of difference between me going around and hypocritical condemning other people for the faults and sins they're struggling with when I got issues in my own life. But on the other hand, it's a whole nother story when I'm using discernment as to how I'm going to interact with people and how I'm going to do that. Verse number six is talking about using discernment. Discernment. Now I want us to got a little outline here, like I always do. I usually do. I want us to notice in verse number six, first of all, the uh an explanation of some terms. There's four terms he uses here That I think we need to look at and get it clear in our mind what exactly he's talking about. And we need to understand these terms if we're going to understand what he's saying. The first one here, he says, give not that which is what? Holy What do you think of when you hear the word holy? Think of God. Holiness is the chief characteristic of God We said this this summer. I drilled it and drilled it and drilled it into our minds. God wants us when we think of Him to think of someone that is holy. And so he says, give not that which is holy. So it's the chief characteristic of God. The word itself simply means this in a biblical definition. It simply means this, something that is set apart for either the use of God or for the possession of God. In the Old Testament, the furniture in the tabernacle was called holy because it was separated from all the other furniture that Israel had. for the use of God, for the possession of God, for the use of his worship and the atonement and all of that. It was holy. When Moses saw the burning bush The Lord said, take your shoes off your feet because the ground on which you are standing is what? Holy ground. It's God's presence. It's set apart for God communicating with them at that point. And so holy, something is holy, it's something that is set apart for God's possession, for God's use. Now there's another word, so keep that in mind. Give not that which is holy. Something that is pure and righteous is set apart for God. It's God's. Don't give that to the dogs. Then he says, Neither cast ye your pearls. Alright, so what's a pearl? Am I correct on this? I think I am. I tried to do a little research. A pearl is considered a gemstone. Is that correct? It's not really a stone, is it a stone? But I I got I looked up a few things and I think it's considered a gemstone. So you guys don't know any more than I do. So it is, I'm telling you, it is So a pearl is a very highly valued gemstone. And how pearls are referred to through Scripture, they're always referred to something very, very precious. Something that is very expensive. Something that is of high value to a person. So, first two terms he introduces here is that which is holy And your pearls. So you put these two together, and I would say this, this is something that is Very good, something that is pure and highly valued Something holy and pearl, very, very precious, very, very expensive, very, very rare, uh, very pure and good, and is God's is separated to God. Alright, so we've got that. Now, the Bible doesn't expressly say this, but I'm surmising this. And when he talks about that which is holy and he talks about your pearls, I think he's safe to say he's referring to the gospel message. The Word of God. Word of God is very, very precious. It's God's word. It's of high value. And so I believe that's what he's referencing, and I'll try to bring that out. Now, let's look at the other two terms. Give not that which is holy to the what? Dogs. Hmm. Now in our day and age, you got to think about it, our view and our attitude and our mindset towards dogs is very, very different. than the mindset they had back in this day and age towards dogs. Today we have dogs we call them little foo-foo, you know, and little feet and and uh little uh um What? Willie? Boo-boo, little boo-boo. Oh, they're so cute. And the ladies carry them in the airport in their little boo-boo purse, you know, and That is not the attitude these people had towards dogs. And nowadays a pet dog can almost become part family. Right or wrong. They almost feel like they're family. And um they eat better than s some of my kids did. But um uh but then back in the day that is not the case. Back in this time, when Jesus is referencing the dogs here, they are scavengers. They are wild, fierce, dirty, nasty, dangerous animals. They were despised. They were hated. There's certain parts of the world where they're still that way. Consider that way. We're in Mongolia. The dogs there were just treated horrendously. and uh were just roam the streets and just an old used to call it I think down south they called them old cur dogs. You know, just a mangy old ratty thing running around the alleyways killing rats, you know, and eating garbage That's the mind frame they had there. To a Jew, a dog represented everything dirty, unclean, and repulsive. They were probably we would view rats today is the way they viewed dogs there. So he says, take not that which is holy. Separated the Lord, God's possession. Pearls are very, very precious, very, very valuable. I'm suggesting to you, he's referencing the Word of God, maybe the gospel in particular And he says, don't throw it to the dogs, something that is nasty, repulsive, unclean. And then he references swine. Now we all know what swine are, pigs. And we all know what the Jewish Jews' attitude towards swine were. They hated them. They were nasty. They were unclean. A swine was to be avoided at all costs. You didn't eat them, you didn't touch them, you didn't own them, you didn't nothing with them. They were bad, they were ugly, they were nasty. And so I'm going to suggest to you that when he says, give not that which is holy to the dogs, and give cast not your pearl before the swine When by using dogs and swines, he's referencing everything that is dirty and unclean and of no value to the Jews. So here's what I think he's saying. I think he's saying, do not take the Word of God, the gospel in particular. The truth of, maybe putting it this way, the truth of God's words, very, very precious, it's God's. And don't just uh uh cast it. To people of a certain character. Let me back up here a little bit. I'm not expressing this the way I want to. By using the terms dog and swine, he's describing the certain character of people. A certain type of person, perhaps. I'm not saying that we call a person a dog or we call them a pig. I don't think there's any circumstance where it would be just in doing that, but their character. is of such. Alright, so those are the terms. Holy pearls, that which is good, separate the Lord, it's God's, it's very precious. It's very, very pure. Dogs and swine, impure, repulsive, unclean, of no value. So that's the term. So let me give you, number two, the interpretation of the text. Now this is what I believe he's saying. Number one, we do not condemn people. Alright? We already got that. We're not condemning anybody. But I think he's saying here we must be able to discern Between different characteristics of people. I have to be able to discern whether this person, their character Is dirty and nasty and not of God. It's unclean, something to be avoided, something to be stayed away from. And I need to deal with them accordingly. Cast not that which is holy before the dogs, don't care uh don't give that which is holy to dogs, don't cast your pearl before swines I need to be able to discern and determine the character of the person, and then I treat them and I deal with them accordingly. Now I want to illustrate that. Jesus did exactly that through his ministry. Jesus treated different people differently. Not everybody that Jesus interacted with got the exact same treatment. got the exact same response, got the exact same uh interaction with them. Now they all got the same message The truth of God's word, they all got that, but he did it differently in different situations. For instance Does anybody here remember the story of the woman? She had a daughter and was vexed. Her daughter was vexed with a devil. She was a Gentile. She was not a Jew. She approached the Lord Jesus, and what did Jesus tell her? Jesus said, Lord, come, I'm paraphrasing it. Said, Lord, come and heal my daughter. She's vexed with the devil. What was Jesus' response? Anyone remember? He said it's not fit to take the food off the table and cast it to the dogs. How did the woman respond? Hmm, you're calling me a dog? And storm off? No. How did she respond? Yes, she responded in humility and meekness and humbled herself, and she said, Lord, even the dogs get crumbs. And what Jesus say to her, he says, woman, your daughter's made well. I have not seen such great faith in all of Israel. Now compare that response to the woman at the well. The woman at the well was not a Jew. She was a Samaritan, right? And she comes out the well and Jesus says to her, he says, woman, give me some water. She goes, hmm. Who are you? You're a Jew, and I'm a Samaritan. You don't have any dealings with the Samaritans. What are you doing asking me for water? And she goes down, and I always point this out, she's very snippy with the Lord. She's kind of smarting them off. And what in the end, what happens? He ends up Leading her to salvation. So the old gal gets saved. Now, what if do you think, well, how do you think the woman at the well, she's all snippy? You know, and uh she's got five husbands, she's living with a guy now, she's all snippy, she's living in sin, and uh she's all uh f uh smarting off the Lord. Well how do you think it would have went if he'd have started off that conversation? I ain't giving no God's word to no dogs. What do you think how do you think she would have responded? Huh. And stormed off, I'm pretty sure. And what my point I'm trying to make is this. Jesus is able to discern the difference of character in different people. And he gave the message, basically the same message, but he used different methods. Let me try and illustrate a few more. I don't know if you're on board with me here with this yet or not. When Jesus went before Herod. Herod was a rascal. And Herod's pressing Jesus. In fact, he said, I want to see this guy. I'd like to see some miracles. And when Herod made uh threw accusations at him, when Jesus had accusations made and Herod confronted him, how did Jesus answer Herod? Does anybody remember? He answered him not a word. Jesus wouldn't say a word to him. He just stood there. You know what they're saying about you? Wouldn't answer a word. A little bit later, he comes before Pilate. Pilate's a rascal. Pilate starts interviewing him and talk to him and confronting him, and Jesus answers him. And Jesus interacts with them and he engages them and he confronts them. What's the difference? Jesus understood that different people need to be responded to differently. He never altered the truth, but he always continually varied his presentation of the truth based on the person's character, the person's situation. I want to suggest to you the greatest privilege in the world is to share the Word of God with somebody. That which is holy, that which is precious, a pearl. And to be able to share that with other people, to give the gospel to unsaved people, to be a witness for the Lord, but our witness for the Lord, sharing the gospel, we are doing it to people of all varying types of characters. Some people are swine-ish in their character, and others are not. Some people are dogish. in their character and others are not. Maybe others are cat-ish in their character, whatever the opposite of a dog would be But he's telling us here, listen, you have to use discernment. You have to use discernment as you go through life as my disciple and you interact with people as a As a witness of mine, as an ambassador of mine, you've got that which is holy, you have that which is precious pearls And you don't just sling it around, you don't just uh mechanically do the same thing for everybody. You've got to understand, can I throw pearls at this person or not? Can I give that which is holy to this person or not? Now, I'm getting ahead of myself here, but I don't think he's suggesting there's people we should not witness to. I believe we ought to witness to everybody. I think the book of Acts shows that But I think he is saying we should use discernment. So the application, the interpretation, I put this. One, we must be able to discern between different characters of people, characteristics of people. And then correspond with them, interact with them accordingly. I put this application down. Number two, we must know how to deal with various types of people Alright, here's one person, and they have the characteristics of a dog and a swine, and we'll talk about that here in a minute. And so, all right, I've got to approach it this way. Here's somebody that doesn't have those characters. They're not like that. I approach it a different way. I want to give you, again, try and support my thesis here with Proverbs chapter 26. Would you come back there with me Proverbs twenty-six. And here's a passage, two verses that a lot I've never heard anybody say this personally, but usually they we use these two as say people say there's contradictions in the Bible. And I guess that sounds contradictory. a bit uh on the surface. Proverbs chapter 26, look at verse number 4. It's a very simple, I think once you see it, it's very, very obvious what's being said here Verse number four, he says, Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. Then the very next verse says this. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. I do agree that on the surface that looks a little contradictory. One, he says, don't answer a fool, answer not a fool according to his following. And the other one he says, answer a fool according to a following. I think that verse is telling us the exact same thing, pointing out the exact same principle Jesus is referencing in Matthew 7, verse 6. What he's saying here is it's according to their folly. In other words, verse number four: answer not a fool, depending on the type of foolish person he is. according to his folly. If this person has this sort of kind of folly according to his foolishness, his folly, well then uh you're gonna end up being like him. Do you ever get in a there are some people, if you get in an argument with them, you end up just as looking just as bad as they are. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You and I could get in a fight with a skunk and we could win. But we come out stinking just as bad as the skunk does. Right? So if you're out there and you're gonna you've got a skunk, you uh if you've got a skunk and you've got a kitty cat, You're gonna deal with them differently. You got a kitty cat trapped in the garage and you got a skunk trap in the garage, you're gonna deal with them differently And that's what he's telling us here. Listen, if according to their folly, some of them you don't answer them. You don't give that which is holy to them. You don't cast the peril to them You're just going to destroy the pearl and you're going to get messed up. However, on the other hand, according to this kind of folly, then you do answer them. And if there's not given an answer, they're going to be wise in their own conceit. They're going to go off in their error. It's going to be wrong. For instance, as I did, Jesus answered Pilate But he did not answer Herod because of the type of people or because of their character. So This brings me to this question, coming back to Matthew chapter 7. What kind of person fits the description of dogs and swines? Now, I don't want you to think this too deeply, because I don't want you to give the answer I don't want you to give. But off the top of your head What kind of person, what comes to mind we say that they're a dog and a swine? What kind of person comes to mind? How would you A yucky person. Alright? So w I mean let's be a little more specific. What kind of what kind of lifestyle would a person I mean just off the top of your head, just hear it and your immediate thought comes to mind, what kind of lifestyle would a person that's be would be c classified as a dog and swan, what kind of lifestyle would they be living? A rough, yeah, we could say that, putting it nicely. Drinking, drugs, sexually loose morality, uh filthy mouth, anybody uh uh come on now, let's be honest. Is that what comes to mind? Yeah, that's what you think of. Yeah, that's the way they talk. They feel they live a nasty, sinful, wicked lifestyle you know, uh a drunkard, a thief, prostitute, that type of lifestyle, you think, ah, dogs and swines. So that was my initial thinking. I'm reading this. All right, well what kind of people is he describing here? And that of course came to mind that type of mindset. And I thought, well, I'm going to go look And see how Jesus treated different people and if there's certain people that fit in to these characteristics. Listen, young people, please don't talk when I'm preaching. Are there certain people that do not that fit into this characteristic that Jesus interacted with that would be an illustration of what he's talking about? And so I got looking through the Gospels, and lo and behold, a pattern fell together. And I found that Jesus dealt with harlots. And he dealt with adulteresses, a woman taken in the act of adultery. He dealt with publicans who were very corrupt, they would be extortioners and uh disloyal to the their nation, they'd betraitors. These are not people you think kind of and he just used the generic term sinners And you know what? I got look at how he dealt with them. You know how he dealt with them? Very graciously. He's very merciful. He says to them, he says to the woman, take an adultery, neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Whoa. Mary Magdalene was a harlot. And he gave her the Word of God. He gave her the truth of the Word of God. And her life was changed What I'm trying to say is this, it didn't, my initial thinking did not fit the pattern that Jesus showed in the Bible My initial thinking was if someone's living that lifestyle nasty, you're not going to interact with them. You're just going to rebuke them. You're going to tell them how terrible they are. You're going to tell them how wicked they are, how bad they need to repent. And how sorry they are. But Jesus didn't do any of that. He didn't call them hypocrites. He didn't tell them they're going to hell. He didn't say woe unto you. He didn't say any of that. And I got looking, and then I saw how he interacted with the righteous and those that didn't steal. And those that didn't drink and weren't prostitutes and very, very pure, yet were eat up with self-righteousness. And you know what I find I'm saying to them? You hypocrites, woe unto you! If the people in Sodom and Gomorrah would have had the opportunity that you self-righteous Pharisees had, they would have repented. You're going to die and go to hell. Whoa! In fact, even his own disciples, he's rebuking them sharply. Because they would not have faith. Where is your faith? And you sense an irritation and uh and an aggravation with them. And so this is what pattern came to my mind. It's almost the exact opposite. Of what your average independent fundamental Baptist would say. Now hear me out. I don't want to go to seedleness. But our thinking is, oh, here's a person, they've kept themselves pure, they've never touched liquor, they've never smoked a cigarette. They've never been to a movie theater, they've never done this, they've never done that, they've been perfect attendance in Sunday school, and they carry their King James Bible and they got the right haircut. and they got all these ducks lined up perfectly, and they're the most selfish, self-righteous person that walks the planet. And we think, oh, there's a fine example. And then we have some person at McDonald's that got tattoos and their ears and nose and eyes and and uh lips and tongue and fingernails are all pierced And their hair is purple, and they're using filthy language, and we say that person's going to hell. According to the Bible, the self-righteous people are going to a hotter hell. And the drunkards and the harlots and all of them. If I look you're looking at me like you're not buying this too much I'm talking about casting pearls and giving that which is holy, the truth of the Word of God, that which is true and good And Jesus didn't come and say to the Pharisees that are self-righteous. He didn't say to the guy that went to the temple, Lord, I thank thee that I'm not like this publican, I tithe, and I do this, and I do that. I'm so glad I'm not like him. Jesus didn't say to him I don't condemn thee. Just don't go and do that anymore. No, Jesus said that guy didn't go down justified. That guy's lost. He's headed to hell. And the publican, whose life was heat up with sin, but humbled himself before God and said, God, I can't even lift my eyes. And he smote his breath, said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord says, that guy went down to right, that guy went left there justified. That guy gets the pearls and the holy things. The self-righteous is the dog. The self-righteous is the swine. Now he is not suggesting even remotely that the sin is okay The woman taken in adultery, he said, Neither do I condemn thee, but he added on a few words. What'd he say? Go and sin no more. So he's not excusing their s he's not excusing the sin. He's not justifying sin. He's not overlooking the sin. But what he's saying here is what you and I consider these horrible things, and they are in and of themselves. What the Lord considers something swinish and doggish appears to me to be very different than what we do. Self-righteous, haughty, proud. I'm it, I'm I am acceptable to God in and of myself, I am righteous. That says, don't throw that which is holy to them. Don't give that, don't throw your pearls to that. Let me let me give you an illustration again. Let me uh you don't look convinced yet. Acts chapter number 13. We see this in the pattern of the Lord Jesus. I got looking in the Acts, and lo and behold, in the book of Acts, I see a same pattern. Acts chapter 13. And look at verse number 45. This is Paul and Barnabas. They're out on a missionary journey. And um they show up, I believe they're in, I think at this point they're in Antioch. And look at verse number 44. And the next Sabbath day, they're in the synagogue and they're preaching They're trying to persuade everyone to trust Christ and go on in the grace of God. In verse 44, the next Sabbath day came almost the whole city together to hear the word of God, that which is holy, pearl. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, would you agree with me? Generally speaking, the Jews were very self-righteous Right? Generally speaking, the Jews were very judgmental, very hypocritical. When the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul. Contradicting and blasphemy, can I suggest trampling underfoot? Like the swine do with the pearls? Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you, but seeing you put it far from me, you, you're trampling underfoot. And judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting. Lo, we turn to the who? Gentiles. Gentiles were, oh, they're awful, they're terrible, they're pagan, they're heathen, they do all this terrible stuff. He goes, we're taking the pearls and the holy things to the Gentiles, because you self-righteous Jews won't accept it. Am I making sense, everybody? So I got a few on board with me here. The dogs and pigs, as far as what I can tell, seem to be proud, self-righteous people, not sinners as we think of them. All right, let me give you the last one. What's the application to this truth? I'll try and tie it together. You guys aren't as excited about this as I was when I was studying it. I can see that. The application of this truth. Number one, I think I need, first of all, I need to examine my character. I need to examine myself. This ties back to verses 1 through 5 of Matthew 7. Get the beam out of your own eye. All right, before I go and I'm going to decide whether this person's a dog or a pig, I need to stop. Wait a minute, am I a dog or a pig? And according to my conclusion here, do I have a self-righteous, hypocritical, holier-than-thou attitude? I need to be very, very careful about that. Maybe, and by the way, this is even true, I believe this is even true for Christians. I think even a Christian can be hindered from getting holy things, that which is holy, and pearls in our life. God given it. Remember when when Paul said to the church at Corinth, he says, I had to speak unto you as unto Babes, not as unto mature adults, spiritual adults. You know what? There was truths, there was holy things, there was spiritual pearls. I couldn't give it to you because you were so self-centered, you were so self-righteous, so wrapped up in yourself. I had to talk to you like babes. Even as a Christian, I can get a dogish, swinish mentality, character about myself, and it hinders my spiritual growth. I miss out on holy things. pearls that God has for me. And so what I need to do is stop and examine my own character and there's their self-righteousness here, is their pride here, is these things that cause the Lord Jesus uh to respond the way he did towards the Pharisees and them. Lack of faith, unbelief, trusting in my leaning and my own understanding. Is that hindering me from getting the pearls and holy things from God? I need to make sure that's taken care of before I'm able to go out and anyone else. And then the other thing, I need to examine my approach and witnessing. I need to get the message down, and that's what we do the first Wednesday of every month. We're trying to help everybody get the message down, how to share the gospel with people. But I also need to become a student of people. And there are some people I need to approach a little differently than other people. For instance, you might want to approach a family member. with the gospel a little differently than you do knocking on someone's door cold turkey. Right? Might have a little slower approach, a little more subtle approach, maybe a uh more involvement. I can knock on someone's door, talk to them, with Pastor Leatherman, and in five minutes I can direct that conversation. And I got my Bible open. I'm able to sh le uh share the gospel with them. Hopefully they'll believe it and trust Christ But I may not be able to do that with a family member. There might be somebody else I have to do a little different approach to. If as a if a person, if I'm witnessing to a priest in a Catholic church I might have to have a little different approach than I'm preaching to a teenager that's addicted to meth. Right? Might have to have a little different approach. So I've got to become a student of people to some extent and think about the best approach. And there are some people I can twist their arm, I can put a little pressure on, I can work with them a little bit more and do that, and then others sometimes I just need to walk away When I was studying this, I thought about when I first came here back in 93, we came on Thursday, unpacked Friday and Saturday, I preached Sunday, Monday, we had a few little church brochures back there. Didn't even have our church name on. I just grabbed some stuff I found in the closet and I started going out through Mountain Lake Park. I didn't know anything, I didn't know where I was. I was just going I'm the new pastor at Mountain Lake Baptist Church and I want to invite you to come on out if you have a church. And it went very well. People were very positive. By the end of the week, I was over in Laughlin. It might have been a couple weeks. I was over in Laughlin. I still I could think I could go to the house. It had such a profound impact on me. And I walked up the sidewalk as a brick house and I knocked on the door and I got my little stuff there. It's late September And uh I'm introducing myself, and finally they open the door, and I'm by myself there. I said, I'm Pastor Dennis Leatherman, I'm the new pastor over at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I would like to I mean they started cussing me out one side one down one side up the other and they're calling me the worst things you can imagine the world they're saying all these hateful things and I'm just like Ugh and salaim, I mean as hard as you can slam a door, wham. I didn't respond the same way to that person as I did the person before and say, come on in, I got coffee and donuts, have a seat, we'll visit a little bit. Now, I could have stayed out there and outside the door and I could have yelled, hey, open this door. I want to tell you how to get saved. This is the best news you'll ever hear in your life. That would have done no good Best thing for me to do in that situation is what? Just walk away. And I'll be very frank with you. This is my humanity. This may shock you, but I walked away there. I was hot. I know it's true. I know it's hard to believe. But I was checked. And I'm this was going through my mind. How dare they talk to me? They don't even know me from Adam and they treat me that way I'm not this is terrible. And I'm all seeing, I'm gonna come back next Thursday. And by the time I got out to the end of the sidewalk, I was so convicted And God said, rejoice and be exceeding glad when men curse you and say all manner of evil against you for my sake and for the gospel's sake. And I had to realize I need to deal differently there. I couldn't press that issue. I couldn't twist their arm. I couldn't put pressure on them. The best thing to do in that situation is just walk away. Don't let it go. Let it go However, a month ago, Brother Brian brought a young man on Wednesday night, took him out to eat and something else, gave him a ride. Took him to her all of bought him a meal, brought him to church. I'm gonna hang out at the restaurant when Brian shows up, ask if I can get a ride somewhere, and he'll take me out to eat And he brought me. Anybody remember the young man, Jimmy? At Saturday, we got his card. Saturday, uh Josh Ewing was here with us on that weekend. I said, I got a fellow I want to go visit. So Josh went with me. We out found his house out there in Terra Alda. And I mean there was people all over there and his wife, he introduced his wife. We sat down in the living room. They got three little kids there, one little baby and two little kids. We sat there I said, could I show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven? They said, we'd like that. I was able to take this Bible right here. I got his name in the back, him and his wife. I opened it up. And when we got to the calling on the Lord, they hesitated a little bit. They're like, well, I said, listen, it's as simple as that You believe this and you're turning to Christ, you want him to forgive your sin, give you a new life, take you to heaven, not to hell when you die. I said, you call on the name of the Lord, and I explained it to him. And both of them bowed their head and trusted Christ as Savior. A whole different approach. I could press Jimmy a little bit. I could press his wife. I could stay there and say, hey, listen, listen, listen. I could have stood outside that door in Locke Lynn for a week, say, hey, listen, listen, listen. When it's done a bit of good. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so when we witness to people, we need to be able to discern How do I approach this one? Some people, you don't throw the holy things and the and the pearls to them. I'm not saying you don't witness to them, but you just have to stop and say, all right, there needs to be a different approach. And so. Does that make sense? And so let's ask the Lord to give us discernment on different people. Again, I want to emphasize this. He is not even remotely suggesting we should not witness to people. I think we ought to witness to everybody. But if that person is hard, self-righteous, they don't want to hear it, I'm not a sinner, I can do this myself, I'm not on my way, we might need to stop and re-evaluate our approach in witnessing to them. And what Jesus did with the Pharisees and the self-righteous, good night. And then the wicked sinners, what we consider wicked sinners. He's so gracious and kind and work with us. In fact, he got rebuked because he would go and sit and eat. I didn't find anywhere where he said the Pharisees, hey y'all, let's all get together and have a meal. The old publicans and sinners, I'll sit down and eat with them. If he knew what kind of woman that was washing his foot, he wouldn't let her touch him Because, oh, she's a sinner. She needs Christ. She needs something holy. She needs some pearls. Self-righteous. Swines and dogs. I'm not throwing it there. I hope this makes sense. Father in heaven, I pray you give us discernment. Fill us with your spirit. And Lord, I pray that you would challenge us, that we would stop and consider our own mentality. Especially in light of the first five verses there where you say we're not to judge and condemn. Help us to search for the beams in our own eyes and make sure that we're humble and recognize how sinful we are. And Lord, then we can maybe more effectively share the message of salvation with others that are sinners just like us. With our heads bowed eyes closed, may with someone say, Preacher, you know, God's challenge me tonight, just to develop a humble attitude, a humble spirit And uh be able to uh care about others enough not just to throw the truth at them, but to really think about them, understand who they are, and consider my approach to them. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I want God to help me in this matter. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. So let's ask the Lord to help us. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.