While I'm thinking about it, are there any fellows that ushered Sunday night? Are there any of our Sunday night ushers here? Any of you did you usher Sunday night, Ron? Did you? We didn't get the count for Sunday night. So if you can make if you can't remember, just make something up. Make it make it good. That sounds about right. April Fools. Yeah, April Fools. There we go. Perfect. How many people anybody get fooled today? Ah, really? Brian? Surely not. Sandy gotcha. Yeah, bad. I didn't get anybody, I didn't even try. I got Paul Sign's last year. Kathy hadn't been well and I came in and told him I forgot about this. He reminded me. I said, well we found out why Kathy's sick. He says, why? I said, she's got a three-month sickness. He goes, really? Well, congratulations Yeah, and then Tonai walked in and says, Kathy's still pregnant? Matthew chapter 5. I want to read verses um actually I'm going to tack on verse 13 down through 16. We're just going to get started. We're going to look at 14, 15, 16, but I want to tack 13 on there It says, ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. We already preached a little series on that. We called it Please Pass the Salt. Now we're in verse number fourteen. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid, neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick. And it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. We began a couple months ago on verse 14 and I've entitled this. It's going to be another little mini-series. I've entitled it, Please Turn on the Light. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. Lord, it just seems like uh some of these verses are just so filled with truth and challenge us. And I pray that you would teach us tonight. I pray your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts and apply these verses, these statements from your lips. I pray you'd apply them to our lives, that we would be savory salt, and we would be a very visible light, and fill me with your spirit is my prayer, dear God. I'd present my body anew and ask that you would speak through me Help us to be sensitive, tender-hearted, and responsive to your working in our hearts. I pray we'd have the attention of all, uh, give their attention to the Word of God. And uh we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we all know the song This Little Light of Mine, I'm going to let it shine. It comes from this passage, as we pointed out several weeks ago when we started this section. And we pointed out, if you remember, both of these passages, these subjects, the salt of the earth and the light of the world, indicate the Lord's implying two things about the world, if you remember. We said by salt it implies the world is decaying. And as sought, we are to have an influence upon a world that is decaying. And then when he says you are the light of the world, it implies that this world is in darkness. And uh as a light where to shine in a very dark world, I doubt very few Christians would dispute the fact that the world is in darkness and that the world is getting darker as time goes by And we're going to expand on this, Lord willing, a little bit later in another message, but darkness is really not there is no substance of darkness. Darkness is not the presence of darkness. It is simply the absence of light. And the more you remove light the darker it gets, the deeper the darkness, the more saturated, the more the the great uh how do I want to say it? The greater the vacuum of light is the darker it is. I mentioned this before. I use this illustration in various messages, but when Kathy and I were in our honeymoon, we went down to the Loray Caverns. Some of you have been there And uh we went down in there. I don't know if it's still that way, but when we were there, uh they took you down into this inner chamber and they said, we want to show you what total absolute darkness is. I guess as best as you can Has anyone ever been in that, you know? And they flip all the lights off. And I mean to tell you it is dark. In fact, you could put your hand up in front of your nose right like that and uh you wouldn't have you'd have no idea it was there Um, funny thing is Kathy wanted to take a picture of the darkness and uh she had her her camera backwards It was dark, she couldn't see, and it flashed. The flash was facing her. You remember when they used to have like and uh said don't tell her I told you that story. So we live in a world of darkness and it's getting darker, darker, and darkness is the absence of light So the less and less influence there is of Christianity, the less and less spiritual truth there is, biblical truth, the more you have that absence of light the darker the world's gonna be. And the world is in spiritual darkness. The Bible teaches that. The last message we went I tried to go to fair lengths to show from Scripture that It teaches the world is dark and getting darker, and our observation confirms that. Is anybody here, if you watch the news, anybody here May when you watch the news, it makes you just want to cry in despair. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just see what's happening to our country and you see the uh the moral, uh the spiritual, uh, the the level of spirituality of the people that have that are in control of our nation, our states, our cities and the influence of Hollywood and music and the spiritual depravity that's there. And I look at I watch the news and or I watch and I read the events different things and I'm thinking This place is getting darker and darker and darker. And so we observe it, we see it firsthand, even unsafe people can see this. Some unsaved people have some moral sense about them. There's a fellow in the neighborhood here and I've referenced him a number of times. Now he has made a profession of faith with me Uh but um he would say to me for years, long before he ever made even made a profession of faith, he would say, he'd say, Pastor Leatherman, he says, uh it's the last days, isn't it? I said I say uh I'd say his name, I'd say, yeah, it sure is. And he goes, you can just look around. It's the last days. This is an unsaved man. And he saw the darkness coming in. Now, uh 2 Timothy 3. 13 says, evil men and seducers shall wax what? Worse and worse. And so we have that confirmation here. Now here's the danger. This is what I'm trying to get to. We already talked about the darkness we're in, spiritual darkness. There's a danger for you and I as Christians as the world gets darker. I don't think my chordless ones, brother. I'm on up here. But as we see the world getting darker and darker spiritually, um There's a danger to you and I as Christians. And that is this. The first danger is Christians start abandoning the faith. Because as the world gets worse, the opposition to our faith, the opposition to us living by the Word of God is going to increase. And we see that And so there's going to be a temptation on the part of some Christians to say, hey, you know what? I don't want to be an oddball I don't want to stand out. I don't want the world to give me a hard time. I don't want them to think that I'm some fanatic or something. So you're going to have people who abandon the faith and walk away from it And we see that happening all around. Keep your place here. We're going to go to a good number of passages tonight, so I hope you plan on using your Bible. Go to 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy And chapter 4, and keep your Bibles handy. Like I said, I want to reference a good number of verses. I want you to see them. 2 Timothy chapter 4. And verse number 10. Some of you are familiar with this fellow. 2 Timothy 4. 10. Notice what it says. For Demas hath what? Forsaken me. To forsake something means to walk away from it or to abandon it. Demas has walked away from me. He's forsaken me. He's abandoned me Now, Demas was a good guy. He was a faithful ser faithful partner of Paul. He w he served alongside of Paul. He He preached the gospel. He was uh by all accounts considered a disciple of Jesus Christ, significant enough of a disciple that he makes the pages of scripture But here towards the end of Paul's life, as he's recording this under the inspiration of God, he says, demoth hath forsaken me. Now he doesn't stop there. He points out the reason that Demas forsook him. And look what it says. For Demoth hath forsaken me, having what? Loved this present world. I want to suggest to you as Demas was out there and the darkness settled in and he saw how different Christianity was from the world. And how different the values of Christ were from the values of the world, and the priorities of Christ were from the priorities of the world, and the principles that Jesus Christ established for us to live by are so different than the principles that the world lives by. Demas said, I want to be like the world. And he walked away. From the truths of Scripture. And so it's been happening for thousands of years. And uh people have been walking away, and that's a real danger. It's happened all through church history It's happened in every nation as I've been out on the mission field and visiting different missionaries over the years. I find that the missionaries have people in the churches there and the national churches they have people who fall in love with the world or in the darkness of the world get s so much that they abandon Christianity and they will go back into the world. So it happens in all nations, it happens all through uh uh church history, happens in the greatest of churches. I'd like to think that we have some pretty tremendous preachers come through here over the years, men that I feel God has their hand upon them and God is using in tremendous ways. And as they come through and I talk to them and pick their brain and you know, try and learn from them or whatnot. You know what I find out? Every one of them have people in their ministries who love the world, who walked away, abandoned their Christianity, went back to the world In fact, the greatest preacher of all time had that happen. Jesus Christ in John 6, verse 66 through 71. It says the people turned away and no longer followed him. And as the crowds began leaving Jesus Christ, he turns to his twelve guys. And he says, are you going to leave me also? Of course I'm putting my own wording here. And they said, no, we can't leave you. Who are we going to go to? So as the world gets darker and we live in this dark, spiritually dark world where there's a vacuum of truth and there's a vacuum of spiritual reality And there's pros in church. Sorry, God. I was thinking, what? Uh Blue Jays in church. But uh it's a real it's very real, it happens. And so there's a there's a there's a uh a danger of people forsaking the faith, abandoning the faith. But there's another danger Some folks, some Christians, they're going to have this attitude. They say, you know, I don't want to abandon Christ. I don't want to walk away from this. This is right, and this is good, and this is true. And my salvation is genuine. I love the Lord and and you know I I I want the Lord, but I don't want to be an oddball in this world. And there's such a contrast between the the spiritual darkness of the world and the light and the of the truth of God's word. They say, I don't want to stand out so much. So they don't abandon the faith. They do this. They go incognito. Now what does it mean to go incognito? Ah, it means to go, I I looked it up, um, I heard I thought it was a cool word, so I looked it up to see what it means Not really. But I looked it up and it says this, to conceal one's identity. Or it has this idea, to avoid, to make efforts to avoid being noticed. Or this one here fits in to be unidentified. So what we have as this old world and the darkness creeps in on us and it's getting darker, Some Christians are going to say, you know, I don't want to be this l shining light and everybody s knows I'm a Christian and everybody giving me a hard time and uh I'm just walking away from it. We had a lady, I just thought of this, we had a lady a number of years ago came here um and uh walked the aisle. She made a profession of faith. We got her a Bible. We tried to disciple her. She just lived here in Mount Lake Park. And about Thursday or so that week, that all that took place Sunday, that Thursday I got a phone call. She said it so and so. I said, hey And she goes, I want somebody to come down here and get this Bible and take it back. I said, What are you talking about? She goes, I don't like it. I don't want it anymore. And so I said, all right. And so I don't remember if we got it or what. But she called up and she abandoned it. She goes, I don't want that. So that's one danger, but the other is going incognito. And Christians saying, you know, I don't want to abandon it. I don't want to I don't want to walk away from all I don't want to walk away from it. I just don't want to be such I don't want to look different than the world. I don't want to sound different than the world. I don't want to be different so they go incognito. Fact is, that's really very common Happens more than we would care to admit. In fact, Jesus had it happening in his ministry. If you would turn to John chapter 12 with me. John chapter 12. It's interesting. Things you see taking place in Christianity today really aren't new. It's been happening all through church history. John twelve and um look at verse forty two with me Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on him. John 3:16 says that God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever Leaveth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Romans 10. 13 says, Whosoever shall uh call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. What I want is Acts 1631. Paul told the Philippians owner, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. So the Bible says that among the chief rulers there were many that believed on him. Question, were these saved people? Yeah, according to these other scriptures we're given, these are saved people. But because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him lest they should be put out of the synagogue. Look at verse 43. For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. They didn't want to stand out. They didn't want to be different. They went incognito. Now I'm getting way ahead of myself, but you know what they did? They took their light and they put it under a bushel. They took the city that was on the hill. They got it down off the hill and down so it didn't shine. Lest people would see it and know. Come over, if you would, to John chapter 19. And look with me at verse number thirty eight. John chapter nineteen and verse thirty eight it says, and after this Joseph of Arimathea being a what Disciple of Jesus. Is it possible to be a disciple and not be saved? No. This is a saved man. Being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly. Why? For fear of the Jews. He didn't want to be odd. He didn't want to be different. He didn't want to be a light in a dark place. And so he went incognito. In fact, that word secretly there means this, to be hidden or to escape notice. In fact, one of the dictionaries had for secret, uh secretly had this word, to go incognito. He put a bushel over his candlestick and he hid it. Turn with me if you would to Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 14. Philippians one and verse fourteen Paul says, he's writing here, of course, to the church at Philippi under the inspiration of God. Verse 12, but I would that you should understand, brethren, the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the further and to the gospel. Would you agree with me? Paul wasn't concerned about fitting in with the world He wanted his light to shine. And as a result of that, look, he says verse end of verse 12, unto the furtherance of the gospel, there's that light shining. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and all the places. In other words, a jail could not put out his light. The prison bars could not extinguish or cover his light. His light show even in prison. And verse 14, and many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Apparently there was a element of folks that he was associated with that were intimidated by the world, that were somewhat intimidated by the darkness, and Their light wasn't really shining like it should be. They were kind of putting it under a bushel. But when Paul showed up and he is just blaring out the light, They got a little braver about it, and they flipped the bushel off of them, and they started to shine pretty bright too So in this old dark world, I suggest to you there are two dangers for you and I as Christians. Number one is to abandon the faith, just walk away. Say, I want to be like the world. I want to live in the darkness I don't want to shine in the light. The other is to go incognito and just be a follower of Christ, but be secret. The temptation is to climb down off the hill or crawl underneath the bushel. Now in verse 14, come on back here, and let's look at this statement that he gives here a little bit. We introduced it a few weeks ago, but notice he says, ye are the light of the world. That is a statement. It's not a command. It's not a suggestion. He's making a statement. You are the light of the world. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You are the light of the world. You are Just by the fact that you're saved makes you the light of the world. Remember we pointed out before, the only light this world has is Christians. There is no other light. Hey, conservative talk radio hosts are not the light of the world. In fact, I got so disgusted. I quit listening to that years ago. The language and the music and everything is just I can't stand it. Christians, God's people, are the light of the world. Can I put it this way? You and I, and other folks that know Christ, we are the only hope of the United States of America. As far as morally and spiritually is concerned. If our light goes out, this place is done. So he makes a statement: ye are the light of the world. Then he gives an explanation what he means by that. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. So he's explaining a little bit his statement. Then in verse 16, he gives instruction. Let your light so shine. Because you are the light of the world, and the light is not designed to be hidden, it's designed to put out, so let your light let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. So I want to give you two thoughts. I've got a couple minutes here. I want to give you two thoughts to help us to not abandon our faith, walk away from it, or go incognito. Number one, first of all, we need to clarify our purpose. Jesus says, Ye are the light of the world. Now, when I say clarify our purpose, what I mean by that is our reason for being. Are you listening? Why do I exist? Alright, that uh for the pleasure of God. Well that that's the idea behind this. Clarify my purpose. Why do I exist? Why am I here? Why did God create me? Is there any purpose to my life? What am I designed for? Okay, show the light. I'm I'm not really asking a question. I'm going that's okay. That's a good a you get a start, Brian, so thank you. But my idea is what when I say clarify my purpose, what I'm trying to do is I need to come to the point and clarify in my heart and mind why I'm here. What am I designed for? What did God create it for? This personality I have, uh the m everything I am that makes me who and what I am, why is it here? What is the purpose of it? And if we're going to be true to God, and if we're going to be that light shining the way God intends for us to be, I think we first of all need to clarify what our purpose is: to be a light shining for the pleasure of God. But I don't think a lot of Christians really get that. I don't think a lot of Christians really get the concept that you and I were created, we exist, our purpose. is to be a light shining in an incredibly dark world. And thus the world is getting darker and darker and darker. Because we have Christians who don't even know why they are. Have no purpose, have no focus, have no reason for being. They're just going through life. Whatever feels good, do it. Whatever comes through my head, that's what it is. And Jesus says, listen, you need to understand, you are the light of the world. That's your purpose. President Ulysses Grant was golfing with a Scotsman golfer. And uh it was kind of a new game in the United States, and the Scotsman was demonstrating this game to the president, Grant. So the Scotsman put the T, the ball on the T, he swamp went back, a mighty swing, and the club hit the turf. and scattered dirt all over the place, all over the president, in his beard, all over. And the ball stayed setting there on the T So the Scotsman went again. Went back. SMAP! The exact same thing happened. Dirt everywhere. The president standing there watching. He's it's he's this guy's explaining what golf is to the president. After six attempts and the same result, the little ball setting there on the T, finally the president said this There seems to be a fair amount of exercise in this game, but I fail to see the purpose of the ball. And isn't that true in a lot of Christian lives? There's a lot of exercise. There's a lot of running around going on. Man, we're doing this and that and we're running up and down and we are so busy we don't know if we're coming and going, but we really don't know what our purpose is. And our purpose is very simple. What is the purpose of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? It's very simple to be a light in a dark world. To be the truth in a world of lies. To be a message of salvation in a world that is condemned. Ye are the light of the world. We must comprehend our purpose. A lack of purpose produces anxiety, depression, frustration If I have a misdirected purpose, if I'm created and I'm designed by God to be a light and I'm trying to be something else, and I'm trying to do something other than what I was created to do, there's incredible frustration there If you're using a tool that's designed for one job and you're trying to use it on another job, it gets frustrating. And we have frustrated Christians, we have angry Christians And all they can do is see something wrong with that, and something wrong with this, and those people are that and these people are this, and they never really see why they exist And they're angry and they're empty and they're frustrated because they're missing their purpose in life. To be a light shining in a dark world. You and I are created by God to bring light to this world, to bring hope and truth to this world. We don't even know that. Dan Rather, who was I'm not a fan of Dan Rather, newsman. But somebody asked him, he was successful, like him or not, he was successful in his field. And somebody asked him, how did you get so successful? What what uh how did you go about that? And he said he had a s a question he wrote on a slip of paper, three slips of paper. He kept one in his bill fold. One in his pocket and one on his desk. And this is the question he wrote on that little piece of paper. He says, is what you are doing now helping the broadcast? In other words, he in his mind, his purpose, his focus, his meaning in life was that broadcast. And so everything he did was designed. He wanted to make sure that every aspect of his life was focused in on what that purpose was to make that broadcast better. Now I want to suggest to you he had a misdirected purpose in life. But as you and I as Christians, we need to stop and ask ourselves, is what I'm doing right now Is what I'm doing right now helping me be a light shining in a dark world? In your wallet? And your life as you go about your daily life and your work above place? I need to ask myself, is what I'm doing right now, is it helping me be a light shining in this dark world? I was in a ministry for a number of years, years ago. And when I came, I asked the person that was in charge of the ministry, I asked them. I'd like you to tell me exactly what you want me to do, what you want me to be. And he just gave me a very general statement. He said, I want you to just He this was his words. He said, I want you to be a pastor to the young people. He said, okay. He's the pastor. I'm the assistant, I'm the youth pastor. What do you what exactly would you want me to be? Oh, I just want you to be a pastor to the young people. So I would do what I thought pastor of the young people should do. I'd come back and after several months or half a year, I sat down, we had our weekly meeting, I sat down, I said, I have one request. He goes, what's that? He said, can you can you just list out, itemized in something, what you're expecting of me, what you would like for me to do. I just want you to be a pastor of the kids. And this went on and on and on. Eventually resigned and moved on. And one thing the whole time I was there and I never really knew if I was fulfilling my purpose there or not. I didn't know if I was being the pastor to the kids he wanted to be. I never had any guidelines to go by. I never had any I never really felt like I had a real clear purpose there. You follow what I'm saying? And it was frustrating. We need to understand, we need to clarify in my mind what is our purpose. Jesus clearly tells us what our purpose is, to be a light in this world. That word light has the idea of illuminating. It means to brighten up, to give light to, to throw light on. Acts 1. 8 puts it this way. Ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be Witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, unto the uttermost part of the world. You know what he's saying? You're gonna get out there and you're gonna shine the light of the gospel. You're gonna share the truth of the gospel You're going to enlighten, you're going to illuminate those parts of the world with the message of salvation. That's your purpose. Turn with me if you would, and I've got a wind down here. Come over to Romans with me real quick. Romans chapter ten, and look with me at verse number thirteen Romans ten thirteen And it says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now look at the next verse. How then shall they call in him? How then should they call on him in whom they have not believed? And the answer is they can't. And how should they believe on him of whom they have not heard? And the answer again is they can't. And how should they hear without a preacher? They can't. In other words, unless there is light The light of the gospel, the truth of the gospel getting to these people, they can't believe, they can't be saved, they can't call on the Lord. And our purpose, and then he goes down verse 15, how shall they preach except they be said? It is written, how beautiful the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. What he's saying is, our purpose in life is to get out there and shed the light of the gospel so that people can believe and they can call on the Lord and be saved. And if that light is not there, then they can't. So our purpose, our purpose as individuals, is to be lights in a dark world of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I'm telling you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, our purpose for existing is to be a light of the gospel to a lost and dark and dying world. That is why we exist. Everything else is secondary to that. And it's important we keep that in front. You say, preacher, we know this. We hear this all the time. Listen. There are churches around the world by the thousands that are putting their lights under bushels and are adopting the darkness of the world and bringing it in. And there's no distinction between God's people and the world. There's no distinction. The light is becoming gray. It's becoming. . The light is diminishing. And we need to understand the purpose of our church is to be a clearstal, clear light to this world I've got to give you this second part because I need to bring it to a head. Number one, we need to clarify our purpose. Number two, I put this down, we need to be clearly perceptible. In other words, people need to see the gospel. They need to see that light. Verse 14 and 15 of Matthew. All our interaction with the world, I like this thought. All our interaction with the world is a candlestick. Every time I go out into the world, I'm uh there's a candlestick there. All my relationships with people, the unsaved, that's candlesticks. And a candlestick is not the light. You and I are the candlestick, and we interact with people. Jesus is the light. And we simply shine that light. So the light must be made visible. We as a church have got to get outside the four walls of this church and go out into the world and shine. It must be perceptible. People have to see it. Men cannot see our thoughts, they cannot see our intentions. Can I suggest to you they can't even see our faith? All they can see is our actions. In fact, if you come back there real quick, and I know I've got to end, I've got to, but come back to Matthew 5 here real quick with me. And notice the wording Jesus used, and I I know used it deliberately. Matthew 5, verse 16, real quickly with me if you would. Verse 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your Good works. We've been preaching this Sunday nights from James. That's the light. How we live, how we behave, our sharing the gospel. They cannot see our intentions, they cannot see our thoughts, they can't even see our faith, but they can see our actions. Paul said in Philippians chapter 2, he said, It is God that worketh in you. Both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Therefore, work out your own salvation. In other words, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, if you're genuinely saved, Then you get out there, Christ will live that through you. Christ that worketh in you It's not that we go out and say, oh, I've got to shine. What do you do? I'm trying to shine. That's not it. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, how do you let your light shine? This is how I believe. Number one, I gotta die to self. I need to get the spushel of self off of me. I've just got to die to self. John the Baptist put it this way: he must increase, but I must what? In other words, less and less of me, more and more of Jesus. That's that light shining. Christ living through me. So I've got to die to self. I just got to say, Lord, I put myself aside, this flesh. I put all that down, Lord. And then I need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses. The Holy Spirit is the Holy Spirit fills me. By the way, being filled with the Holy Spirit is not tongues. I hope you understand that. It's the life of Christ being lived in me. And then it's Jesus Christ living through me. I say this so often, I believe with all my heart, because I know it in my own life. The Bible teaches it, and I know it in my own life. Living a Christian life is not something you and I work up. It's a supernatural thing that God does in us. And as I yield to him, he lives his life through me, he shines through me. But what I gotta do is I gotta I gotta be out there and it has to be visible. I need to understand that my purpose in life is for Christ to live through me so that people can be drawn to him and saved. I've got to get myself out of the way. I I don't know if this made any sense to you tonight. This passage stirred my heart. And I want Mountain Lake, as pastor of this church, I want this church to shine bright for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want my life as an individual Christian to be a bright and shining light in this old sinful world. And I would love to get the end of my life and stand before Jesus Christ and see all kinds of people that came to know Jesus as Savior because of one filly kid. That God saved and changed his life. I know you feel that way. Amen? So let's die to self. Let's yield ourselves and say, Holy Spirit, fill me, live through me. And let God use us. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight. I pray, Lord, I was able to communicate this. I pray your Holy Spirit would stir our hearts and challenge us to see our purpose, to be focused on that. And give ourselves to you. With heads bowed and eyes closed tonight, as Kathy makes away the piano. Maybe God spoke to your heart. And you'd say, preacher, I really need to clarify my purpose. I need to get it clear in my heart and mind why I'm here and what I'm what I am and what I'm for And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me focus in on that purpose God has designed me to be a light for him in this old world. If that makes sense and that's your desire How many like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? That's what I want. God bless you. Now maybe there's some say, preacher, I I got some areas in my life that I really need to Just put give them over to the Lord. I need to get that bushel off. We'll look at that in another message. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. My Christian life, my Christian testimony really needs some work. I need God to help me. I need God to enable me to get these bushels off and let that light shine, not for my glory, for his glory. How many would say, preacher, pray for me? My Christian testimony needs some work. I need God to help me. God bless you, hands all around. Tell you an old-fashioned altar is a good place to do business with God. It's a good place to respond where God speaks to our hearts. So Father, I pray you bless our invitation now in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.