We've got this bat uh sign canvas to put up there down two hundred nineteen. We were talking about it Sunday. And um how many guys are good to go to put that up this Saturday afternoon weather permitting? Do we got any are you good, Chuck? All right, we got two. Chuck's good, Bill. Uh what would be a good time? What time should we meet here Two two o'clock, meet here at the church. I got the sign right there. Now probably what you're gonna need to do is uh we're probably gonna have to replace all the ratchet uh strats and everything. So uh appreciate that. We will be on the road um at that time or probably actually we'll be in the air. And so Uh probably did we use ladders last time? I think the pack crawled all over that. Uh it's pretty high up. If you get a chance, go down and s drive by there. It's right on the other side of the creek from Snyder's uh Probably a ladder would help, yeah. Yeah. It'd be good to somebody go by and look at those straps, see what's there, and because we'll have to get them and replace them also So uh that's good. Uh we want to get that up. We got a new one. I think it looks real nice and um Lord will and God will bless that. It's kinda nate. I was on the computer the other day and I saw Melissa Harvey was interacting with someone she had put on there. that she really likes Ranger Bill. I love Ranger Bill at five o'clock. And somebody wrote else wrote back and said, I listen to it every day. And did you see that? And um and she goes, oh, and where do you go to church? She goes to the Seventh-day Adventist church and she listens to FBN every day Isn't that neato? And so I'm telling ya, it's getting out there. And so these signs help and every little bit we can do we do uh helps a lot. Um, if you see some people a little nervous, uh Jackie handed our background check things and we were doing that for the youth workers, and I was really hoping that uh they wouldn't find that stint with the drug cartels online, but um apparently they found that. So No, I'm joking. Alright, Matthew chapter five. I had a really good joke and I left it at home, so you'll have to wait till I come back. And all God's people said, Amen. Praise the Lord. Just preach. All right. Matthew five, look at verse 13. I'm going to read down through verse 16. Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men, under foot of men Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. I want to look at verse thirteen. We're not going to look at the whole verse tonight. I just want to kind of get started in it. I want to spend a good bit of time on this. But ye are the salt of the earth. And I've entitled this message, which is going to end up being a little mini-series, Please Pass the Salt. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study of your word. And we're grateful for all you do for us. And Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to teach us and open our eyes. And show us wondrous things out of your word, that we can apply it to our lives and be stronger in our faith and uh a little clearer in our witness. I ask that you would fill me And speak through me, Lord. I present my body to you anew this evening. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we made it through the introduction to what I believe is the greatest most influential sermon that has ever been preached in the history of the world. And it's what we know as the Sermon on the Mount, preached by, as I've been saying, the greatest preacher that has ever walked the earth, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you think of great sermons. Is anybody here, you think back through history of great sermons, can anybody think of any particular sermon stands out in history that would be considered by many as a great sermon? Sinners in the hands of an angry God. Sinners in the hands of an angry God. In fact, you study that in literature, I believe, in school even. It had such a profound impact. on our country and really indirectly through our country around the world. One sermon preached by Jonathan Edwards uh on a Sunday night in a dimly lit auditorium, not a very large church, and yet had profound impact around the world. Can anybody else think of another sermon that maybe stands out in in history? There's a couple that just stand out. Anybody anybody ever hear the sermon Pay Day Someday? Did you ever hear of that sermon by R. G. Lee? He's kind of in our circle back in the day. I heard a preacher say one time, I think I'm correct on this statistic, I'm awfully close, that he preached that sermon 1800 times. uh Pay Day Someday by R. G. Lee. It was very profound. Well you take these great sermons and you hold them up against the sermon on the mound. And they pale in significance and influence to what this sermon that Jesus Christ preached here. This is a powerful, powerful, profound sermon. Of course it's given by inspiration of God and it's preserved for us. So we've gotten through the introduction. That's what I consider the Beatitudes. They're setting the stage for the rest of the book. They're putting us, they're getting us in the frame of mind of where we need to be uh to really gr uh be affected by what the rest of the sermon presents. And he gets to verse 13 and he gets to verse 14 and he makes what to you and I we seems doesn't seem that significant, but in that day and age, I'm telling you, he made a surprising statement When he looked out at that crowd, now think with me a little, let's work together on this. What did that crowd consist of? What type of people did that crowd consist of? I mean as far as society is concerned Well how do you picture that crowd? Anybody want to take a shot? Yeah. Probably common folk. Just regular common folk that work day by day, probably live hand to mouth, you know, just working and just barely getting by. He's not addressing royalty He's not addressing great philosophers like Paul did uh on uh in Corinth. He's talking to just regular, everyday folks. How many how many of the folks here you consider yourself just a regular everyday uh guy, just a common guy. That's what I see myself. That's the crowd he's talking to. And he makes this statement, which to you and I, we've heard it so many times, it doesn't mean anything really, but to them it was profound. And he looks out at these common folk and he says, ye are the salt of the earth. Ye are the light of the world. Now we have to understand the culture. We have to understand what things were back then. If someone was considered The salt of the earth. Somebody would say that man is the salt of the earth. That was a statement signifying that he was very, very influential. Kings would have been considered the salt of the earth. They have tremendous influence. They have tremendous say and sway in the affairs of mankind. They would say the great philosophers, that man is the light of the world. He is shedding light on this world. He is he has insight And he has a perspective that the world does not have, and he is the light of the world. So when Jesus makes this statement to common folk, And he says, ye are the soul of the earth. I mean, it's not recorded how they reacted here, but I see them reacting, what? We're not the salt of the earth. That phrase was associated with people of tremendous influence, tremendous power, tremendous sway that stirred that affected nations. And he's telling these folks that fear God, ye are the salt of the earth. Ye are the light of the world And um nowadays we use that term, well, he's a real salt of the earth kind of guy. What do we mean by that Anybody ever hear that statement? He's just a sort of the We mean he's just a regular guy, he works hard, uh he's got some common sense about him, you know, he's just uh he's just a good guy. Well, that was a different saying back then And uh we fail to realize, I think in our day, the impact this would have had on that crowd when Jesus stands up, he goes down through. Oh and by the way, would you agree with me? His beatitudes were contrary to the world's thinking. Blessed are ye that mourn. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed is hunger and thirst after righteousness. And so this whole this whole message to this point has been a contradiction of what the world has preached for years. and what the world's thinking is. And now he comes to these everyday common God-fearing people, and he says, You actually are the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. The fact is, there's nothing common about a Christian. Not as far as the world is concerned. We are, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we we should not fail to see this. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are very unique on this planet. Think about it with me for a minute. We have been born into God's family. Now let that sink in a little bit. God is my father, and I am his child. That's so profound. And we've heard it since we were little kids, and it's like, yeah, all right, God's my father, cool. Uh but Think about in this whole world of all humanity, you and I are the children of God. That's an amazing thing That's nothing common about that, being a child of God. I like this. When we got saved as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we've been given the divine nature of God. 2 Peter 1, verse 3 and 4 tells us. And he gives us precious promises that we have been partakers of the divine nature. That's that new man in us. You go to Walmart, you go uh downtown or you go to the city somewhere and there's thousands of people walking all by you. I'm telling you, we are in the minority and we are uh we are a uh uh I don't mean this in a bad way, but we are an elite group of people. To be able to say, God is my Father, I have a divine nature within me, a nature that corresponds to God. And God has changed me and given me that new nature. Man, what an amazing thing. As saved people, get this. We have, now we hear this all the time, we sing about it, we talk about it, but we need to stop sometimes and let it sink in. We have eternal life. Think about that. You and I as believers, we have eternal life. If eternal life is eternal, it lasts how long? Forever. We have life that goes on forever. Vast majority of the people in this world don't have that. Vast majority of the people in this world, they'll die without Christ. Dying their sins, they'll still exist. But I'm telling you, being in hell for all eternity, that ain't living. That's eternal death. And what a privilege we have. So when Jesus said to that crowd there, ye are the sort of the earth, he he was using a term that was used for a very influential, very elite group of people. And he is applying it to his followers, and he was telling them, you ain't just common folk. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are something tremendously unique and you have tremendous influence. Um, I think we fail to realize how unique we really are. I made this statement uh more and more lately, and I feel this way more and more, is uh the older I get, the more I feel like I just don't fit in this world Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean I just I read the news, I see what's going on, I hear the news on the and I and you go out in town and around the people and it's like man I I I feel less and less at home here all the time It's because we're unique. The Bible puts it this way in 1 Peter 2 9 that we are peculiar people. Now I'll be the first to admit we have some very peculiar people in our church But that's not what we're talking about. The word peculiar there means very unique. A set of people who are set apart, set aside from the rest of the world. And so Jesus this is what struck me as I was studying this, and I'd be honest with you, I really never gave it thought until I got looking a little bit the history of how these terms were used, and I realized He was making a very, for lack of a better term, a very radical statement to them when he was telling them he was putting them on par with these people who have tremendous influence in the world. I assure you, none of these people viewed themselves as having any significant influence in the world. None of these people viewed themselves, or the vast majority at least did not view themselves as somebody that had influence, that had any kind of impact on mankind or others around them. And Jesus was pointing them out. Hey You do have impact. I'm getting way ahead of myself in this message. In fact, this is another message down the road, but um uh the most powerful, you and I have a tremendously powerful. Force as a part of us, and that is this, our influence. It is far more powerful than you and I ever believe, ever understand, maybe till we get to heaven And that's what Jesus is communicating to his followers. He's saying, you have significant influence. You are the salt of the earth. You have an impact. You are the light of the world. You have an impact. You make a difference. And uh he is he the he's radical uh in what he's saying, and I can just see them there and their eyes glued on him. and their their minds are just working away. Did you ever talk to somebody and maybe you're explaining something they didn't understand and you can just tell their minds working away, taking it in, registering. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the way I see this crowd when Jesus is talking to them. They they've never heard this before. They've never been uh this term has never been applied to them before. And uh he's uh he's uh making a a pretty amazing statement Now, he says, verse 13, ye are the salt of the earth. Verse 14, ye are the light of the world. He uses two terms here, as we said: salt of the earth, and light of the world. Now I want you to think a little bit with me and think a little differently, at least it was a little different for me. Think carefully, what do these two statements imply about the world? He's saying, you are the salt of the earth. Ye are the light of the world. What is he implying about the world? Ah. When he says you are the light of the world, the implication is without you, the world is what? In darkness. Now, when he says you're the salt of the earth. What is he implying that without that salt the earth is what? It has no savor. We'll talk about that, what that is. Um well I have to jump ahead here with this and we're all aware of this, but salt has two um uh two uh Effects. One is it flavors, it adds flavor, it enhances, it makes something that is good a little bit better, right? It flavors it. The other influence of salt is what? Preservative Uh we don't deal with this now because they have artificial preservatives, but years ago how many people here when you were young grandpa ever salted the hog, killed the hog and salted it real good and hung it out He does that so it don't decay, so it don't uh rot away. Uh you do that with when you tan a hide, a lot of times you'll salt that down so it doesn't decay So salt has two factors. It's one is to enhance something, make it better, and the other is to prevent decay So if he says, You are the salt of the earth, the implication is, I put it this way, that the world is decaying. The world is decaying. And from Genesis to Revelation, the Bible teaches that this world is decaying. Now think with me. Adam and Eve are created by God. They live in a perfect world, a sinless world. Everything God saw they made was good. They're innocent. We can't hardly say exactly they're perfect because they haven't been tested, but they are innocent. There's no sin. We know the story. Eve disobeys. Adam disobeys by one man's sin. Death entered the world. Sin entered the world. And death by sin. And if you'll read carefully, you only get down to Genesis chapter 4. Genesis 3 is where Adam and Eve sinned. Less than one generation, you have a man being murdered. A little bit after that, you have more being murdered. Take your Bible with me if you would and turn to Genesis chapter 6. Now we're just several generations into a fallen world. Just several generations away from a perfect sinless environment, something you and I have never experienced Something only two people in the history of mankind have ever experienced. Only a few generations away from that, it looks to me like It would be a pretty nice world to live in. I mean you don't have the gangs, you don't have that long-term decay of sin. It looks like it'd be pretty nice. Look at Genesis chapter 6, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 5. And God saw that the what wickedness of man, look at the terminology being used here, was great in the earth And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Now, you agree with me, God doesn't exaggerate God says something, it's so. I circled in that verse four words. Every, um, uh every uh three words, every, only, and continually. Every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually I mean God is piling on, would they be adjectives? Is that what it is? God's piling on here, explaining to us how thoroughly corrupt man's mind has become at this stage in the game. And we we are early on. We're only a few generations away from a perfect environment. We're only a few generations away from the very first sin, which the world would say was a very insignificant sin, just eating a forbidden fruit. Now, let's read on. And it re look at this verse, next verse. This is astounding. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. It had gotten so bad, God, in a sense, is saying here, I wish the hand even made it him. He is so thoroughly corrupt, he is so spiritually and morally decayed. It grieves me that I even made him. Wow, you talk about rapid corruption. Come down, if you would, to verse 11. The earth also was corrupt before God. The earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. Good night. How in the world, how more thorough would God have to be to communicate to us that this old planet and mankind, humanity, has decayed so rapidly And then of course the flood comes in and Adam and Eve didn't come off the ark. Noah and his family come off the ark, and we start anew, and what happens? What's the first thing that happens off the ark? Noah gets Drunk. And here starts the whole cycle all over again. Come to Romans chapter 1 with me if you would. And from Genesis to Revelation, we see this over and over and over how this world is corrupting, corrupting, corrupting. Verse gen uh Romans chapter one, verse number twenty one, and and we go down through verse thirty-two, but we won't Go that much. I'll just go in here a little ways. Verse 21. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Now I think this next statement is the root of much of our problems Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was what? Darkened. Remember what he said? Ye are the light of the world. Um professing themselves to be wise, they be fools. They changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. I saw a news report where one school district somewhere is encouraging the kids to worship the sun In our public schools, one of them somewhere out west. They changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man, to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things God gave them up to uncleanness. Verse 25, they changed the truth of God into a lie. Worship and serve the creature more than the creator. Uh look at verse twenty-six. For this cause God gave them the vile affections, and he goes on and describes just unspeakable things. Verse 28, neither did they like to retain God in their knowledge. He gave them over to reprobate mind, to do those things which are not Verse 32, for knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Decay, corruption, darkness. One more verse I'd like for us to go to, and that's 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy and Chapter 3. Now we're pretty familiar with this. We talk use this passage a good bit when we preach on prophecy. Look at verse 1. This know also that in the last days things are going to get a lot better. Wrong. And the last days, what? Perilous times to come. That word perilous means dangerous, tragic. Wow, did you watch the news lately? For men shall be loved as their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, true speakers, fault breakers, false accusers incontinent, that means without self-control. They're just wild. Fierce. Despisers of those that are good. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. Come down to verse 13. This caps it all off. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. What's he painting? What's the Bible paint here? What is the picture the Bible gives us of this world and humanity? That of continual decay, moral, spiritual decay getting worse and worse. How many folks would say that the United States is morally worse off now it was when you were a kid? Hey, you'd have to be living a rock, under a rock, to not see that. And so when he says to them, ye are the salt of the earth. He's implying that the earth is corrupting, the earth is decaying, and there needs to be some salt here. Then he uh uh turns around and he says, Ye are the light of the world And again, that implies, as was said, the world is in darkness. If you're the light, if you're not in it, if you're removed from the equation, the earth is in darkness. You're the salt of the earth if you're removed from the equation. Can you imagine with me what this world would be like if you did not have the influence of Christian stamp morals and Christian values injected into it to some degree. What would this world be like? If you removed all churches, you removed all Christians, you removed anybody that had any kind any kind of Christian value, biblical-based Christian value You remove that from the world, which is what is happening in our country. Imagine what it would be like. We're disgusted now, we're we're discouraged now. Can you imagine if all Christians sought was removed? What the world would be like. The world's in darkness. It's decaying. It's in darkness. I put this down. The world has no idea how to handle, how to deal with the unmoral and spiritual issues that are going on. They have no idea. They come up with some of the most ridiculous solutions to some problems that are very simply solved in Scripture. Um uh and I mean we could give scores of illustrations, teen pregnancy. You know, the most ridiculous solutions Now we have all these birth control methods and all this contraception and everything. The Bible gives a clear, simple answer to that. Just do right. Be pure. And so the world does not know how to deal with immorality. It doesn't know how to deal with spiritual issues, so they'll just deny they exist. And it just the decay is more rapid. They're in darkness. The world has no solution to the sinful heart of man. World does not know how to solve that. Well, God has the answer. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Have a new nature. We're born again. There's a biblical solution to it. But the world, apart from that, they have no idea how to deal with it. And the governments fight it, and we have agencies set up, and we have departments of this, that, and the other trying to solve and deal with the consequences of man's sinful nature, and they're in absolute darkness. So we're going to look at verse 13, and we're going to zero on this matter of salt. Now I just want to make a few statements about salt, and then we're going to get into the outline in a few weeks whenever we get back. But I want you to notice, he says, year the salt of the earth, and if the salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is therefore good for nothing, but it cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. Now back in the day When this was being said, salt was highly valued. Nowadays, we can get salt not a problem. In fact, we're trying to cut back, right, some of us. Uh I've been on a high sodium diet for years, and I'm trying to switch that around. But um back in the day, salt was a rare commodity. In fact, you study your history books, one of the perks of being a Roman soldier, boy, it was a privilege to be a Roman soldier. You were a ride. And one of the perks of being a Roman soldier was you got a ration of salt, a daily ration of salt. In fact, I was reading one uh book, they were talking about this a little bit, and they said there was uh times where the Roman soldiers would revolt and actually practically rioted if they tried to cut back or they neglected their salt rationing. It was so important to them that they got that So salt was a very, very valuable commodity back in the day when the Lord was saying this. Anybody here that ever hear this statement? That guy is worth his salt. What what does that mean? What do we mean when we say that? Oh no, I heard it. Yeah. Yeah, this guy uh he has value. Ain't a lie, that that employee is valuable. He's worth his soul You know where that comes from? That was back in the day when they would give salt as pay, they would give it out. Man, this guy, he's worth it. Give him more salt. Uh anybody here ever hear your daddy say this? I used to say it, well, I gotta head off to the salt mines. That's what they called their job. Because they got salt from it. It was a valuable thing. I found this, I didn't know this, I just found this out preparing this message, the word salary You know what that word comes from? Salt money. Salary literally means salt money. And so salt was a valuable, valuable commodity. So when the Lord said to the followers, his followers there, he said, ye are the salt of the earth, he was telling them two things. And this is what I want to end with. And you and I, as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, this applies to us. Number one, we're not just common people. In God's sight, we are people of significance and influence. He used the term, when he said to them, you're the salt of the earth. He was using a term that in his day was applied to people who were what we call the movers and shakers of society. They had profound influence on mankind. And he says, you know what? That's what you are as a follower of me. You have profound influence on this world. And the second thing he was telling them is this, you have tremendous value. When he said you are the salt of the earth. He was referencing something that everybody knew was highly valued, was extremely precious. And he's telling them these two things. One, you're not common. You have tremendous influence. And number two, you're of tremendous value. And I'm glad that God sees us that way. Amen? God considers you and I to be of tremendous value, and he considers us to have tremendous influence. Listen Don't ever underestimate the influence of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church on this community. We we j we're just used to it. We live and go around. But I'm telling you, God says we are the salt of the earth. That we have a profound influence. Don't ever, ever underestimate, and we're going to elaborate on this in a future message. I'm really looking forward to getting to it. But never, ever, ever underestimate the influence and power of your personal testimony. Now it's interesting, I'm getting ahead of myself, but he doesn't say here ye should be the salt of the earth. He doesn't say you ought to be the light of the world. He says what? You are. Whether you're aware of it or not, whether you're living up to what it is or not, you do have influence. You do have sway in the people that you come in contact with. I don't mean this any other way. I'm just you referring him as to a man that I know. But I'm telling you, my daddy, I meet people, they say, oh, Clyde Letterman's your dad? You know what they'll say? He's a good man. I've had total strangers come and introduce me. They say, are you kidding to Clyde Letterman back home? I say, yes, my daddy. He's a good man. I'm telling you my dad has no idea the influence that he has had on people just by being a good testimony. I don't think he's ever preached a message. I know I I'm doubt serious he ever preached a message. I know he's never written a book. But I'm telling you, he has been the salt of the earth. And you and I are that same thing. We are. Now he gives a warning here, you lose that savor, you lose that influence. Well then you're not much good. And we'll talk about that. But let's pray. Father, I'm glad you consider us a value, Lord. Sometimes we don't view ourselves that much. Lord, you say we're not just common folk, but we do have tremendous influence. Help us to be aware of that. And I pray that you would use us as a congregation and as individuals. To be salt in this earth and to be light in this world. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, you know, I need to be a little more conscious of my testimony. Maybe some of us need to say I need to be a little more careful, things I say, the way I say them, places I go, the things I do or don't do Because God says we have phenomenal influence and we're of high value, and we don't want to squander that. And we don't want to use it in any negative way. How many would say, preacher, pray for me? I need to give a little more attention A little more careful about the saltiness of my influence. Any like that? Uplifted hand? Sure, there's hands all around. We want that. We want to be right We don't want to lose our Savior. Maybe an old-fashioned altar is a good place to get that savor back and turn things around. Father, bless us, I pray, and help us to be aware of this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.