I'm kidding. Uh I just like to give him a hard time. But actually the truck, uh the snow plow truck, um we broke a brake line yesterday and were able to function without brakes, believe it or not. And still got it cleared out last night. Pat was working this morning and we believe the fuel line went out on it. It's about 8 30 and uh wasn't much we could do at that point as far as getting someone else in or getting it repaired. So if you had to walk through some snow to get here, we apologize for that and uh Lord will and we'll have that corrected real quick And uh but I appreciate the fellows cleaning the snow and working hard. There's boys out there shoveling away and and uh thank God for that. Uh Psalms 147, I was uh Hey, do you know is there anybody from West Virginia here? Any West Virginia folk here? Oh good. Um I was reading this morning about you know why it's so difficult to solve murders in West Virginia All the DNA is the same and there's no dental records and so it's impossible to solve any kind of murders or anything from over there And uh in that list it also said, you know, when you have to vacuum out the bed it's time to wash the sheets, you know, when you have to use the bed. I got a whole list of them, but I'll save it for later I was waiting until West Virginia folks weren't here to Psalms 147. Notice with me verse eleven. I was reading my devotions this week and uh this verse uh stuck out and spoke to my heart and Thought I'd try and develop it a little bit. Maybe God will use it to help us for the faces coming here. Look what verse eleven says. The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy. Uh I've been t I I I I the Lord spoke to my heart and I thought, you know what I want to do in the year 2013? I want to please my Lord in the year 2013. The way I live my life, decisions I make Actions I take. I want to please God. And so that's the thought this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak the hearts. Lord, I'm grateful for folks that ventured out today. Wasn't easy thing, Lord, and we understand the folks that didn't feel safe and we ask you to bless them at home. Maybe some are listening in on the internet. Use your word of God now, I pray, to uh use your word, I pray, to speak to our hearts, help us grow, change us, God. We have so many areas in our lives that need to be refined And uh your word can do that. You tell us that. And so I'm asking you to change the way we think, change the what we are, and to be the people that you intend for us to be. God, that our lives, how we think and talk and act and function, that all of this would be pleasing to you, Lord. And uh I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me in this hour, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen Well, this is the last Sunday of December. We end up another day or two. Tomorrow, I guess, is the last day. And we begin 2013. That sounds like science fiction to me. 2013 And uh but nevertheless here we are. And uh going into this year, January, of course, being the first month starts off the year. And I got studying about January, and I found out that the month January was named after a mythical Roman god named Janus. J-A-N-U-S is one of the spellings. And as I understand it, Janus was some sort of monstrous person. He had two heads and two sets of eyes. One set was looking forward and the other is looking back. And the idea is that January is the beginning of a year, is the time of year when we look forward in anticipation of what's going to the year holds and the events that are going to happen and And the opportunities that are going to be before us, the responsibilities we have for this coming year, but also we look back at the past year And we reflect on what God has done for us. And we think back on the lessons we've learned and maybe the successes we had and maybe even some failures we had this past year and what we uh learned from them and what we gained from them. And so here we are, at the end of 2012, beginning of 2013. I was reflecting this past week on uh this past year. Uh the blessings we had this past year, this was a great year. This past year was a great year here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, without a doubt And uh just last Sunday was a great day at Mountain Lake. Amen. Hello? Anybody out there? Man alive, what a great service. We had six folks profess faith in Christ. Great crowd. What a I think it was the third or fourth largest crowd of the whole year. Buses packed out. We had the most kids and King's kids last Sunday morning in history. Record breaking. Sixty-seven down there. Is that right? Sixty kids down there. And so I like my figure better, but um uh what a great, great year we've had this past year as we stop and think back. The blessings God gave us, the lessons we've learned. How many folks learned some lessons this past year? Anybody on Anybody learn anything? Anybody learn something not to ever do that again? Something you did, you say, whoa, I learned I'm not going to do that again. Short. Evaluate this past year, our spiritual growth, and then we're focusing on the coming year. Um opportunities we have uh this coming year, anticipation of God doing things, responsibilities Now I don't know about you, but uh I I make resolutions each year for myself, things I want to improve, things I'd like to see change, things I'd like to incorporate into my life, uh some things I would like to get off of my life and out. And um uh those are fine, but I want to challenge us this year. Myself and Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. In the year 2013, let's make a full and fresh commitment of ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you join me in that? This coming year, I just want to renew my commitment to Jesus Christ. I want to live for Jesus and please him with my life this coming year. And then let all the resolutions fall in line under that overall commitment to Jesus Christ, to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. That's my challenge. To Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. My challenge to all our Sunday school teachers, to busworkers, choir members, deacons, trustees, uh nursery workers, everyone that's involved, all the church members, everyone's a part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Let's make year 2013 a year of total commitment to Jesus Christ. Fresh and new and alive and please the Lord with our life. Now let's look at this passage. Verse 11. It says, The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him. My first thought this morning is this. I want us to consider the personality of God. God is not just an impersonal force out there. This verse tells us that God can experience pleasure God is a person. God has a personality. One of the greatest truths in all of Scripture is the fact that God is That God exists. Did you ever consider the fact the Bible never tries to prove the existence of God Never tries to prove. You don't find anywhere in the Bible where the existence of God has tried to be proven. The Bible assumes God's existence. What's Genesis 1-1 say? In the beginning, God. The Bible assumes the existence of God. Bible doesn't say in the beginning there was a God and this is how we know there is a God and here's the evidence for God's existence. Doesn't say that at all. Just says in the beginning, God. God's existence is assumed. Fact of the matter is, there is a God. Now it looks like you won't have to say that too much, but we live in a day and age where man is absolutely willingly ignorant. Of the obvious. There is a God. Hey, there is someone who is greater than you and I There is someone who is wiser than you and I. There is someone who is better Then you and I, there is someone we can look to. There is someone we can go to that has unlimited resources, that has unlimited power, that has unlimited wisdom There is a God. We're not alone. We're not left on our own. There's a God. He loves us, and He is active in our lives and in our world. But God is not some impersonal force. You know, the um the Orient, they have their uh yin and yang. And if you've ever seen that little emblem with the circle and the squiggly and the dark and the white, and the whole idea is that there's just these impersonal forces for good and evil out there, and they counter each other and they keep it all balanced off Uh uh my highly trained Bible college education leads me to say this, hogwash. There is a God And he's not just some impersonal force for good out there. He is a living being with personality and the traits of personality. I came across something that absolutely fascinated me. Uh in dear 2009, they concluded this. But over in Geneva, apparently A panel got together, they formed somebody, formed a panel of non-Christian psychiatrists. They took four years, and this was their goal. They were going to study the Bible and find out what the Bible says God is like They put it this way: they wanted to find out what makes God tick. And so they went to the Bible. Now, these are unsaved people, psychiatrists, analysts. They're just going to go to the Bible, not as believers, but what does the Bible say God, this God is like? I was fascinated by their conclusions. This is what they said. They said, according to the Bible, God is apparently very strong, he's very loving, and he's generous. They said this. God apparently can be a little bit picky. That's one way to put it. I would say that's true. Yes, God is a little bit picky. Um they said God tends to be inflexible on occasion. They put it they they made this they came to this conclusion, God has a temper. Now what they call a temper we understand to be the holy wrath of God. It's almost like I was reading this to my wife, and it's we came to the clue we we thought this is almost like a child figuring out what God is like. He's strong, this is their conclusion. He's strong, he's loving, he's generous, he's a little bit picky, tends to be inflexible, has a t has a temper. They said this He has an excellent memory. Yeah, he does. And they said he tends to keep score. It's true. But they added this. God is very forgiving. Praise the Lord for that, huh? And this was one of their observations. God does not like it when his people are ungrateful. Isn't that interesting? Unsafe psychiatrists looking at the Bible, what does it say about God, and they come to the conclusion God doesn't like it when his people are ungrateful. Huh. Then they came down with these final conclusions. They said God is extremely intelligent. In fact, He knows everything. That's true. Our God is extremely intelligent. He knows everything about you, he knows everything about me. That is very humbling. In fact, they put in there, he even knows the thoughts of man. Now we know that. We read that in the Bible all the time. But stop and think about that for a minute. God knows everything about us There's nothing hidden. There's nothing secret. God knows everything about us. He knows our weaknesses, our strengths. He knows our hopes, our fears. He knows our failures. He knows everything about us. God knows what this coming year holds. He knows it as sure as you and I knew what happened in the past. God knows everything. Now the Bible term for that, the theological term for that, is God is omniscient. But to be honest with you, I like the phrase God knows everything better than the term omniscient. I can understand that a whole lot better. They put this down. They came to this. God makes his own rules. I agree with that. He's God for Pete's sake. He's the one that makes the rules, not you and I. Listen, listen, we can try and run by our own rules. We can try and ignore the principles of Scripture. We can try and live our lives independent of what God says. We can do that all we want. I'm telling you. We're beating our head against the wall because he is God. He's the one that makes the rules. You're not going to change it. Man can man can redefine what sodomy is, man can justify abortion, man can justify adultery all he wants, but it is still God. God's law that stands. He makes the rules. And we can cooperate and submit to his rules, or we can beat our head against the wall and try and fight him. And so, God is extremely intelligent. He knows everything. He makes his own rules. In other words, he's the final authority. He is sovereign. They said this. God, according to Scripture, they studied the Bible, God appears to be very jealous. I said that's a good observation. These guys were very thorough. God is jealous. They explained their conclusion on this. They say God wants to be number one in his people's lives. Yeah Absolutely. Uh he created us to live for him. He wants to be God. He's very jealous. Uh number four, I like this one, this conclusion they came to. God is slightly sexist. I d I wouldn't put it that way. But this was their explanation of it. He almost always relies on men to do his bidding. Uh and they go through and point out that God looks to male leadership throughout Israel and in the church, and they call that being sextus. But they went on and qualified it and said this, although he is very loving and protective towards women and children. And so in other words, everyone has a role to play. Everyone has a place and a position in the economy of God. Men and women, different roles. So I thought that was very wise. Very good observation. They put this down. I like this. God loves love. He loves to be loved. He loves it when his people love each other. God loves love. Now we understand scripture. God is love. But he loves it when we love him. In fact, the first and greatest commandment is thou shalt what? Love the Lord thy God With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. Our God is not just some impersonal force. He loves us. He wants us to love Him. He longs for his people to love him. He longs for his people to love each other. They put this down. I like this one. God is artistic. They said he loves to create beautiful things. And they said he puts great effort into creating beautiful stars and landscapes. And God is artistic. And I want to say to you, our God is a beautiful God. And He loves beauty. And we can see that all around us. God, number seven, they put this down: God thrives on praise. He loves to be praised. He wants his people to praise him. Boy, I'm reading through my Bible. I hope you are, and we got two days left, today and tomorrow. You have to catch up and get our Bible read through, and I hope uh you're working on that But uh I'm at the end of the book of Psalms. And did you ever notice when you get to the end of the book of Psalms how often it says, Praise Him, praise the Lord, praise you the Lord, praise him, praise him, praise him And what a great way to end out one year and begin a new year by focusing ourselves on praising God for what all he has done for us. Now good he's been to us. God thrives on praise. I like this one. They said this. God is high energy. Well, that's the truth. And this is how they came to that conclusion. God undertakes millions of activities all at one time. You talk about multitasking. Did you ever stop and think how in the world can God hear and answer zillions of prayers at the same time? Can I tell you how? I figured it out. I figured out how God does that. He's God. He can do that. I don't know. I i it can I tell you something that irks me? I don't care if I can or not, I'm gonna tell it to you. Uh one thing hurts me and says, oh, people say this to me, oh God's not concerned about that little issue. I just want to slap him. What are you talking about? Of course God's concerned about that. God's concerned about every area of our life. You're not bothering God by bringing your issues to God. He is a high energy. He can handle it. And then they say, God, this was their last one, God is very strict. Yes, if you want to use that term straight. The Bible term for that is holy. Holy God is intolerant of sin. It must be dealt with. Now God is very patient. He's very long suffering But God will not overlook sin. It must be dealt with. We play, whether we like it or not, we play by God's rules. And if we want a happy, fulfilling, uh meaningful life, then we submit to the Lord. If we want frustration and heartache and difficulty and anger, Then we resist God. We try and run it ourselves. So here's my point. I got reading Psalms 147. I got to verse 11. The Lord taketh pleasure. And I thought, you know, right there is a clear statement that our God, one, he exists, and uh uh and not only does he exist, but he's a personal being. He thinks, he feels. He's active in our lives. He's paying attention to what we do and what we don't do And the Bible says he takes pleasure in us. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Jeremiah chapter 9. Now keep your place here in Psalms. We're going to come back to this. But Jeremiah chapter 9, and I want to read verses 23 and 24. Jeremiah chapter 9. How many folks glad you came to church today? Say amen. Amen. That's beats laying at home on the sofa doing nothing. And I like I I think I think being here and hearing the sermon live is better than on the internet. I mean you get to see me in everything. That's worth the drive from Hagerstown right there. Right, Dave? He lies. Look at Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 23. Thus saith the Lord. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that gloryeth glory in this. That he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercised loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. See what that says? You know what pleases God? It's not how much money you have. It's not how strong you are. It's not how smart or intelligent you are. You know what pleases God when we love him and know him and trust him and live our lives for him? Knowing God. The word understandeth there in verse 24 means to comprehend Uh, I've been praying and thinking about this coming year. You know what a good theme for 2013 would be? Knowing God Wouldn't that be a good theme? To know God. Get to know what is God really like. You and I are in his presence right now. We can't see them, we can't hear them or feel them. But we are in God's presence right now. He's holy, he's all-powerful, he's aware of us, he knows what we're thinking. He sees and hears everything we're doing. We are in his presence right now. And he wants us to know him. What he is like, how he thinks, what he expects from us, um, how much he loves us. To comprehend who and what this God is that we can't see, but yet we're continually in his presence. The one that created or just spoke it. It's not flesh and blood. God is a spirit. And so he wants us to know him, to comprehend who and what he is. The word knoweth there. Let him that glory glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me. That I am the Lord which exercises loving kindness and judgment and righteousness in the earth. For these things I delight. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. That word understand and knoweth me. The word knoweth there doesn't mean simply know about, know facts about. Now I think it's important as these psychiatrists or whatever they were got together and they got a bunch of facts about what the Bible teaches about God. I think for the most part they got it pretty right. But God doesn't want us to just know facts about him. He wants us to be acquainted with him. I would hope that this past year that you and I learned some things about how God operates and what God does and wants in our lives. That we learned a little bit about him this coming year. That we got to know him, more acquainted with him, and what he expects from us, and how much he loves us, and what his plans are and how he works in our lives. It's part of growing, knowing God The word know it there means to know by experience. I like this definition, to have a relationship with How many of us just go through our work a day week? Never give God hardly any thought at all. Yet He's there, He's active in our lives, His attention is fully on us. And we just have no relationship with him whatsoever. Nothing. We don't talk to him. We don't listen to what he has to say to us through his word. We still don't have any relationship with him. But God is real. He is. He loves us. He wants us to interact with him. God can be known. He tells us about himself in the Bible. He gives of himself to us. He longs for us to know him. I understand him and be acquainted with him and interact with him. And God is approachable. Come back with me if you would to Psalms 145. There's a great verse. In fact, I think we're going to memorize this verse for December. I pretty much decided we're going to. Psalms 145, look at verse 18. Psalms 145, verse 18. Boy, if you don't get anything out of this message, I hope you get the truth of this verse. Psalms 145, verse 18. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him. To all that call upon him in truth. God wants us to approach him. God wants us to come to him with our needs and our situations and our struggles and our blessings. God wants us to c hey God wants us to come to him sometimes and just say thank you, God, for what you've done for me. I spoke with a fellow this past week and Um we were talking, he's kind of new in the faith, and I was trying to encourage him and help him a little bit. And uh he says, you know, I'm uh I I'm starting to learn, but it's still hard just to trust God with things He said I feel like I'm just kind of putting it out there in the air and there's no real substance that I'm really trusting. He said, I know what it means to trust in the guy at work or my partner. I know it means a trust in person But just the trusting God. I said, oh, you know what that is? It's called faith. And I said, the more you trust in this God that you can't see, Can't feel or touch him, but he's there. The more you learn to trust him with things, the stronger your faith will be. Because I said what you're going to find out is God actually comes through. And trusting him actually does work. And you're going to trust this God that you can't see or feel or touch. You're going to trust him with something, and lo and behold, God's going to take care of that. Not necessarily the way you anticipated, but God's going to take care of it. And he's going to say, hey, you know what? I can trust God. And that's what he wants. He wants us to come to him, trust him, know him, interact with him, our God. Listen, Christianity is not just some ritual we go through, a meaningless ritual. We have a true and living God that is active in our lives. What amazing thing What an amazing thing. So the first thing is I was looking at Psalms 147, verse 11, The Lord taketh pleasure, and them that fear him, those that I thought I got thinking about the reality of God, the personality of God. He's a living personal being. And then I got looking here. God takes pleasure in certain things. And that's where I got my challenge for the coming year. I want to live to please God. This one that created me. This one that is is omnipresent everywhere all the time. I want him to be pleased with my life. Um we were in Kaz last summer, not this past summer, summer before. We're up in the mountains, and I have referenced this several times, but this was such a profound experience for me. And we were way up in the mountains of Kazakhstan. So last year and we just uh last year, last day, and we were doing a little sightseeing. I know guys remember this, and one of the men there, the Kazakh fellows that we met, he said, I want to take you up in the mountains And just do a little sight stand. We drove, I don't know, what was it, two hours up there or something like that, way up in the mountain. I mean it was like the Rocky Mountains almost. We're way up there, snow covered, uh August, and there's snow up there and everything We got together and uh we're around there just I felt like the only grown-up. All these guys were climbing on things and hopping around and it's like, man, it's like little kids. And uh but anyway But anyway, we all got together and we were talking a little bit and uh we said, you know, let's sing uh how great thou art. And what an amazing thing to stand there with a couple Kazakhstan Christians and us and to join our voices together in these mountains of Kazakhstan. And saying, O Lord my God, when I in awesome wonder consider all the worlds thy hands have made I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe displayed Then sings, My soul, my Savior, God to thee, how great thou art. How great thou art. I tell you, I had tears in my eyes. Standing with Kazakh believers singing praise to our God. And when we were done, I walked away, and down in my heart and soul I thought. We just did something that pleases God. I think God liked that. Pleasing God. Think that you and I can do something that would make God happy, that pleases him I can't think of anything more fulfilling in life than to know that I'm doing and acting and living in a way that God has pleased. How empty a life would be. To live knowing that God is not pleased with the way I'm living. God is not happy with my attitude and my actions. Boy, what a terrible way to live. Now, what is it that pleases God? And I got thinking about God's pleasure, and he tells us right here: God taketh pleasure in them that fear him and those that hope in his mercy. Two things that we know, obviously, and now there's others throughout scripture, but here two listed that we know pleases God. This God that we live in his presence, this God that's so aware of us What can I do to please him? Number one, to fear him. To fear him. Now we preached on this not long ago, but What does it mean to fear God? Well, when I was young, I loved to scare my mom and my sisters. I know that's hard for you to believe. But I loved it. I'd hide somewhere, they'd walk by, ha you know, we'd get these little uh do you remember when you were little, they had that little bug making machine, you'd pour the melt the plastic, put it in press and have all these little ugly bugs. My mom made the mistake of getting me one of those. What a riot. She's screaming every day for m months. You know, there's bugs everywhere, in the flower, in the refrigerator, you know, in the clothing drawer. That is not what he means to fear God, be scared of him. To fear God simply means to respect and reverence God's complete power and authority over me. You know what pleases God? When I recognize who God is and who I am. I recognize you are God. You're the ultimate authority. You're my judge. You're the one I'm going to have to answer to. And I humble myself before him in reverential fear. God doesn't want us to be scared of him, but he does want us to respect him. He wants us to reverence him, to recognize him for who and what he is. And that's what pleases him. Lord, you are God You are the final authority. You are the one I submit myself in reverential fear, God. You are God. That pleases God. To respect and reverence his holiness. And then the second thing that pleases God is to hope in his mercy. I fear God's judgment, and I know that I come short of His holiness. And I say, God, I just put my and that word hope there doesn't mean boy, I hope God will be merciful. Well, I hope it doesn't snow today. It's not what it's talking about. The word hope there means to be confidently anticipated. God, I am trusting in your mercy. I fear you, I recognize you for who and what you are, and I'm trusting, I'm hoping, I'm anticipating, I'm relying on you being merciful to me. Of course, the greatest act of mercy was when Jesus Christ, instead of giving the judgment for our sins upon ourselves, when he took it upon himself on the cross. That is the mercy of God. I will not send Dennis Leatherman to hell. I will suffer hell for him. And he extends mercy. And then, of course, when we come to the point in our life when we trust Jesus Christ, our personal Savior. Then that mercy is applied. I was reading about Napoleon. And um Some soldier under him, we're all familiar with who Napoleon was, some soldier under him had did something, I don't know what it was, the story didn't say, but he did something that uh required the death penalty And he was in jail waiting his sentence to be carried out. And the mother of the guilty soldier came to Napoleon. Somehow she got access to Napoleon. And she said, Mr. Napoleon, or however she addressed him, she goes, I am asking you to show my son mercy and spare his life. And Napoleon says he has done nothing worthy of having his life spared. And the mother said this: that is my point. If he is something worthy, it would not be mercy. I'm asking for mercy. In other words, she was saying he doesn't deserve his life to be spared. And I'm asking you to withhold something that he does deserve. And the story goes on that the Pollyon said, Your son will have mercy. And that's what we do when we come to God. God, I don't deserve you withholding your judgment on my sins. I don't deserve it. But God, I'm hoping in your mercy that you will not give me the judgment I do deserve. I can't think of anything that pleases God more. than a sinful soul coming and finding mercy and forgiveness through faith in Jesus Christ. Let's make sure of our own salvation. Let's make sure that we've trusted Christ and God's judgment has been removed. And then this coming year, let's please God by recognizing his authority in our life. Let's share that message with others. The Bible says there is joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repenteth. Finds mercy. And let's give this coming year, knowing God and bringing others to Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for your presence and your involvement in our lives, God, we just go through our day and never give you hardly any thought at all. Nevertheless, you're right there. And I pray that this coming year, starting this morning, we would recognize Who you are and what you are, and we would know you, and we would learn to trust you and submit ourselves to you and let you bless us and lead us and direct us and meet our needs. With our heads bound and eyes closed, wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've trusted Christ. But maybe you say this coming year I really need to focus on knowing the Lord and understanding him. You say, preacher, pray with me. God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart about some areas of my life where I really need God to help me realign and rearrange. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me, that God would help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? The Spirit of God has spoken to my heart in some areas. God bless you, hands all around, a lot of hands. That's the Holy Spirit speak into our hearts. God is here. He's active. He's focused on us. And he's wanting to change us and help us and make us what we need to be. So many of us down inside our hearts, we know there's areas of needs that we need God to help us. Let's trust him. Let's let him have his way. I wonder how many would say, preacher, this coming year, I want to be a soul winner. I want to share the gospel with other people, actively, aggressively, and just give myself to it. And that year 2013, I'd see some people come to Christ, some lives change. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that this coming year that I can be the soul winner God intends for me to be. How about it? Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. Hands all around. That's what we want. Father, hear us and help us. Fill us with your spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand again.