Chapter five, real quick. I got a couple things to share with you. One, while you're going there, I had just heard about this a little bit just a day or so ago, and Betty Gallagher came in this evening and she was at her doctor's and her doctor confirmed this There was introduced to the Maryland General Assembly a bill that would legalize physician-assisted suicides in Maryland. which is nothing but abortion on the other end of the age scale. And so there is a group that is fighting this And um there is a place you can go to online and you can sign a petition. Am I correct on that? I she just gave me the information I had heard about it. But it's kind of got snuck in under the radar here a little bit. They introduced it, they're voting on it Friday, and uh if it everything goes through then I guess next week. I don't know if our governor would sign this or not, our new governor, but uh it gets If he does, it gets signed into law next week. And so there's information she has about this. I want to highly recommend that we call and Send emails, sign petitions, everything we can within the next few days. If you're a citizen of Maryland, you really need to speak out about this. This is the wrong direction to be going. And so Dr. Porter was telling Betty was telling me that what they they can the doctor does not have to administer the medicine, but he does have to prescribe it and that makes him complicit in the action, if I understood it correctly. And so um if you have some questions about that or you want more information CBEDEX, I got the paper here, and she can direct you to the website or wherever to get more information. So It's just one thing after another, isn't it? It's just nonstop. And so we've got to uh make our voice known. I got our February report off of our website uh sermons downloaded I'm guessing it's because we were down in New Zealand, but we've been averaging about 600 to 700 sermons downloaded a month off the website. February's report, which I got yesterday, I think, um 1,339 sermons downloaded, double what we normally do. And I was looking through there and um The number one sermon was one of Brother Olet's that he preached when he was with us back in September. And the number one state, which I'm I think I understand this, but the state where most sermons were downloaded from was Washington State, out on the West Coast. Now what I think that is, that was 594 from out there. What I think that was is I think some of the servers in New Zealand may be coming up through Washington and it's picking up there because A lot of the people down there when we were in New Zealand were saying they were listening to the sermons, they were finding our website. So I don't know. Tennessee had 216 Um the number one country, or the number one state, as I said, was Washington, then Tennessee, West Virginia had a bunch, and then all the way down through there. The number one country was the Philippines. And that kind of pick me up that uh that may be why these numbers are so increased because it was a lot of Filipinos down there. Uh Britain, United Kingdom uh was the next And we went down New Germany, Zealand had a b New Zealand had a bunch. I was looking for some weird countries that had uh Marita, I never heard of that country, had a bunch Russia had a bunch, Hong Kong, China had several. So I thought that was interesting. I wanted to share that with you. But pray for our website. God can use that in a great way. Matthew chapter 5, we're looking at the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, Jesus, and the Sermon on the Mound. And we're through the Beatitudes, which as I said, I believe, were kind of the introduction to his sermon. And we've been looking at verse number 13 and 14. Let me get my other microphone on. It's kind of a one pony show up here tonight. Look at verse 13. We've been looking at this. I think this is the fourth message we've had from here on. Verse 13, it says, Here are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? Is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men Titled The Message, it became a little mini-series. Please pass the salt. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now, as we look into your word, that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, help me get focused in here. On the message, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and uh I pray that you would uh speak to us and challenge us. I pray that our church, Lord, I ask that our church and we as individuals Would never ever lose our Savior, Lord, that we would be distinct and we'd be consecrated to you, filled with your Spirit, that you could use us and to have an influence for the gospel, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, if you remember we pointed out that um doesn't take a and this is one thing that I've really stood out in my mind as I prepared these messages and studied this passage. And that is this. It doesn't take a lot of salt to have a significant amount of influence into what it's applied to Uh we talked about this a good bit, about putting a pinch of salt into something, and it changes the whole flavor of it. And uh that's encouraging to me in that I don't have to be the biggest or the most sensational or the best at anything I just have to be salt, right? I just need to be salty. And for a Christian to be salty, that's talking about our influence. That's talking about our distinctiveness as a Christian And so what I need to do is I'm not in competition with anybody else. I'm not trying to I don't have to be some huge fantastic sensational thing All I gotta be is just completely sold out to Christ. I just need to be completely dedicated, Lord Jesus Christ. And when I do that And I'm as close to the Lord Jesus as I can possibly get, then God can use me to have a tremendous amount of influence in this whole world for Him. And so that stood out in my mind, the fact that it doesn't take a lot of salt to have a pretty significant amount of influence. That was our first point as we went through this, the influence of salt. And um and we looked at that. Then we said, what about the failure of salt? If you want to look at verse 13 again. You're the salt of the earth, but if the salt has had lost its his savior, if the salt had lost his savior Savor. Now, we don't think about this in our day and age about a salt losing its saltiness. But back in the day, these were just minerals they're bringing out of the grounds. They weren't refined in any way. They weren't chemically enhanced in any way. They just uh one book I was reading was saying how they would mine by the Salt Sea. They would take salt out of the cliffs and whatnot, the minerals that it build up. And if it was exposed to the sun or if it got damp, a lot of times it would lose its savor and you'd sprinkle it on your french fries and it didn't taste salty at all. Uh completely. There was no savor. There was no influence And so the Lord was telling us here that a Christian can lose our Savor, that we can lose our influence, we can lose uh that uh that uh influence we have on the world and others with the gospel. And I suggested to you that um uh the way we do that, the way we lose our salt, the way we fail as salt is we become like what we're uh to influence. We become like the world. The more worldly a Christian becomes, the less influence that Christian has on the world If I'm just like my unsaved person I'm trying to have influence on and my lifestyle is no different than them and my values are no different than them and my priorities are no different than them and my uh you know my uh uh uh uh principles I live by are the same as the person that I'm trying to influence. I'm not gonna have any influence I'm nothing different. I'm nothing better. I'm nothing to offer that. But when I'm living by God's principles, when I'm living by scriptural principles, something the world cannot produce Now I'm distinct. Now I have a little bit of a I have some flavor there. I have some savor, so to speak, and I can um have an influence on there. We talked about lot Lot lost his saber. He became so much like Sodom. He took Sodom's values, Sodom's priorities, Sodom's standards, if you remember. Sodom's lifestyle. When it came time for him to have any kind of influence on his sons, when the angels were taking him out, all right, here's time to have influence. And he told him, We need to get out of here. God's going to judge this place. What'd they do They just mocked him. They said he's like uh they just mocked him. This is they thought he was like somebody that mocks. They didn't even take him seriously. He had completely lost his savior. He had lost their respect because he had lost his Christian integrity. And when we lose our integrity, when we lose our biblical values and our biblical principles we live by, standards we live by We lose our respect of the world, and thus we lose their influence. Now, I want to look at this last part of the verse here, is the message for tonight, and uh it's just kind of bringing this all together. Notice what it says. But If the salt has have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted? And we point it out, it won't be It's not going to do any good. So what's the consequence? The first point was the influence of salt. The second point was the failure of salt if it loses its savor. My third thought tonight, third point, is this. the fate of unsavory salt. What happens when you got a salt shaker full of salt? But it's lost its savor. It's no longer salty. It's just plain. It's nothing. What happens? What do you do with it? You throw it out. You might take that shaker and put it up on the shelf and put it in the back and forget about it. Just push it to the back and you never use that again. Notice what the Lord says here. Wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth, and he makes three statements. It is thenceforth, one, good for nothing. Two, but to be cast out, and three, to be trodden under the foot of men. What is the fate of unsavory salt? Before I touch on these three, let me say this. Salt's only value. Salt's only value is in its influence. Right? If it doesn't, if it loses its preservative powers to put on the meat or the hide or whatever you're trying to preserve, if it loses its salty flavor It loses its value. When it loses its influence, it loses its value. When salt loses its saltiness It loses its usefulness. It has no use. What do you do with? What do you do with salt unsalt uh with uh saltless flavored salt There's no use for it. There's no value to it. Now he is saying to his followers here, he's saying, you're the soul of the earth. But if you lose your saltiness, if you lose your savior, if you lose that distinctive influence as a child of God He says, you've lost your usefulness. You've lost your value as far as the gospel is concerned, and my the spread of the gospel. Now I think we have to be careful not to read too much into this. He is not suggesting here, and we know this because of other portions of Scripture, the Lord is not suggesting here that if they lose their saltiness, they lose their salvation. Not saying that. That's reading too much into it. A Christian cannot lose their salvation. We are secure. Um so we have to be careful. Even if I as a Christian may lose may may ruin my testimony and I may lose my my influence as a believer as far as on this world I'm I may, you know, just become like the world and get back to them, become worldly, and have no influence for the gospel. I do not lose my salvation. But I do lose that influence and that usefulness to God. And unlike salt, here's something else we have to be careful. If a salt loses its savor, if salt loses its saltiness It can't get it back. Now I'm not a chemist, but from what I can tell from studying it, if salt loses its savor, you can't put it in a machine and resultify it. All right? It it's gone. It's unsavory, it's no good. You can't redeem it Now, again, we have to be careful not to read too much into these illustrations the Lord gives. A Christian, on the other hand, I'm going to try and point this out before the message is over, a Christian may lose their savor They may lose their influence, they may ruin their testimony and lose their savor, but a Christian can get that back. It can be restored. And I think we'll notice that here in a little bit. So, but my caution is when we look on this portion of the of the statement of the Lord here We'll be very careful we don't read more into it than what's here. Here's where my three principles of Bible study come in. Number one, you ought to look up the meaning of the words. Number two, you need to look at the context, and in this situation, you need to compare that passage with other verses in the Bible and make sure we're not contradicting what other verses say, and we know for a fact that other verses say I can't lose my salvation. And so we know he's not suggesting that here. So what happens, three things that happen when salt loses its savor. I tried to alliterate them here just to help us remember what they are. Number one, it becomes dysfunctional. Becomes dysfunctional. Look what the Lord says. He says it is henceforth good for nothing. It has no function at all. It is nothing it can be used for. It's good for nothing. Salt has no function outside of its saltiness. And when it loses its saltiness, it loses its reason for being. Now God has let did anybody here ever wonder how how many folks here I mean God in your heart somewhere you have a desire to go to heaven and be with the Lord. Anybody here? Boy it'd be nice. Rapture take place. Go and be with the Lord. New heaven, new earth, we're studying it. Anybody here ever feel that way? Boy it's sure it'd be nice. How many people are a little torn now? Well I'd like to see the grandbaby be born. There's a couple things I'd like to see Anybody here? Uh my dad's been saying it this way. He keeps saying, Oh, I'm ready to go, I'm ready to go. I said, Dad, I'm too I'm ready I'm glad you are, I'm ready to go too But I like you stick around so as you can't And uh dad says, you know, I'm ready to go, but I'm not fixing a hop on the next trade. And um Uh did anybody here ever think Did this did this ever cross your mind? You know I got saved. Why did the Lord just take me immediately to heaven? Why does he leave us here, you know, and we struggle with right and wrong? We got this struggle going on, the old nature, new nature, we blow it, and uh man be nice, you get saved and just zing go right into the presence of God. Anybody ever think that? Anybody ever ask yourself that? I have. Why would the Lord leave us here? How are they going to hear without a preacher? Aha. How are they going to hear without a preacher? How is the world going to be influenced without salt? God has left us here because he has a purpose. He wants us to be a testimony, I believe, of two things. Number one, of the power of the gospel. He wants this old sinful world. God is not willing that anyone should perish. God wants everyone to come to repentance And so the people that are saved, the people who accept them as Savior, he saves them and he leaves us here and he works in our life and he changes our life and he develops us to grow as a Christian So that we can testify to this old sinful world the power of the gospel. I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. This is what he did for me. He changed my life. He'll do the same thing for you. Here's how you can be saved. That's exactly what the Apostle Paul did all through the book of Acts. He went everywhere telling folks what Jesus Christ did for him and what he can do for them. And so one of the reasons we're here, we're not taken immediately to heaven once we're saved, is so that we can testify to the power of the gospel, but also I think we're here to testify to the goodness and glory of God. God wants this world to see how he treats his people and when they go through hard times, how he gives us grace, and how he gives us joy and how he gives us victory. And he wants us to be a testimony to the power of the gospel to save a soul from hell and change a life, but also to the goodness of God. Listen, we're to communicate to this world, God is good. God is holy. He takes care of his people. Now, when we cease being a testimony As to the power of the gospel, when we cease being a testimony as to the goodness and the glory of God, we are not functioning. As God intends for us to function as Christians, we lose our Savior. We become dysfunctional. And so it is possible for salt, if that salt loses its savior, its function, its reason it has no function outside of that. And when you and I lose our testimony and we become like the world and we have nothing to offer this world as far as the gospel is concerned and the power of God is concerned We become dysfunctional. We don't uh we don't have that. There are Christians and their churches that are no more godly than this world is. You know, there's some places you can walk into, you don't know if you're in a rock and roll concert, you're in a church service. There's no salt, there's no savor, there's no distinction. So there's churches and there's Christians that are no more Christ-like than the world is. Folks claim to be Christians that don't love the Bible any more than an unsaved person loves the Bible. They don't care about the things of God any more than the world cares about the things of God. And so they're dysfunctional. If they are saved, they're certainly not fulfilling the purpose they They they're they're of no use as far as the gospel is concerned. They're no more pure than the world is. And as far as the gospel is concerned, as far as the testimony to God's glory is concerned They're good for nothing, just like this salt. They're of no benefit to the world. Now, God still loves them. God can still accomplish his will, and things can be changed But they become dysfunctional. And that's what the Lord says. If the salt loses its savor, where shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing. It has no function The second thing I notice here that happens when salt loses its savior, the fate of savorless salt, is it's discarded. One, it becomes dysfunctional. Number two, it's distorted. Look what he says. Wherewithal shall be salted is, thenceforce good for nothing but to be what? Cast out. Just thrown aside I did a little study on that word cast out. It simply means put out of the way. It means set aside Um has the idea, one of the definitions I was reading has the idea of putting it up on the shelf so it's not in the way of what you're doing. Put it out of the way. It's good for nothing but to be cast out, to put aside. That was a tremendous fear of the Apostle Paul. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here. We're going to come and look at that last phrase here in a minute. But come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. First Corinthians chapter nine And the last couple verses of this chapter, Paul expresses a real fear that he had. How many folks here ever heard a preacher preach and say something like this? And maybe you've heard me at some point in time say it Say something like this, I'm afraid of being put on the shelf. Anybody ever hear that phrase? Being put on the shelf. Well, you'll get put on the shelf Look at what Paul says here in chapter 9 and uh verse 25. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temper in all things. Now he's talking about a contest, verse twenty-four, he's going to run a race So he says everybody that wants to win that race is kind of what he say. Every man that striveth for the master, he wants to be the winner. He's temperate, he's self control in all things. He controls himself Now they do it, the Olympians and the athletes, they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. He says what we're living for, what we're striving for is Better than what this world's living for. What the world wants to accomplish is corruptible, it's temporary, it's not going to do any good. What we're striving for is eternal, it has significant value to it. Verse 26. I therefore so run Because of the value of living for God and the value of being what God wants him to be, not as uncertainly, so fight I, not as one that beateth the air. Look at this But I keep under my body. Now what's he talking about? When he says I keep under my body, what's he saying? Anybody want to take a shot? What's he suggesting? I control myself. I keep my desires in check. I control my body, my old sinful flesh. I keep that in check. I keep under my body and bring it into subjection. Here's the problem. When we start letting our body rule us rather than us our bodies, then we get in trouble. When our body desires are our control, and we're not in control of our body desires, that's when people mess up So he says, I keep it in the subjection, my body. Lest by any means, look at this, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a what? Castaway. Same thought as what the Lord Jesus was saying. When the salt had lost its Seder, it's good for nothing but to be cast out. That word castaway there means to be put aside, to be rejected, to become useless. Paul said, I am scared to death. I do not, I control myself, I discipline myself, I put a lot of focus and tension and effort. into being the man God wants me to be, to living the way God wants me to live, because I do not want to be a castaway. I don't want to be rejected, pushed aside. I do not want to become useless as far as God is concerned. And that was his intense desire. Now, put aside, discarded, cast away. Can you think, think with me now, can you think of anyone in Scripture? Think back through the Old Testament, New Testament, can you think of anyone that lost their savor That lost their influence and they were put aside. They were cast away. They were put on a shelf. Can you think of anyone? Who do you think of? Anyone think of anyone? There's several. Elijah, okay, to some degree. I do think of him. Turn with me if you would. Here's the the classic one that came to my mind was is 1 Samuel chapter 15. Turn back there with me if you would. First Samuel fifteen. First Samuel is right before Second Samuel, if that helps you. 1 Samuel chapter 15. Here we have the first king of Israel. What a great guy he started out to be. He was very humble. I mean he was embarrassed to get out there and he started out, you know, he's prophesying. The power of the Spirit of God comes upon him. He starts out pretty good. But uh he lost his savor. He lost his influence. He became no different than the world and the way he lived and his values and his attitudes It was just like the unsaved. Look what happens in 1 Samuel chapter 15. Look with me at verse 22. Samuel, the prophet of God, confronts him. He was given some clear instructions what to do about uh killing Agag and the sheep and all of that, and he completely disregards what God told him to do. He had completely lost his savor And look at verse 22. And Samuel said, the great prophet of God, as the Lord is great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Here was Saul's reasoning. He says, all right Uh I know God said to do this, that, and the other, but I'm going to do this for God instead of what he said. I'm going to offer these sacrifices instead of obeying God. That's what Samuel's uh addressing. Listen, I don't care if you offer sacrifice or not. If you disobey God You're wrong. And then look at verse 23. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Look at this. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. Ouch! You know what's happening? Put aside. Done with you, King Saul. You lost your Savior, you've lost your trust and your obedience to me, you've lost your distinctiveness as a man of God, as a child of God. I'm done with you. Come over, look at verse 26, what the Lord says here. And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee. For thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. What's happening to Saul? He's being cast away. He's being put on the shelf. He's being cast out. He's lost his savior. His testimony is gone. He cannot be trusted with the things of God. He cannot be trusted in a position God had him and God puts him aside. Now the sad thing is Saul dies in that condition He never comes back and never gets right with God. Was Saul saved? I'm convinced Saul was a saved man, but he died out of the will of God. He died with a horrendous testimony. Can you think of anyone else? What what about Samson? I was just going to say that. What about Samson? Can you imagine Samson had such a trouble with women I mean just over and over and over again, he has blown it, he's living in sin, and uh he's just ri and at the end finally he dies His eyes are plucked out, he's bound, and God used them one last time to kill a slew of Philistines, and you say, Well, look at all he did, look at all he accomplished. You know what I got thinking? What could he have done if he'd have stayed right with God? How different would the story be had Samson just kept his savor? But his testimony becomes so scarred, his testimony was so horrendous. That I believe God finally said, Samson, listen, you've got to get I've got to take you out of the picture. You've got to go. Now he says, Lord, just one last time. And God says, Enus, God's grace and mercy used him to kill a lot of Philistines at the end. But he's out of the picture. And in my mind, I just see some soft that completely lost its savor. And the Lord just has to put it aside. Was he a saved man? I'm convinced he was. There's no doubt in my mind, Samson was a saved man, but he was savorless. He had little or no influence. Anyone else you can think of? That lost their savor and was put aside. How about Jonah? About Jonah. His testimony with those sailors was terrible. Those sailors did not get saved because of Jonah's testimony. Those sailors got saved because of God's power. And God disciplining Jonah. And he spent three days and three nights cast aside into the belly of a whale. Now, to Jonah's credit, he did get his savor back. He humbled himself in the belly of the whale. God restored him, sent him to Nineveh, and lo and behold, the biggest revival in the history of the world takes place. But then he lost his savior again, he gets a bad attitude, and you never hear any more about Jonah. Alton thought, wonder how different that story would be if Jonah would have just trusted God, did what God said, went over there And stayed faithful to the Lord, stayed filled with the Spirit with a good attitude, how different that would be. Can you think of anyone else? I think I have one more written down. The Bible, somebody that was cast aside. What about John Mark? You familiar with John Mark? John Mark was a young man. He was kin to bar uh Barat uh to Barnabas. And uh Paul and Barnabas go on a missionary journey. God calls them, and they're going to go be missionaries. They're going to outplant churches all through. They take a big trip. And John Mark goes along. Boy, he wants to be salt, and he wants to be used of God, and he wants to have an influence, and he wants to advance the gospel and oh he's fired up. We read into that a little bit there and he stirred up And they get to their first or second place they get to there in the book of Acts, and all kinds of crazy stuff is happening. Uh demon woman and all this stuff, and we don't know exactly what his reasoning was But John Mark did what? He quit. He turned tail and headed back home. And he was put aside. You don't hear much about him until a little bit later. He gets his savior back. And then Paul says, hey, bring John Mark with you. He's profitable to me. And a little bit later you find John Mark being used of God to write the gospel of Mark. And so there's an instant of somebody that lost their Savior, lost their testimony, or put aside In fact, later on, if you remember, John uh Paul and Barnabas had such a fuss over him, Paul said, No, that guy he we can't trust him, we can't depend him, we're not bringing him with us. Barnabas said, Hey, let's give him another chance. Let's let him try and get his savor back. And Paul says, no, this I I don't have time to mess with that. I don't I don't have patience or whatever he said. Anyway, the the fallout, the contention was so serious they went their separate ways. But he got his saver back And God was able to use them. So what happens when a Christian loses their testimony and they blow it and they become like the world and they turn their back on the things of God? Do they lose their salvation? No, they don't lose their salvation. But they do become dysfunctional. They have no reason for being here. They don't fit in. Do you know what I found to be true? A backslidden Christian doesn't fit in anywhere. They're not comfortable at church because they're under conviction. They're not comfortable in the world because they're not of the world And they just become dysfunctional. They're not happy. So I'll tell you what, some of the most miserable people I've ever met in my life were backslidden Christians. They're angry, they're frustrated, they're mad. They don't get along when they're not happy and nothing makes them happy. Why? Because they're dysfunctional. They're not w they're not operating the way God intends for them to And that's what salt is. If salt loses its savor, it has no function. It has no usefulness. It doesn't fit. They become discarded. They become dysfunctional and become discarded. It gets to the point where God says, I can't even use you Now thank God we can get it back. But there's a third thing that I notice here back in Matthew chapter 5 that the Lord says when salt loses its savor And he says, and I thought this was interesting. He said, thenceforth, good for nothing, but to be cast out, and he adds this little statement on the end, and to be trodden underfoot of men. And I thought, what does that mean? Why would he say that? And I looked that phrase up and I looked how it's used in the Bible, and that phrase is used in the Bible about four or five times. And you know what I believe the Lord was saying this. When salt loses its savor, it becomes dysfunctional, it's discarded, but it becomes disrespected. Disrespected. Take your Bible with me. Turn to Matthew chapter seven, just a few chapters back here. And verse number six, that phrase is used again. It's actually about five or six times in the Bible. And it has, it brings uh uh an idea out. Matthew 7, verse number 6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs. Neither cast your pearls before swine, lest they what? Trample them under their feet. That's the same phrase. And turn again and rend you. You take a bunch of pearls, they're very, very valuable. Down we were in New Zealand on the beaches. One of the things they do, they find these kind of shells that have pearls in it. They do, obviously they're very wealthy. And he says, you got pearls. Don't give it to swine. Don't give it to a bunch of pigs. They will not respect it. As far as that pig's concern, it's of no value. And all they're going to do to those pearls is just trample them underfoot. They're not going to treat it with respect. They're not going to treat it with any value. They have no respect for it whatsoever. Take your Bible, if you would, and go to Hebrews chapter 10. There's one more place. There's others that this phrase is used, as I said. But these two I think capture the idea pretty clearly. Matthew chapter 10 and verse number 29. Hebrews, I'm sorry, Hebrews chapter ten and verse number twenty nine. Hebrews ten twenty-nine notice what it says here. He's talking to folks uh folks that Came right up to the point of trusting Christ, and then they took turn walked away. And uh look what he says in verse 29. How how much sorer punishment suppose ye Shall he be thought worthy who hath trodden underfoot? There's that phrase, the Son of God And hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the spirit of grace. Now I really don't have time to go into the background here and deal with it, but basically what was happening, he's addressing a bunch of folks, mostly Jews who had hurt knew about Jesus Christ, knew who he claimed to be, knew what the blood of Jesus Christ and his crucifixion on the cross, they knew the significance of all that, they knew the importance of it, they knew that they needed Jesus uh what he did for them. They understood that his blood was precious. It's what washes our sins away. And they came up to the point, they fully grasped it, they fully understood it, and they said, nah. Doesn't mean a thing to me. And they trod underfoot, so to speak, Christ in the blood of Christ. And that's the same phrase. What does that mean? It means they had no respect for the tremendous value that the blood of Christ is. They had no respect for the tremendous price that Jesus Christ paid for our sins and just trotted underfoot. On our report from New Zealand, we were given out tracks there in a little town called Rurura. And uh kind of a tourist town type thing. And we were handing out tracks and there were three boys sitting there skateboards and skater, you know And uh just doing all that stuff. And so hey guys, here's some gospel tracks. And we went and I was handing some bat and turned around. Here the one boy had one in his hand, he had a lighter and he was just spurred in the gospel track. Just right holding up so we'd see it And uh I about fell over. It just shocked me that he's burning the Word of God. You know what he was doing? He had no respect. For the value of that message. Now, you know, maybe he just thought it was some cult, who knows what his thinking was. But that was the best piece of news he's ever going to get in his life. That's the most precious message a person can have in how to be saved from sin in hell. And you just trot it underfoot. It's of no value to him, no respect for it whatsoever. Now, what did the Lord mean when he says the salt loses its savor? It's good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trod under the foot of men I touched on it a little bit ago. I think what the Lord is saying is, when we lose our testimony, when we become backslidden, we become so worldly, we're no different than the world. The world has no respect for that. You claim to be of God, you claim to be a Christian. You claim to have the Bible, but you are no better than I am. You're no different than I am. Your values are no different than mine. Your priorities are no different than mine. Your standard of living is no different than mine. I have no respect for that. You know I found out from the world for the most part, they expect more from Christians than what we give. They expect us to be godly in our life. They expect us. You know who I found has resisted instituting biblical convictions and standards? You know who I found has fought that the most Not unsaved people, Christians who don't want to follow the standards. They're the ones that throw out legalism and this and that and the other, throw all that stuff at you. The unsaved expect it from us. You know, how many times have we heard an unsaved person say, I thought Christians don't do that? I thought Christians don't go to those kinds of places. I thought, you know, they're critical, I understand that, but you know what happens when we're no different than they are? We don't get any more respect either. Just trodden under. That's nothing. Well my lifestyle does not match up to what I'm professing and all of that I lose respect. And they just trampled under. They don't want to they don't care what we have to say. They're not interested in anything we have to offer them if I'm no different than what they are. Churches that lose their integrity. No one respects that. uh Christians, the world oh, I put it this way. This is what I wrote down. Uh churches are greed by a backsliding. The people that love God are trying to do right. We're not perfect, Lord knows. We're not comparing one with another, but you have a body of believers that's trying to do right, want to live for God, want to be distinct, we want to have some integrity. We're trying. And then y you have a Christian that claims to be saved, claims all that, and then they're just as worldly as the world. You know what that does to a Christian? That grieves the Christian. It grieves our heart. Anybody here ever most of you have been around long enough. Do you ever see a Christian going on for God forever for God? Then they fade out. Next thing you know, they're out there in the world doing everything. Doesn't it make you sad Anybody know what we're talking about? You just see that and say, man, that's so sad. It grieves the church and it grieves the Christian, but you know what it does to the world? It disgusts that Proverbs twenty-two verse one says, a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. Now, God has to do it in our hearts and lives. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. We need to just humble ourselves before the Lord, seek the Lord, and God will transform us and renew our mind as we present our bodies to him and live seek to live for him. God does all that, but we ought to be focused on being sought. Having a good name, having integrity in our life, so that we can testify and show to this world that God is real and God, the gospel is powerful, and the Lord is good Ecclesiastes 7. 1 says, a good name is better than precious ointment. And we need to be real careful. We spend a lot of time and money and effort on getting stuff. precious ointments, precious stuff. And of so many kinds we give so much, so little attention. To our walk with God and being what God wants us to be, and having that salt and being distinct, distinctively Christian in this whole world. Tell you that passage, the Lord, I think he stunned his believers. He said, You're the saw of the earth. What? Not us. The kings are. No, you. You have tremendous influence on this earth. But you've got to be salty. If you lose your saltiness, respect is going. Usefulness is gone. And God help us. God help Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that we stay salty. Amen. That we as individual Christians, we walk close to God and we have his power. Father, I ask you to help us now, Lord. Lord, I was challenged by studying this, Lord, and I asked that you would help us Convict us, Lord. Challenge us. Don't let us lose our Savior. Lord, maybe your Holy Spirit has dealt with some of us in some areas in our personal lives. That really need adjusting, some areas that we need to rearrange maybe and get things in line with you so that you can use us and we can be a vessel Of great use for you, assault in this old sinful world. With our heads bound and eyes closed, I'm going to say, preacher, through this little miniseries here, God has spoken to my heart. I really need to get closer to the Lord. I really need to get in tune. Let God fill me and use me. That God can work through me. And maybe there's some specific areas God touched on in your heart and life, in your personal life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I can trust God, that I will trust him, and let him make whatever changes, whatever things he needs to do. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand, preacher, the Spirit of God is definitely in a deep it's a in a specific way. Touch them my personal lights. God bless you, a bunch of hands around. Now we're finishing up this section. We're going to look at the light of the world next Maybe before we move on, maybe we just in our hearts we need to do a little business with God. Maybe tonight at invitation. Lord, here's what I need to do. This is what I need you to help me to do. God, you're right in this area. I'm wrong in this And uh maybe tonight's imitation would be significant. Father bless, I'd pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.