Alright, around the holidays, we had sent a check down to Beacon and Truth Baptist Ministries, Brother Hummel. We had been taking up Sunday school offerings. We had some gifts given towards that. Um I think it was, if I remember correctly, it was something like seven or eight thousand dollars, somewhere in that range uh just a gift to send to help them out. Got a nice letter came uh last week uh one day. I think I got it Monday actually It says, Dear Pastor Leatherman and the church family, I want to thank you for the generous offering you sent our ministry. What a blessing. We deeply appreciate your kindness and willingness to invest in our ministry and sending the Word of God to the world. Your gift is a great encouragement to us and will help us in the purchase of a new perfect binder. And so as you know, he says, we are raising funds for a new perfect binder for our ministry The old one just can't keep up with the large volumes of Bibles and New Testaments we're producing. Um as you you know, we have the truth is now printing Bibles, the whole Bible. They've been doing New Testaments And uh I don't know if you saw that old binder they had with the glue, and it was just kind of one at a time you go through. They got orders coming in now uh for the tens of thousands And so they really needed to upgrade. And that's what he's talking about. This perfect binder is a little more automated. He said we have two major projects before us right now that need to be completed as soon as possible. One is for Malawi, Africa. We are producing 22,500 New Testaments for them. Imagine doing them one at a time, gluing the back of it. For them and that also include the book of Psalms and Proverbs. The other project is for 20,000 Bibles in Spanish. And I may be wrong on this, but I think they're going to Colombia with them. Please pray with us Please pray with us the needed funds for the binder will come in soon. We need $55,000. We have $13,000, and has been given towards the need. Again Thank you for your friendship and partnership in reaching the world with the gospel is a big task, but one that we have all been assigned to complete. May the Lord continue to abundantly bless you as we labor together for the cause of Christ. So, good letter from Brother Hummel. And um, I'm just ecstatic that we can have a part in printing the Word of God and getting it around the world. That's just an amazing thing to me. Matthew, I'm just going to read verses 13 and 14 and 15. Ye are the salt of the earth, Jesus said, but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men under foot of men. You're the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, put on a candlestick And it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Look at verse thirteen there. I've entitled this, it's we kind of come of a series. Uh I've entitled it Please Pass the Soul. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless Our continued study of this statement you made many years ago. It's been preserved for us here. I ask your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives that we would be exactly what you say we are here And that uh we pray we Lord, I pray that you would help me personally and and help us as a church to never lose our Savior, God. That we don't want to be cast aside, we don't want to be trodden underfoot We want to be used of you, so use this tr this verse and the truths contained in it to challenge us, convict us. Help us make right decisions, Lord, that we can be the people you want us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Remember, Jesus, I believe, shocked his listeners. When he uses the phrase, you are the s you are the salt of the earth, you're the light of the world. You know, we me emphasized this, mentioned this. These were terms used for kings and great philosophers and movers and shakers of the world back then, not common people, were never referred to as salt of the earth or light of the world. But Jesus changed that and he basically was telling them Simply by virtue of being a follower of Jesus Christ, you are the salt of the earth. Just the fact that you are following me, that you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are salt, you are light And he doesn't say you should be, he doesn't say you can be, he doesn't say you might be or you will be, he says you are. Simply by virtue of the fact that I claim to be a Christian I send a message to people around me, my world, as to what Jesus Christ is. I have an influence. You follow what I'm saying? By simply naming the name of Christ, I become Saul. And we talked about the salt, what it meant back in then, the value it had, and uh it was often used even as a form of payment for uh wages and those types of things But the first thing we pointed out was the influence of Saul. And I can't get away from this thought, is in reality, believers are the only preservatives that this world has against its continued corruption. At best, we are slowing down the corruption of the world And I want to challenge us again. Just stop and think about if all Christians and all Christian influence was removed from the world. Let's suppose the Muslims got their way. Let's suppose they were able to conquer the world and remove all Christian influence from the world. They call us people of the book. And let's suppose they removed all Christian influence from the world. What would this world be without any influence of Christianity whatsoever? Well the best way to get a picture of that is read what the Bible teaches about the tribulation period. Because during that period, all Christians will be removed. The Holy Spirit of God will be removed. Now there'll be some word of God left behind, and there'll be people saved during that time, but uh it's a unique uh period of time. So we are the salt of the earth. We are preservatives in this time And uh we pointed out, if you remember last week, doesn't take a lot of salt to have a lot of influence. And doesn't take we don't have to be the majority in anywhere to have a significant influence on a community. You may be the only Christian in your place of business. You may be the only Christian uh in the school you attend. You may be the only Christian on your block, but just a pinch of salt can have a tremendous info impact upon the dish it's applied to. And just a couple Christians that are sold out for Christ, filled with the Holy Spirit, just one church that gets on fire for God and takes seriously the Great Commission and God's command for us. That's all it takes to have a tremendous impact on this world. And so we have an influence. Ye are the salt of the earth. We said it doesn't take a lot of salt. And um But it has to be applied. We have to be in touch. This is one thing I've I've tried very, very hard since I came here as pastor. This was my whole frame of mind When we showed up in in Oakland, Maryland in 1993, is we were determined that the gospel of Jesus Christ was not going to stay in these four walls. We were going to get it out into the community as far and wide as we possibly could. And that's what has to take place with salt. You can have it setting in that shaker up on your dr uh on your cabinet there all you want. If you don't put it on that soup, it's not going to help it taste better. It's not going to have any impact And uh the church, you know, can have the biggest budget in the world, it can have the greatest programs in the world, but if we don't get out in the highways and hedges, if we don't get out into the world, go into the world and preach the gospel we're not accomplishing what we're supposed to do. So salt doesn't take a lot to have a tremendous influence, and but it must be applied. It has to be get put out there and get in contact if it's going to have any effect Now we come to a second thought in this statement the Lord made here that I want to focus on tonight. It's this. He says, You're the salt of the earth. Then he says, but Ah, there's a problem here. Use the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost its savor Wherewith shall it be salted? It's a question he's asking. It's a rhetorical question, but what's the answer? If the salt lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It won't. It would be foolish to do that. So what I want to look at now, first of all, we looked at the influence of salt. And second, I want to look at the failure of salt. That phrase, if it hath lost his savor, if the salt hath lost his savor, what that simply means is that's not a term maybe we might be real familiar with, it simply means if it becomes caseless. If it goes uh uh if it goes flat. Do you ever have a soda pop, you left it out overnight, then put the lid on, you drink in the morning, bleh. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It went flat If the salt has gone flat, if it's become tasteless, it's lost its savor. In other words, and here's the application to us: if this salt has lost its influence. What good is it? Uh if it's lost its value, back in the day we pointed this out, especially the Roman soldiers, part of their pay, their ration uh as soldiers was to get salt. That's where we get the word salary. salt money. And so part of their ration was salt. If they would get that salt, it had no flavor to it. It was flat, flavorless. They would have been very upset. It defeats the purpose of having it, becomes valueless to them if salt has no savor. And if a Christian, if we lose our Christian influence, Then we've lost our value. We've become flat. How does salt lose its savor? You say, Preacher, I've had salt in my In my cabinet for years, salt doesn't lose its savor. No, not the salt you and I have, because it's uh if I understand the salt we have now is chemically enhanced and all kinds of things to it, iodized or whatever But the salt back in the day what they got was basically what they dug out of the ground around the the the sea back there and whatnot and they would pull it out and after long-term exposure sometimes and if it would get damp uh it would easily lose its savor, lose its flavor. It was impure. It's not like we have today. And what I was reading and studying on this, trying to learn what I can about salt back in the day that's being referred to here If that salt was exposed or it got old or was uh was exposed to air a lot, it would lose its saltiness, it would become flat, it would become tasteless, and what they would do with it is they would throw it out in their walkways and kind of fill in the cracks and whatnot between the rocks and just use it almost like we would for gravel. It was meaningless, it was not fulfilling the purpose for what it was designed for. And it was just walked on by people in the world. And so it is possible for Salt to lose its Savior, and it is possible for Christians to lose our influence. Um we do have influence. That's the whole point I've been trying to emphasize here. Uh it's amazing sometimes You can be somewhere as a Christian. People know you're a Christian and maybe they're talking. And you walk up, and when you step up, they know you're Christian. You step up, all of a sudden they quit cussing. Anybody ever had that happen? All of a sudden, oh oh there's the preacher. Sorry. Man, I didn't mean to say that. I said you didn't take my name in vain. You know, I'm not the one to be apologizing to. Uh my wife works uh um there at the at the s at the GCC And um I mean it was I I'm telling you, some of these women can cuss like sailors. I mean to tell you, she walked in there and it was just turning her hair blue And uh these they're just going at it. And finally she came in and it became she didn't blow her horn or anything, it just became obvious she was a Christian. Some of them had already known her. And brother, just her presence there changed the whole atmosphere And uh they would start they'd say something, come over and say, I'm sorry, Ms. Kathy. Uh I'm sorry, I didn't mean to say that. I know you're a Christian. And so see uh She kind of took the edge off a little bit. She goes, listen, this area right here, and she kind of set up an area. She goes, this is the cusp-free zone. And uh in this area here there's no cussing. You've got gun-free zones, you've got all this. This is the cuss-free zone. And so it's funny now where they come in and they'll say something, something will slip, and they'll say, oh, I'm in the cuss-free zone And uh they have to go over periodic about once uh every six months or so, they have to go to to um Clarksburg and take some tests and whatnot. And so you got this whole car van load of these women heading over there and I mean tell ya, some of 'em have a mouth on 'em And uh they'll be gone and and they'll start that oh wait a minute, Kathy's in the car. Uh this is a cuss-free car, we can't say that. You know what that is? That's salt. That's just to have an influence, just the fact that she's a Christian. We do. Um I've had times where um I was out visiting or maybe k went and visited someone's house, they knew me. And uh also the girls are kind of pulling their skirts a little longer, you know, they're sitting there and they're trying to pull them down over their knees and they're embarrassed their skirt's too short. Oh pre you know, and they're trying to do that without me noticing, you know And um I didn't say anything about it. You know what it is? It's soft. It's influence. Um I've had where I'm out visiting Uh knock on the door, who is it? They'll come and swing up who is it? Pestulated. Oh, and they go, they got their swimming suit or something. They'll go, ah, running and they'll put a cloak coat on or something. And uh I'm glad they do. Uh I didn't say anything about it It's just influence. It's salt. I had a fellow one time knocked on the door. He came out, ho, ho, hey preacher, and he had his hand back like this. He was obviously hiding something. He goes, uh, what's going on? Pastor I said, Oh, let's just come by swing and see And smoke is coming up the back of his head. You know? And uh so I just kept talking and talking and he squirming around, you know, and going on. And uh I didn't say anything about the cigarette. He's obviously I either his hair's on fire or he's got a cigarette back there You know, I didn't say anything about that. What is that? That's influence. Just the fact that you're a Christian right there. affects people around us. And so it is possible for us to uh uh we do have an influence but here's the point I want to make it is possible for us to lose our influence. It is possible for a Christian to get to the point where other people know he's a Christian, come around him and cuss away and never enter their mind that that guy's a Christian And come up and tell the dirtiest jokes in the world and never enter mine that they're talking that guy's a Christian. And uh a Christian get can get so savorless That we can mix and mingle with the world and doesn't bother the world a bit and just fit right in. And that's what the Lord is saying. He says, listen, you're the salt of the earth. You have the tremendous influence for righteousness and good and for the cause of Christ. But you can lose that influence. You can lose that savor. It's possible for a church. to lose its savor. Now I would never be anything other than a Baptist. The more I study my Bible, the more stronger I become stronger I become in my Baptist convictions. But you know, there was a day in America when the Methodist Church was tearing this place up for gospel. Every little town you go to, you'll find a Methodist building sitting there. And they would come around, they'd preach the gospel, old Peter Cartwright and some of these guys the years gone by, Sam Jones down south, uh Bob Jones Sr. These guys were powerhouses and they had tremendous influence But you know, and I'm not trying to be critical, but I think Brian agreed with me on this. Methodist Church has lost its savor. I had a pastor here, we were redoing the kitchen back in the fellowship hall this number of years ago. And we had hired a fellow in a good man. He pastors a different denomination, but I like him. He's with the Lord now. And uh we kind of got hit it off and We were talking about different things and we had our sword conference coming up and I was telling about I said, You ought to come and check out what independent Baptists do. And he goes, Oh, I don't know. He's I got my own convention I'm going to. I said, and so we were talking, he said this. He says, I'm putting together An argument that I'm going to present at our convention I'm going to, and he says, our convention is deciding whether we should recognize homosexual sodomites or not. And he says, I'm putting together an argument that we shouldn't, that it's not right we ought not to do that. And uh I said, you know, I said David, the nice thing about being an independent fundamental Baptist is I don't have to deal with that garbage. And you know, that church has lost its savor. If they have to discuss whether sodomy is right or not, something ain't right. They've lost their influence. They've lost their influence. Now if we're not careful as a church, if we're not careful as a church, we can lose our Savior. We can get where the world can just live in sin and we just go right along with it and not a problem at all. And uh uh that's what the Lord is warning about here. It's possible for a Christian to lose his Savior. It's possible for a Christian to lose their influence for Christ. Now it doesn't necessarily mean we become corrupt ourselves It just means we have no influence. Just means we've lost that savor. Or, you know, what happens when you take some salt that's lost its flavor, it's gone flat. And you sprinkle that on, uh you sprinkle that flat salt onto uh a big slab of roast beef. Well that go bad, or I mean you've roasted it and you've got to put a little salt on there before you eat it, what happens? The nothing. The salt actually takes on the flavor of the meat. Rather than the salt enhancing and altering the meat, it takes on the flavor. You know what happens to a Christian that loses their savor? They become like the world. We'll take on the world. We'll just blend right in. We'll just fit right in. And we have no distinction there. We have no flavor. We have no influence whatsoever. Um that it's interesting, I thought that phrase lost his savor if if uh uh but if the salt had lost his savor I got looking at in my stones and how it's used other places in our Bible, and I found out it's also used sometimes in our Bible with this idea to become foolish. And I thought, well, that's interesting. And I think what the idea here is, the Lord saved the song has lost its savor. And you sprinkle that salt on some of your food, that's foolish. It's a waste of time. It has no impact on the food. In fact, the salt takes on. How foolish it is to put flavorless salt on your eggs It's a meaningless. It's a waste of time. And when a Christian, when you and I as individuals or our church loses our influence in the world, we lose the impact we have on the world. We're just a bunch of fools. We're just no different than the world. We have nothing to offer. We're just going wrong right with the world. Take your Bible with me and turn with me, if you would, to Genesis chapter 19. If the salt has lost its savor, what a tragic statement. Genesis 19, I want you to come back here and look at this fellow. You probably many already know where I'm going. Abraham came out of Ur the Chaldees, and God was leading them to the promised land, Canaan. His nephew Lot came with him. And Lot was saved, we know that from Peter, but he was not dedicated. And notice in chapter 19 of Genesis and verse number 14. Let's go to twelve, get the context here. And the men said unto Lot, these are the angels that appear down in Sodom, they're getting Lot, getting them out of there before the fire and brimstone falls. The man said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides son-in-law and thy sons and thy daughters and what and whatsoever thou hast in the city? Bring them out of this place. He shouldn't have never brought them in in the first place For we will destroy this place because the cry of them is waxing great before the face of the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. Now look at this. You talk about salt losing its savor. You talk about a Christian, so to speak, losing their influence. Look at verse 14. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-laws, which married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place, for the Lord will destroy this city. Let me ask you a question. Can you picture Lot being very earnest here? I mean, he's saying, listen, you got to get out. God's going to destroy this. He's going to kill everybody. I think he's very earnest here. I think he's just uh desperate, perhaps. And look at the response. Oh, get you out of this place, for the Lord will destroy it. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons-in-laws. Lot had completely lost his savor. Nothing he said or did had any influence on them whatsoever because for all these years he had so lost his distinction as a man of God, as a as a person of God He had become so worldly. He had become so much like the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. He had absolutely no influence over his own family at all. And when he comes and tells them, he says, listen, you got to get out, he was a joke to them. His Christianity was a joke to his son-in-laws. Why? Because he completely lost his favor. He completely lost any distinction as a person of God. He was no different in his values and his priorities and and uh Uh I don't know his lifestyles maybe as the sodomites, but uh he certainly got along fine with them And when suddenly he starts taking his religion seriously, when suddenly he starts saying, hey, there is a spiritual aspect, God will judge sin. This is just a joke. He lost his savor. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but what did Jesus say? If the salt lost its savior is good for nothing but what? Cast out and trodden under. Is that not what happened to Lot? He got him out. He was saved. He wasn't under the judgment of God. But he did nothing for God. He was set aside and just trodden underfoot. Lot had become so much like Sodom in his values, in his priorities, in his standards, and even in his lifestyle, he blended right in. Now listen, if we are the salt that God says that we are, and if we have any savor at all, there has to be a distinction between us and the world. Or we'd have no influence. If I'm like my neighbor in my values and my priorities and in my lifestyle, if I'm no different than my neighbor, I have no influence on him But if I'm distinct, if I'm unique, if I'm something that he cannot be apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, then I have tremendous influence. Then there's a clear distinction there. And that is where we have to watch out. Here's something we have to be careful of. Lot had lost all his influence, but in losing his influence, you know what else he lost? He lost his respect. They had no respect for this man who claimed to be a follower of God all of a sudden when his lifestyle was no different than theirs for all these years. What he watched was the same thing they watched. Places he went to was the same places they went to. The things he valued were the same things they valued. The priorities he priorities he lived by were the same priorities they lived by. Suddenly he shows up and says, Oh no, we gotta go, we gotta get out of here They said, what are you nuts? You've been doing the same thing we're doing. You're no different than we are. This is a joke. And when we lose our influence as Christians, we lose our respect. Listen, I found out if a person lives for God and takes seriously their Christian life and trusting and obeying God and letting Him lead and direct us, the world might not like us, but they sure enough will respect us. I saw that when I got saved at the meat packing plant I worked there, and I'll talk about this in a minute, but uh I mean to tell you God changed my life, and those guys were all over me. I mean to tell you, I was convinced every guy in that plant, except for the two other Christians, hated my guts for no other reason than I became a Christian. I mean that was for a year and a half, that was the impression I had. Finally I resigned, I was going off to Bible college, and I announced it everyone, Leatherman's going to Bible college. And my last dumb job, I can still see that locker room in my mind, 30 years ago almost. Those guys coming by, and I'm telling you, not a few of them said to me, Hey Leatherman. Pray for me. Pray for me. I have seven of them come by and say, man, I I wish I had what you got. These are guys I thought they hated my guts. All of a sudden they're coming by talking to me with respect. Isn't that something? Listen, don't ever confuse the world's attention with the world's respect It's a world of difference. Just because I got someone's attention, just because you got the world's attention, doesn't mean you have the world's respect. Um, these people in the news and whatnot, uh some of these uh movie stars that uh you know dress so immodestly and show themselves naked, boy, they got all kinds of attention. I'm thinking back years ago, that Anna Nicole Smith gal. Everybody knew all about her. I don't know one person that respected that gal. Listen to me. We can dress and act in a way that we get the world's attention and you know we can show skin or whatever, or we can be a little cutting edge. But don't ever, ever mistake that for respect. That is not respect. And so, Lot. He lost his influence. They lost their respect. If the sought have lost its favor, if we've lost our distinction as Christians, if we've lost our values of Christians, And we're no different than the world, we've lost our influence, and we will lose their respect. I mentioned my salvation. I'm telling you When I got saved, and you've heard this so many times that I I can't get over it. So just you're gonna have to put up with it as long as I'm your pastor, you're gonna have to put up with this But when God saved me, there was such an overnight dramatic transformation Of my life. I mean, inwardly, I was a different person on Tuesday than I was on Monday. And I come in and that had a profound uh um impact on the people I work with, my associates and my friends outside of the work, so-called friends. I wasn't putting on a show. It wasn't like I was trying to be something. Listen, I hope you don't understand, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying I was something. I was nothing. I was messed up. All I did was say, Jesus saved me And he changed me. So he's the one that did it. But what he did, what Jesus Christ did, had such a profound impact on their lives. Today, this day I'm still amazed by it. But I got thinking about that. What if I'd accepted Christ? Now bear with me. What if I'd accepted Christ and there would have been no manifest change in my life? What kind of impact would that have had on the folks I was with? What if I just my life was just the same, kept doing the same things I did before Going to the same places, talking the same words, listening to the same garbage, doing it all involved in all the same stuff. Oh I get to say, but it w there was no change in my life. What kind of impact would that have had on them? None. It would have been savorless. It would have had no influence. What if that change that took place in my life would have lasted two, three, four, five weeks, maybe a couple months? Then I ended up right back to where I was in the same thing I was before I got saved. What kind of impact, what kind of influence would that have had on them? None. I tell you what they would have said. They said, Yeah, we knew it wasn't real right from the beginning. And so my point is this: it is possible for us to lose our saber. It is possible for us to lose our influence in this world We are the salt of the earth. But if we lose that flavor, if we lose that distinction as Christians And we we become flavorless, we become valueless as far as the cause of Christ is concerned. The more a Christian is conformed to the world, the less influence that Christian has on the world. Now get this. This is one of the number of reasons I have such a problem with the contemporary Christianity. The more we as a church become like the world, the less influence we have on the world. We're like them. What influence do we have? None. But the more a Christian is transformed in the image of Christ, the more influence, the more distinction there is between us and the world, and the greater our influence is. The more a church has the spirit and the character and the qualities of Christ about it, the more distinct it is in this old sinful world and the more influence it has. Take your Bible again with me if you would. Turn to Romans chapter 12. Again, a pretty familiar portion of scripture. Romans chapter twelve, verse one and two. Man, if this isn't underscored in your Bible highlighted in some way, you really need to To underscore this. This is a profound passage of scripture. Paul is writing to Christians, to believers in Rome. And he says, this: I beseech you, therefore, brethren. He's begging them Brethren, by the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. Look at this. Holy. acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. So he's calling them. He's saying, listen, Christ showed you mercy. He saved you from sin in hell. You need to submit to him, present your body to him, live a holy life, live a life that is pure and right. Now look what he says. And be not what? Conform to this world, and you've heard this before, the word conform means pressed into its mold, made to fit its values. He said, don't take on the world's priorities and values and all that, but be what? Transformed. That means changed from within. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Can I paraphrase this in the context of our message He's saying, listen, you've got to come to the point in your life as a Christian where you say, I'm out and out for Jesus Christ, I'm presenting my body of living sacrifice. wholly acceptable to him. I do not want to be like the world. I don't want their values. I don't want that want what they live for. I want to be changed from within and be holy and pure and be in the perfect will of God And thus I'll have, I'll be sought, and I'll be distinct in this whole wicked world. Come with me, if you would, over to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. He goes along these same lines here. Second Corinthians chapter 6. And verse number 14. Again, this portion of scripture is classic. 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And the answer to that question is what? None whatsoever What communion hath light with darkness? None. There's our verse number 14 in our original text. You're the light of the world. What concord or agreement you could say or contract together? What concord hath Christ with Belial? That's the devil. What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, and God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord God's saying, listen, as a child of God, as salt, you've got to be distinct from the world, not like it, not adopting its values. We live by a higher standard. We live by purer standards. We live more by more godly standards than what the world has. And when we lose that And when we sacrifice our godliness and when we sacrifice our distinction as people of God, we lose our influence. And we're sought without savor. And we're good for nothing but cast aside. And I'm telling you, study the history of the church, and you find churches all through history just thrown aside Because they lost their savor. Listen, we do not have to be spectacular to have a profound influence on the world Sometimes and I've over the years I've gotten caught up on that a little bit. And I like things being big. I think if you're going to do it, do it big. Amen. But we don't have to be spectacular. We don't have to be sensational. We don't have to be superior than anybody else to have an influence. But I tell you what we do need to be. We must be sanctified. We have to be distinct from this world. When we lose our sanctification, we lose our Savior. When we lose our Christ-likeness, We lose our influence. When we lose our godliness, we lose our impact. And we're nothing more than the rest of the world. We have nothing to offer that the world ha doesn't already have. But when I'm like Christ and I'm filled with the Spirit of God and I'm separated unto the Lord and I'm living for Him and yielded to Him and presented to Him, I've got something this world does not have. Dr. Barens, I always think about him a lot when it comes up to wild game dinner. But he was preaching here years ago, and and I know the school. He told me later on what the school is. I know the church and the school where this happened And he was preaching revival to church and he had a Christian school. He was preaching in the chapels, revival in the chapels. And there was a girl in that school that was sold out for Christ And loved the Lord and was pure and godly and right and living for God and trying to be a witness. And get this: the other Christian kids in that school just gave her fits. They made fun of her. They called her the Bible pumper. They called her every name the world calls a dedicated Christian. Those Christian, quote-unquote Christian school kids were no different than the rest of the world in their treatment of this girl that was sold out for Christ. And they ran around. They slept with the guys and the guys slept with the girls in fornication and just eat up with it. And this girl kept herself pure. And she just tried to keep a strong testimony. He told me, he said, this happened when he was there. And finally, one day this girl had it. And these girls were just giving her fits and about her purity and all this. Finally, one day she stopped and turned around and she says, any night I want to be, I can become what you are. But you can never, ever, ever be again what I am. You know what that is? That's salt. She was distinct, sold out to Christ. Now listen, I need to follow that up. Thank God God can forgive even the worst of sins. God can give a new name and a new life. But that girl kept her savor. She had influence Far beyond she probably ever realized. Listen to me. We can become like the other churches and we can just bring in rock and roll, we can lower standards, and we can go with any Bible version. We can do all that type of stuff if we want. But I'm telling you, when we've sold out for Christ, we decide, you know, I want to do what the Bible says. I want to do it the Bible way. Then we keep our Savior. You with me? You follow what I'm saying? And so we've got to stick to the Word of God. We've got to be Christ like. Listen, here's something else we need to be careful. You guys got me stirred up tonight. It's your fault. But uh here's the thing we gotta watch out. We hold to these things that we believe are true, and we want to be dedicated to Christ, we want to be pure and godly. But wait a minute, we need to keep the right attitude about it also. We need to be humble about that and gracious and kind. I always felt like Mount Naked Independent Baptist. We ought to be the kindest people in Garrett County We'll be the most gracious and patient people as Christians. That's the way we ought to be. But we ought to be Christ-like. Or we'll lose our influence. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. And Lord, I pray that I was able to communicate this. I pray this important principle you've given us here, Lord. I pray you'd help me as an individual Christian, Lord, not never lose my Savior to be Christ-like and yielded to you and obedient to you in every detail of my life. Lord, I need your help. And Lord, many of us here no doubt feel the same way. And as pastor of this church, Lord, I pray you'd help us never lose our Savior. but to hold to you and be yielded to you and submitted to you, that you can fill us and work through us. And people can be reached with the gospel. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some tonight say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can be more distinct. In my Christ-likeness, that I could be more like the Lord Jesus. I'd be closer to Him. And that He would fill me and live through me in a more real way. That I can be distinct in this old simple world. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? That's what I want. I want to be distinctively Christian. In every aspect of my life. God bless you, hands all around. I trust that's true. Here's the thing. That's what God wants us to be also. And if that's the desire of our heart, He'll help us. If we ask him, he'll help us and he'll give us victory. Father, hear us tonight. Help us, Lord, to be these kinds of Christians. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know how to give an invitation without the piano. What we might do is when we do prayer time, maybe you might just want to get alone with God and say, Lord.