So we're looking at light in the world. Light helps things. Look at verse 14 of Matthew chapter 5. There's Jesus speaking, this is a Sermon on the Mount. He's getting out into the message here now, and he says, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. This is the second part of a point the Lord was making here. First he said, You're the soul of the earth. And we preached on that for a little while. Now, tonight we begin Ye the Light of the World, and I've called this, there will probably be three or four messages, but I've entitled it Please Turn on the Light. Please pass the salt. Please turn on the light. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. Challenge us, Lord, to recognize the fact that we are salt. We are light. Help us to act accordingly. Help us to see ourselves as you see us. And I pray you'd use us in this capacity, as you mentioned here. Again, I ask for the filling of your spirit that you would speak through me. Challenge us. Help us to grow. I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord Had a way of taking just a short little phrase and just packing it full of truth There are statements that the Lord Jesus Christ made that are recorded in Scripture for us, preserved for us, that are absolutely profound. He was just, of course, being God, but he could just make a statement That was so full of truth that you could just go endless on uh studying it and pulling truth out of it. John 3. 16 is a classic example. For God so loved the world, He gave his only begotten Son, and whosoever believeth him should not perish, have everlasting life. One little verse. And you could preach on that a lifetime. I think this passage here is one of those. The previous verses that we looked at, and particularly this, when the Lord said, Ye are the light of the world. We're familiar with the little children's song, This Little Light of Mine, I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Hide it under a bush, oh No. I'm gonna let it shine. And you're going through that. That song that we teach the children is from this passage of scripture. This is what it's based on. And uh that song has a lot of truth, as this passage here does. Um a lot of times, as I was saying, the Lord can just the Lord just makes a statement and it is so profound and has so much truth in it, like I was saying. And I found that to be true. Just preaching on passages of scriptures or statements from the Lord, sometimes it's just a little phrase or just a part of a verse. that God will use to bring tremendous conviction to somebody's heart and life. I remember before I was saved, and I've mentioned this occasion uh over the years, but I was I was under such conviction uh for the first five months from January, February, March, uh, April and then into May. And as time progressed, I was just getting increasingly more and more under conviction. And uh I remember one day I was driving around and I had um the old eight-track tapes, you know, and uh I I decided I was under conviction, I was such a wretched sinner, I did not want to be what I was becoming So I thought, I'm going to change. I'm going to turn over a new leaf. And so I bought all different kind of music. I mean, it's just as ungodly, it's just different style. And I was going to listen to that. And I stuck that eight-track tape in, brand new, uh, brand new cassette, slid it in there, and uh that machine just ate it up I mean just devoured it. Pulled it out, taped anyway. Anybody remember those good old days? I'm pulling it out. I'm just, and you've got to understand, I'm under such conviction of sin And everything that would happen, it was magnified a thousand times. And I pulled that out and I just threw it down on the passenger's floor, and the verse came to mind that I had just read that night before. Now understand, I'm unsaved. And it says, the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. 2 Corinthians 4. 18. I just read that the night before, begging God to help me. And that little phrase, I believe, was so key to helping me see that there's more to life than just the physical, that there's a spiritual aspect that needs to be dealt with. And what I'm trying to say is sometimes just a little phrase, just a little statement, God can use in such profound ways. And again, I believe that's what this passage here is. Now remember, he's speaking to just folks out there, everyday folks. He says, you're the soul of the earth. He says, ye are the light of the world. You are I was reading Charles Spurgeon on this, and he said that there was two rabbis in the day when this was spoken. There was two rabbis, he gave names, and I don't know where he got it, Jewish history, I guess. And uh he said these two rabbis were known by the Jews as the light of the world, in that they were very influential, they were very profound, they were very uh philosophical and they would teach and they would influence the Jews in a tremendous way. And they were known as the light of the world, these very significant, powerful, well-known men And he said that when Jesus said to those followers there, his disciples, that he gathered around him, and he said, Ye are the light of the world. He was suggesting that Jesus was contrasting, saying, hey, these guys are not what the world thinks they are. You're the ones that have the light of the world. I thought that was significant. These are just ordinary people. Now I got three thoughts. We're going to kind of set the stage here tonight. And then in the coming weeks we'll uh break this down and look at this a little closer. The first one is a little repetitious from something we touched on when we were back up on the salt. But um the first point is this the world is in spiritual darkness. And that's implied by this statement. When Jesus said to his disciples, Ye are the light of the world, he was implying that the world is in darkness and is needing light. And that truth is taught all through Scripture. That the world is in spiritual darkness. Just come back to chapter 4 and look with me at verse number 16. I'll just give you a few statements out of Scripture here. Matthew chapter four and verse sixteen. He says this the people which sat in Darkness saw a great light. And to them which sat in the region and the sh and shadow of death, light is sprung up. And so here again, he's suggesting to them, he's making the statement, he's implying here, that you and I, and back in then and nowadays, we live in a spiritually dark world Turn over to John chapter 3 and verse number 19. Just real quickly, Jesus made another statement here, John 3, verse 19. Of course, I quoted John 3, 16 a little bit ago And in that same conversation, in John chapter 3, verse 19, Jesus makes this statement. John 3. 19, he says, and this is the condemnation. That light is come into the world, and man what? Love darkness rather than light. Why would they love darkness rather than light? Yeah, what's the next statement there? Because their deeds are evil. Because they men love darkness rather than light because what they're doing is wrong and if the light is on it becomes obvious. People can see what they're doing Um uh and so he's telling us here that this world is in darkness. People do not uh uh generally speaking, mankind does not want the light of the truth. They don't want that because then they're exposed When I was in Bible college, uh anybody here ever lived down south? I mean down south. Uh they had little bugs down there, not little, big bugs down there called cockroaches I never saw a cockroach in my life. I n I'm telling you the truth, I never saw a cockroach in my life that I was aware of until I moved to Chattanooga, Tennessee And I got down there to Bible college and they put us in this old apartment building. It was called Holly Hall. And uh it we called it Holly Hole, because it was ratty The dorms were packed out and they were just buying up apartments around the school and throwing students in them. And I mean to tell you that place was as ratty as you could get. And uh I was introduced to cockroaches They had it was a one-bedroom apartment, had one bathroom, no shower, just an old Eagle Claw tub One little bathroom, had one bedroom, one lit uh like a living area, and then a kitchen, uh, and there wasn't really a dining area, it was just all crammed in together. We had eight guys in there, four in the living area, four in the bedroom uh bunk bed. So we're packed in there. Shag carpet, I think, was put in. This was 1981. I think it was probably put in in 1961. I mean it was old and and shag carpet. I'm in there one day and back I'm in the back room where my bunk was. And uh lo and behold, I see what I thought was a mouse trying to climb across that shag carpet. I thought, look at that mouse. Oh, it's running weird. I looked there, it wasn't no mouse. That was a cockroach. That thing was huge. I said, ah! And so I killed it. I was in the I was in the um uh the bathtub there one time. Those things can fly down there. And they come dive bombing out and I'm sitting on the they had one of those little handle sprays, you know, and I'm spraying them out of the air, you know, and trying to attack them So we got this thing w my roommate, one of the guys in my room, uh, we had this deal down. We found out that cockroaches come out at night. They don't like the light. And so we got a little game, and I I enjoyed hunting, and so we set this thing up. We'd get a newspaper, we had two bunk beds here, uh bunk beds here and bunk beds here. In the middle was this shag carpet. We'd put a newspaper there. We'd get a bunch of crackers and stuff and sprinkle them in the middle of the newspaper. Then he was over by light switch. He'd flip the light switch off We'd wait a few minutes and you would hear run across that newspaper. He'd flip the light on Yeah! I'd have a shoe, he'd have a shoe at a heel, boom, boom, boom, boom. And we'd put notches on the end of our bed, how many cockroaches we killed. I mean, we had scores of them And those things hated light because when the light was turned on, you could see them, you could see what they were up to. That's what Jesus is saying about this world. The world doesn't want the truth. The world doesn't want light because it exposes They're said. And so we live in a world of spiritual darkness. Now, would you agree with me? Our world considers itself very intelligent. Would you agree with that? The world considers itself to be very intelligent. The world considers itself to be very enlightened, to be very advanced. But the Bible's view of the world and the world's view of the world are very different. The way the Bible presents the world, the Bible presents the world says we are enlightened, we understand, we have all this information, we have all this knowledge Um somebody was telling me, I was reading an article or something last fall, that in your average smartphone has more technology in it than uh the uh what was the Apollo that landed on the moon? Eleven The spit split thing. Yeah, thirteen wasn't good. Follow eleven. They said there's more technology in your s average smartphone than there was on that rocket ship that went up to the moon And so the world says, the world says we're very intelligent, we're very advanced, we have all this knowledge, and there's no doubt the world has phenomenal knowledge. This world has more knowledge available to it Than at any point in history up to this point, up to this time. And so the world says we're very knowledgeable, we have all this information, uh, we're so enlightened. But the Bible says You're in darkness. Spiritually, you're ignorant. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number one. There's two things in the Bible, two things that the Bible never presents a very positive picture of and that one is the world and by that we mean society uh and the other is the human heart they're always shown as to be dark to be sinful Romans chapter 1, and I'm just going to kind of go down through here real quick, and I'm trying to get us to see the world the way God says it is, not the way the world presents itself. Romans chapter 1, I'm going to begin in verse number 20. Says this, for the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead. So what's that verse telling us? Somebody talk to me. What's that verse telling us? For the eternal things of him, God, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. What's that verse saying to us? Take a shot. That verse is telling us that if we look around, God's existence is evident by the things all look around us, by the things that are made. If you look at it and think a little bit, it's obvious that God has made us And from the created world, you can even pick up his eternal power and his Godhead. And then he says that they are without excuse. This world has no excuse for being in spiritual darkness. God's existence, God's presence, God's power is evident all around us. Then he goes on. Because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God. He's talking about mankind in general. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their what Imaginations. And their foolish heart was darkened. Now, the heart, a lot of times the Bible also referred to the mind. And so they became vain in their imagination, in their thinking. And their heart was darkened, or you could say their mind, their thinking was darkened. They rejected God, they deliberately refused to see God And they went into darkness. Now, read on down here. Verse 22. Professing themselves to be wise, does that not sound like the world? They became what? Fools. And change the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and the birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Come down to verse 25, speaking about mankind who changed the truth of God into a what? A lie. And worshiped and served the creature more than the creator who is blessed forever. I say this often. The world has perfected the ability to make the truth look like a lie and a lie look like the truth And that's what he's saying here. They have just absolutely become darkened in their mind and their thinking. Come down to verse number 28. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind. I mean they are absolutely blinded as far as their thinking is concerned. Do they have knowledge? Yes. Do they have information? Yes, like never before Do they understand what life is and its purpose and the and the the role that we have on this? No, they're blind to that. They're in darkness. Look at verse number 31. I like the first part or as far as our Context here is who knowing verse 31 without what? Understanding. They have tremendous amounts of knowledge. They have tremendous amounts of knowledge. But as far as understanding who we are and what we are and why we're here, they're absolutely in the dark. Absolutely in the dark. And so, when Jesus says ye are the light of the world, he's implying that you and I live in a very, very dark world. A world that has more knowledge than in any other time. And as a result of that, because of all this knowledge we have, and because of all this information, I mean, do you agree with me? It's amazing what man can do That amazes me. The other evening, are you listening? The other evening, I was sitting on the sofa in my living room and I was texting With Lewis Howe in New Zealand. And he was sitting out somewhere in his car in the parking lot of the church or somewhere. He's sitting in his car and we're texting and it's going It seems to me instantly back and forth. Now I'm just I'm kind of dumb, but that blows my mind. That that is even possible. Back uh when September 11th hit, uh I was um following that, I was uh sitting in my tree stand It was a day or two after. I was sitting in my tree stand and my dad's a truck driver and he was driving up around New York and it was all chaos. And we were calling each other on the phone. I'm sitting in a tree stand, he's in a 18-wheeler in the middle of New York and we're talking back and forth. That blows my mind. So man, because of the knowledge he has, because of all this information he has and what he's been able to do, man has exalted himself above the word of God. And he's gotten this idea. Mankind has gotten this idea that our philosophy and our ideas and the way we see things take priority over the Word of God. And they have absolutely pushed aside the wisdom and the authority of God's Word, and they've set themselves up as authority, thinking they know what life is all about. And the fact of the matter is, they're in the dark. Sometimes, and I guess adults, this is true for adults, but sometimes a young person will get a little bit of knowledge about something, they'll learn about something, and they immediately become an expert. I mean they know all about it. Yeah I I drove the lawnmower twice. I know all about lawnmowers, you know. And you immediately become an expert. Or or somebody goes to a foreign country. for ten days. They go to New Zealand for ten days. And they come back from New Zealand and they know about New Zealand. I mean I was there for ten days. Let me tell you what New Zealand is like. Fact of the matter is they don't have a clue what New Zealand is like But they got a little bit of information. They got exposed to a little bit, and immediately they think, are you listening? Immediately they think that they know everything About whatever that was. Um when we were young, we used to go camping a lot, and with all my cu my uh dad's cousins and extended family we do a big camping, kind of like the signs do. And one of the cousins caught this gigantic bass. I was like 12, 10, 11, somewhere around there. They caught this massive bass. None of us knew anything about fishing. But brother, they caught that fish and they're strutting around telling everybody this is how you catch fish. You know, I still remember this. They're just telling this is the way you do it, and you've got to do this. They didn't have any clue what they were talking about. You know who the best parents in the world are? Those that don't have any kids yet Tell you what, if I had kids, this is the way it would be. I tell you if they were my kids, it'd be this way. They don't have a clue what it is to have kids. Can I get a witness You know who the best pastors are? Folks that have never pastored. We used to have years ago we had evangelists who come through here, the guy never pastored in his life, and that's not wrong in and of itself. We have a number of pastors But this guy, and every time he was here, he would just constantly be telling me that I would be doing this and I would be doing that, and if he was pastor, this is what he'd do, and if he was pastor, he'd do that. I'd quit having him That guy didn't have a clue what he was talking about. He never pastored his life. He never worked. People, he blows in for a week, tears the place up, and then walks out, and he's telling me how to pastor. This is my point I'm trying to make, besides book getting that off my chest. Here's the point I'm trying to make. This whole world has more knowledge than it ever has before, and it's got in its head that it knows more than God. Also now we know we can put a rocket on the moon. We know all about life. We can make a we can make a self we can make a little handheld computer and you can text around the world and I'll tell you we know whether there's a heaven or hell or not. And this whole world thinks because it's got more knowledge than it ever had before, that now it knows everything about everything. I'm telling you, mankind doesn't have one millionth of the knowledge that is out there The more we learn, the more we realize how much we don't know. And yet human nature is such that we get something, we get a hold of something, and we think we know it all. And we really don't. How many folks here, the older you get, the more you realize how much you don't know. When I came out of college, I knew everything. Some days I feel like I don't know nothing. And that's what the world is. And Jesus says, you are the light of the world. This whole world is in darkness. And the more the knowledge he gets, and the more he figures things out as far as how things operate and the mathematics and all of that, the more man thinks he knows when in reality he is in complete darkness. Some of the most highly educated people in the world are living disastrous lives Man, they can tell you all about chemicals and build amazing pieces of equipment, but they can't go 24 hours without getting drunk. They can't control their glands. They can't live with someone more than a few months or a few years at a time Some of these Hollywood people and famous popular people in the world, they know how to make money and they know how to make people laugh and they know how to put on a show, but they hate life so much they're killing themselves left and right Robin Williams. Huh? You know what tells me? Tells me this whole world is in darkness. They don't have the answers. They don't have an understanding. Some of the most advanced people that are building the most advanced technology in the world are living empty lives. They're personalized, they're total failure. We have more knowledge and more education now than ever before, and this world is falling apart at the seams. Violence. Unprecedented violence in the world we have. If we're so smart, why can't we get over that? You know why? Because we're in darkness. We live in a world in moral, spiritual darkness, that does not have the answers to light. I was watching news the other day. You know what this is turning into? Anarchy. I mean, it is just running crazy. People can't control themselves, and they can't control their governments, and they can't control society. Yet we have so much knowledge, we have so much technology. I had a had a sodomite I worked with in the hospital down in in uh Tennessee And I was witnessing to him and I showed him Jeremiah 17, 9. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. He goes, how can you say that? We're able to do brain surgery when we do transplants and he listed all this amazing stuff. His name was Rodney. I said, Rodney, you can do that, but you can't even control your own sexual drives. So that's not advancement. That's base. So the world is in darkness, anarchy, leaderlessness. You know what America's problem is? We don't have any leaders. I'm watching the news the other day and people interviewing and giving these press reports and I'm sitting there thinking, these people have no idea what they're doing. They're just winging it. I get the impression they're just winging it. Darkness. We live in a dark, dark world. The trouble with mankind oh I I I wrote this down. We have more counselors now, we have more psychologists now, we have more psychotic drugs, and we have more prisons. than ever before, and we think we're very intelligent. If we're so smart, if we can build these amazing things, why can't we solve the problems of life? I'll tell you why, because our problem is not our intellect, it's our nature. We have a sinful nature And all the brains in the world cannot change the heart of a man. And all the education in the world cannot change the nature of a man. And all that in the world cannot take away spiritual darkness. The only thing that can get rid of darkness is light. And so when Jesus said to the disciples there, he says, You're the light of the world, the implication is we live in a very, very dark world. Now here is my second thought on this statement the Lord made. Not only do I we notice the implication here, and come back here to verse chapter 5 here in Matthew, and look at this with me. It's kind of shifting gears a little bit. Now he's talking to his disciples. He gathered them together. These are not highly educated people. And here's something else to keep in mind. Jesus is just beginning his ministry. They haven't been with him a long time. So as far as the truths of God and what Jesus is going to teach them, they're early in the game. They haven't got a lot of sermons yet. They haven't had a lot of teaching by the Lord Jesus. They're still early even in their Christianity. And he says, You're the soul of the earth, you're the light of the world. Now I noticed this, I thought this was interesting, is the chronology. That's my second thought. The chronology of this passage Do you think it's just coincidental that he said, first of all, ye're the salt of the earth, then he said ye're the light of the world? Or do you think he said it in that order on purpose? I've got an idea he said it in that order on purpose. In fact, I get the idea everything Jesus does, he does on purpose. And so he says, first of all, he says, ye are the salt of the earth. Then he says, ye are the light of the world. Now we studied that salt issue pretty thoroughly, and we found that SOAT primarily sought influences It influences the flavor of a bowl, or it influences the decay of a meat to keep it from decaying. It has influence upon what it has contact with. Light, on the other hand. Instructs. Salt influences. Light instructs. And he says, Ye are the salt of the earth Ye are the light of the world. And I believe this is what the Lord was getting at. He was saying we need to do both. First, there has to be some influence And then the instruction will have credibility. Follow what I'm saying? Both are necessary. My light Will be very uh will not uh well my light will have little effect if I'm not if I the salt isn't first applied. You follow what I'm saying here? I don't know I'm communicating right. If if my life has no influence, then the things I say are going to have little impact There's not salt there from how I'm living my life and my behavior and my attitude and my lifestyle, if that isn't having any influence Then my light is not going to have much influence. A godly Christian life, salt, gives credibility to my instructions, I tell people, the light. See, both salt and light are necessary if I'm going to be an effective witness. This is what I'm trying to say. I'm using that term. Let me say it this way. I have got, my lifestyle has to match my lips. Salt is how I live. That's the influence I have. Just the fact that you're a Christian changes the atmosphere in the area you come into. We talked about that, right? I told you humorous stories about when I walk in and how people the preacher's here. It's kind of at first it was a little unnerving, now it's kind of amusing. But people be standing around talking and I walk up and it goes quiet Okay. Sometimes that happens. But just the very fact that you're a Christian, just the very fact that people know you're a Christian, that has an influence. And then but uh but there needs to be light. There needs to be instruction also. Um so they're both necessary. Here's what some people want. Some people want to go around and tell people what how it is without living it the way it is. Nobody respects that. Right? If I'm on the job or I'm with the family reunion and I'm acting and I'm behaving and I'm cussing like everyone else, and then I'm trying to tell them that they need the Lord, they need God. If there's no salt there and I'm trying to turn turn the light on them, are they going to listen to me? No. No. Now the other side of that, some people want to be salt and not be the light. And they'll just say, well, I'll just live a good Christian life and I'll just uh uh you know I'm not gonna smoke and I'm not gonna cuss and I'm not gonna chew and I'm not gonna hang around those that do, and I'm just gonna be this But I'm not going to tell anybody about Jesus. I'm not going to tell anybody the gospel. I'm just going to live it. That doesn't work either. We need Yeah, and it's called lifestyle evangelism is the terminology been applied to it. Listen, I know some Mormons that live more like a Christian than some Christians do. And so, what the Lord is saying here, you're the salt of the earth. You have to have a godly lifestyle, you have to have a walk with God that has an influence that stands out, is distinct, is unique, but You are also the light. There needs to be information. Nobody gets saved. Nobody knows how to be saved by watching you be a good Christian. But people get saved if they see I'm a good Christian and then I'm telling them how God changed me and what the gospel has done for me, then they can get saved. Are you with me on this? And so, do you agree with me, Mount Lake One and Benedictist Church? We ought to conduct ourselves in godly, Christ-like fashion We as church and the members, as members of Christ, bodies of members of the body of Christ, we ought to conduct ourselves as godly, faithful Christians, biblical Christians. But that's not enough. But we also need to spread the message, too, and tell people how to be saved. So I got looking at this and I say, oh, there's a little interesting on the chronology here Uh I can't just be light without the salt. Nobody respects that. And I can't just be salt without being the light because that doesn't communicate the information. Really don't have time for the last one. Let me try and give it to you real quickly. Number three, I put this down. Only Christians are the light of the world. We're all the light this world has. There's no light coming out of Harvard. There's no light, spiritual light, coming out of the United Nations. The Mormons have no light to offer this world. God's people, Christians, biblical Christians, are the only light this world has. No one else. Look what he says here. He says, ye are the light of the world. That word ye isn't interesting. And God look at it. And it has this idea: ye and ye alone. The thought behind it is: you are the only ones that are the light of the world. God's people are the only ones. That had the light of Christ in them. Nobody else does. If you and I, if you claim to be a Christian, you're here tonight and you claim to be a Christian, this passage is talking to you. If you're here tonight, you claim to be a Christian. This passage is talking about you. Ye are the light of the world. You and I are it. There's no one else out there. Other Christians, other, I mean the Christians were the only ones. I put it this way, there is no light outside of Christianity Now the interesting thing is these are just ordinary people, but they loved the Lord. They had no great education, they had no riches. These were very, for the most part, very basic people They had no positions in society, but they did have something. They were in fellowship with Jesus Christ. And that is what made them significant. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He said that various times. Here he says, Ye are the light of the world. What was he saying? He was saying this That the people who Jesus Christ lives in their life, the people that have Christ in them, the hope of glory, they are the people That the truth of God, the light of the God's word, is going to go out from. You follow what I'm saying? I want to show you a verse. I'll give you a verse and then we'll wind it down. Come over to Acts chapter 4. I think here you see a good illustration of what I'm trying to say. Acts chapter 4. What was Peter's occupation before Going to the ministry? Fisherman. Pretty successful. Um, do you agree with me? It's highly unlikely Peter had much education at all. We know he could read and write. We know he could uh the old timers used to say cipher. He could add. I mean people know what ciphering is. They could add. But as far as having the world's education, he didn't have it at all. Most of these guys didn't. Look at Acts chapter 4 and verse number 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, now these guys had just preached, 3,000, Peter had just preached 3,000 people saved and baptized, then they're going on through chapter uh 3 and 4 and I mean, God is just doing an amazing thing. The world's being turned upside down by these guys. And they saw the boldness of Peter and John And they were maybe they were thinking, man, these guys really are having an impact. These guys are just influencing all these people. They must be very educated. They must be very gifted. But when they found them, guess what they found out? They perceived that they were what? Unlearned and ignorant men. Well, I can relate to that. If that's a qualification to be used of God, praise the Lord. Amen. They were unlearned and ignorant men, and they marveled. And they took knowledge of them that they had what? There was Jesus. Ah ha. These two guys were tremendous light and tremendous salt. What was it that made them so salty and made them such a light They were in fellowship with Jesus Christ. They're in fellowship with Jesus. They worked well, they walked with Jesus Christ. And that was what made them the light of the world. It's not our arguments. Anybody here ever get in an argument with a Jehovah's Witness on your doorstep? Been there, done that. Mormons come by, get in an argument with them. I've never won anybody to look I've never argued anyone to Christ. Never. All these years never happened It's not our arguments, it's not having debates, and I know a lot of these creation guys, I mean some of them I respect them, and they have these big debates, I don't think they do it as much. And you know, I've never seen revival break out at a debate. I mean we can outwit them. Sometimes they outwit us, and we can take words and use words and make them look dumb, and sometimes they make us look dumb. It's not our IQ, it's not how witty we are I've been around some, I've never been real good at this, but some preachers, some Christians, they try and intimidate people into coming to Christ. That is not where it's at. It is in walking with Jesus Christ. It's being surrendered to him as a daily walk and a fellowship with God and letting Jesus Christ have his way and loving him and living for him. That's where the saltiness comes from. That's where the light comes from. I believe it's important to teach people how to win souls. We taught it, we just finished up. I tried at least once a year, go through a little soul winning class. I think it's good to learn what to say and when to say it and what verses to go to and how to deal with questions and how to deal with concerns people have and how to steer a conversation to spiritual things. I think all that has a place. But wait a minute. If I'm not in fellowship with Jesus Christ, I'm not I don't have much light. And I'm not much salt. And sometimes God will use his word in spite of us, Jonah. Example. But I put this down. The most important factor in my witnessing is my personal walk with God. Because I can have all the scripts and quote all the verses, but if I'm not personally walking with God, then that light is diminished. The presence of Christ in my life is diminished. But I'm walking with God. I'm yielded to Him. I'm filled with the Spirit of God. Brother, that light is shining. That salt is salty. And it has an influence when we see people say, John R. Rice was a phenomenal soul winner. God used him in amazing ways. You know, he used to have sermons printed in the national papers all across our country back in the 20s and 30s You know what he emphasized? Lee Robertson, you know what they emphasized over and over and over and over? Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. That's where the light comes from. Walking with God, dying to self, yielded to the Lord, and God using me Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I was really challenged by this personally to be a light. I am a light. We are the light of the world. Lord, I pray you'd help us to walk with you, be close to you. Be yielded to you, humble ourselves before you. And let your will be done. Let you have your way so we can share the gospel and see people saved. And be an influence of this old sinful world. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know Christ has saved me. But my personal walk with God really needs attention. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me maintain a daily walk with the Lord, yielded to Him, dying to self, letting God have His way on a daily basis And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that in my Christian life. I need that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's what I need. God bless you. Hands all around. That is where our light comes from. That's what that's where it's the source of it is. Maybe there's some would say, and uh this is what I want us to pray for tonight. We're going into revival meetings, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Just having a revival meeting doesn't make revival, but that's our goal. That's what we're wanting. That's what we're asking God. I wonder how many would pray, especially you'd say tonight, preacher, I really, really need revival. I'm going to pray earnestly that God will move and convict and challenge us and provoke me. To be where I need to be as a Christian. Is there any like that? Going into this meeting, I really, really pray and ask God today. How many by the uplifted hand? I'm covenant tonight. I really want to pray that God will do that. God bless you And we have invitation. It might be a nice thing just to pray and say, God, we really need revival. We need to be that light. We need that salt. We need you to stir us and make us right. Father, please bless us and help us, I ask. Stir us, convict us. Get the get the bed out, Lord, Holy Spirit, so you can fill us and use us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. We really don't have a piano tonight. But maybe