Second Thessalonians, just for tonight, I know you're disappointed there, Brother Hood. But uh I had something uh the last two days I was down in Washington, D. C. I talked about this a little bit Sunday morning and Sunday night, but um I'll be honest with you, I did not fully comprehend what this whole thing was down there until I got down and saw what was happening. And uh the Lord really stirred my heart And so I want to give you a little overview about my last 48 hours in Washington, D. C. and um and give you a little story behind it and then some lessons I learned from this. About a year ago Uh Brother Mike, Pastor Mike Creed of the Independent Baptist Church down in Clinton, Maryland. For those that aren't no don don't know him, he's Dr. Pat Creed's son. Dr. Pat Creed helps us with our mission so much. But um anyway, he called me a year ago and uh he said we've got a project in the works of uh trying to reach every senator and every congressman in uh in the United States uh uh Congress and um uh reach them with the gospel. And I said, well that's that's great. I'd be for that. He said, Well you'll be getting material and information in the mail about this and uh as the year progresses and as this thing goes along. I really didn't give it much more thought I know uh Pastor Creed goes down every Thursday. He goes down either to the House or the Senate and he'll just walk the halls and go into the different offices and introduce himself He's gone to every representative, every senator, introduced himself as pastor, and just basically offered his services to them if he could if they need a have a prayer request or anything he can do as a pastor for them. I mean just across the board to all of them. And so he's gotten he's done this for ten, fifteen years. So he's gotten to know these guys and develop a relationship with them. Well he got real burdened that other pastors would be able to do that with their particular representative or their particular senator. So him and Evangelist Chuck Harding, uh who I'm just getting to know have worked on this, prayed this, and they came up with this um uh this event they called Capital Connection. They perch the very first Bible every Printed in the United States of America was a King James Bible way back in 17 something. It was just right around the time of the uh revolution. And uh it was commissioned by the Congress to print uh this Bible and make available. It cost ten thousand dollars at the time, I think, to have it printed And uh but Congress didn't have the money to do it. It was just the beginning of our government. And so the publisher, the guy that printed it, paid for the whole thing for them And so it was commissioned. So it's the first Bible printed in the United States of America. It was commissioned by our Congress to be printed. So Mike and uh Brother Harding got a made a replica of that Uh a pastor who's quite a historian wrote the history of this Bible and its significance as far as the government's involvement with it and all of that and went a little uh gave a little history of uh Christians' influence on our country. And they put that thing together in a presentation package that is absolutely fascinating. Cost $250 for each of these. Last Fall, he sent um uh information out about this and asked pastors, churches, if they would sponsor one of these Bibles and it would be presented to their representatives. So we went ahead and did that and sponsored it, sent them $250, had it all done, put our church's name, my name on in the front of it. Last week About five pastors from the area down there went to all the representatives, all the senators, and presented these. They just delivered them. They didn't present them. They just delivered them to the office. And he invited pastors from all across the country to come in for yesterday and make the official presentation of this Bible to the representatives lit some law we couldn't do it ourselves it had to be delivered and then we come in another time just I don't know what thing is but that's the way it was Monday night, they kind of had a meeting to go through everything, kinda had a preaching and just a a pet rally for this and give instructions. They he said he was ex he didn't know how many pastors would show up They had 200 said they would uh as of su as of Monday night, there was 300 independent Baptist preachers showed up from 45 states. There was Alaska, there was a guy from Hawaii Pastor from Hawaii, California, I mean the whole country, forty-five different states. One pastor who is from Hawaii but is actually a missionary in Beijing Came flew all the way over here just to be a part of this. And uh I got there Monday night and I thought, wow, this thing is huge. And they had that organized. And yesterday morning, they had buses lined up, and uh almost 300 independent Baptist preachers loaded up on these buses went down to Capitol Hill. and uh fanned out across there, had meetings, uh a lot of this was arranged ahead of time, and met with uh representatives and senators all day long This is an incredible thing. Some of you are familiar with Paul Chapel out in California. He was there. If you're familiar with First Baptists of Hammond, years ago was Dr. Hiles was there the pastor there showed up, uh new pastor there showed up. So there was significant pastors of influential churches were all here And we fann out and um tried to meet with our representatives. Ours the our uh representative is Delaney, just newly elected I tried and tried to get appointment as schedule wouldn't allow, so I thought, well, I'll just go by anyway. Maybe by chance I'll be able to meet with him Dr. David Gibbs spoke to us Monday evening and um he laid the law down. He's and the whole purpose of this was not to go in and try and lobby these guys or try and get our pet issue dealt with. The whole purpose was this was to go in and approach these guys like if they are just a sinner that needs to be saved by grace. Just like you go out soul winning. Offer our ministries to them, offer our prayers, ask them if they have any personal prayer requests or anything. And Dr. Gibbs, if I want to get the message, it was absolutely powerful on uh the Christians uh responsibility to government. And um so anyway, uh I went by the office and um uh uh uh Congressman Delaney was coming out right as I came in. There was a huge crowd there at his office and uh just as he was coming through the door I recognized him. I started to say something he just smiled and he was gone before I could ever nab him. So I went in, I was able to talk to his staff there, and uh we had New Testaments they had printed up just for this, gospel tracts they had printed up just for this And so the fellow there at the desk, I told him who I was, why I was there, the Bible had been delivered. I said I just wanted to offer my uh services to Congressman Delaney. If you had any prayer requests, gave the number, and the fellow was incredibly gracious. He took the tracks, gave them tracks for all the staff members, gave them a bunch of New Testaments. He assured me he'd give them out to everyone there. He'd tell uh Congressman Delaney I was by. And uh so I was, I'll be honest with you, I was Anxious to say the least. Going in there, I'd never done anything like this before. I didn't know what kind of reception I get. I didn't even know what I exactly I would say And uh it really went well. So then I was done until two o'clock. We had a meeting at two o'clock. So I caught up with some other preacher friends I had. I said, I'm going to tag along with you guys, see how you guys do this And the one fella had a whole list of representatives that didn't have any pastors to meet with them. So he said, well, let's go visit these guys. And I tell you, that was absolutely incredible. We'd come by their office, some of them were there, and they'd invite us in. Most of them weren't. But the staff would say, We got that Bible. That thing's amazing. And uh yes, this congressman has it on his desk. He's been looking at that thing. And they'd invite us in. We got we gave all the staff members of every one of these God a powerful gospel tract They all got a New Testament just for this occasion. And every one of them accepted them and thanked us for them. And a lot of them would say we'd give a we'd give them the stuff and they'd say, you know, my grandfather's a preacher. Uh my mom's a Christian, you know, and and different things like that. Every now and we come across one, there's one girl from South Carolina, she was at the desk. She goes, I'm saved, and she goes, boy, this is great. I'm going to give this to everybody in here And uh just amazing, amazing thing. And then about 1. 30 we uh met with um Sarbanes Jr. He's a representative from the eastern side of the state And um a couple of the other guys uh were there and I'm I'm not a representative, or he's not our representative, but I just tagged along with him. There's about five of us went in there He welcomed us in graciously. He had the Bible. Before we got there, he had it setting on his desk. So he was obviously looking at it. He sat down, he uh asked us what we wanted, what we needed, and uh we told him uh we said, Listen, we don't want anything from you, we don't need anything from you, we just want you to know that The Bible teaches us that we're to honor those who are in positions of authority. We're commanded by God to pray for you. And we just want you to know as Christians, we honor your position And we want to pray for you for any needs you may have. And he has looked at us and he said, wow He says, uh, okay, so he told us all about his family and different things. And uh we got talking, then he asked about each of us and we told him our thing And then we were kind of winding down. I said to him, I said, Listen, I want you to understand that we're not here to ask anything of you other than if there's something we can do for you If we can pray for you, if you have any spiritual needs whatsoever, we don't want you to hesitate in calling us. And we all gave them our phone number. And uh, you know, he just thanked us and thanked us and thanked us for that. What an amazing thing. Totally different approach. You know, if it was my idea to go down there, I'd have been his ear the whole time, probably But uh a totally different approach and I am convinced coming out of there these guys were absolutely dumbfounded that all these preachers show up and not one of them chewed them out, not one of them were mad at them, every one of them said we want to pray for you, we want to help you. We got together at 2 30 at a uh off uh room that Brother Creed had got down on the Capitol, not in the Capitol, but one of the uh representative buildings, and um He had lined up for various representatives and senators to come in and speak to us. Some of them I knew. Inhof, where is he from? A conservative? Oklahoma? Is he from Yeah. He came in there. I'm telling you what, that guy had those bapt had us Baptist preachers hollering and shouting and going on. And uh just as sharp as could be, we came through there and we had about five or six. One fellow from Texas came in and he came in, he says, Listen, I know w who the crowd is. He says, I know who I'm talking to, and I said, I want you to know I got saved when I was six years old. got baptized in a Baptist church in Texas. And I mean he sounded like one of the evangelists we come through here, teaches Sunday school and uh witnesses to people. He gave us names of people to pray for that need to be saved and uh and uh he says this is up here he said I'll be frank every one of these guys said I'll be frank with you he is we get every crackpot in the world comes in here and tries to get us to do things that we know aren't right and Tries to we gotta fight against the things that we know are wrong. He said, you guys showed up. This has been the best day I've had in a long, long time. He said, Nobody ever comes in here and asks what they can do for me Everybody's wanting me says though they all have strings attached, they all have some motive behind what they're doing. So you cannot believe what a refreshing thing this is Isn't that amazing? Uh Rand Paul came in and uh I'll tell you what, uh he just spoke, he was impressive. And um Jeff Fugate has a large church in Lexington, Kentucky, very large church. There's a Bible college there, and he's their senator. Uh uh I'm getting ahead of myself. Rand Paul, when he was done, he went on about different issues, said some great stuff, but he made this statement. He says, I'll be very honest with you, and he says, you guys will understand what I'm saying. He said what America needs is revival in our churches. He said our problem is a moral problem. He says you cannot have self-government without morality, people being moral people. He said, if you have immoral people governing themselves, it's disaster, it's failure. And he says, where does morality come from? It comes from the Word of God. It comes from the house of God. He says, so if America is going to be fixed, it has to be fixed from our church's perspective And uh establishing a moral standard. I thought that was I I agreed with that. And uh so he said, there's the bottom line, we need revival in America. That's what he said. Of course the place come unglued. And uh so we met with that came back, and the preachers were given testimonies. Again, I didn't realize what this was going into it. I just thought that's meeting whatever. I didn't say much about it, then think it, you like thought. It was amazing Pastors were given testimonies. One pastor led several staff members of one of our representatives to Christ, opened the Bible, shared the gospel with them. Several of them were able to share the gospel with senators One senator, I think several representatives actually got the Bible open, went through the plan of salvation with them. I don't think we had any representatives saved or any, but staff members several did Every one of them said they got a positive response. Paul Chapel met with Maxine Waters, spent a half hour with Maxine Waters talking to her about Christ and the Bible, and she accepted the Gospels tracks from 'em and the and the literature. Isn't that amazing thing? Diane Feinstein got all this stuff. And uh you just all the people you see on TV, um Rangel, Charlie Wrangle, uh he got this stuff And uh just amazing. And all of them, of course, they're politicians and they know how to play the game, but the word of God is powerful. And uh Bible God promised it doesn't return void. And so can you imagine uh this happened? David Gibbs said Monday night, he says, I am absolutely convinced that of five representatives or senators, just five between the two uh two parts of the Congress, you have just five got saved He said, I believe it would change our entire country, if just five of them. And uh this thing stirred my heart. Then last night after the final service, Paul Chapel preached, we got a private tour of the Capitol to the non-public part of the Capitol where the public can't go. And got down in the basement there and uh just amazing, amazing thing. Chuck Harding and one of the ha uh Capitol guys went through and pointed out the Christian influence in our country. And you look at that, it is everywhere in that Capitol, on the paintings, in the statues, on the engravement. There's Bibles, there's prayers, there's verses. They have this huge mural all around, and it's all talking about God and the Bible's influence on our country And you come out of there, how in the world can you possibly say this wasn't started on Christian principles? You can't. It's there in stone. And so amazing, amazing thing. So as a result of all this, God stirred my heart about a few things, and uh I want to uh share some things from scripture and some things I think we can do to maybe have an influence. Paul Uh no. Uh-uh. In fact it's interesting, one of the guys got a message from uh his family was in Florida. CNN had a they were watching CNN, they had a thing on CNN There was four homosexuals protesting something that was going on. They had four of them. That made CNN. We had 300 independent Baptist preachers representing tens of thousands of Christians and never got a blurp. from it. Never acknowledged it at all. And uh so they did, they had uh the uh Chuck Harding had hired some guys. It was actually the Marshall boys. You remember Marshall family? The two boys videotaped the whole thing And they're going to put that together and put it on their website and down the road a little bit, I'm going to show it whenever they have it done. I want to show you what this was about. I'm going to see if I can't get Mike Creed to come out here maybe of a Sunday night and talk about it and show that thing But uh no, there wasn't any media there. It's funny, I was sitting waiting, uh I had a little time downtime, I was sitting there waiting in one of the buildings All of a sudden these security guys come running. We got protesters at the Ways and Means. Come on. I said, well, praise the Lord. That's exciting. But uh let me show you some things that uh I knew these to be true, but I just hadn't given it any thought a whole lot. Look at Romans 13. I just want to go down through here The Bible says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. So what's he talking about there, these powers? Government authority, exactly. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation, for rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain. What is he talking about, the sword there? Capital punishment. You write that in the Marjorie Bible. That's talking up well there's only one thing I know you do with swords, and that's chop people's heads off. At least that's what I do with them And um a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. Wherefore you must needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake, for this cause Pay ye tribute also, that's your taxes, for they are God's ministers attending continually upon this very thing. Render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute, custom to whom custom Fear unto whom fear, honor to whom honor. And uh so he goes through here and uh he's talking about the government authorities. Come over if you would to first Timothy chapter two First Timothy two. And verse number one. I exhort therefore that first of all pra supplications and prayers and intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. Now what's he telling us we should do concerning all men and kings and those in authority? What's it what are we told to do here? Pray for them. Yeah, we're supposed to pray for them, and the reason is so that we can live good and accept uh for we can live uh uh peaceable, quiet and peaceable lives and godliness and honesty. Then look at verse four. Who will have all men to be saved. We're supposed to pray for all men, and that includes kings and governors and those. What are we according to verse four, what are we supposed to pray for them? That they be saved. God, he says, pray for all men easily for uh and then he goes down, who God would have all men to be saved. So my understanding of this is God's instruction us to pray for uh John Delaney and Sarvanes and um uh who's our governor um O'Malley and President Obama and all these guys were supposed to pray that they get saved. That's the object, according to this. Come over to Titus chapter three. Titus three and verse number one again Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work. to speak evil of no man, no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men. One more, go to 1 Peter chapter 2. First Peter two and verse thirteen Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. So every ordinance of who? These are ordinances that man comes up with. Alright? For the Lord's sake, whether it be to the King as supreme, or unto governors, or unto them that are sent by him, the governors for the punishment of evil. and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God. Look at this. That with well doing you may put the silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free, not using your liberty as a cloak of maliciousness. but as the servants of God. Honor all men, uh love the brotherhood, fear God, and honor the king. So that's our mandate that we begin with. God made it very, very clear here what our attitude and our approach is to be to those who are in authority over us, particularly in this case, in government positions. He's told us very clearly All through Scripture you find men of God interacting with government authorities. Can you think in the Old Testament who what were some great men of God that interacted with the government authorities? Name some for me. Isaiah was friends with the king. Joseph was number two guy in the government. Elijah was involved very closely. He was a counselor to the king. Samuel. Daniel was uh was highly involved. Um what about Nathan? Yeah, he came to King David, you know, stuck his finger in his nose, and thou art the man. Yeah, all these guys. And um and then you come to the book of Acts, you find men in Caesar's household getting saved. In Acts 17:12, we won't take time to turn there, but here you have honorable women getting saved And what does that mean, honorable women? I believe and I think Bible scholars agree that's probably talk about women in positions of authority in that city were getting saved And so, and Jonah, you know, he comes into the city, says a few things. The king proclaims a proclamation. So Christians were involved and the God's people were involved and very influential. in the political processes of their daddy and had a profound influence. So we make a mistake if we think we ought to just stay out of it and all of that. Let me answer this question. We read these four passages of scripture What was the government like that was in place when this was first penned? What type of government was it? Authoritarian. A very authoritarian. What about as far as spiritually and morally? It was a mess. This was the Roman government. The Roman government had zero Christian foundation or beginnings to it. I mean the Nero was probably a sodomite. They hated Christianity. Morality within the government. You read who's the guy that wrote The Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire? What was it? What was his name? But anyway, you read his his history of the Roman Empire, it was corrupt, it was perverse, it was anti-Christian. But keep that in mind, what we just read here. They were to be prayed for, they were to be honored, they were to be obeyed. Now, we understand that we are to obey man as unless he crosses God's law, right? Paul obeyed the laws. The laws were, if you preach, you're going to be thrown in prison. Paul preached, and he was thrown in prison. So he obeyed the law in the sense that either you do what the law says or you accept the consequences of the law. It was when he was unjustly accused, that's when he appealed to Caesar But he didn't appeal being thrown in prison for preaching the gospel. That was the law. That was the consequences. He submitted to it. And so our mandate is To recognize these people's position, to honor that position, regardless of the individual, and to pray for them that they would be saved, to use what influence we have To bring them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. So that's our mandate. Second thing I put down is what's our motive behind this? And here's where you have to be real careful. We gotta we think outside the Bible too often. They say our motive is to get the issues that I'm concerned about past so that we have the kind of country that I'm comfortable with. Now I'll be honest with you, a lot of my correspondence with our leaders has been that motive behind me. And um, you know, and that's not wrong in and of itself. You know, we do believe that things are right and wrong and we should, by the way, don't take don't leave here tonight and say pastors doesn't think you should make your positions known to the leaders. No, I'm all for it. I write letters, I make phone calls, I send emails. I'm going to keep doing that. But I learned something. We have a higher motive than that. We have a higher motive than simply having laws so that I can live the way I want to live or the way I think I should. First, I put three motives down. Number one, our motive in interacting with the government and trying to influence is first of all to please and obey God God has told us to pray for them. God has told us. He's told us to be salt. If salt is going to have any effect, it's got to be on the food, right? You have salt in the salt shaker all day long until you put it on the salad or whatever it is, the corn on the cob, doesn't have any effect. And so um by the way, I'm on a high sodium diet, and uh no I'm kidding And so if we're going to be salt to our leaders, we've got to have some sort of contact with them. We have to somehow interact with them. And so God has told us to. Do you feel this way? This is the way I feel If God wants me to do something, I want to do it. Right? If I can be convinced this is what God wants me to do, then I want to do it. Now I don't always live up to that. But my desire is to do what God wants me to do. And so here we see God says, pray for these people, you know, uh honor them. and uh have an influence there. Uh so our motive number one is to please obey God. Number two, our motive is to win all men to Jesus Christ. I used to I like telling the story every now and then when I first came here and we got our first bus and I was at a preacher's fellowship and uh I was telling them, hey, praise the Lord, we got a bus. One of the guys who was a friend of mine, but he came over and he says, you know, your church, he knew the church and the situation, the crowd you have, the small, and uh, you know, they're coming through a rough time. He goes, You're not going to build that church up by reaching bus kids I said, well who are we supposed to reach? He goes, Well you gotta reach the people with money and the people with influence. And um I I don't remember what I said to him, but you know, uh uh my goal and my understanding of scripture we're supposed to meet reach everybody. Whether they're poor or rich, whether they have position or no position. Now that cuts both ways. We have to be careful that we only zero in, that we not only just zero in on maybe the bus routes We need to reach the other people also. Paul was tremendously balanced. And uh, you know, he's winning prisoners of the Lord, and then he's also winning notable women and people, leaders in these cities to the Lord. So we want to win everybody to Jesus Christ. And I tell you, this past couple days, seeing the response of these men to the Word of God, and I know a lot of it is political, I know they're just playing the thing, but uh the amazing thing, I I see them now. As sinners who are going to die and spend eternity in heaven or hell. Not so much as my enemy anymore, somebody trying to lord it over me, although that may be a factor, but I want to look beyond that And say, hey, this guy has an eternal soul. Jesus died for this guy. Jesus suffered hell for Maxine Waters. And she wants her, God wants her to be saved. You know? And name anyone else. And uh my my whole approach, and we sat there with uh um sorbeans are sitting there and I got looked at him and I felt like I was in the living room of one of my neighbors here and I was trying to be a witness and have an influence on them rather than talking to some man of tremendous Power. And it just changed my whole perspective. Um we want to be salt and we want to be light in our nation. I liked what I don't remember, I think it was David Gibbs said Monday night. He said the answers to America are not going to be met by political means. He said they're going to be met by spiritual means The problems of our country are not political, they're spiritual in their nature. And he said, what we're trying to do is solve America by political means, lobbying, trying to get our positions, and that has its place. He said, but we've completely failed in trying to meet the spiritual needs of those who have tremendous influence in our country. And um uh just amazing thing. Here's something that I didn't realize. I had never gave it thought. These men and women are accessible. You can make appointments. You can. And make appointments and go and sit down and talk to them. They'll work it in. And they're accessible. And here's the thing: the lobbyists, the big business powerful companies, they all understand that We were there, every office was lined up with lobbyists going in trying to talk to them talk to them. They know that they have access. The crackpots Uh, you know, the abortionists and the sodomites and the environmentalists, all those people, they know that these men and women are accessible. And man, they're in there bending their knee, they're in there every chance they can trying to influence them. And what have we done as independent Baptists? We haven't taken advantage of that. And I can make an appointment with John Delaney and go down there and give him some gospel tracts and tell him I'm concerned for him and maybe be able to tactfully share the gospel with him And all these years I've never never even tried that. Never even gave it any thought that I have access to these people. And uh man, what if we had a a sinner in town here and says, you know, anytime you want, just make appointment. Come by, sit down, talk to me whatever whatever you need to. I'd be glad to listen to you What will we do? We'd say, good night. Let's go there and share the gospel with them. That's exactly the situation here But we're intimidated. I know I'm intimidated and think, well you can't do that, you can't go there. Yeah, you can. Mike Creed does it every Thursday and goes down there and and uh He's built friendships. You gotta be a little tactful. You know you can't sit down with him and say you're going to hell, buddy, you know. And you don't do that to your neighbor either. You build a friendship with him, you try and you know, be tactful about it. And so that's our motive behind it. Now here's our method. And this is where I think all of us can can do something here. Number one is pray for our leaders. Just pray for their salvation. Ask God to bring them under conviction of their sin, that they will repent of it and turn to Christ. You have not because you ask not. Ask and it shall be. So why don't we start asking God to save these men and women, save their staff members? Uh David Gibbs pointed something out. He says, if you don't get to see the representative or the senator, don't worry. He said those staff members have his ear. They're the ones that contact people and they listen to what the staff members tell them because they have they have contact more so with the constituents. Said if you can win those staff members to the Lord, you have influence on that person And they read those gospel tracts and affected. So we want to pray for them. Pray that they'll be saved. Pray that staff members will be saved. Second thing we can do, and by the way, if you'll notice in our prayer bowl, and I'm going to start doing this each week. I'm going to put a different government leader on there each week that we will pray for their salvation. Pray that they'll be saved Also, you and I can send letters to them or an email, and we can write to them expressing our faith. You can say something like, Dear so-and-so, uh, I want you to know as a Christian I'm praying for you, my church is praying for you, that God will give you wisdom and discernment, that God will meet the needs of your family. And uh God will help you know his Son, Jesus Christ, as your personal Savior. I'm commanded by the Bible to honor your position, and I want you to know that I honor you as a leader of our country in obedience to God. I'm honoring you. And put a gospel track in there and mail it to them. What kind of letters do you think these guys get? Good night. Can you imagine getting one and saying, you know, we we're praying for you and we honor you and uh we're hoping you'll know we're praying you know Christ as Savior. Can you imagine that? And might not make it to him, but somebody's going to read that thing. You get enough of them, it's going to pass on to him. He's going to be aware of it. So what I want you to do, I put the name and address in there. What I'm going to do each week, I'm going to send a letter out. I'll go through and get her Maryland. I'll pull some West Virginia and for uh you folks. And uh I'm kidding. Um and uh we'll put some of them in and we'll just fire a letter out. Wouldn't it be great to get about ten twenty letters every week, a different guy get ten twenty letters from our church, say we prayed for you last night in church. I'm praying for you personally and share this, get a bunch of gospel tracts. Who knows what that would do? And here's the third thing or method. Or so first was the mandate, two was the motives And our method, pray, write letters, and here's the third one. Let's just win souls everywhere. And here's the idea. When I was standing outside the office and getting my nerve up to go in there and talk to the congressman My hands were a little sweaty, a little anxious, and uh, you know, I'm practicing what I'm gonna say, what I'm gonna say. And I stepped in there, and boy, it was easy. Just talk to the guy there and then later on with sardines, you know, we're out there and preachers were like, let's have a word of prayer, Lord help us say the right thing. And we go in there, and man, it sat down. I felt like it was in the living room, just out soul winning. And we already talked to him. We didn't really go through the gospel. We talked to him, left some gospel tracts. I thought if we would be that anxious and that concerned when we knock on the door of an apartment building, government housing here And say, wow, I'm going to get to share the gospel with this person. Jesus died for this person. Because I'll tell you, the kid that lives in the government housing apartment is just as important to God as the senator in the Capitol. And we ought to be just as concerned and just as burdened for every opportunity we have to share the gospel as we are with any other opportunity. Are these people influential? Yes. Is there spiritual warfare for the decisions they make? I have no doubt about it. But I'm telling you, Mr. Wolf next door here is just as important to God as Sarbines is. Starving. Little town all around us, everybody's just as important, and we ought to be just as diligent and just as prayerful and just as earnest in winning these our neighbors to the Lord as we are concerned for them. Does that make sense? So let's really make this a matter. We're gonna we're not gonna we're gonna keep a balance here. We're not gonna change anything, but we're tacking on to what we do and to our prayer life, a real focus on the leaders of our country who pray for them, pray for their salvation Try and have a little bit of influence there, but equally we're going to work at winning our neighbors and our community to Christ also, because they're just as important to the Lord. Amen. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you would help us to take this seriously. I thank you for opening my eyes to this and and um and this opportunity. And I pray in the coming weeks and months and years, the prayers of your people and the the salt that we can be in a tactful way And our soul winning here in our community and bringing people to Christ, that you would fill us with your spirit. Give us a real vision. Give us real faith to believe that the Word of God is powerful. God, uh, we're just asking you use us. And I pray for the literature that was down in their offices right now, Bibles and tracts and all those offices Folks are reading them. I have no doubt in my mind. I pray you bring conviction on their heart, Holy Ghost, conviction of sin, and a need for Christ, and these men and women be saved. Many, many of them be saved. And help us to our part. Our heads about our eyes goes. How many would join me in saying, Pastor, you know I'm really going to pray towards the salvation of our leaders I really want to make an earnest effort, more so than before, but I'm going to really focus in on this. How many would join me in saying that I'm going to do that? God bless you. That's about all of us Let's believe God and really be earnest. How about how many would say, Preacher, you know, I I'd love to it would be an amazing thing if our governor would get saved. That would be amazing. But it's just as amazing if the kid next door gets saved. This is amazing, a little girl Sunday morning, a bus kid that trusted Christ. So let's give ourselves equally diligent to getting the gospel to people around us. And everybody. How many would say, Preacher, I want God to help me be tactful and compassionate and wise and diligent in giving the gospel to folks around me? Is there any like that? Preacher, I want to be more tactful. God bless you I believe we can make a difference. I believe God would be glorified if we really follow this through. Father bless us now. And Lord, we're going to give an invitation. I just pray you'd help us really make this a real decision in our hearts to make this so. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads abound, eyes are closed.