Brother of low degree, rejoice in that he is exalted, but the rich in that he is made low, because as a flower of the grass he shall pass away For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. I'll speak tonight on rich poor man, rich man. Poor man, rich man. Let's Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for the book of James and what a challenge it is to me personally. And I ask the Lord in these next few moments That you would help us push aside the coming week and the cares and the issues and the drama that takes place in life. Help clear our hearts and minds. That we look at these verses, and God, that you could speak to us, speak to our hearts, and address issues in our lives That we can be the people, we can be the church that you intend for us to be. Lord, I yield my body to you anew, I presented anew, I yield my will, I ask with all my heart, dear God. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me and challenge and help us, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. It's interesting as you study your Bible to find that money And the subject of possessions has such a major, is such a major theme throughout Scripture. Jesus taught 38 parables. Of those 38 parables, 16 of them deal with finances and possessions. Somebody said that one out of ten verses in the Gospels deal directly with money. 288 verses in the Gospels deal directly with the subject of money. The Bible, I'm told, I didn't research this myself, but I'm told that five hundred verses in the Bible address the subject of prayer. Uh that's impressive. Five hundred verses in prayer. But over two thousand verses Address the subject of finances and possessions. Now I ask myself this question: why is there such an emphasis in Scripture on finances? Why is there such an emphasis on scripture, on possessions, on wealth, uh poverty, that type of thing Well I think there might be several answers to that question. One, I believe, is that finances, money, is one of the most influential forces in our life. Money. It has a powerful, powerful impact on our lives. How many people here would say, now I know some of you are going to try and be real spiritual whatnot. But how many folks here, realistically speaking, how many folks here, if somehow you would come into one point seven five million dollars In the next five days, your life would change a little bit. Anybody here? Uh yeah, I'd say so. It would have a profound impact. Upon our lives. Now some people try to say, oh, it wouldn't change me a bit. I'd stay the same. I don't believe that for one minute. Did you ever read the news? Folks that win the lottery? And how their lives change. You know what I've found? The overwhelming majority of people that win millions of dollars in a lottery, it destroys them. destroys them. It has such a powerful, powerful influence on our lives. That when that amount of money comes into life, it often cannot be handled. And it destroys that life. Divorce, many times bankruptcy, corruption sets in. Why does God address finances so much? I think one reason is because of the tremendous powerful influence That money has on our lives. I think there's another reason. Money in some people's eyes, I want to say this, in many people's eyes. Is an indicator of success. As far as this world is concerned, if you've got a lot of money, boy, you're successful. You go to a average bookstore and boy all this book's on money, how I made my millions, and how I do this, and how to be rich, and how I have yet to see a book. There might be one out there, I've yet to see a book, how to be poor You know, how I became dirt poor and homeless and and uh the decisions I made and the values I followed and the hard work I didn't do uh to become very, very poor. Nobody says that In the world's eyes, finances are very much an indicator of success. Now I'm talking from the world's perspective. But let me say this. Throughout history, even among God's people, within Christianity, get this. Money has been often an indicator of spiritual success in people's minds. You listen to some of these characters on TV, these preachers on TV. And if you listen carefully what they're saying, they will say stuff to these to the their the idea they're putting across is If you're right with God, if you're strong in your faith, if you're everything God wants you to be, if you're doing what the Bible says, then you're going to be fabulously wealthy. And you're successful spiritually. Can I suggest to you this even influenced the thinking of the disciples? Take your Bibles. Now keep your place here. Come with me over to the book of Matthew. I'm sorry, Book of Mark. And chapter number ten. Even the disciples. Now the Jews had this mindset that boy if you're wealthy, if you're rich, you obviously have God's blessings on your life, you're obviously close to the Lord and uh um finances in their mind uh became an indicator of success. Mark chapter ten and look with me at verse twenty-three Mark 10 in verse 23. And Jesus looked around about and saith to his disciples. Now listen to what the Lord Jesus says. How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? Look how the disciples responded. Now here's what the Lord's saying. He says, boy, it's going to be tough. For those that have great riches to enter the kingdom of God. And there's reasons for that, and we'll address that later. But look at how the disciples respond to that. And the disciples were what? Astonished at his words. I mean, they are shocked that Jesus would say this This broadsides them. They're just dumbfounded that Jesus would say it's tough for those that have great wealth to enter the kingdom of God. But uh his disciples were astonished at his word, but Jesus answered again and saith unto them, Children How hard it is, now look at this, for them that what trust in riches To enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Now look how the disciples responded again. And they were astonished. What's the next few words? Out of measure. To put this in modern vernacular, this blew their minds. What? Lord, you have got to be kidding me. They're astonished without measure, saying among themselves, who then can be saved? This was their thinking. If a person is rich, if they have great wealth, if they have great prosperity, Obviously, they have God's blessing on their life, and obviously that person's going to heaven And the Lord says, hey, if you're trusting in your finances and your prosper your possessions and your prosperity, if that's what your trust and your hope is in It's easier to stick a camel through the eye of a needle for that person trusting in his wealth to get to heaven. The mentality had crept into even the disciples thinking That prosperity was an indicator of success. Now God's Views on wealth and prosperity are very much different than the world's views On wealth and prosperity, and as I suggested just now, even many Christians. Now don't get me wrong. You've been you mentioned you've been around here long enough. You understand what the Bible teaches There is nothing sinful about being wealthy. Nothing wrong about that. God is not against somebody having great wealth and being prosperous. When we say God's views on it is different than the world's I'm not saying that God considers it to be wrong or sinful. I'm simply saying this: God has a different perspective on it than what the world does. God sees that wealth and not prosperity from a different angle than what the world sees it. Has a different level of priority in God's economy than what the world would have And so, uh our biggest problem with money, our biggest problem with money is not the amount that we have or that we don't have. But our attitude towards money. Somebody says, yeah, money is the root of all evil. The Bible does not teach that money is the root of all evil. That is not in Scripture. The Bible says the love of money is the root of all evil. The wrong attitude Towards it, the wrong perspective on it, the wrong valuation of it is the root of all evil. And so it's not how much money we have or don't have that determines our spirituality or our success. It's not how much money we have or don't have that causes us problems. It's our whole attitude towards it. I had a professor in Bible college, a good man, one of my favorite professors. He taught primarily in a seminary, but he also taught in the university. He was, and I took several classes, he taught a lot of education classes, which was what I was taking, and um I came to find out we became friends to some degree. I come to find out he was very, a very, very wealthy man. He was independently wealthy. He took no salary from the school, taught full-time seminary university, didn't take a penny from the school. To look at him, I mean he dressed nice, but you would not put him up as some sort of extremely wealthy man. But I'm telling you what, that guy loved the Lord. He loved the Lord dearly. And he would go out, and he could pretty much have done whatever he wanted, really, in the world. And he would go out on Sundays and he'd have a little chapel somewhere in some poor part of the city. The Hind Park had chapels all around that region of the country, 70-some chapels. And he would go out in some little community, some little chapel, just a bunch of folks. Every day folks would come out in church and he'd preach to them and he'd teach to them and he'd go out visiting through the neighborhoods Nothing presumptuous, nothing big about it, but he just loved God and wanted to serve God. Isn't that something The amount of money he had was not a factor in his walk with God. He loved the Lord and wanted to serve God. He had a right perspective on it. I have a dear, dear preacher friend. He's with the Lord now. Very dear friend. This man was, just like this professor, independently wealthy. Now this guy, you would never know it to look at him. You never know it. I worked closely with him for many years. He would buy a very modest car and there's nothing wrong with uh I was bought a new car, so there's nothing wrong with buying new cars. But this was his mentality. He'd buy a very modest car and he'd have it for a couple years. And then he would trade that thing in and he would always He would always trade it in for the car the exact same color, exact as close to the old car as he possibly could, because he didn't want to think anybody thought he was being fancy and buying fancy cars. That was his ma mindset. And uh lived a very simple life. Uh just uh uh but uh uh he worked in the buses, he'd go down in the ghettos of Denver. And he'd get those little bus those little kids in this inner city of Denver and he'd bring them out and he'd teach them and work in the buses and up until uh his senior years He's involved working with little children and all that. You never know it. The guy was wealthy. Gave, I know, he gave hundreds of thousands of dollars. To reaching bus kids and children with the gospel. Um I was reading this week about William Borden. Anybody recognize that name? William Borden. Anybody familiar with Borden's milk? Ever hear that? Is it condensed milk? William Borden was the son of the founder of Borden's Milk. Very wealthy family. And he was in university, and while he was in university, God stirred his heart. He was a saved man, God stirred his heart about reaching the Muslims of northern India. And he yielded his life to God's call and he obeyed God and he traveled to India. And as he was putting his effects together and getting ready to move to India and start this ministry with Muslims He had $1. 5 million to his name, cash on hand. This was back years ago. And he thought, you know, that amount of money would be a hindrance to my ministry here in India. And so he gave it away to missions organizations around the world. He got to India. He was there four months. Four months. He contracted malaria. And it have the medication then for it? No, not malaria. It was um uh he contracted spinal meningitis. He only lived a short time. Four months. Left everything. Left the business. Left the family. Left the money To give himself to reach Muslims in northern India with the gospel. He gets there four months, spinal meningitis, he lives a few weeks, and he dies. While he was in bed with spinal meningitis, he had gotten a piece of paper, and he had written on that paper a small statement. They didn't find it, if I understand the story correctly. They didn't find it until after he had died, and they were doing and they found it down under his pillow, under his bedding. And on that little paper he had written this: No reserve. No retreat, no regrets. Isn't that something? He had a whole different perspective on finances than what the world has. Would you agree with me on that? My dear friend Charles Holmeshire, very wealthy man, gave his life to these kids, inner city kids and all that, found a neighborhood Bible time. That guy had a completely different perspective on finances than very few people I've ever met. My professor in Bible college, he had a different perspective on possessions and wealth than what the world does. And I think that's what God is telling us here in this passage of Scripture. That God is wealth is not wrong. And having wealth and using it for what God intends that is not wrong, it's fine. Some of the wealthiest people in the Bible were great men of God. But God says you need to have a right perspective on it. You need to understand the role that it has. You need to understand the purpose behind it and what it's all about. I like 2 Corinthians 8. 9, the Bible says this, for ye know that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, That for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. Now, some quote-unquote teachers and elements of Christianity take that verse to say, oh, see, God wants us rich. They misunderstand what the Lord is talking about when he talks about that we through his poverty might be rich. The Lord is talking about us being rich spiritually, rich in God's blessings. And so we come to our passage. And in James, James is addressing, now remember, go back to verse 1. These are the 12 tribes that have been scattered abroad. These are Christians who have come under severe persecution To the point where they have been driven from their homes. They have been driven from their families. They have been driven from their communities. Many of them died for their faith. Many of them were killed for their faith, martyred. Many of them fled for their lives. And in so doing, they took the gospel into the regions beyond where it had been up to that point. And James is writing to these believers, primarily Jewish believers. And he's writing to them, he's encouraging them. Remember the first few verses. He said, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience And he's telling them, listen, you guys stay faithful. You guys be patient. Let the Lord have his way. God is allowing this into your life. And in that context, he brings up the subject of poor folk and rich folk. And he addresses it. The first point in my thought tonight, I just have a couple. Notice the positions that the Lord addresses. And uh look at verse number nine. He says, Let the brother of low degree rejoice. The brother of low degree. I put this down, that's the poor man. That's the poor man. The phrase low degree means to be low to the ground, to be cast down, to be of a low estate. As it's used through Scripture, it has the idea of one who is financially poor, one who has very few possessions, one who, in the world's view eyes. is just down there, a lower caste, so to speak. One who is of low degree. Like I said, you don't have too many people writing books on how to live in poverty. You know, I haven't read too many books, how to be uh uh uh in financial straits. The world doesn't value that that level. And so you have the poor person, the position, the one that's in the category of poverty, one who is poor. Now it's interesting to note if you study the book of Proverbs. He deals with this. And in the book of Proverbs tells us that some people are poor because of they are foolish. The Bible talks quite a bit about that. Some people are poor because they're foolish. They squander their resources. They're not wise in how they do it. They're not content. They're not disciplined. And it's just And they're poor because of their own foolish decisions. And then you find other portions of Scripture, you find that some people are poor for the sake of the gospel. The church at Thessalonica and others. They didn't have a lot to begin with, and what they did had, they dumped into the gospel, they invested in the gospel, and they had even less. And God says you become poor for the gospel's sake, God will take care of you, God will provide for you, it's going to be okay. And then some people are poor simply because it's part of God's plan. The sovereignty of God. I know folks that are not extremely wealthy, that by our standards at least, they would be, say, poor, you know, and they don't have a whole lot. And they work just as hard as the rich guy does. And they're just as disciplined as the rich guy, and they're just and they have just as much integrity as the rich guy, and they're just as wise in what they do as the rich guy, and for whatever reason, God's plan, God's purpose for them, is to be in that position. And so we have the positions addressed here. One is the poor. Then you have in verse 10 the prosperous man. Look at verse 10. Brother of low degree, verse 9. But the rich. That word rich there means exactly what you would think it would mean: to have great wealth, to have abundant possessions. So we have these two positions. We have the poor man, they have low degree, we have the rich man, has great possessions, great will. But there's a third position that both of these fall into, and that is this, I put it this way, the pardoned ones. You have the poor, you have the prosperous, but in this case, both the poor man here and the wealthy man here, prosperous man here, have both been pardoned. Look at verse number nine. Let uh what Brother. When he addresses somebody as a brother here, what kind of person is he talking about? A Christian, a saved man, a child of God. And if you look at this, let the brother of low degree, but the rich, the indication, the implication there, verse 10, is that that rich man's a brother just like the poor man. These are poor saved people and rich saved people. Forgiven, pardoned. Both categories are addressed here, and both are saved. Hey, there are saved people who are poor. There are rich people who are saved. My salvation has absolutely nothing to do with my financial standing. Nobody is saved because they have money or because they don't have money, and nobody is unsaved because they have money or don't have money. The rich man in Luke chapter 16 that went to hell Lazarus did not go to hell because he was rich. And Lazarus didn't go to heaven because he was poor. And he's addressing the poor man, and he's addressing the prosperous man, and he refers to them both as brethren. Hey, I think it is a healthy church. That has a wealthy person on a pew and a poor person, what we might call a poor person on a pew, and they both love each other and love God, are completely content in their relationship with God. I don't like this idea of having, oh that's a wealthy church. Well, that's a common man's church. I think a church ought to be a church full of people saved, uh, whether they're rich or poor or whatever. There know Christ as Savior I'll be honest, that's a little pet peeve of mine. I told you before, shortly after I came here as pastor, within the first year, we were seeing some people saved and the church was beginning to grow. Some of you were here and remember And uh we were bringing people in that didn't have license, that people just got saved, and a lot of them had trouble with law and everything had license, so we're driving them in in our cars and had families packed out. And um finally we decided to get our first bus. And I went to a preacher's fellowship. And they were having some testimonies talking to, hey, what's going on up there at Oakland? And I was new, I didn't know them, they didn't know me. Uh well and we're just getting I said, well, we're I'm real excited. We just got our bus. We just bought our first bus. We're starting a bus ministry, bringing in people One guy later was we're eating sat down beside me says, can I give you a little bit of advice? Usually when somebody says that, I want to say no. But I was young and I was new and I said sure I'll I'll take all the help I can get. He is I suggest that you not go after those bus people. Now you try and find the more wealthy folks in town and you go after those folks. That's a new church and uh you know you need to have some wealthy people in there and all that Now I understand what he's saying. You can't build a great work, you know, the bus, you're not going to have the financial support of a bus ministry. But that got under my skin. I said, well, thank you for the advice And my position was this. I'm not going after rich people, I'm not going after poor people, I'm going after people. If they happen to be rich and they let me share the gospel with them and they'll trust Christ, praise God. And they have to be poor and they'll let me share the gospel with them and they trust Christ, trust Christ, praise God. God will take care of it. God will take care of it. So James is addressing poor people that are saved and rich people that are saved. That's the position. Number two, the perspective they needed that needed to be accepted. The position that was addressed, the perspective that needed to be accepted. In Christ, get this statement, in Christ, all worldly distinctions are erased. In Christ, all worldly distinctions are race. If you read Colossians real carefully, the Bible says that in Christ there's not male nor female. As far as God's concerning, I don't have any closer relationship with God because I'm a man than my wife has because she's female. In Christ, there's no distinction there. Are you with me? The worldly distinctions that we have, when a person is in Christ, they're put aside. Women don't have any closer relate access to God than men have, and vice versa. When in Christ, there's no distinction. You study the Bible very carefully. In Christ, there's no distinction between colors and races. Red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Christianity is not a white man's religion, it's not a black man's religion, it's not the yellow man's religion, it's not the red man's religion, it's Religion of sinners accepting Christ as Savior And the color of their skin makes no more difference than the color of their hair. Or their eyes or their toenails or anything else. I don't know how many colors toenails come in. I'm not sure. Not too many, is it? Pink. And in Christ there's no distinction between rich and poor. Now look at the poor man's perspective here, real quickly Let the brother of low degree, all right, here you got a poor guy, he gets saved. What's his perspective supposed to be? Look what he says. Let him rejoice in that he's exalted. The word rejoice there literally means to boast. It's translated that in Romans chapter 2 twice. To boast. Regardless of the depth of his poverty, this man is accepted by God and he is a child of the King of Kings. You can have the most poor person you can possibly imagine in some back street of Bangkok I mean abject poverty. If that man accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, he is accepted into the family of God, and he is a child of the King of the universe. And that poor man can rejoice in that. And he doesn't have to go around and say, oh, I'm so poor. Oh, I don't have this, I don't have that. Listen, if you're a child of God You can rejoice and boast in the fact that God has exalted you to be His Son. That's what He's telling them. Get a right perspective. Don't determine your personal value based on your bank account number. Your value is based upon God's acceptance of you. That's what he's telling them. And some of these poor folk had been driven out and and uh they weren't being accepted in the new communities they were going to and and they were cast out and and he's saying listen You guys have nothing to be ashamed about, regardless of your financial standing. You have Jesus Christ as your Savior. You've got something to rejoice in. You've got something you can even boast about that God loves me So he's correcting their perspective there. Remember when Josh Wesson was here? Now he showed his presentation twice. Remember that fella in the presentation was blind and deaf? I met that man down there. In fact, I was in his home. You want to talk about poverty? The poorest person in this church sitting here right now, the poorest person in this church is incredibly rich. Compared to that man. I've been in his home. You know what that guy is? He's one of the happiest people I ever met in my life. We went out there and I'm standing there and I don't know Spanish or Sign Language and they're signing in Spanish. So I was double out of the picture. I know a little bit of sign language. I know what this means I know what this means. But anyway, Josh is there and they're out in this for and we walk down this little ghetto down through these winding streets and open sewers and I mean it was unbelievable. We finally get down to his house and we get up there And uh and Josh has his hands on him, he's suddenly. And Josh says, Josh, oh Josh. I'm sitting there and say, What are you guys talking about me or what? And that guy was just praising God. And they get in that church there and sing, put us to shame. You know what? They were rejoicing in that they were exalted By as far as the world was concerned, this guy was a castaway. He was just nothing. He was of no value. And God says to him, listen, you rejoice and that God has exalted you to be his son. Someday that man will sing and see, he'll see the streets of gold and he'll sing the praises of God with his tongue. He said, boast in that. Rejoice in that. He could sit around there and mope and complain about how terrible his condition is and how awful it is and be mad and bitter. He says, Don't you do that. You're a child of God. You rejoice in that you're exalted. Now he comes over to the rich man's perspective. Look at verse 10. But the rich, this brother that's rich, in that he is made low. Because of the flower of the grass he shall pass away. That word made low is very similar to the word in verse 9 of low estate. It means to be put down. It means to be made vile or humiliated. Let me ask you a question. If you have a very wealthy man and he accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, is that a step down for him? Is he going backward in some way? No. James isn't saying here that, hey, rich man, uh, you got saved. Boy, now you've really taken a step down. Boy, you were just rich and poor. And now you're saved. That's not what he's saying. You hear that sometimes from people. You'll hear it maybe from a quote-unquote movie star that gets saved, or a ball player gets saved, and I was making millions and I had all this stuff and then I got saved and I gave it all up for God Listen, a person getting saved doesn't give anything up. We do nothing but gain. Brother, I'd rather be poor in heaven than rich in hell. He's not saying that these rich people that got saved, oh, you gotta rejoice in the fact that now you No, no, no. I'll tell you what I think. Now there's little discussion as to exactly what he's addressing here. In my uh to me it's clear These rich people had gotten saved there in Jerusalem around. They were Jewish people. They were very successful, hard workers. They were invested in their money. Nothing corrupt about it, nothing sinful about it. They had earned it right, and God had blessed them, and they got saved. And because of their salvation, persecution came down on them intensely. And their families rejected them because of their Christianity. And their employment was taken away from them. Because of their faith in Christ. And they became the off-scouring of the world. And they were hated and despised by the Jewish society that had crucified Jesus Christ. And because they've accepted Jesus Christ, because they were saved, much of their wealth and much of their prosperity had been taken away, and now they were living a much lower society because of the a much lower lifestyle because of it. It had cost them And he says, listen, don't you think you're losing anything because your faith in Christ costs you some of your wealth? You rejoice in that. You praise God for it. Um The time of this writing, when a man got saved, he was rejected by the world. Often they lost their jobs. Many times their income was taken from them. Their freedom was taken away. Many of them were crucif were uh uh martyred because of their faith. Many of these Jewish people died. Because they accepted Christ. And he is addressing these successful, very financially successful, and these great men. And he says to them, listen, you guys, you uh you rich, you rejoice in that you've been made low. They went through some severe trials. Would you turn? I want you to go to another passage real quickly with me in Matthew chapter 5. I'm winding down here. In Matthew chapter five, look what Jesus says in verse number ten. Matthew five and verse number ten. Now think of we it's hard for us to comprehend the intense the intensity of the persecution these New Testament believers were under. It's hard for us to comprehend what it costs them. Look at Matthew chapter 5 and verse 10. Look what Jesus says. Blessed are they, which are what? Persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say so shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad Sounds like what James is telling these rich folk. You've been made low. You've been persecuted. You've been deviled. I can imagine some of these say, oh yeah, you know, he's corrupt Saying all these hateful things about these Christians. And he says, You rejoice. Be exceeding glad, verse 12, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets of God, the prophets which were before you. I think James is reiterating what the Lord Jesus Christ taught there You rejoice in that because you've been made low. Listen, you're not losing anything when you gain Christ. If gaining Christ means losing my job, I'm not losing anything. I'm coming out the better for it A rich man getting saved is not a step down, even though it may cost him friends and position and all that. So he says, first of all, the positions. Rich and poor, they're both in Christ. The perspectives, poor You thank God that Jesus saved you because boy he's just lifted you up, you're one of his. Rich, may have cost you a lot of stuff, may have taken a lot of things from you. Now you're down, you're being persecuted, right now. Listen, you just rejoice. Now and then he gives last of all the purpose. For their rejoicing, and we end with this. Let the brother low degree rejoice and that exalted the rich and that he is made low. Why? Because of the flower of the grass he shall pass away The sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth, so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. Riches and material possessions are temporal at best. I um I was real anxious the end of March, beginning of April, to put some plants and stuff out by the door out there. I just looked so plain. I always wanted to put plants. So finally nobody had. I kept going down to the plant store. You got any plants? They said no, if you put them out now, they're going to be dead in a day. I said, well come on, is there anything? Nothing. Plastic. Put plastic plants out. I said, I want plastic plants. So finally a few weeks ago they had some ferns up at Walmart. I said, oh put some ferns out there I put them out there. Remember we had a few weeks ago we had some nice days that got up real warm and different things. I put them out. I forgot about them. I forgot to water them About a few days later it came out, that sun beaten down on them, the parking lot out there. Those beautiful green ferns, you know what they look like? They look dead. You know why? Because they were dead. They got cooked. They only lived a short time. That's what he's saying. He's saying listen listen, this life. And those you guys listen don't live for the joys and pleasures and everything like this. There's nothing wrong with it. And God bless you. That's fine. That's good. But remember, it's temporary at best. Our life is but a vapor. It's just a moment. He brings that up later on in the book. Man, we're just here for a little time. Don't put your rejoicing and your and your hope and your and your value in your possessions. Listen, if if uh the persecution has come, it's taken that all away from you. Listen, it's temporary anyway Riches and material possessions are temporal at best. I thought of this. Think about an unsaved rich man. You have a very wealthy man, but he's lost. He can buy what he wants, he can go where he wants, he can do what he wants. Nothing wrong with that. But if he dies unsaved, he's lived his best life right now He's been lived his best life right now for the rest of eternity. Nothing but torment. Nothing but torment. And James is saying, remember that. Remember that. Sun comes up, burning heat, it withers it away. William Borden understood that. God has called me to northern India to reach Muslims. There's nothing wrong. It's wealth and praise God for it and all that. They understood that's temporal best and eternity, eternal souls. Are where the great value is. Let me ask some questions. I asked myself this, and I and I end. Is my spiritual life suffering? Because of my attitude towards finances. Am I hurting myself spiritually because I'm so in love with stuff? And stuff has such a high priority, it's temporary. Is that hurting my spiritual life? Is my family suffering spiritually because of my wrong perspective on possessions? Do I struggle in giving to the Lord? Do I struggle with that? These here, I believe, are indicators that I've got a wrong perspective on this. Is he saying, is the Bible saying it's wrong to be rich? You know that. That's not what he's saying. Praise God for it. And by the way, As far as the rest of the world is concerned, you and me, we're incredibly rich compared to the rest of the world. None of us here are poor. Not compared to the rest of the world. So there's nothing wrong with that. Where the problem is, is our attitude towards it, and we base our own value on whether we have stuff or not. It's not what makes us valuable. It's God's perspective on us, God's love for us that gives us value. Pompeii. Familiar with Pompeii? Ash uh Mount Vesuvius poured down that ash and just killed everybody almost instantly I was reading again this week. They had found an entombed body in the ash of a woman. And the position of the body, it was obvious she was trying to flee for her life. But in the way the body was positioned, she was reaching back towards something. And as they were digging it up, the story goes, as they were digging it up, they were trying in the archaeologists there were trying to anticipate what was she reaching back for? Can we find it here in the ash? And they thought maybe a child Maybe a husband or someone dear will find another body. And as they dug around and dug around, it became obvious that the object she was reaching back for, they excavated it out. And lo and behold, it was a bag of pearls. And they came to this conclusion that as she was fleeing for her life. The thing that was most important to her was getting that bag of pearls. Something that ended up turning to rock and did her no good. I thought of that. Boy, that reminds me of a lot of people today. No regard for the things of God. No regard for the cause of Christ. No regard. Just got to get that more stuff. Just got to get that more stuff. Let's ask the Lord to give us a great perspective on this. And I believe God will help us. So let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, this is kind of a tough passage in some ways. But I pray you'd help us. You have blessed us with so much. Lord, we rejoice in that, and we're very grateful, God. We really are. But we ask that you would help us to, through it all, keep a right perspective here and keep our priorities and values right, and not let that powerful, powerful influence of finances and possessions To derail us or to hurt us, but to keep a right perspective. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many say, Preacher, God has spoken to my heart about my Christian life. And what is important and the values of my Christian life and where I'm going, you say, preacher, I really want to have a right perspective on the stuff. That God has allowed me to have, that God has blessed me with. I want to have that right perspective and see it from eternity's view. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I want to have a right perspective on all this. Sure. Amen That's a good thing, young and old. There's nothing sinful about being rich. There's nothing sinful about being poor. The problem is our attitude Our perspective on it. We're going to take Lord's Supper here in a moment. I believe this is a good time just to kneel before the Lord and say, Lord, search my heart. I want to come humbly. I want to come contritely to the Lord's Supper, understanding the awful price that Jesus paid so that I could be forgiven, so that I could have eternal life. Let's ask the Lord to do that. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads