Turn with me to the book of Isaiah, chapter forty. I'm looking at verse 29, Isaiah chapter 40, and verse 29, where the Word of God says He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might. He increaseth strength. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we are so grateful for your goodness to us. We cannot begin to Enumerate all the blessings that you put bestow upon us on a moment by moment, hour by hour, day by day, week by week basis. We're just grateful, Lord, that uh it's your God who so loved us. And uh we we pray, Lord, that uh through these messages this week That uh each one of us perhaps uh renew the vows that they once made to serve you and and to be a witness for you. We ask your blessings now upon the chalk drawings we'll be showing a little bit. You get honor and glory from it, and we'll thank you for all that you do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. He giveth power To the faint and to them that have no might, he increases strength. I was uh Thinking about what I was going to preach tonight, and uh this message uh came up and and uh I thought, well Okay, Lord, if that's the one you want me to do, why okay, I'll do it. So that's that's what I want to do, is uh is try to uh to get this message across There's no question in our mind that today if there's one thing that the church needs, when I say the church, I'm not talking about this this piece of of uh of furniture and brick and mortar and and paint and all that. I'm not I'm not talking about that and and I think this this church is wise enough and uh you've been taught well enough to know that I'm talking about you. Talking about you, the church. You're the one that makes the difference. Uh when he said that that the church is about that far from going under, well There was there was a few people here that that cared about this this work. And they called me and asked me to come up and and uh to help find a pastor. And I just took a a few weeks, uh few months and came up and and uh we prayed over it and uh saw some preachers and and the Lord The fact of the matter is the Lord did it. I didn't do anything except just come up here and sort of preach a little bit and and so forth and so on. But God has a way of doing things. And if we can tap into that that power that that God has He's the one just you know just spoken. The whole universe was made So if we could tap into that power just a smidgen, just a little bit, my we you know, we can make things happen that uh would be a miracle. You know, our our lives ought to be on a daily basis ought to be a uh oh how can I say it um Well, let's see, I think I have it written down. Let me just read what I have. Your daily life is to be a series of impossibilities Made possible by God's power. Huh? Let me read it one more time. Your daily life, my daily life, our daily life It is to be a series of impossibilities made possible by God's power. That's a tremendous statement. I wish I had thought of it, you know, but it's a true statement. We need God's power on our life. And and you're looking at a time when we're going to need some supernatural power just to survive in this world. And I'm not being uh you know, I'm not trying to paint a real dark picture and uh get everybody all circle. That's not what I'm trying to do. But I am t I am trying to make you aware of the fact that that each of us as individuals Need to have a relationship with God that is so close that we can use his power to reach people for Jesus Christ. We need to reach people for Christ. The fields are white and ready for harvest. And we need the power to be the witness we need to be to reap a harvest. The need for the power. Every one of us agrees that we need God's power. We need it for living. And the Lord knows that. Just just living, getting up in the morning and and putting on our our clothes and walking out into this world, we need God's power just to do that You say, well, a lot of people are doing that without God's power. Yeah, but I don't like to look at their lives. I want I the the life that that uh uh I want to live is something that that uh I enjoy. I don't know about you but I I enjoy life Yeah, I got some knee aches just like you do. I got some back aches just like you do. I got problems just like you. I've had uh you know some issues through the years, but I, you know, I I like I like what God's done with my life. It's not maybe not the best, and you your life may be better, but I'm telling you that I I love I love life. I love my wife too. I just thought I'd throw that in. That never hurts, fellas. Never hurts. Just just kind of toss it in there and get a you know You'll kiss after the servants, of course. We need God's power just just just to live a life that pleases God. You get out in this in this world and and uh when God says that we're not to love the world, hey, we We have we have got firsthand information on that. All we have to do is just go outside and look around and see what's happening in in our area and in our state and in our country and in this world and we can say, hey, we need God's power on our life. We need God's power for witnessing. I don't know about you, but uh uh Sometimes I don't like the witness of somebody. You ever had a problem like that? There been somebody that you uh knew you ought to give a track to, but you didn't do, you just walked away from it. Yeah We need God's power for just just the the to be a witness for God. And there's not that much to it, you know, to hand a person a a track, you know, they're not going to slap you down or not, you know You know, they may throw the track down. I've had them do that. I've had them chase me out of the store, you know, and come and run me down and give my track back to me. But I've never had anybody beat me up for it Yet. Maybe you have, you know. But I'm saying we just we need God's power in this life that we're living. If we need it, then why don't we have it? Why is it that we we go powerless when we have such a great need for it? Reason for powerlessness is okay. They ask a German general why why they lost World War II. Well it's because he couldn't speak English, I guess. It could be, I don't know. But he they asked this general, this German general, why he why the Germans lost World War Two. And he gave some reason. Here's one of them. Broken communications. You know, I read this list, and when I read the list, I said to myself, uh, wow, that'll preach. Broken communications, when you don't have any contact with the where you where your source of power is, it's kinda hard to win anything. Broken communications. Uh lack of air power. See I don't preach, you know. Prayers and and spiritual and air and all that Yeah. We need it. We need it. Lack of oil Well is a picture of the Holy Spirit. Okay, we can use that. Isn't that the way it is though? I mean Bible says it if you you have not because you ask not One time Jesus was talking to his disciples and and one of them asked him about this matter of the Holy Spirit and he he told them that he said if uh um now I can't remember I can't remember the it's terrible when I forget the the the story. But it had to do with the fact that that he said if if if if you ask uh uh if uh it'll come to me in the second year I don't have it marked down, that's the problem. Uh anyway, it it's to the effect that that uh If he a if if he asked a fish, would he give him uh a scorpion and if he you know Can do anybody know what I'm talking about up here? Uh somebody help me out, throw me a bone, do anything. The truth of the matter is, we if we ask God for the power, if we ask God for the Spirit of God. If uh if our life is clean and we we have that that we have that right. If we if we if our if our life is pleasing to God, we have every right to come to Him and say, Lord, I need I need your filling. I need to be filled with the Spirit of God. You've told me in the Word of God that we're to uh to be filled with the Spirit of God. And that's what I want. The Spirit of God is symbolic of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit and the power of God, same thing. We're supposed to go to, remember the disciples were to go to Jerusalem and they were to uh uh wait for this for the Spirit of God to come down on them, the power of God. And when Peter preached that day, what was it, 3,000 saved? Wow, that's the power of God. That's what we need today. You say, you mean if I get the power of God, those 3,000 will get saved? Hey, I'm not going to say no I don't know what God's going to do with an individual's life. I do know this. We need power, the power of God in our life. And we can have it. I believe it's available and I believe we ought to be asking God for it. I think we ought to ought to put our life up on the platform and say, Lord, this is my life. Point something out. If it's wrong, I'll change it. I'll give what you want me to be Give me your power. The Apostle Paul, he he understood what the power of God was. Broken communications, a lack of air power, a lack of oil, failure at the source of supply. Wow, yeah Well that German general he he just lost the war because he's on the wrong side. That's simple, isn't it? He's on the wrong side. I believe I believe uh when you get on the right side, you win the wars. God gives power to man. I like that verse in Zechariah, don't you? There used to be a uh uh a preacher on on the radio that that quoted that uh at the beginning of his uh radio s uh uh program It had to do with uh uh Ezekiel uh Zerubbabel, God speaking to Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. You know, God can use anything. If you got muscles like Brother Matt, you could you you know he can use it and God can but God's not looking necessarily for people with muscle. He's just looking for uh people with a with a a will to just serve God. That's all it takes. Power belongs to God. He gives power to glorify God. If you want God's power on your life, Lord If you place me in a position where you can use me, I'll glorify you with my life. I guarantee you God will do something with your life. He wants us to be like that. He gives power to man to serve. He gives power to man to witness. How many times in a day do you do you find yourself uh saying thank you, Lord, for for a parking spot or uh thank you, Lord, for uh you know Gas being cheaper. Haven't seen that one for a long time, have we? I'm telling you. You know what I'm talking about. The the little things in life. We get up in the morning and and and instead of saying, oh, oh, okay, instead of saying, Lord, this is Man, this is a great day to be alive and I'm just so excited what you're gonna have for me today. And so we go is the coffee on. Huh? Well, anyway. God's power given doesn't mean a a freedom from suffering. I think we know that. Thousands of martyrs through the years have have uh Given their life and uh and and suffered giving their life. So we know that's not true. But they have God's power on them. Oh y y you need to get the Fox's Book of Martyrs and read read some of the stories in there. Or get uh some inf information about uh Richard Woombrand and read his life story. You want to see what what it takes to live for God And how God will take care of you and and give you the power that you need when it when you need it To live victoriously, to be a witness successfully, you need to first of all recognize God's power. Need to recognize it. You know, somehow or another I I I have the feeling that that um so many Christians Uh yeah, I was saved. I trusted Christ and my Savior, and I'm saved and I know it. And that's the extent of their spirituality. Is the fact that they know they got saved. When God has far more for us than just that. Some of us you're s are you're st some of you are still still fighting that that uh that sin was just so easy beset ya. And every revival you go through the same thing. You come to the altar and you pray and and you get up and go and the next thing you know why that sin is back in your life and you come back to the altar and you go Back and forth back uh wouldn't you like to just be rid of it one time from you know, just get rid of the thing? It comes with a with a complete surrender You see, God needs God needs the keys to all the rooms of your heart. Not just the ones you picked out. Yeah. Yeah, that's cool. Yeah when you t when you turn the radio on, uh what station is on? Is it uh what it eighty eight seven? Is it eighty eight seven or is it uh ten fifty? ten fifty, isn't that it? Isn't that it, Matt? He didn't fall for that, did he? I don't know. Uh I was just talking about the uh the the Oakland station, I think it was one time or another. Uh All I'm saying is that uh God wants to use each one of us. God must have the key to every room in your heart if he's to do anything with you. If you hold out, then uh that blocks God from from using you. It's just one area that He has to yes, yeah. I can't do anything until I get the key Contact with God. You must be in contact, continual communication with God. You can't just uh you know uh have this slip and miss thing. Can I ask you a question? Are you uh uh do you read your Bible every day? No, I don't want anybody to answer because I d you know, I don't want to embarrass anybody. And all I'm saying, these are I know these are just simple, you know, these are things that we all know we should do, but so many of us are not doing them. Our prayer life? Oh my. There's one I have to hide my height in shame because I I fail that that test periodically. None of us pray as much as we ought to, anyway. Worshiping God? How about how about meditation on the on the Word of God. Do you ever do you ever just uh uh get alone with God and read a portion of scripture and and just let the Spirit of God are you letting him talk to you during this time of meditation or are you uh It was so long part of the time. He's looking for people. Just faithful service, that's what he's looking forward to. And you can't have faithful service without God's power on your life. You can go through the motions and you can you can fool a lot of people, but uh you can't fool God. That's a problem. A picture hung in a rich museum of a house which uh had uh burnt to the ground Grass and vines grew up over the ruin and uh the once beautiful stairs. But in the very middle of the basement grew a sturdy oak tree, straight as a dye, and strong. I thought about that illustration for several you know for a good little while said exactly what uh what are you trying to tell us in this thing And I guess what it just boils down to is something that's so simple we almost go over it. And that is that God can take the ruins of a ruined life. And he can bring a new life into play in that life, in that, out of the middle of that ruin, and make something strong and beautiful with God's power on it. None of us that are in here tonight are are past the the point of no return But we all have little things in our life that that uh God has uh I trust will point out as the days go by in this in this meeting Where uh God picks it out and you repent of it, you confess it, you get it off your uh out of your out of your mind, out of your heart God wants to do something in this in this church. I've never seen a church so active. You guys have got something going on all the time. And I'm not running that down. I'm just saying God is is using this this church. But I just wonder if there's a if if we could step it up one more notch. That's what this meeting is about. Just step it up one more notch. Just one more room. that you give to God, where you give him the key and say, Okay, Lord, this this is the one that has been holding me back, and I've given you the key and I'm asking you to to get rid of the sin that's in my life. The sin was just so easy to beset us. And we all got something. And we just need God's power to get rid of it. Heavenly Father, I pray now as we look at the the uh chalk drawing that perhaps there'll be something that will stir our hearts, that would cause us to be uh more effective for you Thank you again for all that you do for us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen