2 Peter chapter 1, verse number 3, and we're going to jump right into this here. Notice he's Peter's writing to these persecuted believers. It's the second letter he sent to them He's going to pass away here, not long. He's going to be martyred. These are his final words. He says in verse 3. Well, let me read verse 2, get the context. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God. And of Jesus Christ our Lord. Now look what he says. According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of him that has called us to that hath called us to glory and virtue. Notice he says he has given us all things that pertain to life And to godliness. And so I just want to speak on power for life and godliness. Let's pray real quick. I want to give you a few thoughts here in a little bit of time we have. Father, we ask you to bless now. It's been a good day And we pray for our missionaries around the world that you would give them grace, protection, Lord, wisdom. And now, Lord, as we look into your word here at this one little verse, just for a few moments Father, I pray you'd speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us, encourage us, give us some direction, Lord, in our lives. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. Again tonight, at this hour, I ask, Lord, fill me with your Spirit, please, and speak through me and help help your church, help your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Salvation is a gift that God gives to us. We understand that, right? And he offers it to us as a gift, no charges, no strings. It's a free gift of God. Ephesians 2. 89. For by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves it's a gift of God. Romans 6. 23, for the wage of sin is death, but uh Gift of God is eternal life. Our responsibility in the offer of this gift of salvation is simply to receive it. Somebody extends a gift to you, I can accept it or I can reject it. And so uh and we do that through faith. Uh for by grace you say through faith. And uh and so salvation is a gift. But here's what I'm getting at, and I think this is uh setting the stage for what Peter is saying here Salvation is not a goal accomplished. You follow what I'm saying? It's like, oh, I'm an old sinner. I got saved. Oh, good. I've accomplished that goal. It's not a goal accomplished, it's a journey begun. Um it is not salvation is more than just escaping hell. And I think sometimes, and I I do this, and I guess there's nothing Wrong with it in in a sense. But sometimes we present salvation that all it is is escaping hell and going to heaven, as if that's all that's salvation that's all that's involved in salvation I'm telling you, it's a whole lot more than just escaping hell and going to heaven. It's beginning a whole new life. Little Chase was born. He's just beginning his life. We don't say, oh, he's born now. All right. That's settled. No, no, no. If any man be in Christ, he's a New creature. It's a whole new life. It's a whole new journey. Eternal life doesn't begin when we die and go to heaven. Eternal life begins the moment we get saved. And God begins working and God begins changing lives. And so Peter is writing here, let me say this, the Christian life is a supernatural life. Everything about salvation is supernatural. But when salvation takes place, it's God that saves us. Right? It's not something we work up, it's not something we can produce. We simply accept it. God saves us. The new life that we have once we're saved is a supernatural thing. Uh you we can't work up the Christian life. It's not something, oh, I'm gonna be a good cr no no no no no. It's not how it works It's something God does in our life. It's something God enables us. Now we can cooperate with him. We can agree with him and let him develop us and make us into the Christian he intends for me to be Or I can resist it and grieve the spirit and resist despairing and do that. But nevertheless, it's God that works in it. Somebody comes up and says, Oh, you're such a great Christian. Be careful You better give God the glory for that. Amen? Sometimes people will say, and I agree with them, but sometimes people say, oh, you have such a great church. And I think so. But I have to be very, very careful. I said, you know, God's been good to us. God's done that. God's done that. Everything about the Christian life is supernatural. And I think a lot of times we live in the natural world so much we experience so little of the supernatural that God has available to us that He intends for us to live. And so it's a supernatural thing. Do you ever witness to somebody, Pastor Matt, do you ever witness somebody and they'll say something like this? Well, I would get saved, but I could never live the Christian life. I've heard that many times I could never get saved because I could never live that Christian life. I'm not getting saved. I couldn't live it. You know what I say when they say that to me? I put my hand out and say, join the club. I can't live it either. It's not our ability to live the Christian life. It's what God does in us. It's God enabling us. And what Peter is saying here, he's saying that God has given to us all things. That pertain to godliness, to life and godliness. God gives us everything we need. Now get if this is all you get out of the message, get this. God has given to us everything we need to live victorious Christian lives. To live a godly life, to live a life that pleases the Lord God has given us. You say, oh, if I only, well, if I had a Bible education, then I'd be a better Christian. No, God's already given you everything you need. To live a godly Christian life. Well, if I was just smarter, if I was just smarter, I had a higher IQ, then I could live the Christian life. No, no, no. God's already given us everything we need To live the Christian life. How many people are glad people with low IQs can still live the good Christian life? I raise my hand. Praise the Lord for that. He's given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. So let's look at this. Number one, I'll give you these real quick. Number one, notice the power. That is given unto us. Verse 3. Look at the first part. He says, according as his God's divine power, hath given to us all things. That word power comes from the same word we get our word dynamite. Wow. Romans 1. 16. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power, the dynamite, the dunamas. Of God unto salvation. The same power, here's what I'm getting at, the same power. I love hearing new babies crying in the church, praise the Lord. Won't be long, he'll be saying, Amen! The same power that saved your soul how many folks here you saved to know it? Say amen. That same power that saved your soul from sin in hell. that injected into your experience eternal life, that same power is available to live the Christian life. How many people here were able to save yourself? None of us can save ourselves. We're hopeless. That same power that did for me what I could not do in saving myself, he's saying that same power is available to live the Christian life. That's a tremendous thing. Um the same power that saved our souls and gives us eternal life is available to live the Christian life. Paul said this and Philippians 3. 10. He said that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Wow, would you agree with me? It's pretty powerful to raise someone from the dead. Good night, I don't know it. Uh man has power to take away of life, but man to restore a life, resurrect something That's about the most powerful thing you're going to find. Paul said that same power that resurrected Jesus from the dead is available for you and I, we already have it, for you and I to live a victorious Christian life. Anybody here ever have a sin or a struggle or a doubt or a fear or a worry and you think I just can't get victory over this? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Two people. Alright? No, there's more than that The power that raised Jesus from the dead is available to us to overcome worry, to overcome a besetting sin, to overcome fear. So the power that is given to us is the power of God, the dunamis of God. It's a divine power. The power of God. Nothing, how many people believe this statement? Nothing is too hard for God. Yeah, amen. How many people believe nothing is impossible with God? With men, all uh things are possible with God. Uh uh with man things are impossible with God, all things are impossible. There's a lot of things that man can't do, but there's nothing that God can't do. So don't come to me, don't come to me and say, Pastor, I could never be a good Christian. That is not the truth. If you're saved, you already have right now the power To overcome your will, to overcome your weaknesses, to overcome your sinful nature, to have victory in the Christian life. God has given it according to his divine power He has given to us all things. It's indiscriminate power. It's divine power. It's indiscriminate power. In other words, every believer has this power. You say, preach, ha ha how many people say it again, how many people say you know it? Say amen. Every single worsen that just said amen. If that's true, you have this divine power already available to you. You say, preacher, I'm just 13 years old in seventh grade. Yeah, you got the same power that Brother Mark has and Pastor Matt has. You got the same power available to you. It's indiscriminate. It doesn't matter how educated you are or uneducated. Doesn't matter if you're rich or poor. It doesn't mean whether you're uh live in West Virginia or Maryland Uh doesn't matter if you're uh tall, dark, and handsome or sh short, um uh uh and not tall if Um doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter your background, doesn't matter your history, none of that matters. If you have Jesus Christ as your Savior Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have the power of God available to us to live the life God wants us to live. That's what Peter's telling him. Right off the front of his second letter, he tells him, hey, according to his divine power that uh that uh pertains to life and godliness It's indiscriminate. I believe you say, well, what in the world is this power? What in the world is it? I'll tell you what it is. It's the indwelling Holy Spirit The moment you and I got saved, and we could take time to elaborate on this, but the moment you and I got saved, the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God, moved into our bodies. He indwells us right now. This incredible physique you're looking at right here, this physical body Inside this chest is the Holy Spirit of God. How many people find that amazing? Uh uh Austin Austin stand up. Austin got saved. When did you get saved? A little while ago, a few months ago. Stand up there. You guys are gonna regret sitting on this front row something. But um he got saved. Uh the Holy Spirit of God, the God that spoke this universe. I was walking home last night uh after prayer time, I was looking at those stars and Venus was up here and and uh Mars was over there and then all these others are out there and I thought, man, God just spoke that into existence. What power. That God dwells right inside that good-looking body right there. How many people find that amazing? Some of y'all say, I don't believe that. It's true, the Bible says. Or you sit down. That power is available to us to live the Christian life. And we live such normal everyday lives, just normal lives, and we don't realize what's available to us The power that's available to us. I believe it's the Holy Spirit. If you would, I got a couple minutes. Give me a couple minutes. Turn with me to Ephesians, real quick. I want to just see a prayer that Paul prayed for the church at Ephesus. And he touches on this very thing. Ephesians chapter number 4, 3. And uh right after Galatians, Ephesians chapter three, look at verse sixteen real quick with me. He's praying for this church at Ephesus, the believers church like ours. And he says that uh he says, verse 14, for this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of all of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is made, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, look at this, to be strengthened with might by his what Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height To know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. You know what he's praying? He's praying. He's praying, I'm praying that the Holy Spirit that dwells in you will empower you To live in the full life for God. That's what Peter said. The Holy Spirit is in us. We just need, by the way, we don't need more of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit needs more of us So don't be looking for something else. Don't be going, oh boy, if I just get involved in this group, or if I just do that, or if I do this, or do that, or Have the secret formula, some guy on YouTube, here's a secret formula to live in the victorious. There's no secret formula. It's just letting God have me Just letting that Holy Spirit empower me and give me victory. And just following his instructions. God has given us everything. Notice he says there back in Peter, he says, given us all things. That pertain to godliness. According to the divine power, he's given us all things. What are these all things? The indwelling Holy Spirit. I'll tell you what else he's given us that empowers us to live the Christian life, this old eternal word of God. We've been pushing this hard. Everybody reading their Bible every day. I guarantee it, I guarantee it. Somebody comes to me, preacher, I'm messing up, I'm not living for God, I tell I tell you somewhere that broke down, they're not spending time in God's word like they should. Just reading it, just reading it. Had somebody say to me recently, they said, I haven't read my Bible in two weeks, defeated, discouraged. And I tell you, there's power in the Word of God, the dwelling Holy Spirit, and something else He's given us to help us live the Christian life is the local church. I think the local church gets underestimated. I think the local church gets uh um uh what's the wrong minimized. I tell you, we need the local church. This isn't just a country club. This is a body of Christ. And we need to be together and we need to exhort each other in that fellowship and that unity. How many people were blessed by being in church today? I was just being around God's people and hearing corny jokes, you know, but praying for each other and singing together. That helps us. That helps us. So he's given us all things. Let me give you the other one here real quick. Notice the application of this power. All things As his divine power has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. That word pertain means to apply to. In other words, God gives us power of His Holy Spirit, gives us this divine power Uh not to make millions of dollars. Is there anything wrong in making millions of dollars? No. But that's not the purpose of the presence of the Holy Spirit in our life. um what do they call them on the social media to be an influencer with millions of followers. That's not the purpose of the dwelling Holy Spirit. It's not what it pertains to. The purpose of the indwelling Holy Spirit, notice what he says. He says, given unto us all things that pertain unto what? Like, are you listening quickly? Everybody how many people are with me? How many people checked out about five minutes ago? Yeah Life. I got looking up that word life there, and it doesn't mean just be alive, but it means to be full of life. Actually, in the definition, to be full of life. And there's a lot of Christians say them all the time, they're alive. But that's about it. You know what I'm talking about? They're just, how's it going, okay? You know, um, let me witness to you, you want to be just like you want to have what God gave me Listen, he may be alive, but that's not living. God says, I want you to be full of life. Not just alive, but full of life, lively, vivacious. There's a word for you. John 10, 10, thief cometh not for to feed for to steal, to kill, and destroy. But I have come that you might have life, that you might be alive. And that you might have it what? More abundantly. That's what he's talking about here. More abundantly He doesn't want us just to be alive. You get your average independent Baptist church and they sing victory in Jesus. Nate and I were talking about this morning. Sing Victory in Jesus. Oh, victory in Jesus. Oh, brother. That's not what God's wishing. He wants victory in Jesus, my Savior forever. See what I'm saying? Now I'm being silly, obviously, but we have to be alive, alive. Um I was preaching for Lee Bowman Friday night and yesterday morning and James Kent was there and Jessica, how many people remember James and Jessica, and their little kids. I forget all their names. You talk about those kids are alive, but they're more than alive. They are full of life I mean they are zing up and down the aisles underneath the pews everywhere. Don't piss the lover. Now I'm not saying we got to be psycho about this But I am saying we ought to at least have a smile on our face, at least have a little spring in our step. Have a little bit of joy in our life. He talks about joy, unspeakable, and full of glory. Now that's not running around all the time. But it is something real. It's more than just living. There's a world of difference between just living and being lively. And God wants us to be alive. If a person is just, a Christian is just alive. Well, I'm saved. That's about it. They're just spiritually alive is all they are. That person endures the difficult circumstances in life. Well, we'll just sprit our teeth and get through it. And there's nothing wrong with this song, so don't judge me. But there's one song that sometimes I think, I don't know. Sometimes the days are hard. The trial's heart to bear. And then you get to the chorus, where does it say, It will be Worth it all. Now, maybe you like that song. I'm fine with the song, alright? Don't miss don't judge me on this But um, you know, I think uh if a person's just alive, it's just like, oh, someday it'll be worth it But if you're full of life, like he's talking about, if you have that abundant life, you know what? Even in the most miserable circumstances of life, we can still have joy. And still rejoice. Remember uh uh remember Paul and Silas? I think we referenced them this morning a little bit. They were in jail, beaten, all bloodied. Uh they want to kill him In a stinky, nasty, rat infested, yucky, uh stinky prison And at midnight they sang, it will be. No, they didn't do that. They sang praises to God and they prayed, Oh Lord! They were full of life. They had abundant life even in that circumstance. That's what he's saying. He's saying that power, that ability is available to us. By the power of God, the divine power of God that dwells within us, we can have that. Acts chapter 5, verse 41, they got a bunch of the disciples had been witnessing and and winning people to Christ and the authorities brought them in and threatened them and told them, Don't you preach in that name anymore And they beat them. I don't know what they use, their fists or rods or something. They beat them bad. Kicked them out of the council. And they come staggering out of there. You know what they said? They said, we're calling CLA, we're gonna sue them. No, they didn't do that The Bible says they rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for Jesus Christ. You know, people give us a hard time because we believe that old book People give us a hard time. I've had my life threatened, you know that. For various reasons. You know, rather than thinking, oh, this is terrible, this is rotten, this is I think the Holy Spirit of God can swell up in us, enable us, and say, you know, even in this, God's still good. I've got something to rejoice about, I've got something to praise God about Life, not just living, but full of life, full of life. And then he says godliness. All things that pertain to life and godliness. Godliness, just to simplify the definition, it simply means a life that reflects the moral characteristics of God. If a person's worldly, what are they influenced by? The world. They take on the characteristics of the world. They talk like the world. They think like the world They value the things the world values. They have the follow the principles of the world's principles. I mean, they're influenced by the world. They're like the world. If a person is godly, on the other hand, they're influenced by who? God! And they talk like God, so to speak. They think like God, and they have the values that God has, has given to us in His Word. And he's saying, the Holy Spirit, the divine power that's given us. Is will enable us, can help us live godly in an ungodly world. Say, preacher, they'll give me a hard time, they'll make fun of me, they might hit me Uh yeah, but the Holy Spirit of God gives us power to be full of life and live godly, regardless of what the world does. I think we need to prep ourselves for Increased animosity from the world. We might as well just settle it. It's going to be that way. And we can sit and cry and worry, oh no. Or we can say, praise God, I'm indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, and I've got a message, and I've got a mission, and I'm going to let my light shine. That's what he's talking about. Godliness. And then last of all, and with this, how many people are impressed how quickly I'm going through this? Amen. And then last of all, notice the prompting of this power. Look what it says. According to this divine power has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the not through, that's the conduit. That's what where it comes from. Through the knowledge of him that has called us to glory and virtue. Who's called us to glory and virtue? Who is that? God, Jesus. He's talking about Jesus Christ. And he says this power that we already has already been given to us, the moment we got saved, the Holy Spirit dwelled us. It's latent, it's in there And uh it he wants to give me a full life, he wants to help me live a godly life, but he said that comes through my knowledge He's not talking about intellectual academic knowledge. He's talking about knowing Christ in a personal relationship way. How many people here, let me pick somebody, uh, who's a famous, how many people here know about Elon Musk Anybody know about him? Anybody? How many people here say I have no idea who you're talking about? All right, so about a few. Who's somebody else that everybody would know? Donald Alright. How many people here know about Donald Trump? Yeah, we all know about him. How many people here could say, you know, I know him personally? I know he's like. I know we interact. We have a relationship. I know him in a relationship. So not one of us. All we know is about him is what we're told about him. That's all we know. He's not talking about the power of God and be able to live this life because I know about Jesus Christ. He says, I know this power is available through a personal walk and knowledge and interaction and relation with Jesus Christ. That's where my personal Christian walk with God is so vital. I've got to spend time with the Lord. I've got to let Him speak to my heart and mind. I've got to pour my heart out to Him. What's the song? And he walks with me. And he talks with me. And he tells me I am his own. That's what Peter's talking about. Through the knowledge, through walking with them and talking with them and experiencing it. Now he speaks to us through his word. We speak to him through prayer. But I'm telling you, there are times, see if I can get a witness here on this. There are times, now I don't I don't want to get spooky about this, but there are times when it's like the Lord is right there. Anyone know what I'm talking about? He's right there. I can't see him, I can't hear him, I can't smell him. But he's there. The presence, I think we've had some services, but the presence of God was here I think a lot of us have had devotions. The presence of God was there. I tell you, there have been times just not long ago where I'm struggling, my heart's broke, and I'm on my knees before God. And it's like God came down. And the Lord is there. That's what he's talking about. That kind of relationship with God. So this week, this week. Let's seek for the filling and the power of the Holy Spirit to be upon our lives. That whatever God allows into our lives, we can be full of life and we can be godly. Amen. Father, I pray you bless now. I tried to rush through here. And I ask, Lord, you'd speak to our hearts And God, we need your presence. We need your power to live for you like you intend for us to do and get above the old issues of this world and the burdens of this world and get beyond that. Let you fill us and empower us and give us what we need. Heads bowed, eyes, because how many people say, preacher, I really want the Holy Spirit of God to empower me? To live this life that Paul prayed for the Ephesian church. Peter's talking about any like that uplifted hand. Oh, I want that. Oh, I want to live that way. I want a full, lively life I want to be godly. I want my heart and mind pure and clean. I want to be a testimony of what God can do in the life Of an everyday person. Father bless our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's