Joshua chapter 24, verse 14 and 15. Now, therefore, this old man says, old man Joshua says, Now therefore, fear the Lord. And serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. And serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose ye this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the God of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. And he makes a final declaration here. He said, But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. We need more dads making those kind of declarations. We will serve the Lord. Now there's three divine institutions. You know that. God ordained the church Praise God for the local church. And uh um I got saved because a local church sent people out in the community saying you need to come to the meeting and I got there, I heard the gospel for the first time, I did not get saved the first service that I heard the gospel, but the second time I went back the next night and I got saved, friends. On that Thursday in 1972, changed my life. And my mom and dad ended up getting right with God. Many members of my family is just wonderful. There's nothing like being part of the family of God. Divine institution, the church. Number two, the government. Even this morning I met with 36 West Virginia preachers to uh get them to call their two West Virginia senators because there's something going on in the Senate right now, uh a little nefarious thing, about trying to support more gambling. The last thing America needs is more casinos. Amen. And I don't want any federal money going to any gambling stuff. And uh I think I may have told you Sunday I I did my first co uh press conference last year about gambling in the state of Virginia because they're trying to put in ninety-three thousand skill machines Skill machines. Yeah. A lot of skill. Put your money in, touch this button, and lose. You had an eighty percent chance of losing. Gambling keeps coming up, doesn't it? I'm against gambling. For you that weren't here Sunday morning at in the press conference, one of those reporters asking questions, you know. Uh Mr. Fox, um We already have gambling here in Virginia. We have the state lottery. I said, yes, I know. And I was in a zone, preacher. I was in a zone. I said, yes, I know. And I said, I want you to quote me on this. Take this down The Virginia State Lottery is a ripoff. Well, they took it down. They quoted me I was on TV Across Virginia that night saying the I still stand with that statement. Amen. And so even this morning some preachers raising their voices, and the voices have been heard And the sponsor of the bill has contacted us. And yes, we enough preachers have said, stop it. That maybe something will get stopped. Amen. It needs to get stopped And uh the only group that's going to raise the level of righteousness in America is God's people. If we don't do it, it's not going to get done. And so the church, divine institution, government, divine institution, and then the home Hallelujah for the hope. And the last few days, I don't know how many, um, I don't know how many families that I've counseled, helping pastors Counseling homes. And uh the the things that I told them I've incorporated into these tips today. And I'd love for some of you pastors to take these 15 simple tips and do a Wednesday night, do a Sunday school, do something with it. These are simple, straightforward tips that all of you know. And uh if we'd implement them, the homes would improve. Amen. Number one, tip number one, attend church together. And Dad makes that decision. Dad says, Hey, we're going to church tomorrow. Get your clothes out so we'll all get ready in the morning. Yes. And dad leads the way. Dad is supposed to be the spiritual leader of the home. Now if there is no dad, mama's gotta step in. I get all that. But if there's a dead, he is neglecting his duty. Now look, uh, we wouldn't think much of a man who didn't provide for his family. Any able-bodied man who refuses to work is a bum. Some people don't like that statement, but that's true. There's a work ethic taught in the Word of God. And so if a man d wouldn't provide the physical needs of housing and safety and and food, the basic essentials, we say, what kind of guy is that? Hey, it's not just those. He needs to uh to provide for his family spiritually. Now If you could somehow get your family right into the stream of God's blessings, wouldn't you want to do that? So that sounds good. Take them to church, man. That's taking them right to the stream of God's blessings. Oh, please do not neglect Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Well I don't find it in the Bible three times, three to thrive. I think this Dr. Robertson said that. I don't think that's in the it's not that phrase not in the Bible. I'll apologize, okay? No, friends. You need it. I need it. When I was a boy, we had Sunday school, morning service. Training union. We were independent Baptist church. We had training union. We had evening service. We had Wednesday night service. And then we had Thursday night soul winning. Once my dad got everything right with God, we're going to do all those And then if we had a youth rally on Friday night, I was doing that too. And I had that drug problem, yes, where I got drugged to church. Amen. And I turned out I did the same thing to my kids. Yes. Dad lead the way. And Mama do not fight. him on these things. No. Now I was working the bus routes at my church, Calvary Baptist Church, Smithfield, Virginia. It seemed like it's harder to get kids on the bus than ever. You notice Maybe you haven't noticed. Two hardest thing you pastors have to do is get people to go soul winning and to get pe somebody work the bus route. You get people tie these are in that. I'll write the check for the bus, but I'm not working it. Yeah. Lot of work. So I was out trying to get these three boys. There's three boys been riding this route and they quit they quit riding the route So I went over there, tried to get them back on the bus for that captain. I I went over there, knocked on the door, lady of the house came, I'm talking to her, I said, understand your three boys have not been coming to church, not been riding on the on the bus She said, yeah, said uh, I don't know why they don't want to go. You ever just want to be honest with people The older I get, the more honest I get. I said, Oh ma'am, I I already know why they're not coming. She said, You know why? I said, Oh yeah, I do. She said, Why are my boys not coming? I said, ma'am, because you're not coming. If you would say, now boys, we're going to church tomorrow. I'm getting on that bus with you and we're going to church. I said, you can get those boys ready and you can get she said, oh that That. Don't you think our boys and girls inside our home need to go to God's house and get in Sunday school? My granddaughter Ayla is four years old. She loves Sunday school. I got me a little deputy inside of their house. Good morning, Ayla. You going to Sunday school this morning? My kids can't just sleep in and go this morning service. They're going to sleep. Sunday school because Ayla. Yeah. They almost have to spank her to get out, get her out. You are leaving Sunday school. Good? Yes. I hire her to say memory verses to me at four years old Oh yes. Attend church as a family. Number two, read the Bible and pray together. Read the Bible and pray together. These fifteen tips will absolutely improve every home. Read the Bible and pray together. My dad was not an effective reader. He hadn't graduated school. In fact, he'd barely go into school where he The background he had was bad. My dad passed away in April, April 1st. Oh, let me tell you the last thing my dad said. I'll tell you the next to last thing he said first. This was 25 hours before he passed away. Last 20 days of his life, I was right beside him, hospice bed right there in my living room. Next last thing he said to me. He was seeing things that weren't there. I said, Pop, it's time for your um your medicine. I was giving him the comfort medicines. I said, Pop, time for your medicine. He said, you talk to my lawyer. I said, well, I I didn't talk to your lawyer. He said, well that man standing there. And there was no man. He said, that man standing there, he's not my lawyer. I said, okay, let's take your medicine. Two hours later he had his last statement. It was midnight on a Monday evening. My dad was never a preacher. My dad was a soldier in the Korean conflict. He was a gunner on the tanks. My dad was a mechanic. Once he got everything right with God, he was just as faithful to church as anybody you've ever seen. He was a tithing man. He worked the buses. He he was he was never the song leader, he's never the preacher, he's never a deacon, but he was a faithful man. And the last thing he said to me, I'm sitting right beside him. He was rather comatose, but he said this in a big voice. He said, Do you believe in the Holy Ghost? Yes or no? I'm talking about the Holy Spirit of God. I mean, he's preaching to me. I said, Well, yes, Papa, I do. He said, Do you believe? Amen For five minutes he asked me if I believed in the Holy Ghost. You know that came up when I preached his funeral. And he was preaching for a verdict, too, to a congregation of one. Do I believe in the Holy Ghost, yes or no? And twenty-three hours later, as gentle as you can possibly imagine My dad was with the Lord. I'm glad he ran his race well. Oh yes. And so what I'm talking about is reading the Bible and praying. See, my dad wasn't an effective reader, but he made sure that mom got the Bible out and read inside the home the Bible. My dad tried to memorize the Bible. Just just just a few weeks before he had his final fall that led to the end. He hadn't fallen in eighteen months. I'd worked so hard. I got grabbed bars, all that sort of thing all over the house and walk in shower. We'd done all that and new flooring and they fell and But uh few weeks before he fell. My mom and dad would work on their memory verses every night. And so my mom, she's going down the list, and she decided she'd mix them up, the references. And finally my dad said, I can't say them out of order He he was getting a little confused, it's eighty-nine, almost ninety years old. They're still working on Bible verses. My mom still to this day, she said, I I can't learn any new m Bible verses. She said, but I can still say the ones I know. And inside of our home, I'm her caregiver, and I'm only away from home three to five days a month. That's all I can be. My kids are taking care of them, so I can be here. And um every night inside of our home on our final prayer time, she quotes Psalm twenty-three. You think that'll change a home? Oh yes. Singing for God inside the home, reading the Bible for God inside the home, uh r uh reading the Bible, praying together It'll make a difference. These are 15 tips for home improvement. I got to move along. Number one, attend church together. Number two, read the Bible and pray together. Number three, find times to serve the Lord together Find the times. Like what? How about soul winning night? The whole family go. You mean take the kids? Yeah, take the kids I've taken my children along with me. Oh yeah. Take the kids, take the grandkids. You mean outdoor knocking? Yes, outdoor knocking. Just a every way that you go soul winning. The kids and the grandkids, they need to see you giving out gospel tracts. They need to see you coming to the altar. Some the kids need to see you serving God And fine times, the other day, I was at National Home Albus's church, and what were we doing? We were assembling 15,000 of these John Romans to mail to every door in Cumberland, Powhatan County. And we're the whole families were coming and we were all working on those together and we got them done Amen. Don't you think it'd be wonderful if we get a Bible or a Bible portion into every home in America? I'm for that. Oh yes, but find ways to do something together for the Lord. Work a bus route as a family. Do something together as a family family. There's all kinds of opportunities. Everybody in the family sing in the choir if you can sing. And you know, uh do something together as a family uh of serving the Lord. All right That's a little three points to get started now. Point four, five, and six are about the husband and wife relationship. Let me read to you. If you're listening, say amen. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 24 Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Husbands love your wives. How much? Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. I put down number four. You want to improve your home? You want to improve the husband and wife relationship? Number four, work at keeping the communication flowing. What do you mean? Talk to each other. One of the biggest problems in marriages Is husbands and wives don't talk to each other and don't s spend quality time with each other. You know Renee and I talked day and night, and I made it where that every single week I was home. I'd fly to Oregon. And I'd fly through the night to get back. She says, Don't do that. You're wearing yourself out. Hey, you gotta keep those home fires burning, man Amen. We were married almost 42 years. And it was a good marriage. And uh I miss her so. Um but she's in heaven. She's better off than I'm doing today. She's with the Lord right now But work at keeping the communication flowing. It's one of the absolute biggest problems inside marriages. Number five, have a date every week. Yeah. Husbands and wives have a date every week. What kind of dates? Oh. Last July, Renee was able. One of our very last times that I could go out of the house with her. See, the last fifteen or sixteen years of her life she was not well. She died of liver failure, but she had other maladies along the way. But I I took her, we went out to eat. Yeah, we we like doing that. Bought the appetizer, bought a meal and shared the meal, and bought dessert. Yeah. We did it. And then there's a little craft store she liked to go to. And we went there. And we went to that little craft store. And we she couldn't walk very effectively these days and so forth. And and we had uh rollators and we had wheelchairs and all that. We went in there and we stayed in there until the place said Y'all gotta leave, we're closed. So we went out to the car, put the gutter in the car, turned the key on, and it wouldn't start Dead battery. I said, baby, when you go on a date with me, you never know what might happen. I called my son, I said, Mike, I come over here. I need you to jump the car And then we made a game out of it. I said, what exact time do you think he'll pull on the parking lot? Tell me ex we made a game out of trying to guess exactly what minute he'd be there. And we talked and we laughed. We had a good time. Men you may not need those dates that much, but she does. It is no you love her And that you cherish her. And so have a date every week. Make it part of your routine. Have them all. You can go on more than one date a week, but I'm telling you, you need to do that. Amen. Number six. Alright, number six. We're doing good. Number six. Never yell. No more of this yelling at your spouse. No more yelling at your husband, no more yelling at your w no no the kids don't need to hear that. Your wife does not need to hear that. And if there's a fire in the house, you're allowed to yell. Otherwise don't do it, okay? I was at the credit union this past week and I went in there to um make a deposit and one of the tellers. Now I I witnessed to all of them, everyone in there When my wife died, they were so good to me. You know, you just try to witness to everybody. I mean astounded, I went into the post office. One of the post offices. Nate, the fellow who normally helps me, he said, How's my name? I said, Well, I got good and bad news. He said, What's that? I said, Well She passed away yesterday. That's but good news, she's with the Lord. He stopped everything he's doing. He came around that counter, came out there and hugged me He said, I've been praying for you. Everybody in there listening. I said the most important thing in the whole world is being saved. I said, I know Nate that my wife had received Christ because I was there. We were both 19 years old And on her knees she called on the Lord. Amen. At the credit union the other day, these three ladies that worked there But they I've talked to them, I've given them gospel tracts, all that. One of them said, I'll tell you, my boyfriend was yelling at me yesterday. I said that shouldn't be allowed. I said, I preach against that. You know, sometime now, now, sometimes Renee would say, what are you upset about? It'd just be a face that I had. And I was just because I was intense on something. I was thinking about how bad gambling was or something. I had one of these faces on. She's like, what are you upset about? Oh I'm not upset. I'm happy. But I am intense. Men, you have to even watch how much intensity you have around your wife. I'm an intense man. People say, Brother Fox, so unorthodox. Well I know I laugh a lot and all that sort of thing, but inside of me is a great orthodoxy. And there's there's an intense man trying to get something done for Christ. Amen to that. But none of this yelling, no more of that. And our influence is bigger than we realize. And our children, our grandchildren, they don't need to hear that. That's out of order. All right. Here's the next big area. The finances in the family. Oh my. I don't know how many that I've been counseling the last few days that finances is a giant problem Let me give you some more Bible. Proverbs chapter six, verse six through eight. Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways, and be wise, which having no guide, overseer, or ruler provideth her meat in the summer and gathereth her food in the harvest. Now the the best financial book in the entire world is the Bible. Amen to that. You follow these principles, it's gonna work out a lot better than if you don't follow them, I promise you. Yeah. I was talking to a fellow We just bought a business. He said, I want I want you to coach me. He said, I don't know anything about running a business. I said, Well, I said, um, how much did the business make last year? He said, uh over a hundred thousand dollars. I said, whoa, that's pretty good. I said that's what it made. I said, what was total revenue? He said Hundred thousand dollars. I said, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I said, lesson number one, you must understand the difference between revenue and profit. I said, when I said how much did it make? I'm talking how much profit. You gotta sit down and count the cost, don't you? Say, man, we we took in a hundred million last year. How much you spend? 104 million. Okay, it's not good. I sound like the Congress. Not good. Not good. Alright, so here's three tips. Be faithful stewards of God's blessings. Be faithful stewards of God's blessings. Money is a great servant, but it's a terrible master. Oh, it's a good tool. One week before Renee died, Renee and I, for the last several years, by the grace of God, we've been able to give a year-end gift to our church. And we normally did it the final week of December, but I saw she wasn't going to make it. And so we were able to give it. It was the second largest we've ever been able to do by the grace of God. Now I'm so glad to be a a giver. Wouldn't you rather be a giver than a taker? And uh it's a blessing to get to give. And so be faithful stewards of God's blessings. Number eight, get on a budget that includes saving and investing. Get on a budget, a monthly budget. I talked to a young man two, three weeks ago. And I don't know how much money he is making. It is a lot. It is a lot of money. In fact, he said, yeah, last two weeks I've worked, and he told me how many hours of overtime he had massed. Wow! And he began telling me how big his paycheck was. I said, woo. And he's broke There's a lot of folk in that category. You say, well, I make thirty thousand dollars a year. You got a sixty thousand dollar car sitting on the driveway. You've bought a car you cannot afford. It's a depreciating asset. You know, I paid $12,000 for my car. And I paid cash for it. Whew. I'm so old-fashioned I paid cash. Yeah You and you start saving for the next car. You start saving for the next car. And you live within your means. Do you know according to Dave Ramsey, ninety-five percent of American homes do not have a custom monthly budget. No where the money went. I don't know where it went. It's broke is all I know. Yeah. Okay, number nine. Save for your family vacations. So I don't know how we're going to do the vacation. I guess we'll just use that credit card. Do not do that. Now I have credit cards. I use them. I um I make money with them, get discounts with them, but you pay them off every single month Big wars inside the home because we're not following this book. Living within our means. There's an ancient word that we have to use at times. No. Never vote. Dad, can I have that? No. Dad, no. So save for these things. And uh may I say this, every man needs to learn how to Make money, you know, earn it. Every man needs to learn how to earn money. Of these families that I've been dealing with, some of them I've been saying, you got an earning problem. You're still in an entry-level job. Why are you still in an entry-level job? You've been an adult for more than 20 years. You shouldn't be at the bottom You should have some aspirations to make something. Amen. Earning problem. You've got to learn how to earn. Got to learn how to save. And then you need to learn how to give money. Every man needs to learn those three things. Would you agree? Yes. All right. The potholes of life I've got uh six things to go. Potholes. Are there gonna be potholes? Yeah, there are gonna be some potholes. Yeah, out on the roads there those potholes. Well there are In Holmes, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32, be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Number 10 Resolve differences quickly. Inside the home, resolve differences quickly. Do not hold grudges. That'll get you nowhere. No, don't do that. Every man needs to learn how to say this. I was wrong. That's so hard to say. I was wrong. Here's another one. I am sorry. Here's another one. Please forgive me. Those are great things to learn to say. Men and women. Yes. Alright, so resolve differences quickly and respect each other's opinion. I've got an opinion about everything Even things I know nothing about. I am a man. Resolve differences quickly and respect each other's opinion. Number eleven Forget what has been forgiven. Forget it. Put it away. Don't bring it up again. Remember that time twenty-eight years ago that you stopped. Did you forgive him? Did you forgive her? Stop. How much has God forgiven us? Amen. For me, it's been a lot. He's wonderful. And the Bible says that God is ready to forgive. Well, that's good news right there. And so forget what has been forgiven. Number 12 When in trouble, get godly counsel. When in trouble, get godly counsel. I've got I've got a nonprofit organization called Byron Fox Evangelistic Association. Yeah. On the back of these colored books, you see the Byron Fox Evangelistic Association That means I have to have a board. Who's the board? Five preachers. Four pastors and a man who was a pastor. He's now 74. He's no longer pastor. You think I ever go to them? Oh yes. On a regular basis. Man, you get counsel. Along the way, get counsel from seasoned people, folk who know the Lord, people who know the Bible and know have some wisdom and some discernment about themselves Look, I know you're 16 years old. Could you teach me how to be a granddad? 16-year-old don't know anything about being a granddad? You ask somebody who's been a granddad for a while, give you some counsel on that And uh there's some big decisions in life that you need godly counsel on. And when you're in trouble, get it. Go to your pastor. Go to a trusted source of someone who knows the Lord and knows the Lord well that can help you. All right. Last or about the kids. All right, the kids Proverbs twenty two verse six Tren up a child in the way he should go And when he is old, he will not depart from it. That is a proverb. And praise God for it Number 13, these are practical tips. Number 13, do not let the kids play one against the other. Don't do that Don't allow that. Would a child try that? Yes. They go to mama and she says, no. And they go to daddy and don't tell daddy that she's uh or that mama's already said no. And they say if dad'll say yes. I made a law at our house about that. I said, if you try that, you will be in trouble. You not only will not get whatever it is that you want to, but you're going to be in trouble on top of that. Don't you ever try to come between me and Mama. Don't do that. I didn't have a lot of rules. Man, there's too many rules at some houses that you can't keep up with the rules. And I knew I couldn't keep up with the rules. But that was one of them And lying, automatic spanking. Lie three times in a day, get three spankings. I remember one of my children has spanked it for the third time. I said, I'm telling you something. I mean it. I'm telling you, every time you lie, you will get a striking. My my kids are honest kids. Praise the Lord. There should be a premium on honesty. One of the Couples I'm counseling, the wife has been lying to her husband. Bold face lying. That doesn't work. You're not going to have a good household. And all this deception, insinuation, subterfuge, mendacity, name all the different names, prevarication. You name them all. Stop it Need to be honest. Don't you know that honesty is the right policy? Oh yeah. And so uh don't let the kids play one pair against the other. Number fourteen. Oh, number fourteen Is just an opinion, okay? It's just an opinion. I concede that this one's just an opinion. Number 14. Give every child some piano lessons Only an opinion. But I'm telling you, as I travel this country so many places, there is no church pianist. The boys and the girls all need some music lessons. They will not all become fantastic musicians, I know that, but it'll help them. It will help them. And some will become good musicians. So give every child. We need some more church pianists. Would you all agree? I know it's true. Then lastly Number 15. Let kids participate in sports as long as they don't miss church. Oh yeah. I'm for sports and activities. I'm for all that. But I'm sick of all these sports during church time. I'm done with it. I was in North Carolina, got into a the hotel where I was staying Sunday night, jumped in that That uh elevator, uh, mama came in with her little son in a little league ball. I got to play one year of little league ball. I have no idea how our family afforded it. We couldn't afford that Somebody probably scholarship me or something. And I had a good time playing little league. Yeah. This little boy jumps in. With his mama. Sunday night. His ball uniform is dirty. He'd been playing. We got inside there. I said, you've been playing ball today. He said, Mister, I played all day. He told me how many games he had played. That elevator's going up slowly. I said, Mama, can I talk to you? I said, I think your boy should have been in church today. I said, there's too much ball on Sundays. I said, I got to play. Had enough time to say this to her. I said, I got to play as a boy. But when I was a boy, there were no littly games on Sundays. None. Both of my coaches were Christians. And they encouraged us to go to church. How about us turning the clock back to that and doing some more of that? By the way, there's an openness right now. We better take advantage of it right now. So no more of this sport. And as a as a as an evangelist, I've had mamas come by As as we're departing from the church service and Brother Fox, we won't be here Tuesday night because we're trying to teach our children responsibility and they both have soccer on Tuesday, so we we won't be here I told you I've gotten to that honesty stage, didn't I? Mama, where is your responsibility to God? Mama, when this boy is 25 years old and playing golf on Sunday and you're raising your hand in Sunday school class saying, pray for TJ's not in church again today. So think about this. This boy needs to be here. Amen to that. We better take God back in his rightful place in our home. What's that place? First place. Present, no more than that. Prominent, more net, preeminent. Let's pray. Oh Lord. I pray in Jesus' name you'd strengthen our homes. Our church is made of homes. Our country is made of homes. How can our country stand? How can our church go forward if all of our homes fall apart? Oh Lord, we need a revival in every area, including inside of our homes. May the dads in this room make some deep commitments. To leading their families right. Thank you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.