Turn in your Bibles tonight, somewhere. It's all good, as they say Uh just go anywhere. I want to preach just a little bit on prayer uh tonight. Um in 2 Timothy I think is where I'm gonna uh bind down just a little bit. Second Timothy chapter number three. 2 Timothy chapter number 3. But the Lord, this morning, the way the services went, and hearing uh comments from your pastor and brother Trees Eyes, different ones of you talking and everything. Uh, we need prayer. We need prayer. The men's prayer meeting, prayer breakfast that's going to take place. That's important. We need to pray as families. We need to pray as individuals And that's something that young people can get on board with. We need some prayer warriors that are young people. Revival, many revivals started because of young people Uh because they have a sincere heart, they're not weighted down with all the trash in the world and all the cares of this life, and and uh they can get a hold of God many times. But we need prayer. We don't need to pray, you know, like so we can check it off. We need to realize that when we go to the Lord in prayer, whether if we close our eyes in prayer to where all distractions go away, or if Like Jesus, he looked the look him looking up into heaven, uh, prayed to the Father. Uh but we need to realize that when we pray, we're going into the throne room of God and we're standing before a just and holy God, but He's one that wants to hear from us. He wants to hear our prayers. Uh we'll get we'll say m more of that in just a moment, but our nation right now is in turmoil. I don't have to preach on that. Y'all know that very well. Our country is in turmoil. The worst I've seen in my time A virus, civil unrest, anarchy taking place in different places around the the country, and and uh I just got uh started thinking about some scriptures You know, when I need some encouragement, I always go to the Psalms, first and foremost. I'll go to the Psalms and I get encouragement from the Psalms. But there's different places in the Word of God that just speak to my heart and help me. And during this time, when seeing these things take place, if we're not careful, we'll get bogged down and we're no good to God or anybody else But we need to pray. Romans 8. 22 tells us, for we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. We're just seeing it pick up speed now. We're just seeing it pick up speed. You know, one of these days, there's going to be a time we we learn from history. History is being destroyed all over our country And if you destroy history, if you destroy the foundations of a nation, there's nothing left to fight for. So we need to pray that God will uh put his hand on this place. I think it was Paul in Romans 8. 22 that told us, For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. And uh I could say with the Apostle Paul, it's still happening, brother. It's still happy. It's groaning and travailing because of the curse of sin that is on this world. It's nothing new. We're just, we're, we got ways of hearing more about it now Isaiah 24. 20 says, The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard and shall be removed like a cottage. And the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it, and it shall fall and not rise again You know, one of these days, they've they've been talking in schools for all this time. You know, it's gotten to where in our schools, our public school system, they're not being taught anymore. They're being indoctrinated in socialism and all these evils of this world coming upon them That needs to change, but we're seeing this this shift. In 2 Timothy chapter number 3 I'm going to read verses 1 through 5. The Bible says, this know also in the last days, perilous times shall come. That word perilous means dangerous. That means awful, perilous, dangerous times. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous. The problem in America and anywhere else in the world is sin. And it it is talking, I mean, these are covering everything that's going on today. Lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such Turn away. Turn away from those things. Um that that shows you our society today. Lovers of their own selves. It's me first. It's a me first society. If you don't believe it, get out on the highway. It's me first. I about got run over coming up here. My GPS and Instead of taking me four ninety five and going around the beltway, it's still bad traffic and everything. It brought me right by the Pentagon and the and the Washington Monument. I'm looking over there and I thought, when are we ever gonna get to where we're going? We've we pranked Ryanna and everything said Maryland shut down. We're not gonna be able to get in. Said they're hearing it on the news everywhere. We're gonna have to turn out the border and and all this, but uh we were just having a good time. About that time I was wondering because a couple of police officers came right by how they're going to find me. They're going to turn me around. They found out North Carolina is spiking and I'm going to get sent home, not get to go to Mountain Lake Well, Psalm 113 tells us, I mean, there there's it's a me first society, covetous, uh, people breaking in and taking what's not theirs They're saying, I want that, and I'm not going to pay for it, and I'm not going to get in trouble for it. Boasters Some will put on their social media, look what I do. You know in North Carolina, there's people now, the the game warden don't even have to sit out in the field and wait for somebody to shoot a deer out of season. They post them on their social media and the the game hordens are watching that and they just drive to their house say, hey saw you post there, buddy. Hand it over. And you're good. Not using common common sense is out the window. Proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful. I don't want to be unthankful. I'm gracious for everything God's given me. Everything that He does for me. I don't deserve anything, but God is good. And there's unholy without natural faith and truth, all these other things, incontinent despisers of them that are good. Have you ever seen such uh things that are coming down the line to churches I mean I mentioned this morning we had to sue the governor to get our churches back open so we could it have ten in there instead of having to meet out in the parking lot Mother's Day, I'd lost my mom uh just before, sometime back before Mother's Day, and I preached some Mother's Day service for somebody, but I had to be outside And everybody's out in the callers and the preacher said, If you believe that, uh honk your horn, say amen, but honk in your horn, they'll live out there. That's different. People out there don't even go to church, got a wake-up call that morning. They got to get up early on Sunday morning. Hmm. Here's what we're going to have to do. All this danger, all this perilous times that have come, we need to pray. I mentioned in the message this morning the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We've got to effectually pray. Get on our knees. Our knees need to be worn out. There needs to be worn out places near the altar of churches. There's a lot of people who've fallen into apathy Churches are actually, some of them are going to have to rebuild. They're going to have to rebuild their congregations through all this. It's a people there's a turning away, it seems like I read a quote when I was looking at at these scriptures and everything. I read a quote. It's going to surprise you where it came from. It comes from a Roman Catholic Prayer that they pray in the Roman Catholic Church. But it was so true. He said, Our Father, you are more ready to hear than we are to pray. Is that not true? He's more ready to hear us. He he I can picture him up on in his throne room and no, he's not sitting on the edge of his seat just waiting for us to pray or anything He's God, He's holy, He expects us to pray. We're commanded to pray, but He's more ready to hear us and to answer our prayers than we are to even offer a prayer up to Him That's something coming from from there. James 5. 16 says at the end of the verse The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. But we many times quote the last part of the verse and we don't look at the first part of it. It says, But the first part says, confess your faults one to another And pray one for another that you may be healed. Our land needs healing. There's so many thoughts going through my mind tonight. There's so many messages I wanted to preach. But we need a healing. This is a pestilence that's come across the land. We've seen how God can shut down the world if he wants to very quickly. Hey, we need healing in our land, and it's not going to come by rebellion against the holy God It's time tonight. It's past time and it's high time that we turn to the Lord to seek the Lord. In all the turmoil, it's time to call on the Prince of Peace. It's time to call on Him and say, Lord, except you build the house, they labor in vain to build it. Except He keep the town. The watchman waketh, but in vain Uh we need to depend completely. We need to put our complete and total dependence on God tonight, and we need to talk to Him about it And we need to ask him for uh for uh for uh leadership and to help us to know we need to call on the Prince of Peace. I longed to spiritually hear Jesus say, as he did when the disciples were in the ship and the storms came and the winds were blowing and he was asleep in the hinder part of the ship and they said, Master careth not that we perish. And then he rebuked them about their faith. How is it that you don't have any faith? But then he said those words, peace be still. He's able to put peace in our lives, even now, as a church family, as a church body. Peace. Be still. I don't think he shouted it. I don't think he hollered it out, even though the billas were raging and uh uh the waves were rolling. He just simply made an example to his disciples, said if you'd had faith and and come to me and say, Master, we know that you're able to take care of this. They said, No, Pastor, uh Master careth not that we perish. Just said peace. And it was complete calm. The Lord will get us where we're going. We don't have to worry. But there's a lot of fear in our land today. There's a lot of fear. People are gripped by fear God created each one of us with the ability to experience the emotion of fear so we can sense danger and react to it with respect for it. I don't like spiders. I hate them. I don't like spiders. I know they've got their place, but it is not in my house and it is not on me Then things bite, they're ugly, they got eyes all on things that come out like this and and they bite and they hurt and and uh I broke ribs over spiders in my house. I may have shared that with you last year. I think uh I was still healing. when we were here in June. There's a spider in the bathroom and and uh I I got up on the edge of the flange of the tub. You know the flange, that little bitty edge over here. There ain't room to put nothing And I had my toes grapped on that and this over here and my feet went straight out from under me and I tore up the whole bathroom in about twenty minutes. That's how long it took me to fall, it felt like. I mean I fell forever Shower curtain fail. Uh my wife's favorite picture on the wall fell and broke and shattered and and uh She said, and I fell over the edge of the tub on my left side and and broke three ribs over here and and I couldn't breathe the the spigot was in my back and And uh it was turning sideways. It didn't look right anymore. And and uh my wife said, Honey, are you gonna open the door, honey? Open the I said, I can't breathe I hate spiders. But I'm not going to let my fear of spiders keep me From looking after my family. I'm not gonna pitch a tent in the backyard and move out there. There's more of them out there than there are in the house. But if I would let fear grip me so much my fear of spiders, I wouldn't be any good to my wife, my children, or God. And if I keep li letting fear go on continually, I could become uh them having to look after me. Let it go that far I'll just keep killing her. My wife will kill him for me. Amen. Look after me. The Lord said, Peace be still. God's word tells us in Romans chapter number twelve. And verse number twenty one, be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good This means the right wrongs and the right wrongs that we have in our life and to help hurting people. It means to call upon the Lord, ask him to forgive us, keep a short account of sin, so that we can keep in perfect communion with God and complete fellowship with God. So that when somebody says, Hey brother, I've got this, this is really more than I can handle, can you pray for me? I don't have to pray twenty minutes trying to get things out of my life that don't need to be there so I can pray for that person So God will hear and answer. It also means, as we read in James 5. 16, praying fervently to our Heavenly Father for him to change hearts and to heal our land. That's what's going to take place. We don't have to get out there and lose our temper over things that are happening out there. We can pray. We've got a God that can turn the head of the king We got a God that can change hearts. We got a God that can save souls today. Really, praying's the most important thing and the only thing that we can do right now How many of you prayed for somebody that was sick? Somebody who's in the hospital? Prayed for them I don't know about you, but I'm not a doctor. I couldn't go in there and touch them and say, be healed. I can't do that. Only God can heal But that prayer, I believe God's touch with the feeling of our infirmities. I believe when we pray to Him and ask Him to heal somebody in confidence and know that He can do it, He can do it. Matthew 21, 13 says, And said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer. Talking about prayer tonight, this house is called the house of prayer. 1 John 4:4, ye are of God, little children, and have over have and have overcome them because greater is He that is in you than He that is in the world. Second Chronicles seven fourteen it boils down to this If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my faith and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. That's a promise from him. You say, Well, that's talking to the Jews. That was uh back there at Solomon when he was dedicating the temple and and saying, Lord, we're going to follow after you, but if we do, please hear our prayer when we turn to you. And God said, I've heard your prayer, Solomon And and if you will turn to me, if you will uh call upon me, uh then I will answer your prayer. If you turn from your sin. Psalm 24, verse 3 through 5 says, Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. When you get a whole church body, a whole church family on the same page in unity, loving one another, and praying to God, uh, instead of any two and touching anything in prayer, he will answer He'll give them what they ask for. Just imagine the power of the prayer of this one church could be. It can change society forever. Just one church Very quickly, we need to pray for some things. Number one, we need to pray for peace Because of James chapter number 1 and verse number 20, the Bible says, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. We need to pray for peace across our land. There's a lot of people getting in the uh up in arms. And there's a lot of people going out and destroying life. There's a lot of people going in and the sin this country is sin laden. We need to repent of it. We need to uh to be on the front line and pray and ask God to heal our land And we need to pray for peace because that says, For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. It's not going to help us to get out there and join in man battle and fighting fist to fist I found myself getting perturbed. Okay, mad. When I go to look up something on Google and here comes the news on there and oh look what they're doing now. Oh that makes me mad. Tearing these things down and Getting rid of her. He's uh uh fighting against those that are trying to do good and and uh the ones on the other side they're I I mean, I can't believe they're saying the things that they are and they Somehow believe what they're saying. I don't know. I mean it's uh I'm not gonna get into all that tonight, but we need peace. When I get mad, when I get perturbed, it it blurs my vision from seeing the real need, which is peace. Psalm three King David's running for his life again from his own son trying to kill him. He says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say to my soul, There's no help for him in God, Selah. But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me. My glory and the lifter up of mine head. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill He prayed to him, and that was the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man there. And God heard, and God answered, and God delivered him I laid me down and slept. I awake, for the Lord sustained me. This was while he was still out there and his son after him trying to kill him. He was able to lay his head down in peace and sleep. For the Lord sustained him. You want to know true peace? Only God can give it. It's that peace that passeth all understanding We need peace in our land. We need to pray for peace tonight. Number two, we need to pray for perspective because of James chapter number three and verse number seventeen. The Bible says, But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy Say, well, people you know a lot of people look at Christians and say, Oh, that bunch of sissies. No. That's not it. When we see the word meek in the Bible, that's not sissified Meekness is power under control. We've got all the power we need through Christ Jesus. He strengthens us. And our prayer, our whispered prayer to God, can get more done than even jumping up on the soapbox. We need to pray for perspective. That the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable. Ask for wisdom Lord told us to pray for it. Said he wouldn't upbraid us for it. He said, Why are you praying this prayer? Why are you asking for this? You know better than that. He's not going to upbraid us. He's going to give us wisdom when we pray for it. And peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits without partiality and without hypocrisy. That means with sincerity Sincerity. That word means without wax. They made ceramic pots, they sold a lot of pots to keep oil and water and juice, uh, fruit of the vine in. um over in the Middle East and sometimes uh a person that made the pottery, the potter would be dishonest. It might have a crack in it when it came out of the kiln and he'd put wax in there to cover it up You set that near the fire and that wax melt away and everything in that pot's gonna run out. That's not sincerity. Sincerity is without that wax. It's a whole vessel for honor to be used. Then number three, we need to pray for patience because of Romans chapter number two and verse number four. Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering? He's patient with us. He's very patient with me. Not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. God's got all this under control. We need to pray for patience, we need to pray for perspective, we need to pray for peace. We also need to pray for an outpouring of his wisdom and direction for the leaders of our country. Ask God to change hearts and heal our land. Tell you one thing, I wouldn't be president right now for no amount of money It couldn't pay me to be the president right now. He's under so much stress and so much turmoil. He needs our prayers There may be somebody here who don't like our president. The Bible commands us to pray for our president. Let's put my two cents in worth I think he's doing a good thing. Job. Just stay off Twitter. But we need to ask God to change hearts and heal our land. We need our he needs our prayers. We're commanded to pray. Second uh first Timothy chapter number one. Uh chapter number two, I'm sorry, verse number one says, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, a giving of thanks be made for all men. For each one of us, for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty But this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come into the knowledge of the truth. You know, I think a lot of it's just the devil's way of distracting people so we won't be getting the gospel out. We'll be all tied up in circumstances And not do what God's called us to do. Verse five, for there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. Whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle. I speak the truth in Christ and lie not. Teacher A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity, I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. We need to pray most of all tonight, I believe. You know, one of the I this just hit me just a little while ago. One of these days there's not going to be a history book wrote for what's happened. God's going to take us out of here. And it's not going to be anybody else writing any history, but it's going to be over. And we're going to be forever with the Lord in the air. We're going to be with him in heaven. We're going to be with him in glory. It's going to be over. Luke chapter number 21, verse 28 gives us hope. And when these things begin Come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads for your redemption draweth nigh. I think the word Maranatha means our Lord is coming. He's coming. I don't know when it might be before we get back to Denton. I might get locked out of the state anyway. We got more restrictions now At least we've got to be up here. One last thought tonight. I'm going to turn to one other place very quickly. You've been patient with me, and I thank you for that. And uh thank you for for listening. Then Song of Solomon, chapter number four. I still remember Brother Bill Barry's preaching those messages on the Song of Solomon. Oh, we we had a time with him. Chapter number four. You know, he's talking about he had a way with with words he was talking about a man and a woman and a husband and wife relationship and it was good. I mean it was good for Valentine's Day and and all that. And he said uh uh Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep. Up there in verse two, there are even shorn which came up from the washing, whereof every one bear twins, and none is barren among them I mean, so she's got all of her teeth. Amen. Praise the Lord for that. And then up here in verse 1 he says, Thy hair is as a flock of goats. That appeared from Mount Gideon. I wonder how my wife would take at it. Honey, Ohio looks like a flock of goat. I didn't think that would go over so good. But what this is is a beautiful picture of the church and the bridegroom, Jesus Christ the Lord The church is uh on down in chapter number four it gives another analogy of the church, chapter four, verses twelve, and follow it says, A garden enclosed is my sister, my spouse A spring shut up, a fountain sealed. He's comparing the church to a garden right there. There's all kinds of different flowers in a garden, all kinds of different plants Uh uh they grow in their place and and uh they bloom where they're planted. Amen. Then he says, Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates with pleasant fruits, camphor, with spitnard, spitnard and saffron, uh calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices, a fountain of gardens, a well of living water and streams from Lebanon. It's a garden, the church, the believers, you are a garden, you're planted here in Oakland, Maryland, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You're planted, uh, but it takes something for flowers to keep growing. It takes water, and that's the Word of God. It takes prayer. That's us speaking to God. The Word of God speaks to us Uh but we speak to him through prayer. Uh uh it takes water, the word of God. I want to ask you tonight, how is your garden right now? You, where you are, where you're planted right now. How is the water coming in? Are you paying attention to the Word of God? Are you reading and studying the Word of God every day? Are you staying close to Him? Stand close to him in prayer so that you can hear uh he can hear and answer your prayers, and you'll your faith increases because of the answered prayers in your life How's your garden? How often do you water it? I've told you before, the first thing I like to do, first thing in the morning, me and my wife pray, and then I go and out in my office or wherever, I get along with God and I read the Word of God. Because I need something. I need some strength for this day. Is your garden barren? A wilderness? Or a fruitful crop? The only way something can bear fruit is for it to be watered regularly. Then it'll bear fruit. And we expect to be fruitful without that time alone with God in His Word and in prayer every day Church, we need to pray. We appreciate you praying. We know you're praying for us because we've we've been on the road over six and a half years now and no accidents at all The Lord is blessed. We've seen souls saved. That goes on your account too. How was you supported? Prayed for us. Help us safe. The Lord's been so good to us. But now more than ever. History book's getting ready to be done with. There ain't gonna be no more history. It's all his story, but uh we're we're getting ready to take off out of here. It may be another thousand years. I don't know when it'll be when the Lord returns, but he is coming because he said he is. I wouldn't be a bit surprised if it wouldn't be sooner than we even think tonight. Father, I pray Lord to take your word. I pray it's encouragement. Lord, I pray you should continue to bless this church, 21 years anniversary of FBN Radio. Lord, I thank you for the ones that all of them that have prayed for FBN, those that have given, those that uh uh have helped with the station and and everybody in this church, Lord, I pray that you'll bless them. Give 'em a happy anniversary here. Lord, we're thankful for them. Father, I pray that you'd build FBN, continue getting the gospel out, both here and around the world. The power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, we're going to thank you for what you do. We can't see the future, but you've got it in your hands. And you're going to bring us through it. Help us, Lord, to be faithful. Lord, we s we can say like that man, Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. Help us to to stay close to you, sweet fellowship with you. In Jesus' name, Amen