Last night is intend it's intended for that purpose. It's intended to draw you closer to your Savior, and in the process you should have a stronger Marriage, you should have a sweeter home and even a stronger church body as well. Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18 is where we begin last night. I want to go back uh where we begin and this will be our springboard test even through tomorrow night. We encourage you to tune in tomorrow night, a very passionate very deep and thought-provoking message that we close this series out with on prayer. But in Luke 18 and verse number one, I want to simply read that first verse And then uh move into the thoughts this evening. In Luke 18 in verse number one, the Lord is speaking a parable, and notice the purpose of the parable. In Luke 18 in verse 1, it says that he That would be our Savior, spake a parable unto them, those would be his disciples, to this end, for this purpose. Notice that men ought always to pray and not to faint. I want to continue the series I began last night. It's simply entitled, Men Ought Always to Pray. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this evening for the privilege. To be gathered, we thank you for the honor and privilege we have to call you our Father. Now, Lord, as we bow our hearts before you, we once again would ask you would bless our time together. As we consider your desire for your children to come to you early and to come to you often, help us, Lord, tonight, to be challenged by this thought. And may there be nothing between us and you Lord, I pray that you'd use this message to strengthen our walk and our prayer life with you. Bless it and use it, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Last night, as we begin a series of thoughts, I reminded you that our call to arms as believers is a call to prayer. And as we considered our approach to our Creator, we noted that it had to begin with honesty, humility, and transparency. We had to approach God being real. And I noted that the honest soul is the soul that gets hell. But your and my Christianity begin in honesty You remember the invitation song, Just as I Am, without one plea, but that thy blood was shed for me. That was our approach to our God. We didn't come to him politicking We didn't come to him posturing. Our approach to him was simply being honest, humble, and transparent. We were simply sinners that needed a Savior, and we came to Him that way. I noted, though, that though our Christianity began that way, you and I need to recognize that how it began is how it should also continue. And I said in the area of prayer, and this desire that our newfound Heavenly Father has for each of us as his children to spend time with him in prayer, he wants our relationship to continue, being honest. And transparent in our approach to Him. And we noted in prayer there was a special place where that could be accomplished And it was private prayer. Go back to Matthew with me in Matthew chapter 6. And notice with me again, the Lord lifting up private prayer, and in so doing also notes the humility and transparency that are required. Notice he says and Verse 5, when thou prayest, Matthew 6 and verse 5, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. He said, Verily I say unto you They have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret. And thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. We noted that the place of power was not public prayer, but private prayer. And we noted that in private prayer, the prayer closet, there were four advantages that we could receive as believers that public prayer would never give us. Number one, private prayer allows us to focus on the Lord without distraction. To be still And to know that he is God. But second of all, we noted that private prayer allows you to actually name your sin audibly. Just say it out loud and hear your ears and hear your tongue. Have your ears hear what your tongue is saying from the depths of your being. And there's power in naming your sin audibly. You cannot do that publicly. You're going to lose a lot of people in the process. But let me say this: when you name your sin audibly to God in a private prayer closet, you'll never lose him. In fact, in many ways, he'll get closer to you We noted thirdly that private prayer builds your faith. As verse six noted, your father which sees in secret then rewards openly, only God could have done that because he was the only one that knew the request. And so private prayer builds your faith. And finally, we noted the fourth advantage of private prayer, it discouraged bitterness. It's very hard to get, I could say it maybe better this way, it's very hard to remain angry and bitter towards somebody that you're audibly praying for. And praying for God to bless them. And so private prayer gave these four distinct advantages. I noted that the best place to begin that entire process in your prayer closet, if you never have begun, was in Psalm 139. And the psalmist said it this way, and we closed with this last night in Psalm 139 He said, he asked the Lord for a few things here, and look at the petition, and I call this the prayer that God always answers. In verse 23 of Psalm 139, the psalmist said this. Here was his petition Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me And watch how this turns, and then Lord, lead me in the way everlasting. You know, the best place to begin your private prayer conversation with the Lord is right there, is asking to be searched by Him. You know, our time with our Heavenly Father, you and I need to always remember this. Our Christianity is not a religion, it is a relationship. We entered into an incredible relationship with the creator of this universe, who once was nothing more than God to us, but now he's our heavenly Father. And we ought to desire time with him. I note this also. I want to give you something tonight to help you. And maybe if you have a pen and paper ready and you're viewing, write this down because I think a lot of times You know, we hear the hymn, Sweet Hour of Prayer, Sweet Hour of Prayer that calls me from a world of care. And we literally say this when we hear that Pray for one hour? How do I do that? And yet in the Garden of Gethsemane, the Lord actually Turned that the other way, and he said, Could ye not watch and pray just one hour? He was astounded that they couldn't even pray one hour, and we're astounded if we do pray for one hour And yet the point is, is prayer is not always going to be simplistic. In short, let me say this. Here's something that has helped me tremendously as I approach God in prayer, as I take a knee Shut this world out. Focus on my Father, my Heavenly Father. It spells the word Acts, A-C-T-S. I begin with adoration. I come to him and I adore him for who he is. I will praise him for the fact that he's omniscient and he knows it all. Those things that were done wrong to me that no one else knows, he knows. I thank and praise him for the fact that he's omnipotent, he's all-powerful, he's He's a sovereign God who deals in the kingdoms and affairs of men. I I just I praise him and I adore him for that. I adore him for the fact he's righteous, not unrighteous. I'm so grateful I have a righteous father, not an unrighteous father I thank him for his goodness. I have a good father, not a bad father. He's a good God. He's a wonderful God. I praise him for his holiness. I'm grateful that he is a God who is holy, not unholy. I like the fact that I worship the Heavenly Father who's high and lifted up. I praise him for his honesty. He's a God who cannot lie. I pause to adore him for the fact that he is a God who loves. He so loved he gave. I am grateful, and I let him know I'm grateful for his mercies that are new today. And then I always end with this very first point in adoration. I thank him that he's a God and a father who changes not. I'm so grateful. And I tell him this. I said, Lord, I'm so thankful that tomorrow you're not going to be different. You're going to be the same. I can make book on that. I can make book on your mercy. I can make a book on your righteousness. And so I begin by adoring him. I just adore him for who he is. That's where my prayer life begins. Then I move to the C, which is confession of sin And that isn't hard to do if you're going to spend time adoring your Heavenly Father and noting everything he is. It's very easy to move to the confession of sin because you and I are almost everything he's not Where he is a God who cannot lie, we do lie and oftentimes shade the truth a little bit. Where he is a holy God, we're oftentimes unholy in our thoughts and our words. our deeds. Where he's a long-suffering God. We're a very impatient people. And I begin to just confess things to him. Confess attitudes that aren't right. Activities that shouldn't be there. And I just become very transparent before him. And it automatically humbles me. It just makes it a very humbling time. So I adore him, then I confess my sin. And then thirdly, the tea, that's thanksgiving Then I began to thank him for his blessings, spiritual blessings, my salvation, blessings in my family, my wife. Blessings in the good things and blessings in uh just you can think of food on my table. We can go through the list that he's a God of blessings, but then I thank him and praise him for the hard times as well. The character that has come, how much more and real he becomes when I go through trials. But I pause and just take time to thank him. And then fourthly, I close with S, and that would be supplication for others. Others who have needs, I lift them up to the Lord in prayer and uh and their needs and petition God for that. And so ACTS, as I as I take a knee, as I spend time with my father, that is a very common route I take in prayer, and you will be surprised as you pause And you go through that, you'll be surprised all of a sudden, wow, a lot of time passes as you immerse yourself in the presence of your Heavenly Father. And so that I would recommend as maybe a little outline. But second of all tonight, I want to move to a second thought that I think is very much here in our text. Go back to Luke 18 with me. In Luke chapter 18. And notice what the Lord is saying here in Luke 18 and verse number 1. Now he's going to be giving a parable, and we'll get to the parable tomorrow night. But what he's doing here is he's speaking a parable for a certain purpose, to this end. And what is that end? That men ought always to pray. That would mean men and women, boys and girls, ought always to pray and not to faint. I believe tonight that as we approach our Father in prayer, we should be transparent. We should be const uh we should be we should be humble, we should be honest and sincere about who we are, but then second of all I believe, as it's inferred here, we should learn to be constant and continual in our prayer life. Now that we're reconciled to God, he wants us to not just spend a little time with him once in a while, but he wants that to be a continual communication. Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. It's a very clear command. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and look at what he commands us here. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and notice with me in verse number 17. 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 17, he gives a very direct command. He says this, pray without ceasing. Wow. Pray without ceasing. What does it mean to pray without ceasing? Does that mean everywhere I go, my head is bowed and my eyes are closed? I wouldn't recommend that. We're going to have a lot of problems out on the highways if that's how you would interpret that command. What does it mean? He's talking to believers to pray without ceasing. I believe it has three applications. The first application is this to continually have an awareness of the presence of your Heavenly Father. A constant awareness. Of his eye upon you and the relationship you enjoy with him because of his son. I remember years ago in Vancouver, British Columbia, Pastor Getty there has a Filipino church and One afternoon while we were staying with he and his wife while I was preaching the conference that week, he said, uh hey Brother Dave, let's go ahead and uh go out and grab a few items that uh my wife needs. And so we got in the car He was driving, and I was sitting in the passenger seat. He put it in gear, and as he was preparing to leave the driveway, he said, let's pray. So he's driving and I'm in the passenger seat, so I thought, well, he's probably going to want me to pray. The car began to move, and I opened my mouth to prayer, head bowed, eyes closed, and all of a sudden he started praying But the car was moving. He was backing up and then going forward. And I I mean for a moment there this would there was this dilemma. I I'm I'm I'm thinking, oh no, um how is he praying? I mean is he Is his head bowed and clo eyes closed like me, but we're driving, we're moving, and I should I look, that would be irreverent. But then I said, but my life is on the line, and so I remember kind of doing a little quick one-eyed glance, and there he was, he's just driving along Talking to the Lord. Now, Lord, help us find some good buys. Help us to get a good parking place. And Lord, keep us, please keep us safe as we go through the traffic. He was just talking as if God was right there. He was practicing the presence of the Lord. The Lord says, Lo, I'm with you always. Amen. I believe this idea of praying without ceasing has the, first of all, that idea of the awareness of his presence. He's with us. We belong to him. And very real. Though invisible, he's very real. And I believe that would have the first idea. The first idea would have that thought. Second of all, though, I think to pray without ceasing would have the idea that you're on praying ground. In other words, you and I. Are living in such a way as a child, an obedient child, that we're connected in fellowship with the Father. There's nothing between us. The moments notice we have our father's ear. Oftentimes that people say, But you know, I uh you know I know I'm saved and And uh I I thought every time I pray that God hears my request, every single time. And oftentimes they say, really? I know he hears But how does he hear? What's his attitude if you're being disobedient and you know it? Look at a verse with me. I want to go back. I want to lay a little groundwork here. And we find three portions of Scripture that go ahead and bring this to our consideration. You know, to pray without ceasing, but to have the idea, the awareness of His presence But second of all, would have the idea that you and I are on praying ground. The hymn says, nothing between my soul and my savior. That song says that. Is it possible for a child of the Lord to have something between him and his father in such a way the father may hear but doesn't want to act upon the request? I believe that's found there. Notice what's said in Isaiah 59. In verse number one, it says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. Notice in that very first verse, we're noticing that God's abilities are unquestioned. God is not the variable here, he's the constant. He can save whenever he wants to save. He never loses his hearing and needs some amplification and some Some medical device to cause him to hear better. His abilities are undiminished. He's the constant. But notice who the variable is in verse 2. It says, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God. And your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. Wow. And we're not talking about relationship here. That's a settled thing in the person of Jesus Christ. Day I was saved I forever and ever and ever became a son of the true and living God through the blood of Calvary. A relationship isn't even in the balance, but fellowship is. And that's what's being spoken of here Notice another verse, the psalmist says in Psalm 66 and verse number 18, another verse that would show us that our heavenly Father is concerned, how his children live. Notice in Psalm 66, 18, the psalmist says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Wow. They're again not speaking of relationship, but a fellowship and communication between A child of the king and their father. And then in 1 John 3, a New Testament verse, look with me in 1 John 3 and verse number 22. Notice how even in the New Testament, this idea of living as an obedient child gets our Father's ear in an even greater way. 1 John 3 and verse 22 says this, and whatsoever we ask. We receive of him. Watch this, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. I want to ask a question. Do you think our Heavenly Father tonight is concerned with the behavior of his children? Oh, well, let's ask an honest question. For those of you that are viewing and have children, do you get concerned or are you concerned about the behavior of your child or your children? Do they just get to do whatever they want whenever they want to, and it just doesn't really matter. You set your love upon them, so you know, whatever they want, you're going to hear them, you're going to give them, no matter what their behavior is Listen, as parents, we know that is not how we operate. And you and I need to recognize that our Heavenly Father is a father, not a grandfather. He's going to operate as a father. I remember this experience Years ago in Alaska, I came home from work. I worked more uh more in the afternoons and evenings at a sales company. And I don't know if you ever had this experience as a parent, but throughout uh the day maybe you're thinking fondly of your children, you're looking forward to seeing them that night. And so You're picking up some items you know that they have recently been asking about and you know it's on their heart. Maybe it's uh a certain ice cream that they like, maybe a game they've been asking about But I remember throughout that day I was warm and fuzzy father. That's what I was. And so I was picking things up and I was putting the bags over in the the passenger seat uh as I and I was driving home and my uh in my marquee sedan I remember I'm looking at those items and I am getting joy out of just thinking how my children are going to respond When I walk in the house with these items, I know is on they're on their heart. I mean I'm getting joy just thinking of this. I can't wait for this moment. And so mine was a 45-minute drive home. Obviously, I picked the ice cream up closer to home, but it was a 45-minute drive home. And I am just, I am looking forward to anticipation with this meeting With my children and these items they've been kind of asking and inning around about to watch their joy as I go ahead and bring these things home. So I'm excited. I pull into the driveway, it looks like a Thomas Kincaid print Snow is falling lightly, the glow of the lights, and dad is so fuzzy he cannot wait. Let me tell you something. I think our heavenly, I think our heavenly father gets joy. Out of being a blessing to his kids. I think he gets joy out of that. No more than we would to our kids. You know he delights in mercy. He loves to just do this So I, in my heart, I mean I cannot wait. So as I pull up, put the car and park, I grab those bags of goodies, you know As I put the key in the door, I'm all warm and fuzzy, and as I step in, the first person to meet me is my dear wife, and she does not look warm and fuzzy. She looks like she just went through the Tet Offensive in Vietnam. I mean I mean she's not smiling and and and she's looking like she's been beat up a little bit that day. And I said, Hon, what's the problem? And this was her answer, your children. My children, all of a sudden they're my children. I said, well what did they do? She said, what didn't they do? I mean the girls went ahead and broke my favorite piece of China Kevin went ahead and stuffed the cat's tail in the socket and kicked a hole in the wall and and and she just went through the whole list and said, They're not listening to me, they're not behaving There you are, she said, and upstairs she went, slammed the bedroom door, and there I am like a deer in headlights, warm and fuzzy, has now been totally replaced by shock and awe and disappointment And as I'm holding all those things, here comes my children. Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, what do you have? What do you have? We're talking about what I have You're not in a position for that conversation right now They can beg all they want. Nope. They can go ahead and beg. Nope. It's not going to happen. Here's why. Why don't we as parents just Why do we it was an automatic response? We are not talking. That is not the topic right now. We have another conversation to have first before we get to what I was hoping we could do first. You know what, as parents, we recognize a couple of things. Number one, we cannot, at that moment, in the midst of their disobedience, reward them Lest they think and come to the false conclusion, we don't care how they live. Amen? Hey, we saw that in 1 Peter. As obedient Children. Our Heavenly Father cares how His children live. Amen. I mean, you weren't saved, you weren't saved to sin. You were set free from your sins so you could serve. I mean You've been called to liberty. You're not supposed to use that for an occasion of the flesh. So if we care how our children live, so does our Heavenly Father And so, first of all, uh if if he just goes ahead, if we as a father would just go ahead and give that, they would get the idea, well dad really doesn't care how I live. You know, I'm gonna get all the good he's whenever I asked for him anyhow And we would create a monster in the process. Or, second of all, there's a second thing that could happen, even worse. They could get the mistaken idea that I am blessing them for their disobedience. You know, we have some movements, we have some ideas in our movement that would say, let us sin, that grace may abound. God will just give more glory the filthier I live. That is a very false doctrine. We've been called the holiness, not unholiness. You know, as I think of that moment, it so illustrates the heart of my Father. He wants to bless us. We have his ear, you know. He wants to, and then if we leave live in such a way that we're disobedient He is going to have to deal with that disobedience. And I want to say this tonight. This is something for you. If you're viewing right now, I want you to pause and think. As I said this, is there something in your life tonight that you know is not right? It's been a habit you've had for years. You refuse to get the victory over it. You've hidden it. You pushed it aside. You don't want anybody to know. What just flickered through your mind? What just flickered through your mind? Could I say tonight, you're wasting your time going to God in prayer, if that's not the first thing you speak to Him about? And you know it. That's why you stop praying. That's why you stop praying. You know that's where Dad wants to meet you And you don't want to. And you also know you're wasting your time until you get that right. There should be nothing between us and the Savior. Amen. It should be a very listen, we begin in transparency, it's got to keep going that way. Some of you viewing, you have a public prayer life, your kids hear you pray over the meal, your people in church hear you pray for the offering, maybe pray to start a service. But you have never been caught in a prayer closet. You do not have a private prayer life. And I'm telling you, you need to get it and you need to start right wherever Father the Father is putting his finger on Whatever that is that's caused you to walk away from that fellowship time because it's too painful to get right, meet him there, it's worth every bit of your time. Amen. So to pray without ceasing, first of all, has the idea I'm aware of his presence. He's just as real as the person sitting next to me visibly, though he's invisible, he's real. Second of all, it has the idea, nothing between me and the Savior. I've got a uh I I I am on praying ground and I have the Father's ear Because I'm dealing with what he wants me to deal with first. But thirdly, I believe it has a third idea, and I want to close with this. I believe to pray without ceasing. as the command says, would mean this. Prayer is now, as a believer, your new habit. Prayer is now your new habit. It's the thing, it's the automatic response to whatever comes in your life. Can you look back over the years to your BC days before Christ? We all had some habits that weren't good, were they? I won't go through the whole list, but I'll share with you one habit I had. I had a spirit of anger. I don't know what it was about us little guys. We make it up with intensity, ferocity, and filthy language. That was me before I was saved. I had a horrible temper, and I'm not proud of it. I remember my senior year on class trip, Alexandria, Virginia. I punched out a three hundred dollar plate glass window getting in a argument and fight with a class bully. Almost got sent home. I had to borrow money to pay for it. I I just so angry, just so f intense. I remember times working in the field where uh the equipment wasn't operating properly and far away from home over in the forty acres, I I would find the biggest hammer, the biggest wrench, the biggest pipe wrench, whatever I beat dad's Equipment to death, man, just beat it, throw a fit, man. Just I was horrible. Shameful And I remember as a new believer, I got saved in about February of 1980. I got stationed at Whidby Island. And I remember after a few months of being there, I couldn't have been, but six months old in the Lord. Maybe eight months at the most. I remember I began to drive motorcycle at Whidby Island. Motorcycle was a great way to go. Up in the Pacific Northwest, you could drive you could literally drive motorcycle 11 and a half months out of the year, only two weeks you ever got snow, you wore a snowmobile suit, a helmet, it had a big wind jammer fairing on it, it was a Kawasaki 750 And I remember I would get more wet on the bottom than I would the top, but I I could drive that thing practically year round, twenty-five dollars a month for fuel. It was great And I remember this moment came, though, in my Christianity where the Spirit of God put his finger on my temper and forced me to change habits when something happened. It was a Thursday afternoon. Thursdays were the following. I worked a midnight to eight shift. Would get off, eat breakfast at the Chow Hall, go to my room, my barracks room. And then I would sleep for about three and a half, four hours. Then I would get up, do my devotional time, and then pack that motorcycle up, and Thursdays I headed to Bob Wolf's place. I would get a haircut from Bob Wolf. I would teach his son trumpet and then the whole church would meet Thursday for visitation at Brother Bob Wolves' house. So everything I was doing was spiritual in nature. There was nothing carnal. And I remember I went out to the motorcycle that day, and it sat in a courtyard. It was a three-story, three-story building, and it was shaped like a big horseshoe. And the motorcycles all sat in the courtyard, so everybody's window faced the courtyard. Everybody could see the motorcycles out there. So I'm in my snowmobile suit and helmet and I got out to the bike, loaded everything up, and this was a fancy bike. This one didn't just have a kick start, it had an electric start. So I went ahead and turned the key on, green light neutral, went ahead and turned the fuel on, everything's a go, and I remember pressing that starter. And this is what it sounded like. I said, no, that's weird. This thing always starts up right away. So I kept at it. Nin-in-in-in-neh. I said, What And so I went ahead and double checked everything. Green light, I mean neutral. Uh i I I I even took the cap off. I got fuel. So what is going on? And I kept pressing that starter, and then it began to sound like this. As that thing began to wind down, oh that old habit began to wind up, man. I could just feel the anger start to swell. I said, fine, that's stupid. And so I went ahead and I put the kickstand out and I said I can kick start this. And so I went ahead and Nothing. I remember taking a spark plug out and checking it had spark and it had fuel and I put it back in. I took the other spark plug out and I said, Man, it's got spark It's got fuel and I kept kicking on a thing and then all of a sudden I slipped Yah and I got my shin and I literally got to the point I'm not kidding you Where where oh man, I could just feel that anger coming and I wanted to take that motorcycle. I wanted to just literally throw it down, back down, punch it, and just just freak out like I always did And I'm right on the tipping point. Man, I'm ready to let her rip like I always did when I was lost. And the Spirit of God said, uh, ah, ah, ah, ah, how many people do you think may be watching you? Do this. I remember my initial response, well I I don't care, but I cared. I'd witnessed to many of these Marines had witnessed to many of these sailors. And though that double-pane glass window wouldn't let them hear, they could look out and draw a very very clear conclusion that was not Christian behavior going on out there And I remember, man, I oh I so wanted to just take that step and to just just Literally let that anger just flow like it always had. And that thought of representing the Lord held me for a second. And I remember in that moment as I'm tipping and teetering I finally, for the first time in my life, I'd never done this. But now I'm a new believer. I literally cried out to God for mercy. I literally just cried out to him. I begged him for help I'd never done that before. Because I hadn't been saved for 18 years. I remember. My prayer was not eat It was very passionate. I s I just cried out to God. I said, God, please help me start this. I think I said stupid buttons. And I literally just melted down and just wept. Said, Lord, I'm just trying to serve you. Please help me. I'll never forget what happened. The very first thing I noticed as I sat up On that motorcycle, following my cry to God, was a spirit of anger. It was gone. It was gone. I don't know where it went, but it was gone. Wasn't there anymore The second thing I noticed was that flood of joy and relief that went over my heart because I hadn't lost my testimony. I hadn't marred the name of my father. I remember that joy that followed that. The anger was gone. The joy came in. Then I remember the third thing as I wiped the tears. I put that kick start out one more time, and I stood on that thing and I gave it a kick. And that silly bite started on one cylinder. The other cylinder, this was a two-cylinder four-stroke, the other spark plug I forgot to put in. And this thing started on fifty percent of the cylinders and it you if you know what an open piston sounds like and it was echoing all through the courtyard Guys' doors began to open, they were looking out like what? And if you could have been there, this is what you would have seen. You'd have seen his marine doing this Prayer works! It works! Unbelievable! I remember just just putting my hands up and just shouting for joy I look back at that moment, and I wish I could say every time, since that time, I've always responded that way Much more than not. But I've learned something. God wants prayer to be my new habit He wants it to be the instead of. Pray instead of get angry. Some of you viewing have a spirit of anger. You've unnerved your wife, you've unnerved your family. It's the elephant. in your home that everybody knows is there, and you become an unwalled village now. You're open to every criticism. You're open to every criticism. That's what the spirit of anger does. Makes you vulnerable to any criticism whether it's right or not because you're so out of control. Why don't you pray instead of lose your temper? Pray instead of lust. Pray instead of click Pray instead of worry, ladies. Some of you have a default setting, viewers. You just you just this coronavirus thing has you totally freaked out. Not necessarily ladies, there's just a lot a lot of concern. Why don't you pray instead of worry? I believe with all my heart that God, when He says pray without ceasing, He's encouraging us to respond to whatever comes in our life and make that an excuse. Excuse and reason to pray. A trial comes in a blast of cold circumstances, it ought to press you closer to God You ought to grab him tighter in prayer. And then that warm, balmy, sunny day of blessing, it ought to make you open up like a flower and just praise God for his goodness. It doesn't matter what comes in your life, it's all a reason. I believe tonight God wants our prayers. Be honest, transparent. And sincere. But I also believe tonight with all my heart, God wants our prayers to be constant and continual. He wants us to pray without ceasing. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight. For this challenging thought. And Lord, we're humbled by the thought that you want us to spend time with you. You want us to come to you early and often. You want us to pray without ceasing, to commune with you. With you. To be constant and continual. And Lord, I pray tonight for the listener and the viewer. And Lord, I would ask first of all that they would ask of you What we closed with last night, and that would be this, that they would ask you to search them, try them, and know their heart. Father, if there's something between them and you, Lord, I pray tonight. That as a child of the Most High God, they would meet you there first. Father, it could be something that has Been unattended for years, they've refused to deal with it. I pray, Father, tonight, you put your finger upon that. And they would turn to you and in very great humility and transparency Confess to you that which has been a stumbling block in fellowship for years. Lord, they belong to you, through faith in your son, but the fellowship has been so strained. They know it. Lord, may they meet you there. Lord, I see you as a father that desires to bless your children, but so often the bags and the blessings stay behind the back because of our utter refusal. to meet you where you want us to meet you first. Lord, I pray tonight for that mom who struggles with worry, maybe a spirit of anger, that dad, Lord, who struggles with maybe a spirit of anger or uh anger or some habit, Lord, that's not moral. Lord, I pray tonight. Father, they would replace that with a cry to you. Father, their prayer life would be the new habit, the new response as the temptations would come as the struggles would be there. Lord, help us as your people. To be humble, honest, transparent, sincere, and then Lord, constant and continual in the seed Lord, may we have sweet hours of prayer. And Lord, for the viewer who isn't even saved, Lord, may they meet you at Calvary. You've promised, you so love this world, you gave your only begotten Son, that if someone would come, that whosoever believeth on him, that they would never perish, but instead have everlasting life. May they make peace with you. Tonight, through the blood of Calvary. May they be saved. We ask and pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor