Got three passages of scriptures I'd like for us to turn to. I'm not preaching the message that's in the bulletin. No one's going to have to wait a little longer But uh this is something that's been on my heart for several months. Uh Lee Bowman asked me back uh several months ago, back in the summer. He asked if I would come over And preach. He has um he does his missions conference a little differently. And uh he has a missions month in October, has different preachers, and he asked me to come over and preach a message on missions I knew as soon as he asked me, I knew exactly what the Lord wanted me to preach. I felt. Um not a message I ever preached before, which is unusual. Normally if I'm preaching out somewhere, I'll preach one that I've tried on you, and if it doesn't bomb, then I'll preach it. out somewhere else. But um God had laid this on my heart uh for that meeting and uh I preached it over there and uh God has just been stirring my heart since this summer about this matter. It's something that I feel like uh is a real danger that we are missing in our missions program. And um so I I've entitled it just Prayer and Missions. Notice with me would with me if you would, Matthew chapter nine. Look at verse 36. Matthew 9, 36. And I think this ties in, I felt the Lord's leadership ties in with our mission's emphasis Sunday next week. I'm good. Okay Praise the Lord. I don't hear anything. Uh-huh. Alright. Well, don't pay attention to that guy behind the curtain back there. Notice, uh, if you would, Matthew chapter 9, verse 36. Notice what the Lord says. It's about what the Bible says. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they were fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. This is a familiar passage. Now look at verse 37 Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labors are few. Would you agree with me? That's still the case. Today, the harvest is plenteous. There's no shortage of unsaved people out there. There's no shortage of fields that need to be reached with the gospel. The harvest is great, the labors are few. Now listen to the solution Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Now, keep your place there. If you would, turn with me to Acts chapter 13 Acts chapter thirteen. And notice verse number one. Acts chapter thirteen and verse one. Acts 13, verse 1. Notice the Bible says, Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers As Barnabas and Simeon, that is called Niger, and Lu and Lucius of Cyrene, and Menaeon, which had been brought up with Herod, the Tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and did what? Fasted. Now think with me for a moment, and I'm just setting the stage here. In the Bible, when somebody is fasting, what's that associated with? Prayer. Prayer and fasting. Prayer and fasting. Nowhere in the Bible do you find explicitly stated that they fasted and didn't pray. The two are always associated. So with that in mind, we can safely assume, I think we can come to the conclusion that their fasting was what? It was part of their prayer. They were praying and fasting. The Holy Ghost, as they did that, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, there you have it, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. In Matthew chapter 9, we have a mission statement. The harvest is great, labors are few. The solution is to pray. Here in Acts chapter 13, we have the church, and by the way, this is not Paul and Silas's call to the ministry. They were already in the ministry. This is their call to the foreign field. This is their call to missions. And it's associated very intimately with prayer. So you have the need of missionaries and prayer. You have missionaries being called to the mission field associated with prayer. Come with me one more verse. Come over to 2 Thessalonians, if you would, please. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And the fact of the matter is, I'm just pulling a few verses out of dozens. That have the same association between prayer and missions. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse number 1 2 Thessalonians 3 and verse 1. Paul, of course, writing to the church at Thessalonica under the inspiration of God, he says this: Finally, my brethren, pray for us. Now notice what they're supposed to pray for him about. That the word of the Lord may have what? Free course. What's he saying? He's saying we want you to pray. He's now on the mission field And he's saying, out here on the mission field, we want you back there to pray for us that the Word of God, that phrase free course means to be without obstacles That the Word of God, the gospel going out, would not be obstructed. That God would remove obstacles, it would have course into the hearts and minds of those who need to hear the gospel. And so my subject matter tonight, my my burden on my heart tonight is this. Prayer and missions. Prayer and missions. Let's have a word of prayer. And I'll try and share with you what I've got here. Father, bless now our time in your word. Help me, Lord, to be to the point And God, I pray that you'd stir our hearts in this. Lord, I believe that we're touching on something that is of great concern to you, and Lord, very dear to your heart And God, I think it's something that in many cases we're getting our priorities mixed up. So I ask that you would help us. Help me. Fill me. I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. And challenge us in this matter. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Most of us are familiar with the name John R. Rice. John R. Rice made some tremendous statements on prayer. Some of them are very well known. One of the more well-known ones is this. He said, all our failures are prayer failures. I agree with that. If you boil that down, that's true. He made this statement. He said little prayer produces little success. Much prayer produces much success. No prayer produces no success. He worded it other ways at different times. Sometimes he said it this way: little prayer produces little power. Much prayer equals much power. No prayer equals no power. Uh that's a convicting statement. And with that in mind, and with that truth in mind, I believe he hit the nail on the head. And in light of the passages we read here, not to mention the scores of other passages along these lines, If we are failing in our missions in getting the gospel into all the world, and you know, if you stop and think about it, there are Thousands of languages that have no Bible in that language. There are millions, we might could say billions of people That do not have knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, the church has been around for 2,000 years. I hate to say this, but that to me sounds like failure. That many people without the Word of God, that many people without the gospel. Christ said to go into all the world and preach the gospel. We've not accomplished that in our generation. Now, what is the cause of that failure? Why haven't these people been reached? Why isn't there a Bible in every language known to man? Why have we why have we why haven't we accomplished that? The question is, is it because we don't have enough money? Is it because we haven't thrown enough money at it? My feeling is, and I have no statistics to back this up, I'm just going off of my experience, but I have the feeling there's more money being poured into missions now than there ever has been in the history of the church. I'm hearing of churches giving tremendous amounts of money to missions. Is that why we have so many people without the Word of God, without the gospel? Is it because of lack of organization? I want to suggest to you our missions programs are probably as organized as they've ever been. Is it because we don't have enough missionaries going out? That could be a factor But I'm looking at Scripture, and I'm noticing what Jesus says, and I'm coming to the conclusion. Is the reason we've not met our goal, the reason we haven't reached these folks, isn't because of lack of money or lack of organization or lack of manpower. I believe it's because of lack of prayer Just anemic prayer, prayerlessness in this matter of missions. I think if our prayer, if our prayer life, our prayer ministry concerning missions was what it ought to be, we'd have all the money we possibly needed. We'd have all the organization we could possibly need. We'd have all the manpower we could possibly need. I concur with John R. Rice when he says all our failures are prayer failures. We're missing the mark on this. I'm becoming, and I may have made this statement in various messages over the last several months, but I'm becoming increasingly concerned. That our, and I say ours, us as a church, but as independent Baptists as a whole, that our missions thinking is becoming thoroughly materialized. When we think of reaching the world with the gospel, our thoughts immediately come to money, programs, schemes, efforts. And it seems to me the last thought in our mind is the spiritual aspect of coming to God in prayer, praying for laborers. Praying for God's will to be done in my life, in my church, this matter of prayer. Your average missions conference And it would be very easy to misunderstand what I'm saying here tonight, very easy to misconstrue. So don't do that But your average missions conference, what do we talk about the most in your average missions conference? Money. We talk about a goal we've set, about how much we're going to give, and all that. Now, my question is: is that wrong? No. That's not wrong. That's a part of it. But we're missing the point. We have 2 Corinthians chapter 8 memorized. Grace giving, you know, and all that. Everybody comes in, they preach from 2 Corinthians chapter 8, and that's great. I'm not against that. We're not going to stop doing that. But I'm afraid we're becoming materialized. All we're seeing is the mechanics. I get literature, I get magazines, I get uh uh newspapers Christian, they talk about missions and I try and read what they have to say and and uh get a feel for what's happening, looking for ideas and whatnot, being challenged myself But I'm finding that your average missionary missions article deals with methods, schemes, money-raising ideas. And those are all fine. Again, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I don't think that's where our need is. I don't think that's where the breakdown is. When I open my Bible and I read my Bible and I study what the Bible says about world missions. And I study what the Bible teaches about this matter of reaching the lost around the world with the gospel. You know what I find intricately associated with that is prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. In fact, I got my Bible out and went through, and uh you may think of some, I haven't found them, where the Bible associates other than uh 2 Corinthians chapter 8 perhaps but where the Bible associates money and missions together. I find, I'd say ten to one, where it's prayer and missions. Go and missions. Pray. Missions begins with God. It doesn't begin with my wallet Amen. Begins with God. It doesn't begin with my schemes and my understanding. It begins with God. And then it's carried out by prayer. I think prayerless giving is one of the root causes of our failure to reach the world for Christ. Prayerless planning, prayerless methods. Now, should we give? What's the obvious answer? Yes, obviously. That's part of it. You know, that I'm not saying that we don't do these other things. But I am saying we should never, and we're going to be challenged next Sunday. Dr. Keene's going to come in. I'm going to Present, we're going to give out the faith promise cards like we always do at mid-year. We're going to do that, but what I'm saying is we should never haphazardly make a faith promise commitment It ought to be saturated in prayer. The money I give to missions ought to be what God showed me I should do in response to my prayer. I don't think we ought to give haphazardly to missions, give our money haphazardly to missions any more than a missionary haphazardly goes to the mission field. He prays for God's leadership, he prays for God's direction, he prays for God to show him what he should do. And we're just a part, giving is just as much a part of getting the gospel in all the world as it is going. And it must be saturated in prayer. I don't want a missionary to go off to the mission field. Well, where are you going? I don't know. We'll just, whatever. We'll come up with something. I don't want people to give the missions, give the missions anymore. Like, what are you going to give? I don't know, I'll find something in my wallet, throw it in. It needs to be saturated in prayer. Prayer, praying for God's leadership. I shouldn't say this, but my wife and I give a fairly significant amount of our income to missions. And again, you can misconstrue what I'm saying and you can take things the wrong way. I don't want you to do that. But I just want to point something out. We don't do that haphazardly. We have prayed earnestly for many, many years about what God wants us to do in this matter of missions. And what we give on a weekly basis to missions, I assure you, is what we are convinced it is God's will for us to give. My wife and I have discussed it over the years about what we give and different things and um Sometimes she has different ideas than I do. And she's always wrong. But um, no, I'm kidding. But we've talked about it, we've prayed about it, and we've come to agreement And we've come to the conclusion for us to do anything other would be to disobey God. Now I want to challenge you. Your giving to missions, is it something you have sought the Lord over? Is it something you can say, I am convinced that this is God's will For me to give. This involvement is missions, is God's will. I'm convincing it after seeking God in prayer and praying earnestly and consistently and at length This is God's role. This is the role God has for me to play in world missions. This matter of giving. We should never haphazardly give to faith promise missions. Spend much time in earnest, diligent prayer. More than any other aspect of Christian life. Now, all of Christian life, there's spiritual warfare. Would you agree with me How many folks here in your Christian life you've sensed, experienced the spiritual warfare that's involved in the Christian life? How many people testify? Sure. Now, of all the aspects, areas of Christian life, Christian ministry, world missions. Is a spiritual aspect. More than any other area, you're going to see the spiritual aspect of getting the gospel in all the world. And thus, world missions must be engaged with spiritual weaponry. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal They're spiritual. They're not physical. It's not flesh and blood. It's spiritual. It is alarming And I'm preaching it myself. It's alarming how much we press giving to missions and how little we emphasize praying for missions. We've got it backwards. Ian Bounce, I've been pushing his books. He makes this statement in one of his chapters, I don't remember what it was. He makes this statement. If Satan can get us to put the material mechanics of missions above the spiritual power of missions, we've become ineffective. What he's saying is this. If he gets us to emphasize the money, the mechanics, the schemes, the organization, if that's where all our emphasis is, To the neglect of spiritual prayer for missions, then we become ineffective. We're nothing more than an organization out there that's promoting Coca-Cola. We're just promoting a brand. We've got the material, physical aspect. We've got all the machinery going, cranking out Christianity. That's not what missions is. Missions is the power of God falling upon the people of God, preaching the word of God, and people being converted to God. It's a spiritual thing. And so, spiritual aspect. I got a couple thoughts. I'm just going to throw them out there real quick. Number one, it is in response to prayer that God calls missionaries. That's how God calls missionaries. We just read three passages of Scripture. Matthew 9. The harvest is great, the labors are few, we desperately need laborers. What should we do? Pray That's how you get laborers. Pray. Luke 10, verse 1 and 2, he says basically the same thing Our Lord's instructions concerning the need for missionaries is prayer. Now, again, don't get me wrong, but the harvest is great, labors are few. Lord says, What do we do, Lord? Have more missions conferences. It's not what he says. Now, should we have missions conferences? Absolutely. But that's not where you get, that's not what produces missionaries. It's prayer. Harvest is great, the laborers are few, what should we do? Have more missions college courses. Now listen, colleges ought to have missions college courses. It's helpful, it plays a role. But that's not what produces missionaries. It's prayer. Here's one stripes a little close to home, and and again, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. The harvest is great, labors are few, there's a whole world out there, we've got hardly anybody going out to it. What should we do? Take mission trips. Now listen, you know we're all for mission trips here. We're not against it. But the Lord's solution to the need for missionaries was prayer. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers. Before the Lord called his disciples, what did he do? He had a discipleship conference. No, he didn't. He had discipleship college courses. No, he didn't. What did he do the night before he called his disciples? He spent all night in prayer. All night in prayer. You know why? Because that's how God calls his laborers. In response to prayer. Church doesn't call missionaries. The church sends them. God calls missionaries As a preacher, I can't stand up here and say, all right, you're going to be a missionary, and you're going to be a missionary and you're going to be a missionary. I can't do that. That's not my role. I don't have that authority. God does that And so if we need missionaries, God's the one that calls them, so if we need missionaries, who do we go to? God. He's the one that calls them. Preacher doesn't call missionaries. By the way, mama doesn't call missionaries either. We don't want mama called preachers. We don't want mama called missionaries. We want God called preachers. We want God called missionaries. And so God calls the missionaries in respon It's the prayer We lament the lack of missionaries going to the fields. And we blame the worldly church. And the church has gotten very worldly. We blame the compromising schools, and a lot of schools have compromised. We blame rebellious youth. And to be honest with you, there's a lot of rebellious youth But the problem for lack of missionaries is our neglect of prayer. It's an indictment of the church. That we're not praying like we should. We're not asking God to send forth labors. Major emphasis of our church's missions program should be prayer. It should be emphasized prayer, organized prayer, prioritize prayer. Number one, my concern is that the response it's in response to prayer that God calls missionary. Number two, it's in response to prayer that God provides for the material needs of missions. Matthew 7, 11 and 12, 7 through 11, we know what that says. Ask and ye shall receive. Knock and ye shall Shall be open unto you. Seek and ye shall. For whosoever asketh, and whosoever knocketh, it is, and whosoever seeketh The Lord emphasized that. He says it over and over and over. Ask, seek and knock. Ask, seek and knock, ask, seek and knock. And you'll find. It'll be given. It'll be opened You know what we claim that verse for? We say, oh wow, I can get me a new iPhone. God promised if I keep asking them and Keep seeking, if I keep knocking, if I keep asking, he'll give me what I want. I want one of those new iPads. I'm not saying it's wrong to have that. I got me a new phone. Brother Jerry and I were comparing whose phone's best. Of course Mine is, but um no, I'm teasing. Uh uh but that's not why he gave us that, so we can consume all stuff on ourselves. Now God in His grace and mercy gives us nice things. But I don't believe for a moment the reason he made that tremendous promise was so that we can have more stuff. I'm convinced he gave us that promise so we can be equipped to fulfill the mission he has given us to do, to take the gospel into all the world. That's the purpose for prayer promises. And we claim those promises for stuff for us. And God, in His grace and mercy, often gives us what we ask for, but it often results in leanness to our souls. The promises of God are so that we can come to Him and get the resources we need, so we can fulfill His will for our lives. So we can accomplish the mission He's given us to do And that's to take the gospel into all the world. It's through prayer that God provides the material needs for missions. You gotta have money for missions. There's no other way around it. How do we get that money? Well, we got these schemes and that schemes. You know what God says we should do? Ask. Be given unto you. Seek, you'll find it. Knock, it'll be open unto you. Number three, it is through prayer that spiritual strongholds keeping nations in the dark and closed to the gospel will be broken down. It's interesting in Matthew chapter 7. One of the promises is this, and it shall be Open unto you. How do we describe countries where you can't get missionaries in? They're described as what type of country? Closed countries. Isn't it interesting that the Lord, in response to prayer, says that doors will be opened? Maybe the solution to many of the closed Muslim countries and communist countries, maybe the solution to opening those doors isn't so much political influence as it is earnest prayer. Daniel chapter 10, Daniel's praying. He's studying a scripture. We uh touched on this in a message not long ago. We preached on this And Daniel's praying, and for 21 days there's no response from God. And he finds out Gabriel shows up, the angel Gabriel, and tells Daniel, Daniel, from the day you began praying, we heard that prayer. But he says our answer to your prayers was hindered by the prince of Persia, a spiritual devil, who was given authority by Satan over that region. And he says, I had to call Michael, the warrior angel, to come down, and we were engaged in spiritual conflict for 21 days before we could get through to you and answer your prayer. You know what it tells me? Spiritual strongholds are broken down by persistent prayer. What if Daniel on day 14 would have quit praying? Would have never got the answer. Spiritual, the darkness, a spiritual darkness would have won. The stronghold would have never been broken. But he kept praying and he kept praying and he kept praying and the battle raged on in the spiritual warfare that he was nowhere aware of. But because of his prayers, the darkness was overcome and the answer came through. Now listen, all the money in the world cannot Break down the spiritual darkness, the spiritual strongholds around these closed countries. It is power of God in response to prayer that will open doors. It is the power of God in response to prayer that will break down spiritual strongholds. Victories on the mission fields are won by prayer warriors in the home churches. Demonic strongholds in closed nations will not be brought down by bigger budgets, better schemes, or brighter students. It will be brought down by effectual, fervent prayers of righteous men. That is where the spiritual victory is. Number four, and last of all, my concern is that it's prayer, it is prayer that attains the wisdom for the issues and situations that world missionaries face. We read this morning in Sunday school of the Van Royans in a closed country. You know what? They've got to be smart. If they're stupid, they're done. Am I right or wrong They bring those little kids in early in the morning and and uh they do the things the way they did so they can operate. Listen You need wisdom on the field. We need wisdom as a pastor. Now the Bible says there's two types of wisdom: there's earthly wisdom and there's heavenly wisdom. We need God's wisdom. We need God to lead and direct our missionaries out on the field. Any one of them, Lewis down in New Zealand, any one of them. They need wisdom. I got an email this morning from them. We were emailing back and forth. This morning he's got a little uh thing, ministry going on there that God's been leading them. And uh we've been writing and been praying and different things. You know what? I think he prays and seeks the Lord, and God gives him wisdom to things to do and how to go about this Turn with me and I end with this. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 2. Would you turn there with me? Proverbs chapter 2. And believe me, this has been God challenging my heart as much as anybody's on these issues. Proverbs chapter 2. And notice with me, if you would, verse number three. Proverbs two and verse three. Look at this. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if we do what? Pray. If we pray, pray for knowledge, pray for understanding. If thou seekest her knowledge and understanding, verse 2: wisdom. If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her for as hid treasures. In other words If we pray, if we put as much effort and work into our prayers for wisdom and leadership and understanding from God as we do into getting a paycheck, We might have some results. Look what it says. Look at verse 4. If thou seekest her as what? Silver. If you're praying and seeking the wisdom of God and knowledge of God as much as you're working towards a paycheck. Silver. Searches for her as for hidden treasures. Suppose I told you that there was five million dollars hidden on this campus somewhere, and whoever finds it can have all of it tax-free. You know what this place would look like tomorrow morning? It would look like bombs dropped on the place. Everything would be torn apart, dug up. Am I right or wrong? I know you all are too mature, you wouldn't go out looking for it, but somebody would. That's what he's saying here. If you search for, if you work as hard in your prayers for wisdom and God's leadership and God's understanding in your life. As you do for money and stuff. Look at verse number five. Then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Look at verse 6. For the Lord giveth what? Wisdom out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Listen, you can't be a dummy And spiritual warfare. We need wisdom. We need the wisdom from God. And that comes in response to prayer. Now, next week, mid-year missions emphasis Many of you, I want to say most of you, and we've been, I trust we've been faithful to the Lord, what God laid on our heart last May about our faith promise giving I trust that most of us, at least, I'd like to say all of us, are yielded to the Lord, whatever his will is for me concerning world missions, we're willing to do that, we're surrendered to that, we just need him to lead us But I want to say this, as we go into next week, let's spend this week in earnest prayer asking God To raise up labors, whether it's among us or somewhere else. That's not the point The point is that God would send forth laborers into Kazakhstan, into Iran, into Iraq, into Afghanistan. I saw a program the other night. It was an actual video footage of our troops on outposts in Afghanistan. And it was fascinating what our young men are going through over there on the front lines in Afghanistan. But you know what grieved my heart? The language That our soldiers were using among those Afghan people. And at least in that footage, I never heard the name of Jesus used in an honorable, reverent way, not once. As far as those folks know that I saw in that footage, the only thing they know about Jesus Christ is he's some sort of curse word. Tied in with some of the most vile words you can imagine. You know what Afghanistan needs? It needs some soldiers of the cross. Some folks that come and bring the name of Jesus Christ, the only name whereby a person can be saved. Afghanistan, name any other country you want. We've got to pray that God raises up labors to go to these fields. That God meets the needs and helps those that are there. Pray. That God gives them wisdom, that God breaks down spiritual strongholds. This week, let's make that a matter of prayer. Pray about what God would have you give. I can't tell you. All I know is what I'm convinced God has told me to do. I sincerely sought the Lord. I ask you to do the same. Seek God. I believe you can give without praying. Do you agree with me? Person can just throw money in there and not pray about it. But I don't believe you can pray without giving. I don't think you can earnestly come to God and say, God, what would you have me? to give to the cause of missions. God, I want your will to be done. Make it known to me. God, and then enable me to do it. Help me to have the faith. I'll believe for a moment. God will say, oh, I don't want you to do nothing I don't want you to be involved in all. That flies in the face of this book right here. Pray. Make praying for missionaries a top priority. As we go into 2012. Let's make praying for missionaries a priority. Can you imagine if every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church prayed for our missionaries on a daily basis, specifically paying attention to what the requests are and then pray? I believe that would have a powerful, powerful impact. Pray earnestly. Pray specifically by name for individual missionaries. I tell you, I just cannot get over when we went up to James Bay in Canada and Roger Wepaninapico was his name. That's how I say it. No one else knows how to say it either, so that's how I say it. And it was like and the folks that were there, Darren, Connie, Rob where's Robin? McDonald's? Nursery. I don't trust those nursery workers. No, I do. I thank God for 'em. Um what was I talking about? Canada. I'm telling you, we prayed on that trip, and the folks that were there, you ask them, it was like God had him sitting there waiting for us to show up. It is amazing. I'm telling you, prayer, we've got to make it the number one part of our missions program. Pray for me as pastor how to implement that. I don't know how. There's schemes. I try and put things in the bulletin to remind us to do that. But let's pray. That prayer becomes the focal point of our missions. And out of that, if I understand my Bible correctly, out of that He's produced the materials, the finances, the manpower, the direction, the wisdom. Out of that prayer, all those things are results We cannot begin with the material and then tack on the spiritual prayer. We must begin with the spiritual prayer and trust God for the material. Does this make sense? That's if God's convicting me about. Think about the amount of time it takes Think about the amount of time it takes for you to work to earn the amount of money that God's led you to give to missions. How many hours of work is involved in earning that money to give to missions? One hour, two hours, five hours, ten hours, whatever it is. God's laid out a mound on your heart. Think about that, and this is what my heart's where my heart's been, my mind's been What about spending that amount of time in prayer? That equal amount. The amount of time it takes to earn that money to give the missions, what about spending that amount of time in prayer for missions? Making the spiritual equal to the missions. material. I don't know. But being challenged, this matter of prayer. Father, help us, Lord. I don't I don't Lord, I don't know that I preached the great message, but God I've shared my heart and what you're convicting me about, and the thoughts going through my mind as you deal with my heart about this. And Lord, I pray that up here in the mountains, if we're not a church of anything else, God, let us be a church of diligent, earnest prayer for labors to be sent forth out into the harvest field. for the material supplies to be sent forth out in the harvest field, for wisdom to be given to those out on the harvest field. Lord, show us, lead us, direct us as individuals, as a church, to pray. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I share your burden? I share your concern about this priority of prayer for missions. Not neglecting the others, not doing away with the others, but making prayer the focal point And how many would say, preacher, I join with you on that, that burden, I join with you, and I want that to be true in my life. A matter of earnest, diligent, prioritized prayer For our missionaries, specifically, individually praying for them. God bless you, hands all around. That has to have an impact. That has to make a difference. God has promised it. Let's claim it. Father, bless our invitation. Help us in this matter, we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand in