Bibles turn back to Luke chapter sixteen. I failed to recognize our spring peepers. Mr. and Mrs. Miller are back there up on the mountain for the day and a big storm moving in. They're heading back right as soon as church is over, heading back down off the mountain. But uh it's good to see them. And our corporately sponsored missionary to India, Andrea. Good to see her back Her her company pays for her to go to India and she witnesses for the Lord over there, gives out tracts and stuff. So I call her our corporately sponsored missionary. Luke chapter 16. I had a unique opportunity this past week on Monday and Tuesday to go down to Washington with uh just about 300 other independent Baptist preachers Most unusual thing in the world, Brother Mike Creed from Independent Baptist Church organized this thing. And we were able to meet with representatives, congressmen and women, and senators from all across the country. I think there was forty-five different states represented by independent Baptist preachers, sat down one-on-one with scores of uh congressmen and senators We're able to share the gospel with them in uh printed form, Bibles and uh gospel tracts, and um uh share our our concern for them, offer our m our services as far as prayer, if we can help them in any way. It wasn't to lobby, it wasn't to confront them about anything other than be a c have a concern for them as individual sinners that need to be saved by grace. And what an amazing experience that was this past week. Able to share the gospel with people, men and women, that have such an influence on our country. Well, interesting thing. One of the men said, very conservative fella, he said the answer to our country's problems, and by the way, our country has serious problems. He said the answer to our country's problems is not in politics. It's a spiritual problem our country has. And he says it will only be fixed by morality on the part of the people. He says He says, immoral people cannot govern themselves morally. They're immoral to begin with. Governing themselves is going to be total failure. So he said we need morality on the part of American citizens. And that's great. I agree with that 100%. But there's a problem that falls short. Who's going to decide what is moral and what is not moral? There has to be a final authority on what is right and wrong. And until our country gets back to the Bible to establish what is right and wrong. Even a moral people it's going to fail because no one's going to have the same morals. It's i there's no basis. You follow what I'm saying And so we come to the Word of God as our final authority. What the Bible says is so. And when the Bible talks about heaven and hell, we take it for what it says. And in Luke chapter 16, we have a passage of Scripture that for many of us is very familiar. Some of you have heard preaching on this passage many, many times. But nevertheless, It's a real it's it's a it's a uh final authority about what happens after death And I like you to notice with me if you would uh in uh Luke chapter 16 In verse number 23. Now we're going to look at various portions of the passage that Pat read here a little bit ago, but I just want to get us started with verse 23. And in hell He lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. Now look at ver first part of verse 24. And he cried and said, And he made a request. He prayed, if you will. Come down to verse number 27. This is the rich man in hell. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, Father. He gives a second prayer request. Now I got reading this, and I realized we have in this Record two prayer requests that come out of hell. Two prayer requests that come out of hell. And so I entitled the message Prayers from Hell Let's ask God to speak to our hearts, and I'll share a sober but very important message this morning. Father in heaven, God, I, and I believe I speak, I know I speak for the church. Lord, we believe with our hearts that this book is your word. And every word of this book is absolutely true. We don't guess what's beyond the grave, we know, because you've told us. And I pray as we look at this very sober portion of Scripture that you would open our hearts and minds, and that the reality of this subject would grip us Not in a morbid way, but in a way to sober us and get us to be serious about the things of God, about our own spiritual well-being and the needs of others God, I recognize there is nothing in and of myself to be of any eternal or spiritual help to anybody. Or in my flesh there dwells no good thing. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me, challenge us, and help us in this matter. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's a story about a message a man left on his tombstone. And his tombstone, he had this engraved on his tombstone. Consider, young man, as you walk by As you are now, so once was I. As I am now, you soon shall be. So prepare, young man, to follow me. Now that sounded pretty good, and sometime later another fella took a penknife and he scratched a response to that below that phrase on the tombstone and he scratched this into it To follow you is not my intent until I know which way you went. There are only two directions a person can go after death. When a person dies, the moment that heart stops beating, the moment that body, the physical body, dies. That person goes to either heaven or to hell. Now, all through scripture, we have referenced a being by the name of Satan or the devil Pollyon, Lucifer, his various names. And the Bible always presents Satan as a literal actual being. Not some mythological creature, not some figure of speech, but as an actual real being, just as real as God is That's the Bible's presentation of Satan. So if we believe the Bible, if we're going to take the Bible at face value, we can come to no other conclusion than the fact that there is a real being by the name of Satan Just as the Bible says. Well, the Bible also references a place called hell all through Scripture, Genesis to Revelation. And Ways in scripture presented as an actual, real, literal place. Just as real as heaven. In fact, we are given more information about hell than we are about heaven in the Bible. We know more about what hell is like than we know what heaven is like. And so uh Jesus, by the way, Jesus referenced hell more than he did, than he referenced heaven And so we are amiss. I feel I would be failing God and disobedient to my calling if I did not teach and preach the reality of this place called hell. And so we have it in our passage here, Luke chapter 16. And again, I had Pad read an extended portion of scripture this morning. I wanted the whole event here taken in context But this passage, we're given unusual window, if you, so to speak, into what hell is like. It's almost like in this passage, God is pulling back a blind, and you and I can step up and we can look into Cloudy somewhat perhaps, but we look into one person's experience who died and went to hell. We have a few moments of time of what this person in hell is experiencing And we can observe it for our own selves here in this passage of Scripture. First thing we notice is this is a rich man in hell We're not told much about him, other than the fact he was very rich. There's no suggestion here that he was an immoral man in any way. There's nothing to suggest here that he had gotten his riches in an unjust fashion or he was dishonest in any way, we're not told that. And so we have no reason to assume that this was an immoral man or a dishonest man I would assume if he uh and again this is speculation on my part, but assuming he was honest and uh he was moral He's obviously wealthy, so he's been uh successful in his business endeavors. No doubt he was a respected man in the community. Nevertheless, he was lost Moral? Yes. Honest? No doubt. Respected? I think so. But he died and went to hell He died and went to hell. He was a lost man. Now, before we get into my outline, I want to make a few statements about this man, the fact that this man was rich and his financial condition and its relationship with him going to hell. And this is just an aside. First of all, I want to point out that money does not send a person to hell. This man did not go to hell because he was rich. My financial condition does not determine my eternal destiny. No one goes to hell because they're rich, and no one goes to heaven because they're poor. My finances do not determine my eternal destiny. There's only one reason a person goes to hell, it's because they refuse to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior And there's only one way to get to heaven, that is by accepting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. So do not be mistaken. This rich man did not go to hell because he was rich. Second statement concerning his financial status, uh money cannot get men out of hell. Do you get that? You can give all the money you want to a church or any church. It's not going to get someone out of hell. Excuse me, I'm not trying to be kind. I'm trying to be honest. I'm not trying I'm not trying to be kind. Uh yeah, that's obvious. Um I'm not trying to be unkind, but I do want to be truthful. And the fact is the Catholic Church teaches that if you give a certain amount of money. You can purchase people out of what they call purgatory. That is unscriptural. You can give your life savings. You can give everything you own to the church. It will not get a person out of hell Money cannot get a person out of hell. So, money did not send this man to hell. Money cannot get him out of hell. And by the way, money cannot keep a person from going to hell. Again, you can give all the money you want to the church. It's not going to save you from hell. You cannot buy your way to heaven. Heaven cannot be purchased. It's already been purchased with the blood of Jesus Christ on the cross 2,000 years ago. And so But, all right, so what do I say? Number one, money does not send a person to hell. Nobody goes to hell because of the amount of money they have or don't have. Money cannot get someone out of hell once they're there Money cannot keep you out of hell. You can't buy heaven. But thirdly, what can money do in relation to hell? Money can help get the message of the gospel to folks who are on their way to hell. Did you catch that? That's what faith promised giving is all about. Getting missionaries out to the lands and to people, church planners, to folks. who can tell them the gospel and have people saved from going to hell. Now, how many folks notice when you come in little globes setting in the back of the auditorium? How many people saw that How many people it's been driving you nuts trying to figure out what those globes are for? I know it. Those are a means that we're going to be able to help uh missionaries get the finances they need to get on the gospel. So If you stay awake and uh and stay to the end of the service, I'll tell you what they're about. So we have this rich man in hell. He didn't go to hell because he was rich. He went to hell because he was lost. Now I want us to first of all consider this place called hell. Look in verse 23 with me. First the poor man died, then the rich man died. And the Bible says concerning the rich man in verse 23, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. This is presented as an actual real literal place. The word hell, uh our English word hell comes from the Greek word gehenai. And the word Gehenai was the name of a of the for lack of a better term, the city dump for the city of Jerusalem. And everybody would take their refuse and dead animals and I and uh if I uh understand correctly, they would take the dead prisoners and whatnot And they would throw them into this valley of Gehenai uh and they would s perpetual fire burning there. And they would just burn the refuse and these bodies and whatnot, and it was a nasty, nasty place, as you can imagine. Jesus uses that term to reference this place called hell. Just as real as that city dump was that Jesus, that everyone there in Jerusalem was familiar with is this place called hell. And it's interesting that he would use something like that city dump on fire, nasty, uh maggot-infested, stinking, rotten, death And he would use that to describe what the place hell is like. We are told in the Bible that hell is a place of destruction. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 13, Jesus said, Broad is uh wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. And many there be which go in thereat. The word destruction there means total ruin. Let me put it this way, just to simplify it down. There is nothing good about hell. There is nothing pleasant in hell. It is a very real, literal place, a place of destruction. Jesus referenced hell as a place of outer darkness. A place of unquenchable fire. A place of intense fear. In Psalm chapter 73, verse 18 and 19, he talks about those in hell terrified. in hell. Absolute terror in hell. The Bible references, Jesus referenced hell as have place where the worm dieth not Now you can imagine, if you would, in your mind, this valley of Gehenai and all the trash and the carcasses and of uh of animals and humans no doubt And as those flesh rotted and was burning in the fire, the the smaggots and the worms that would be crawling around, and Jesus referenced when a person dies and goes to hell They're in a very literal place, very actual place of outer darkness, complete total darkness, a place where the fire is unquenchable, will not go out, and a place that is absolutely infested. With these worms that will not die. Oh, the Bible references hell as a place of torment. The word comes from the same word that we get our word torture from. Absolutely pain, absolutely unpleasant. Hell, uh there is nothing pleasant said about hell in Scripture. By the way, we could take time and and uh break this down a little more. Another thing interesting about hell is this rich man in hell, he has his memory. Boy, what a horrible thing a memory can be. To remember something that could have been. I'm curious, how many folks here, you have something in your past that you would do anything to be able to completely forget it? Anybody here? I do You imagine in hell never ever ever being able to forget the opportunities to be saved. Never forget The prayers and concerns of loved ones. Never forget the gospel tract that was handed and how simple it would have been just to bow my head and accept Jesus Christ as Savior, and I did not do it, and now I'm burning in hell. For all eternity, remembering that. Remembering that. Hell to Hollywood is a joke Hell to Hollywood is in many cases a cool place. I saw an advertisement for a movie where a demon from hell comes to earth and actually becomes a superhero. And fights for mankind and is and this helps mankind. That is blasphemy. Hell is a joke to Hollywood. Our media mocks the idea of taking the Bible literally. And by the way, even some of our conservative heroes, so to speak, do not believe the Bible as the literal word of God. I've heard men in the media who I looked up to and respected and defended my position politically on many things mock the idea of taking the Bible literally when it refers to a place called hell I want to tell you again, the answer to our country's problems is not in politics, it's in the Word of God. And until their country returns the authority of God's word, we're just going to stay in the same mess. The media mocks the idea of t uh of a literal hell. Comedians Joke and laugh and mock the idea of taking the Bible literally. Rock stars sing about and glorify The place called hell. Famous some of you guys my age remember back years ago, ACDC. I'm on a highway to hell. They made millions of dollars bragging about the fact they're going to hell Fools. Fools. Billy Joel said, they say there's a heaven for those who wait Some say it's better, but I say it ain't. I'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints. The sinners are much more fun. The guy's a millionaire. The guy's worshiped. His picture is on the walls of hundreds of thousands of people, and he mocks the idea. Of a place called heaven, a place called hell. He marks the idea of being a Christian and being saint. And having a home in heaven, he'd far rather be with the sinners in hell. The biblical definition of that type of thinking is full. A fool. Ted Turner said, I do I speaking of heaven, he said, I really do not want to go there. He said, I heard heaven is a perfect place, and how boring would that be? He said, I'd far rather go to hell. No doubt someday I'll have that opportunity. John Lennon said, imagine a world without religion, a world where there's no heaven and there's no hell. I saw this past week, the anniversary of Lenin's assassination. They had a picture of his glasses covered with blood. Did you see that in the news? And I thought he knows about hell now for many, many years He said you're being judgmental. No, the Bible says, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. So consider with me, if you would, this morning, this place called hell, a very real, literal place. The world can mock it. The world can twist it around and criticize you and I and make fun of us for taking God at his word? But it does not change the fact that hell is exactly as Christ said it is. A very real literal place. I'd like you to consider, second of all, the prison of hell. Look with me at verse number 26. This is Abraham speaking to this rich man in hell. And he says, besides this, there is between us and you a great gulf fix. Now look at he expands on that. So that they which would pass from hence to you cannot. And neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. Now, without getting into theological details, at this point in time, this is what we understand to be paradise. When Christ rose from the dead, when Christ was crucified, he took those in paradise into the very presence of God. Goes to heaven, that person can never go to hell. They're safe, they're secure. And once a person is ends up in hell, that can never go to heaven. Now, some folks in our world do not accept the plain teaching of Scripture that hell is eternal, that hell is a prison. Some teach that when a person dies and goes to hell, they are eventually annihilated, is the term they use In other words, they cease to exist. You may spend a period of time in hell, but eventually they'll cease to exist. It's not an eternal suffering. It's not forever and ever. It's just a temporary period of time and then you're annihilated. You cease to exist. That is not scriptural teaching. Others teach that a person goes to a portion of hell that's called purgatory In other words, that is a like a reform school for lost souls. And you go and suffer in purgatory maybe several million years or whatever. But eventually you will be able to escape purgatory and go to heaven and be in heaven. And by the way, in that frame of in that scheme of things You can have family members who would give money to the church, and that will speed up your time in purgatory, and you can get out there a whole lot sooner. What a convenient way to motivate people to give money to the church. Problem with it is it's unscriptural. If somebody suggests to you that if you give X number of dollars to any quote unquote church that it's going to help a loved one or a family member get out of hell, they are lying to you Matthew chapter 25 and verse 46 refers to hell as a place of eternal punishment. It is a prison without escape. Years ago when I was young, I was just eat up with rock and roll and whatnot, and there was a group called the Tubes. And they had a song they sang. It was called There's No Way Out for Me They would repeat that over and over and over. I got thinking that would be a good theme song for hell. There's no way out for me. So we have this place called hell, a real literal place. We have this prison of hell. It's eternal. No one escapes. But what about the populace of hell? Who are the occupants in hell? If you would keep your place here. We're going to come back to a portion of this passage, but I want you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 7, if you would. I think I lost my Cordless. Did the battery go dead, I think? Uh Matthew chapter seven And uh look with me at verse 13. This is a very sobering passage of scripture. In fact, I almost preach from this text as opposed to the other. But I want you to look at this, Matthew chapter 7, verse 13 and 14. This would be a good portion of the scripture in your Bible to underscore. It's a very significant passage. Notice in verse 13 he says, Jesus speaking, Enter ye in at the straight gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and what's that next word? Many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, that's eternal life, a heaven. And what? Few there be which find it. Few there be that find it. What's he saying here? He's saying here that multitudes Go to hell. Here is a very sad thought, and I hate to e I hate to say I hate to even think it, let alone mention it from the pulpit. But the Bible is very, very clear, and experience agrees: there are more people dying and going to hell than there are people going to heaven when they die. I mean perhaps a thousand to one. Many. Hell is a place of multitudes Matthew chapter 27, or Proverbs chapter 27 and verse 20 says, hell and destruction are never full. Isaiah chapter 5 and verse 14 says that hell hath enlarged itself. And the idea there is if you do a word study, it has the idea of constantly enlarging itself, expanding itself. For the multitudes that are dying and pouring into hell. Who are these people in hell? Well, it's filled with people who have rejected and mocked God. I find it unpleasant to be around people who hate God. I find it unpleasant to be around people taking God's name. How many folks do you ever sit in a restaurant or a store in a public place somewhere and someone takes God's name in vain and your skin just crawls? That's what hell's filled with. Rejected and mocked God. Self-righteous. You like being around someone that always thinks they're better than others? That's unpleasant. Hell is filled with the self-righteous. Hypocrites. This is one that I never really gave thought until his preparingness. Hell is filled with people that procrastinate. You say, what are you talking about? Hellsfield, the hell has multitudes of people who knew they needed to be saved, knew how to be saved, and someday were going to be saved. But they put it off and put it off, put it off, and a car wreck, a stroke, something happened, they never got saved They end up in hell for all eternity because they procrastinated. Put it off. Put it off. Preacher, I know I need to be saved one of these days. I hate to hear that. I hate to sit in someone's living room or kitchen with the Bible open, go through the plan of salvation, and they say, I understand what you're saying, and I agree with you. I'm just not ready yet. I hate to hear that. I visited a man shortly after I came here as pastor. He had a severe heart attack down in Kaiser. He was in the little hospital there down in Kaiser. Is that hospital still there? I got a new one. Good. And um I bet that guy is back in ICU, barely alive. Family member called me SFI Govism. They said he's lost, preacher. He's lost. Try and get him saved. And I went down there and stood over his bed in ICU, tubes and everything all over him. I went through the gospel. He said, I heard it plenty of times. I said, Will you accept Christ now as Savior? He said, Preacher, I know I need to. I'm just not ready yet. I said, Good night, man. What do you need to happen to get ready? As far as I know, that man died without Christ. Procrastinators. I hadn't really given this thought before, but the I think hell is filled with people who are cowards. They knew they needed to be saved. They knew that Christ was the only way. But they were afraid of what people would think if they accepted Christ as Savior and died and went to hell. Listen, if you are not accepting Christ as your Savior because of what somebody may think, I'm telling you, their opinion of you is not worth suffering in hell for all eternity. What would my kids think of me if I got saved? I tell you, if they got any sense, they'd be glad. Bible says liars, every form of ungodliness, hell is filled with this. Now, as I study the scriptures. I get the impression that hell is absolutely jam-packed with people. And I think that's correct. And I don't know how this all works out, but again, as I study scripture, I get the impression that each individual is totally alone, totally forsaken. The Bible says in Isaiah that those who are saved, God, the things that are behind, things that are past will be forgotten. Listen, I I had a man tell me one time, he says, he says, uh, my wife died, he says, unsaved, she went to hell. He says, I don't want to go to heaven. If my wife's in hell, I want to be with her. I said, sir, if I understand my Bible correctly, I believe I do, you're not going to be with her. You're going to be alone. Alone. And even the saved people who knew you will forget all about you. God's going to wipe you from their memory. I often thought, how in the world can I enjoy heaven? Knowing that I have some dear friends, maybe family members who are burning in hell. How can I have undefiled pure joy in heaven, knowing in the back of my mind that I have loved ones in hell? How could I have joy And I realize that there comes a point where God will erase their memory from our mind. We'll not even remember their existence. Can you imagine being in hell for five million years, realizing your loved ones in heaven don't even remember you existed? Completely forsaken. Completely alone. This horrible place called hell. So we have the place called hell. We have the prison of hell, no escape. We have the populace of hell as the Bible teaches us. But this is my message this morning. There are some prayers that come up out of hell. Come back with me if you would to Luke chapter 16. And this thought absolutely captivated me all week long that there are prayers coming up out of hell. And it's interesting what those prayers are, what they consist of, and what they do not consist of. Now I'll be honest with you, I would have been the first to say I don't associate hell with praying. The two don't seem to go together But nevertheless, there are prayers in hell. I noticed two prayers in this portion of scripture, this little window, we have, we're looking into hell, this rich man down there. And we're listening to what he's saying, and we hear him pray two categories, if you will, of prayer. The first one is a prayer for mercy. Look with me at verse 24 again. Luke 16, verse 24. He says, um He says, and he cried, the rich man in hell, and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Now, what is mercy? Mercy is a request for mercy. He's asking that he not receive what he deserves. That's what mercy is. You follow what I'm saying? Grace is getting something I don't deserve. Going to heaven, I don't deserve that, but God in His grace gives it to me when I trust Christ. Mercy is God withholding something from me that I do deserve. And so He is praying for mercy. If somebody is asking for mercy, would you agree with me they're admitting guilt? God, I do deserve this. God, I do deserve these torments. God, I do deserve to be in hell, but I'm asking you to have mercy on me. Nowhere do you find anyone in hell ever disputing with God whether they should be there or not? Nowhere do you find in Scripture someone in hell disputing with God whether they're guilty or not. When a person ends up in hell, they know they're guilty, they know they deserve it. And so he cries out for mercy. Now, what does that mercy consist of? Again, I thought this was interesting. He doesn't ask God to remove him from hell. He doesn't say, God, get me out of this place. Have mercy on me. Get me out of this place. He doesn't say that. He's guilty. He knows he deserves it. And he ain't getting out. He doesn't ask to be exonerated from his sins. It's too late for that. The time of forgiveness for sins is here and now. Today is the day of salvation. Once he's in hell, it's too late. And so he doesn't ask to be removed from hell. He doesn't ask to be exonerated from his uh from his uh uh uh uh sins, his guilt. But what he does ask is for just a little relief from the torment. God, I'm not asking for five years worth of water. Just a little relief from the torments of hell. Please send Lazarus, just dip the tip of his finger in water that I may cool my tongue. That prayer in and of itself gives us a tremendous awareness. Of the horrors of hell. God have mercy. Just a little relief From hell. So he prays for mercy. And the second prayer he prays is for missionaries. God, have mercy. Second prayer is God send some missionaries. Look with me if you would at verse 27. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest, look at this, send him, Lazarus, to my father's house. What's he talking about? He's talking about sending missionaries, in a sense. Father, send him to my father's house, for I have thy brethren. That he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Now, it's a convoluted request. He's asking Lazarus to come back from paradise and come back to earth, come back from the dead, and uh Moses addresses that impossibility But nevertheless, this rich man in hell becomes suddenly very burdened for his unsaved brethren. And he's wanting God To send somebody by there, Lazarus or someone, send them by to my brothers so they can tell them about this place going to hell and how they can escape going to hell. He's praying for missionaries. Send someone, send someone, his burden for his family I thought it was interesting. Notice, note, watch the wording here very carefully. And I've mentioned this before, but look at the wording very carefully. He says that thou wouldest send him to my father's house So whose house does he want him to go to? His father's house, right? It's not a trick question. He wants him to go to his father's house. Who generally lives in your father's house? Your father. Well, you guys are slow this morning. So he wants them to go to his father's house. I would assume, I mean I think it's a safe assumption, if his father lives there, his Mother probably lives there also. You agree with me? That's probably a safe assumption. Right? Anybody? Hello? But he look what he says. He says, send them to my father's house, for I have five brethren, that he may testify unto them. And maybe I'm reading too much into this, but it's I find it interesting. He doesn't say send them to my father's house to testify to my father. He doesn't say send them to my father's house to testify to my mother. The send them to my father's house, testimony to my brethren. Apparently his brothers were still living in his father's house. Follow what I'm saying? Doesn't say send them to my brother's house. He said, send them to my father's house so he can testify to my brother. Why didn't he say, send him to my father's house, testify to my father? Can I offer my humble suggestion? I think mom and dad were already saved. I think mom and dad do the Lord try and their kids won't get saved. And he's the first one to die in the family, died before his parents. He knows mom and dad are saved, but he knew his brothers weren't And he wanted a missionary to come by to his brothers and tell them how to escape hell. Listen to me, young people. Just because your mom and your dad's a Christian, that doesn't make you a Christian. You need to make sure for yourself that you've been saved, that you've trusted Christ. And parents, don't ever say to your child, they come and doubt their salvation, question their Don't ever say, well, you prayed when you were five and so you're saved. You let them determine and have them settled in their heart that they're saved. They need to know for themselves That they've trusted Christ and been saved. So, young people, I plead with you. As your friend and as your pastor, I plead with you. You make sure of your salvation. He's burdened for his family. He's praying for missionaries. I wonder How many folks who lived in Oakland here and died and went to hell Are praying to God that He would send some soul winners by their family's house and tell them how they can escape this place called hell. I I'm speculating, this is just me talking. But sometimes I get the feeling there's more people in hell praying for the salvation of our neighbors than there are people here in our churches praying for the salvation of neighbors. I sometimes get the impression there's more people concerned about the salvation of folks in Oakland in hell than there are people in churches concerned about the salvation of people in Oakland. I got to this point in the message, I thought of Kazakhstan. I wonder how many people this past week died in Kazakhstan and went to hell because they had no gospel. And how many of them are praying to God, God send someone by my family's house in Amati, in Astana? That they can warn them of this place called hell so they don't come here. Two weeks ago I was down in the Dominican Republic, we went out to a little city. A little city, a hundred thousand people. And Dr. Creed said there's not one gospel preaching church that we're aware of in this city of a hundred thousand people. That was two weeks ago tomorrow. In the last two weeks, I wonder how many people in that city died and went out into eternity Christeless and are now in hell crying out to God, God said, Someone To my city and warn them of this place called hell. Prayer for missionaries coming out of hell. This coming month, we're going to have track month. We're going to give ourselves for four weeks. We are going to absolutely give ourselves to get the gospel of Jesus Christ in printed form. in the hands and homes of as many people as we possibly can. And one of our motives is the fact that there are people in hell crying out to God. That somebody would come by their loved ones and tell them how they can escape hell. Several, I think it was last summer. This is a horrific story. There was a family up in Pittsburgh. And they went to the zoo. They had their young child, toddler, and they saw the display, the the display of the wild dogs, I think, from Australia. They wanted their child to be able to see the dogs a little better and they set them up on the rail. You've heard it in the news. You heard the story. And somehow, some way, the child wiggled or whatever, and that child fell into that pen. And in front of his parents' eyes, those dogs ripped that child to shreds. Killed him. I saw that and my ripped my heart. How what horror And as horrible as that is, what about someone dying and going into hell? It ought to move our hearts. It ought to motivate us to go and to give and do whatever we can. I'm telling you. If we had the chance, every one of us would have done everything we possibly could to save that little child from that horrible death. And God has given us the opportunity to do everything we can to keep people from going to this very real place called hell. Listen, Hollywood can mock it, the rock singers can laugh about it, the world can just ridicule us, but that doesn't change one iota of the fact that this is a very real place. And only Christ can save people from going to hell. And God has given our church a great, great commission. And that is to take the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ, to every person so they can escape going to hell. Are you with me? Father in heaven, please help us. Number one, to make sure of our own salvation. And number two, to give ourselves. To give ourselves. To get the gospel to the unsaved, to be a witness and a testimony and a soul winner to those around us and those around the world.