And then we'll read verse three together in unison. So the last phrase of verse two and then verse three we'll read together in unison. Look what it says. Ye lust and have not Ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. Ye fight and war. Now, here's where we all join in. Ready? Yet ye have not, because ye ask not. Let's read verse three together. Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss that ye may consume it upon your lusts. I want to speak this morning on prayer problems. Prayer problems. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us in this matter. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the The joy it is to be assembled together with your people and your house. Lord, the singing of songs and the fellowship has just blessed my heart today. And we rejoice in your goodness to us. Lord, you've given us your word. We're holding it here in our laps before us. And we believe with all our hearts this is your word. And I pray that you would speak to us. From your word through my lips, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour And with all my heart I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would be the preacher, and that you would preach to our hearts and change and help our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This past May 7th. It's just a month or two ago. I uh uh it was 40 years ago that I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. So I've been a Christian now for a little over 40 years. Many of you uh have been saved a long time In those 40 years, I've learned a few things. I've learned a few things about the Christian life. One of the main things I've learned about the Christian life is I have not arrived yet. I've got a lot of learning to do. One thing about being a one thing about the Christian life, the more you learn about it, the more you realize how much you don't know about it. And uh we've got a lot of learning to do, we've got a lot of growing to go yet. But I've learned I've learned a few things about the Christian life. Another thing I learned about the Christian life, it's better to be a Christian than it is to not be a Christian. Uh my years as a saved man uh uh so uh are so far greater than the years as an unsaved man. I just rejoice in the Lord. If you're here and you're not saved, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Let me just say this: you are missing out on something good. It is a good thing to be a Christian. It's a grand thing. It's the best thing I know is to be a Christian. So I've learned a few things in 40 years plus a few months of uh knowing the Lord and and being a saved man. Uh in these 40 years I've learned a few things about God's Word. One of the main things I learned about God's Word, I still got a lot of learning to do about God's Word Every time I think I got a handle on something, I got things figured out, I get studying, I thought, wow, there's a whole lot more here than I realize And uh I've learned a few things about God's word. Some other things I learned about God's word is this: God's word is true. It has never failed me. His promises are true. God keeps his promises in his word. Now not all of them are fulfilled when I think they should be, but they're all fulfilled exactly on God's timing. We can trust God's promises. We can claim them. We can live by His promises. I've learned that in 40 years. I've learned that God's warnings to us are to be taken seriously. I hate to admit this. I wish it wasn't true, but there have been some times when God warned me about something in his word and I disregarded it And brother, it costs me. Anybody here, can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? How many times over these 40 years I've said something like this? Boy, I wish I'd have done what God said. I wished I'd have listened to the Bible. And God's word is true. His promises are true. His warnings are to be taken seriously. His instructions are good for me. I found it's a whole lot better to do things God's way than my way. I've tried to solve problems, I've tried to accomplish goals, I've tried to do a lot of things leaning on my own understanding And every single time I've come up short. But you know what I found out? If I just trust the Lord, do things the way he says, it works out all right. Works out pretty good. So I've learned a few things about the Christian life. I've learned a few things about God's Word, the Bible. And I've learned a few things about prayer. Prayer. Um one thing I've learned about prayer is I don't do it enough. Isn't that strange? One of the greatest things in the Christian life, the greatest resource we have is the throne of God. We can come to God in prayer, and yet we neglect it so much. How many folks here, you've been saved any length of time? And you're like me, you say, boy, I wish I was more consistent, more earnest in my prayer. Can I get anybody like that? I look back and I thought, man, how many times? I've learned about prayer. I've listed a few things here. Things I've learned about prayer over the years from the Bible and just living the Christian life One thing I've learned about prayer is this: God expects his children to pray. God expects us to pray. He expects us, he anticipates. His people, uh saved people, his children, to come to him in prayer. He expects it. He anticipates it. In fact We are commanded over and over and over in the Bible to pray. Why in the world would God have to command us To pray to him. You know what? I never had to get on my boys to come and ask me for stuff. I never said, boys, now I'm commanding you, ask me for things. I never had to do that. Sometimes I had to say, knock it off, all right already. Uh they never had a pro in fact uh thirty years later I still and um But yet God has to command us, instruct us, prompt us, goad us to pray. Why is that? Ah, there's probably a number of answers to that. One might be just we have an old sinful nature And so uh God expects his children to pray. I've learned that. He expects me to pray. I uh you know it's uh it's not exactly this way, but this is kind of the way I picture it. Get up in the morning and God's just there waiting Waiting, when's he going to come to me? When's he going to pray? When's he going to talk to me about the day? When's he going to bring his request to me? And how many times we get up and bowed our day, and we never even think about it. God expects his children to pray. I've done several things over the years to try and help me to pray. Anybody ever hear this term used in the news in the last several years? People get triggered. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy they get triggered. Somebody wears a hat, M-A-G-A hat. Boy, people get triggered, they go off on that. And somebody says something, oh, they get triggered, they go off on that Well, I got thinking about that. I need some things that will trigger me, not to get mad and throw a fit and make a scene, but will trigger me to pray. That will prompt me to pray, that will provoke me to pray. And uh I've tried to come up with several different things. Uh we got these phones now we carry around with us, and I found on the phone I got little reminders on there I can put a thing on there at a certain time of day, that thing will beep or make a noise or vibrate or something, and it'll remind me, oh, pray for the missionaries. Oh, I almost forgot. Pray for my missionaries. And uh oh, there a little thing that will trigger me, go off and uh pray about this. Oh, don't forget this. And I'll put it in there, little reminders and little alarms And uh amazing thing. It helps me tremendously. Uh did you know there was a day, this is hard to believe. You some of you will not believe this, but there was a day when phones were attached to the wall. Seriously, they were. And it was kind of convenient they put a long cord on it so you wouldn't lose it. And it would just you always knew right where it was. You never lost that thing. And uh there was a day when you didn't mash buttons, you used to turn this little round thing. Anyone remember that Yeah. And uh you couldn't take pictures with it, you know, it was just a phone. Um but uh I got it and I put some things in there And uh boy, they trigger me. And this morning I had a couple, bing, don't forget to pray about this. Oh yeah, pray. And uh so I try to get little things like that. I got a little Um not it's not a locket, but just a little thing on my keychain hangs there and every time and do you ever do you ever any of you all have keys and you put in the car and you're driving they kinda rattle around there, they ch anybody know what I'm talking about while you're driving, hit a bump and And I got a little thing on there, and that sparks me, remind, triggers me to remind me to pray for certain people, politicians and different ones. Every time that thing goes, oh yeah, pray, Lord help them, give them wisdom, save their soul and uh trigger me to pray, little triggers there. I got one years ago and and uh just came to my mind one day I heard the siren going off. The fire uh um hydrant not the fire hydrant the Fires sir station and that siren goes off. And uh one day I thought, man, somebody's having a bad day. That thing's going off. Somebody's house is on fire. There's been a wreck. Something bad. Every time that thing goes off, that's an indicator that something bad is happening to somebody. Do you know that? And uh what struck me was we were in a mission trip over in Kazakhstan, several of us, Muslim, a big majority of Muslims there, big Muslim population. And throughout the day and of the evening, they would have this, they have these towers and they would do this call to prayer. It's very eerie, strange sound. And I'm in the motel and it's like, ooh. But I thought about that. That was a call to prayer. And I I put two and two together. I thought, you know, every time that siren goes off, somebody's having a bad day Maybe that's God calling me to pray for whoever's dealing with that. And so now every time I hear that fire hide fire hydrant fire siren go off, Every time I hear that, I just whisper a little prayer in my heart, God. I don't know who they are. I don't know what their spiritual condition is But something bad is happening. Would you please somehow work in that situation, bring people to Christ, meet needs, help them, I'd pray, dear Lord And then we see the policeman go or the ambulance go, triggers to remind us and prompt us to pray. Why do we have such a hard time praying And I learned that that is a struggle in the Christian life. And God expects us to pray. He instructs us to pray. He anticipates. his children to pray? What kind of Christian would not be a what kind of Christian would not be a praying Christian is the image we're given. So I learned that prayer is expected by God. It's God's way to provide for us. God set that up. That we come to Him and pray. And then another thing I learned about prayer over these years is this: I am a happier Christian when I pray. When I go period of time without prayer like I should and uh and uh I'm not bringing my burdens and my needs and my worries. And my struggles to the Lord, and I'm leaning on my own understanding. I'm looking everywhere else for a solution and for resources and looking at all of that. I get frustrated and I come up short But I found when I take my burdens and my worries and my trials and I bring them to the Lord as he instructs me to, I cast my care on him on prayer. I found out that I'm a whole lot happier in my Christian life. I tell ya, you you you uh you see some Christian Christian grousing and growling and graving and criticizing and moaning and everything's terrible and horrible. They have nothing good. They're unhappy and miserable. I I there's a lot of things I might not know, but I know this. They're probably not spending much time in prayer. Probably not spending much time in prayer. Because a praying Christian is uh is a happy Christian A Christian that genuinely prays doesn't mean we don't have burdens, doesn't mean we're just flippant and uh uh you know just uh silly about it. There are trials, there are tears, but there's a joy, there's a joy down in our heart that comes when we bring our burdens and our needs and our requests to the Lord, and we don't walk around just grousing and biting everybody's head off. Goodness. And so I learned I'm a lot happier when I pray consistently and earnestly as the Lord expects me to, instructs me to in his word. Another thing I learned about prayer over these years is I worry a whole lot less when I pray. I don't know about you, and I wish it wasn't true, but uh uh I I sometimes I worry about stuff. Anybody? Can I get a witness? Y'all looking at me so pious Sometimes I worry about things. Sometimes if I'm not worrying about something, I worry that I'm not worrying about it. Why aren't I worried about this? So uh and uh we were down at the conference this week and somebody asked how it went. I was had the privilege to speak Thursday morning and somebody said how'd you enjoy the conference? I said, Well, I enjoyed it a whole lot more after Thursday morning Because they said, yeah, he's worrying the whole time. And uh I found when I pray like I should, I don't worry as much. I worry a whole lot less. I found that genuine, sincere Praying in faith, believing, I found that brings peace to my heart. Peace of God settles in. When I pray, And I take that need and that burden. I put it in the hands of the Lord and I trust God. And I claim his promises. God, you said, you promised. I'm trusting you. It's going to be okay. Because you it's in your hands. I'm taking my hands off. I'm bringing it to you in prayer. And boy, what peace floods the soul. I thought about when Brother Heinbull had his heart surgery went up and prayed. He mentioned this some time ago and I was preparing us. I thought of that. And uh went up and we had prayer, and he mentioned, he said in testimony, he says, after we prayed, he said, I knew everything was going to be alright. I knew it was going to be all right. That's the peace that comes. Oh, we worry and fret and go on and get upset and worked up all about stuff. God says, you bring that thing to me to prayer, and I'll give you peace. I'll take that. And I've learned that I worry a whole lot less when I pray like I should. Number four, I put this down. I've learned over the years that God gives us the power of the Holy Spirit when we pray Um will anybody here ever feel like, man, I just can't live this life uh in my own power? Anybody ever feel that way I just can't do this for the Lord. Maybe a Sunday school teacher says, you know, I need the Lord's help in teaching this lesson A bus worker, I need God's power to be able to work this route and and reach my area for the Lord. And uh, you know, some area of service to the Lord or living the Christian life, God, I need your help If you would, keep your place here, because we're going to come back. But I'd like for you to notice in Acts chapter number four, if you would come over there with me, just a little phrase that every time I read this, it stirs my heart Acts chapter number four. The church here is growing miraculously, explosion of the church growth. People are getting saved. Lives are being changed. Pagans are lives are being turned around. Drunkards and fornicators and all their lives are being transformed. God's doing an amazing thing. And the devil stirs up all kinds of intense persecution. And though the church is growing and rejoicing, they are being persecuted and hounded like dogs and suffering deeply. And notice in verse number 29 of Acts chapter 4. And they are praying. The church is praying. Look at their prayer. Verse 29. And now, Lord, behold these threatenings, and grant unto thy servants That you would remove all the threatenings and all the burdens and all the persecutions and help us to be happy and not have to do anything. Is that what they prayed? No, it's interesting. They didn't pray for the persecution to be removed. They didn't pray for the trials to be removed. Look what they prayed. Grant unto thy servants that withal what? Boldness. They may speak thy word. They're praying, Lord, we're not going to back down, we're not going to back off, we're going to press forward, they're threatening us, they're persecuting us. And Lord, we're coming to you and we're praying that you give us boldness to speak out and be a witness in the midst of all of this. And look what happens. They continue praying by the stretching forth of thine hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. Now look what happens, verse 31. This is what stirs my heart And when they had prayed, I circled that, when they'd prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and one soul. Come up to verse 33. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. Wow. They pray in the midst of opposition, in the midst of persecution, in the midst of opposition They didn't back down. They didn't back off. They came to the Lord in prayer. And God gave them power. And God gave them boldness. And souls were saved and lives were changed and communities impacted with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the death, the burial, the resurrection, that message. I've learned it. God gives power. When we pray as we should, and I've experienced this When we pray as we should, God does things with us and he does things through us that we could never do ourselves. I talked a little bit about our church. Brother Smith asked me to give a little story of our church here from when we showed up back in 93. And I'll be honest with you, anybody that was here and those uh that are now with the Lord, but at the time It seemed just about hopeless that anything was going to ever come out of this church again. I mean, it was dire. They had Brother Williams told me Uh he says, Brother Leatherman, when I showed up, he picked me up at the airport. He says, now you're the last one on the list. If you don't get the vote, this thing's shutting down. I said, well thank you. That's a blessing. And uh he said things are pretty bleak. We don't know what's gonna happen. But you know, we prayed. And there was a handful of people here that looked to God and prayed. You know what? God turned that thing around. And I say it over and over and over, it's not because me or you or any of us are wonderful, it's because God's wonderful. And he heard the prayers of God's people, and he responded, and he sent power, and he sent the Holy Spirit, and God did great things. And so I've learned that God gives the power of the Holy Spirit when we pray. Now, if we're saved, we don't have to ask for the Holy Spirit. We got the Holy Spirit the moment we trust in Christ. But as a child of God, I need to pray and yield myself to the Lord, and then the Lord can empower me. God wants his people to pray, he wants us to pray about everything, he wants us to pray about and for everyone. He wants us to pray. One other thing I learned about prayer in 40 years. Sometimes there's problems with my prayers. Now sometimes I struggle and don't pray like I should, and that's ongoing, and I try to work with that and improve that But I found that there's sometimes, even when I do, even when we do pray, there are problems with our prayers. They don't get answered. They don't get through. There's no results. Now, I understand some prayers are not answered because they're not God's will. Not everything I ask God to do is necessarily His will. And um uh maybe what I'm asking isn't God's will. May uh maybe what I'm asking is dumb. You ever ask so I uh uh there's been times I asked God for something afterward I thought, well that was dumb. I'm glad I didn't answer that. That was a stupid Anybody y'all are looking look at me like you don't even know what I'm talking about. Lord, I need you to do this. And then later on I thought, well, that was stupid. I'm glad he didn't answer that. Sometimes we ask for things that are just dumb. They're not his will. They're dumb. I'm glad God's wiser than me, aren't you? Can you imagine if God was as dumb as I am We'd be in a mess. God is all wise. And sometimes we pray and we pray right. There's no problem with the prayer other than it's outside of His will And uh might well in our ignorance and our foolishness, we ask for something. And I wonder, I know God doesn't do this, but I wonder if sometimes it's not just like, oh brother, seriously you're asking for that? No I ain't doing that, no. Sometimes we ask for things that are dangerous, something for us, and God says, no, no, no, that wouldn't be good. Not gonna do that. I'm glad God is wise when the boys were real small. Daddy, can I play with the chainsaw? Uh no. Sometimes we pray, and it's not necessarily a problem with our prayer. It's good. We're praying scripturally, and everything's good with the prayer. But it's not God's timing to answer the prayer right then. I learned something. This is something else I didn't put on my list. I learned early on in my Christian life, God doesn't work by my calendar. God doesn't come down and say, all right, what do you got scheduled, Dennis? And um no no no. I need to learn, I need to quit worrying about God fitting into my schedule, and I need to start worrying about fitting into God's schedule. And many times he has answered my prayers, and not when I thought he was going to, and I thought he wasn't going to answer it. All right, that prayer is not being answered for whatever reason And lo and behold, it did get up end up being answered just later than what I anticipated. Everybody know what I'm talking about? And so sometimes our prayers aren't answered when we think they should be. They're simply answered at a later date than we anticipated. And there aren't prayers that are necessarily any problems with the prayer. There's nothing wrong with the prayer other than might be a not the best thing to ask for, or it's not the timing isn't right yet. I just need to wait on the Lord, keep praying. But sometimes prayers are not answered because there is a problem with the prayer itself. There is a flaw In the prayer, how it's being prayed, maybe. And that hinders our prayers. That keeps our prayers from being answered. And James in chapter 4, if you would come back there if you haven't already. He's addressing this problem that the people he's writing to, the Jews that are scattered abroad They weren't their prayers are not being answered because there was a problem with the prayers. There was a problem with the prayers. The first thing I noticed, and we're not going to get to the whole list I have how many people are praise the Lord. He's not going to preach the whole thing. Good green. Yeah. Notice in verse number one and two. He says, Whence come wars and fightings among you, come they not hence even of your lusts that you wore in that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. Yet ye have not. Now here's one problem. Here's one prayer problem. Ye have not, because ye what? Ask not. I put it this way: unprayed prayers are a problem. Unprayed prayers are not a problem. Ye have not because you ask not. Can I ask you to do something? Would you underscore that in your Bible? I think that is a significant statement from God to us. You have not, because you ask not. Unprayed prayers are a serious problem. Are a serious problem. Unprayed prayers, let me put it this way: unprayed prayers are unanswered prayers. I found that God doesn't answer the prayer that I don't pray. Let me put it this way: lack of prayer indicates a lack of faith. A lack of faith. Uh as if uh you need to put gas in a car and Your wife says, I've got $1,000 cash in my purse. And uh you need gas in the car. You don't have you got one dollar in your wallet. And uh you say to yourself, she don't have no thousand dollars in her purse. I'm not even gonna ask for that. I don't believe that for one minute And the reason that's kind of a lame illustration, but um the reason I wouldn't ask her for it, because I really don't believe she's got that money in her purse Now I wonder if sometimes we have great needs and we have situations, we need wisdom, we need answers, I need direction, I need needs met, I need resources. And it never even enters my mind to come to God in prayer and ask God for that. I'm wondering if maybe just I just don't really believe it would have an effect I just really don't believe that it wouldn't he would really answer that prayer, that God would do that John R. Rice, one of uh men that had tremendous influence in my life through the pages of the sword and books he wrote and I've read, he made this statement. John R. Rice made this statement. He says, All my failures have been prayer failures. Huh. I think prayerlessness implies that I do not really believe God's word. Oh, I say I do. And we believe the Bible, but do we do believe it to the extent That I am willing to come and bring my needs and bring my requests and bring my burdens to the Lord in prayer and just pray about it. A lot of times we just go on and we never think to stop and pray. We never think to ask the Lord for something. I think I used this recently, a message, but when I first got saved, Um I was 19. This was the 70s, the late in the 70s. And uh dress fashions in the 70s was weird You've heard me tell it I sh the first time I showed up. Believe it or not, not only did phones used to be attached to the walls, but I used to have hair. Strange days. And a lot of it. I showed up church, my long hair, my bell bottoms, silk shirt, my platform shoes. Seriously. They're like, what in the world crawled into here church today? And there's two fellows there, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox. I've talked about them before, and they took me under wing. I thank God for those two young men And they befriended me when I was just weird. Was. And one day Terry was working on his car and I'm not much of a mechanic, but I'm trying to help different things And he dropped and and I told this recently, but he dropped a bolt or something, fell down into the engine there. We could not find that thing. And looked and looked and flashlight and trying to find and finally we looked at there a little bit, not long, and finally said, Dennis He said, let's just pray and ask the Lord to show us where that thing is. We can find that. I thought, good night, what kind of crackpot is this? Pray about finding a little bolt? Are you crazy? So I said, alright. So we prayed, Lord, he said, Lord, help us find that thing. I really need it. And I mean to tell you, it wasn't 10, 15 seconds later. He says, Oh, there it is. God answers prayer. I'll tell you, here I am 40 years later, that impacted me. We'd probably still be looking for that thing if he didn't pray. Prayerlessness, I wonder if prayerlessness doesn't imply that I just really don't believe God's promises. God said, Ask and you shall receive. God said, Call upon me, and I'll show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. You know what I noticed? I noticed atheists don't pray. You notice that? I notice Bible deniers don't pray. I notice evolutionists that deny God and deny the Word of God, modernists, liberals That reject the supernatural promises of God's word. I notice not one of them praise. Now, why is that? It's because they don't believe. They don't believe. Now let me ask this question. Why does a Christian not pray? Why does a Christian not pray? Maybe we just don't believe it as much as we claim we do. Maybe we still maybe, hey, maybe we need to start taking this thing seriously Maybe we ought to start using this as if it's what it really is, the Word of God. God gives us these promises, and God gives us these instructions, and God gives us commands to bring our burdens, our needs to the Lord. And we don't do it. We don't pray. I wonder if it's because we maybe are lacking in our faith. Jonna Rice again made this statement: prayerlessness is another name for unbelief. Wow. Unbelief. I want to take it a step farther. I want to suggest to you then when you and I, and I'm talking to saved people this morning that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior I want to suggest to you that when you and I are prayerless, we are being sinful. Prayerlessness is sinfulness. You say, oh, preacher, you've taken it too far now. I suppose I don't pray doesn't mean I'm sinning. No, I don't think I've taken it too far. Again, keep your place here. Go with me to a passage back in the Old Testament, 1 Samuel chapter number 12. 1 Samuel chapter number 12, the nation of Israel is in a mess, as they tended to be, just like we are in our day. And God had sent them a tremendous prophet. In fact, my favorite, one of, if not my favorite prophets throughout all of Scripture, Samuel. And Samuel is addressing the nation of Israel, and they messed up again, and they uh had gotten themselves in a mess. And in verse number 20 of 1 Samuel chapter 12, Notice what Samuel says to them. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, you have done all this wickedness. Yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Can I just throw a thought out here from this passage with you? Hey, listen, when you mess up, don't walk away from the Lord See, I made a mistake. I did something stupid this week. I messed up. Hey, just get back in church. Get back in your Bible. Get up and go on. He says, Turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And turn ye not aside, for then should ye go after vain things which profit nor deliver, which cannot profit nor deliver. For they are vain. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for me now look what he says God forbid that I should, what's the next word? Sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Do you catch what Samuel said? He says, if I fail to pray I am sinning not against you. He's talking to the nation of Israel. If I fail to pray for you, I'm not. He doesn't say I'm sinning against you. He says, I'm sinning against who? The Lord. The Lord. God says, I want you to pray. I'm instructing you to bring your burdens, bring your needs. You pray, you pray daily, you pray earnestly, you pray in faith You pray. I'll answer those prayers and I'll lead you and I'll guide you and I'll direct you. I'll respond to that prayer. But you pray. And then we just ignore it. Oh, I forgot. You know what I found out? I tend I tend to remember the things that are important to me. You notice that little sign at Walmart says, make sure you check, don't forget your kids in the car. Anybody ever see that? I saw a news report and they said, well, here's some suggestions. Put things that are important to you in the backseat with your child so you don't forget your child. I thought, good night, what's more important to me than my child? I found that things are important to me. I'm not gonna forget. I'm gonna man, that's important. I gotta And I found that if prayer is important to me, I'm going to make sure it gets done. I'm going to make sure it gets done. So prayerlessness is indicates a lack of faith. It indicates unbelief, at least to some extent, on the part on our part. And here Solomon implies clearly to us that prayerlessness is sin, a sin against the Lord God has commanded us over and over and over again: pray about that, pray about this, pray about that, pray this, pray about this, pray about this, pray about that, pray about that, pray about that, pray about Everything and everything Let your requests be made known unto God. And to disregard that clear, repeated instruction of God. Is sin, I'm afraid, on our part. Read about a fellow named Bill. He's a Christian, pretty committed Christian, pretty solid. He worked in a factory, and I don't know what they made. I was trying to figure out it didn't say. But he was in uh a bunch of uh unbelievers there. And they got along pretty good. One day at lunch they're talking and Somehow, among the unsaved there, and they're pretty rough crowds, somehow the subject of hypocritical Christians came up And they got talking about hypocritical Christians. And Bill sat there with his mouth shut and listened to it. And after a while, he uh had all he could take, and he spoke up, and he said, Not all Christians are hypocrites. And they said, okay, Bill, one of the men, the kind of the leaders of the ruffian, said, Bill, are you a Christian? He goes, Yeah, you know I am. He says, Do you believe the Bible? Bill said, Yes, I believe the Bible, all of it, cover to cover. He said, Bill, do you believe the Bible teaches about heaven and hell? He goes, Yes, absolutely. I've no doubt about it. He said, let me ask you a question. Do you believe, according to the Bible, that we're on our way to hell? He goes, well, yes. That's true, according to the Bible. He said, Bill, do you believe in prayer? He goes, absolutely, I believe in prayer. So let me ask you a question. Have you ever spent one whole night in prayer for us to be saved and not go to hell? It'll said, well, no, I've never spent a whole night in prayer so that you would be saved and not go to hell. Fellow said, Bill, have you ever spent a half a night in prayer for our souls? He hung his head and said, No, I've never spent a half a night in prayer for your soul By now the fellow was getting a little indignant. And he said, Bill, in the last week, how much time have you spent in prayer for our souls to be saved from hell? Bill hung his head and said, I haven't spent one second the last week praying for your souls to be saved. Nephel said, Bill, that is the hypocrisy we're talking about. You say you believe that Bible, you say you believe those promises, you say you believe what God says. But you don't do what it says. That is hypocrisy. When I don't pray, there's a problem. And I'm not a praying Christian. There's a serious problem with that. Unprayed prayers are a problem. I wonder how many of our needs would be met if we would just learn to pray the way the Bible says pray. I wonder how many of our homes would be happier and the presence of God and the joy of the Lord would be in that home. We would pray the way the Bible instructs us to pray. John O'Rice again and he it wasn't a vision or anything. He said, I just had a dream one night. He said, In my dream I had ended, I was in heaven. I got to heaven, I was walking around these big warehouses everywhere. Now this is not scriptural, this is just in his head dreaming. He said I saw these warehouses everywhere, and the w and the and the warehouses were filled with goods and supplies and meats and all kinds of things in the warehouses, and he said, Lord Why are there warehouses up here with all this stuff? The Lord said, John, this is the good things I had for people if they'd have just asked me for them. If they had just asked for it. I wonder how different our lives would be. I wonder how different our families and homes. I wonder how different our church and our nation would be. We would just pray as God instructs us to pray. Prayerlessness is a problem. Unprayed prayers, let me put it this way: unprayed prayers are a problem. I put another problem down with prayers, and I'll explain what I mean by this. Unprayed prayers are a problem piggish. Prayers are a problem. Piggish. I mean people think that's a cute little thing there. Piggish. You say, what do you mean by piggish prayers? Well if you look it up, that word means selfish. Selfish. If somebody's pig-ish, it's all about them. Selfish. Me, me, me. Come back to James, if you would, again. And notice James addresses this problem. With prayers, piggish prayers, unprayed prayers, verse 2 and uh verse number 2. Look at verse 3. Ah, ye do ask You do pray, but look at this. And you receive what? Not. Even when you do pray, you're still not getting answers. Why? Because ye ask amiss. Look at this, that ye may consume it upon your lust. That word amiss there means improperly. Your prayers are not They're not being prayed properly. That word amist is translated some places to say something is diseased or it's sickly. He says, your prayers, you ask amiss, you ask in a sickly way, an improper way, your prayers are diseased. Why? that you may consume it. What does it mean to consume something? The word itself means this, to squander on myself. To waste it all just on myself, me, me, meow, just take it in, take it in, take it in, and squander it away That word consume there is translated in Luke chapter 15, verse 14, where the prodigal son is in a far country, and it says that he spent all his living Spent all he consumed it. He just wasted it. His father gave him the inheritance and he squandered away just on himself. And then he says that you may consume it upon your own lust. The word lust there means what you think it means, desires, selfish pleasures, selfish desires. And it doesn't necessarily mean just sensual in nature, but in any way, I just want it for me. I want it, me, me, me. So I can have more pleasure. I can have me, mine, and just consume it and consume it. And he says your piggish prayers are a serious problem. God will not answer selfish prayers. Prayers that focus only on me and my desires and my pleasures. Prayers that try and manipulate God so that I can get my way I've said this many times over the years. God is not a vending machine. Anyone here know what do they still even have vending machines? I don't know And I I I wanna I haven't drank soda pop in a long time. Every now and then a little bit. I hardly ever drink soda pop. And I want, oh I wanna Coca-Cola I never pay any attention to that betting machine. I never pay any attention until I want something. Then I come over, stick a quarter in, pull a button, and I get my Coca-Cola. Listen, that's not how God operates. He's not a gigantic cosmic supernatural vending machine. He is God. And he has a plan and purpose for all he does. And God answers prayers. Now get this. God answers prayers that contribute rather than consume. What do you mean by that? I mean this. God will answer prayers that contribute to the well-being of others. God is looking down in the heart of Dennis Leatherman, and God is looking down in the heart of the members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and he's looking for folks that care about other people. Others, Lord, yes, others. Let this my motto be that even when I kneel to pray, my prayers will be for others. God's looking for folks that will pray so that they can enhance and help the well-being of others There was a preacher years ago had a sermon. He called it the silent sermon. I've done it here a couple times before. It's very, it's almost simple, almost to a silly degree, but it's profound. The silent sermon, this is what it consists of. Do you get the message? And God says if your prayers are piggish, your prayers are selfish, all about you, just enhance what I want, get my more of this, more of that, bigger of this, better that. God says, I'm looking for folks that pray not to consume it upon their own lust, but for the well-being of others. Prayers that are for the advancement of the gospel, prayers that will develop our faith and make me stronger in my faith in God. You say, preacher, aren't we supposed to let a request be made known unto God? Yes. Say, is it wrong to pray and ask the Lord that I can have a nicer car? No, there's nothing wrong in the world with that. But I need to come in faith believing, trusting God and saying, God, if I could have a nicer car and it would bring glory to you and Lord it would help enhance the work and and uh you know help my faith to grow, but Lord I'm I'm not that's great. That would love to have that. But you know, I just really need to pray for uh Len over here. I just pray God will help him and encourage him and meet his needs and pray for Helen over there. And and Lord, I'd I just lift her up to you You see what I'm trying to say? He says, you ask, you're asking, sure you're praying, but there's a serious problem with your prayer. Because you're asking amiss that you consume it upon yourself, and it's all about you. I want to have more fun and I want to have bigger stuff and I want to have more of that. Because that uh ain't gonna work I got several others here I said I wouldn't be able to get to them. I notice in verse 4 and 5, I noticed that impure prayers are a problem. He says there, verse 4, ye adulterers and adulterers, know ye not that friendship with the world was enemy with God? Therefore, if you're going to be a friend of the world, is the enemy of God. David said in Psalms chapter 66, verse 18, under the inspiration of God, he said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Unrepentant, unconfessed sin in my heart. Well, I just prayed and God don't answer no prayers. And we're living wicked lives and ungodly lives and disregarding, and we got our lives are saturated, our minds are saturated with sin. And we have the audacity to come and accuse God of not answering my prayer? When I'm living like that? Seriously? Impure prayers are a problem. Proud prayers are a problem. Verse six and seven. Says uh But he giveth more grace. Therefore, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 5, and other places in Scripture, the Lord warned the disciples, he says, don't Pray like the hypocrites do, the Pharisees do, they're hypocrites. They love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. He says, verily they have their reward. That's all they're getting out of it, is man's attention. If my prayers are designed to make people think on something, then my prayers are going unanswered. My prayers are designed, and I pray so that others think I'm some great Christian, I'm some spiritual man. Those prayers are going unanswered. Somebody suggested this. I think it's great advice. Our prayers in public should be brief. Our prayers in private should be long and earnest. It's not a show. Prayer is designed by God to focus on the Lord, never to draw attention to ourselves. Humility is a rare Christian grace, but it is a powerful ingredient in prayer. Humble ourselves before the mighty hand of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts in this matter of prayer. Lord, help us to examine ourselves. And Lord, if there's some problems in our prayers here, help us address that. Because we sure need you, Lord. This country sure needs you. Our community desperately needs the moving of the Spirit of God. Lord, there's people all around us. Maybe there's some even here in the service that are lost. Without God, if they die in their sins, they're lost for all eternity. Lord, only you can save a soul. Only you can open a heart and mind. So help us to pray. And pray as though you were instructed and guided in your word. And we'll give you the glory. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I am saved? I am saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I trusted Christ. But my prayer life It's not where it ought to be. God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart this morning. And you'd say, I need to respond to this. There needs to be some adjustments. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me. Is there anything like that? Uplifted hand. I'll tell you, I got my hand raised. I prepared this message. God dealt with me. And let's, if we had a revival of prayer, I believe we'd have a revival in our land. Because there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. Not saved. And the prayer you need to pray is, Lord, have mercy on me. Forgive me and save me. God will save us if we mean that with all our heart. Is there any like that this morning, Lord? You say, preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord To forgive me and save me. I can know my sins and forgive me and go on my way to heaven. Any at all on the uplifted hand? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. Make it a real response to the truths of your word and revive our prayer lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation now. Now let's