Acts chapter number twenty one. I want us to notice, if you would, uh verse number five. I read this in my devotions a number of weeks a uh several weeks ago, a week or two maybe, and um A little phrase there stuck out in my mind. In verse 5 it says, And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went on our way, and they all brought us on our way. We'll mention who that was here in a minute. They all brought us on our way with wives and children. So you have the husbands and wives, the parents and their children. These are families. Are seeing Paul off. They're going with him to see him off. He's heading back down to Jerusalem. And notice what it says, with their wives and children, till we were out of the city. So they're making their way out to where the ship was, and he's going to depart. And notice what it says here And we kneeled down on the shore and prayed. Moms, dads, husbands, wives, Paul, this little entourage, they're seeing them off, families. And out there on the shore in the sand, they get down on their knees all together and they pray. And I don't know, that just struck me. I want to speak this morning on praying in the sand. Praying in the sand. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. And just so fascinating. So many Amazing things in your word that speak to our hearts, that challenge us. And Lord, you correct us, you direct us with your word. And so we're very, very grateful for the Bible. And Lord, I just want to state to you publicly that we recognize your word as our final authority. God, what you say is so. And help us on our part to have the faith to take what you say as truth. And to receive it and to respond to it in faith, in submission, in love. And allow you to lead us and direct us that your will be done in our lives. So I ask, Father, you please fill me with your Holy Spirit now for this message. I yield myself, present my body, pray that you'd speak through me, Father, and touch our hearts, challenge us in this matter of prayer. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. And the Apostle Paul was a fascinating man to study his life. There's no doubt that Paul was one of, if not the, most significant men in all of the New Testament. Of course, there's one exception to that being who? The Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody's on that level. But he was profoundly used of God Not just in the history of the early church, establishing scores and scores of churches through these missionary journeys he would take up out of Antioch and out and throughout that part of the world But beyond that, God used him to record 14 of the 27 New Testament books. Now that's a little over half the New Testament. God used this man to give to us the eternal word of God, the preserved, perfect, eternal word of God in the New Testament. Would you agree with me? That's something. For a man to be used of God at that level, there's arguably there has never been a Christian as Great, we want to use that term as the Apostle Paul. As I said, God used them. 14 of the 27 New Testament books. God used them to pen. Now we understand. I don't have to say this. I know I don't, but I'm going to. We understand that when we say Paul Penn these, what we mean by that is Paul wrote it down, God is the author But God chose Paul to speak through, to move on his mind, to pen down the very exact words God wanted written down. Paul has a uh miraculous transformation uh at his salvation. He was one of the most self-righteous people you would have ever met. Proud. He was the Katz Meow. In his own mind. Whatever in the world that means. He hated the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean, bitterly hated This message that was being preached throughout Judaism, throughout Jerusalem area there. And now it's spreading. Bitter hatred. And um and God confronts him. Jesus Christ confronts him on the road to Damascus. And you could read in Acts 9 the account there, just phenomenal salvation experience where he goes from persecuting the Church of Christ To within days, he's preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. What an amazing thing. In fact, all the New Testament believers at the at that time throughout that area, they were like They hear they they're getting these rumors and reports, you heard uh Paul got saved, Paul. And uh it's like um They're like there ain't no way. There is no way God would ever save that guy. That guy ain't saved. There ain't no way. And lo and behold, it was true And so uh by the way, let me say this don't ever don't ever think somebody is beyond the power of the gospel to get saved. If Paul can get saved, anybody can get saved. And uh I tell you, a a a self-righteous, relit self righteous, proud, religious man Maybe harder to bring to Jesus Christ than a drunkard out on the streets. But he did. He got saved And so we have this miraculous transformation at his salvation. We have him being used of God to pen down these books of the Bible He's fearless in his witnessing. And I wish I could take time and just go and give examples of this. But he is absolutely fearless. In witnessing to people about his salvation, about his Lord Jesus Christ, about the gospel. He's intensely burdened for the unsaved I'd be honest with you, I've met some folks and I'd like to think that I have a burden for the loss. I would like to believe I have to some extent. I want to see people saved I believe our church has a burden to reach the lost. Amen. We want to see people saved, right or wrong. We don't want anybody to go to hell. We want God to use us to see people saved. But I and I've met some people over the years that had a a drive, a uh uh an intense burden to see to reach the lost. But I've never met anybody like the Apostle Paul You read in in Romans chapter 9 and Romans chapter 10 and we've touched on this recently and to me this is this is This is almost overwhelming to think of this, but Paul says, and he emphasized the fact that he's being sincere on this. He's not just saying this. He's saying, I would, I wish that I myself Could be accursed for my brethren's sake that they might be saved. In other words, he's saying this: I would be willing to forfeit my own salvation. If that meant other people could be saved. He's saying this in effect. I would be willing, if it was possible, I would be willing to go to hell so that other people could escape hell. Would you agree with me? That's pretty intense. Uh-uh, I don't know. Would w Brother Hermond, would you be willing to go to hell so somebody else could be saved and go to heaven? For all eternity, go to hell for all that's tough, right? That's where Paul was at. And so he's an amazing man. And like you go down the list, I have a list of things here about him. He has inexplicable joy and contentment in the midst of trials. Again, if we had time, we'd go to Acts 16. He's in prison, beaten bloody. I mean, the pain he had to have been in. He's in the inner prison, the worst part of those ancient prisons. He's bound, hand and foot, and the Bible says at midnight he prayed and sang praises to God. Wow. I get up in the morning, my knees hurt, and I have a hard time praising God. You know? And so what a guy. He has a profound grasp on the doctrines of God. Read Romans, read Galatians, Ephesians. And God uses him to record for us these great doctrines about salvation, about the second coming. uh about the security of the believer, uh uh uh just a great grasp on doctrine He has personally dedicated the Lord Jesus Christ like very few others. A number of times he says, I'm willing to die for the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm willing to die for the gospel. If it costs me my life, I'm going to be loyal to Jesus Christ. They can do what they want to me. I'm going to be loyal to my Savior. He said, for me to live is what? Christ. For me to live is Christ. That's the whole purpose of my life. He was in love with Jesus. He was in love with Jesus. He had a deep understanding of unconditional love. He told the church at Corinth in one place, he said, the more I love, the less I be loved. You know what he was saying? He was saying my love for you is not dependent on whether you love me back or not. My love for you is not dependent on anything on your part, any behavior on your part, any action on your part The more I love you, the less I beloved. He understood what unconditional love was. In fact, it'd be good for all of us to study very carefully 1 Corinthians chapter 13. the greatest piece of literature on what love looks like in all of history. Paul was an amazing man And uh profound. However, he was just a man. He was not sinless. He understood. Listen to a couple statements he made about himself. He refers to himself as the chief of sinners. In other words, he's saying, Listen, of all the sinners in the world, I'm the worst. That was his view of himself. Now I just described this guy. And his attitude of himself wasn't, yeah, I've got a great grasp on doctrine. Yeah, I'm dedicated, I'm this, I'm that. No, no, no. He says, you know, and the bottom line, I'm the chief of sinners. Another place he said, I'm the least of all the apostles. If he was on a platform with the other preachers, Peter and James and John and these great men These disciples, these apostles, if he's on the platform with them, he'd be sitting there thinking, of all these guys, I'm the worst one. I'm the lowest of all of them. That was his attitude of himself. You never find Paul anywhere. Now he apologized a few places where he says, It sounds like I'm boasting. He said, I'm really not boasting. I'm just saying this is what God did in my life. In Romans chapter 7, he makes this statement about himself. Listen to what Paul says about himself. He says, O wretched man that I am. Anybody here ever feel like that? Sometimes you're reading scripture, you see the holiness of God, you see the glory of God, you see the standard of God, and I look at myself and I think, oh wretched man that I am. How could God use me? I see these other believers, I see these other preachers, apostles, I look at myself, and I'm like the worst of all of them. That was his attitude. You know, I think that attitude is one of the reasons God used him so greatly. Because for Paul, it wasn't about himself, it was about the love and grace and goodness of his God. He said, for me to live is Christ, not me. For I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And so Paul was not sinless by any stretch of the imagination then We can see several places in Scripture where we can see, you know, that doesn't look like Paul made the best decision there. But nevertheless, he was a powerful man of God. Powerful man of God, and I believe the reason was is because he was a powerful man of prayer. Paul knew how to pray. And here's the thing, and this is my message this morning. You and I have the same access to God that this great Apostle Paul had. You and I had the same access to the throne of God that the Apostle Paul had. You know why Paul was so powerful in his prayer? It was because of Jesus Christ. He came through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ gave him access to the throne of God. And every single one of us here, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have the exact same power available to us Through prayer that the Apostle Paul had. He was a man just like you and I. He was a human just like you and I. He was a sinner just like you and I. We saw how he viewed himself. But God did great things. God did powerful things in his life. And I believe he was a powerful man of prayer. Now, God's not going to call you and I to be an apostle. There are no apostles in this day and age. They were a temporary office used to establish the church and give us the Word of God. So God's not going to call us to these positions that the Apostle Paul had, and God may not use us in the same ways he used him. But my point is this, the same power in prayer is available for you and I for what God has for us in our lives, in our day. I'll never be an apostle Paul that I can pray to the same God Paul did. I'll never go on missionary journeys like he did and see these miraculous things he did. I'll never see any of that But I have access to the same God that the Apostle Paul had. And so he was a powerful man of God because I believe he was a powerful man of prayer. Now, let's come to our text here, verse number 5, which we just read. And Paul, in this context here, he is making his way back to Jerusalem. The believers in Jerusalem were in need, there was some uh famine, different stuff going on there, and he had been out on a missionary journey and While he was there he picked up some financial support to help these believers so that they could get the gospel out, meet their needs, so they could uh continue the work of getting the gospel out and starting churches. And so he's making his way back. And in chapter 20 he had met with a bunch of pastors And uh he had kind of given his final word to them, and he knew that this was going to be the last time he would ever see their faces. And so in chapter 20, and to me as a pastor, chapter 20 is a fascinating chapter because Paul gives to them his philosophy of ministry. And if you'll study that, he goes down through there and gives all these principles of ministry, and it's tremendous. Now in chapter 21 and verse number 5, he is taking his leave. He had been with them for a little while. He poured his heart out to them. He taught them. He invested in them for the brief time he had with them. And now he's heading back to the ship and he's going to sail back down to Jerusalem. And by the way, there's a little controversy about whether he should be going back there or not. Did anybody notice that? A verse or two before, one of the disciples said to him, listen, the Holy Spirit, the Spirit told me you shouldn't go back down there. Another place, another disciple tells Paul, the Bible says the Holy Spirit told him, don't go down there. Now I'm not going to give the answer to that solution. I'm not sure what exactly it is, whether Paul went Against the will of God or what? It seems interesting to me. Nowhere does it say the Spirit told Paul not to go there. You know, so I don't know the answer to that controversy whether he should or not, but he did. And God used them. And he ends up in prison in Rome, but nevertheless he did. So that's the context. He's making his way back to this ship and the people are sad because they know they're never going to see him again. They're worried because if he goes down there, bonds and afflictions await him and they know it's not going to be good if he gets down there and they're wishing he wouldn't go In fact, another place they're kind of talking trying to talk them out of going back to Jerusalem, but Paul would have none of it. I'm going. So they said, all right, the Lord's will be done. They just gave it. And they get to the shore Now I don't know about you, but I read this and this touched my heart. And there on the shore in the sand where the ship is, and no doubt there's a dock or something going out to the ship and They gather around, and the Bible says, with their wives and their children, these are families, and they're all gathered around Paul. And Paul is not going to leave these dear believers until they pray. Paul believed in prayer. He depended on it. And there's no way in the world he's going to depart these people without them spending time in prayer. And they notice what it says there. And it says, and with wives and children, till we are out of the city, and we kneel down on the shore, they're in the sand. Sand on their knees and their shoes in their sandals. They bow down before God, their knees, and they pray. They pray to God. I believe one of the greatest things a family can do together is to pray. Husbands praying with their wives. Somebody say amen right there. Husbands praying with their wives. That's what they're doing. Parents praying with their children. Parent ought to pray for their children, and a parent ought to pray with their children. Praying together Husbands and wives on their knees in the sand praying to God Mothers, their children, fathers with their children. Uh did they have their arms around each other where they're holding hands? I don't know, but I know they were on their knees In the sand, bow before God. And as a family, they're praying. The great apostle Paul on his knees right there. And the families gathered around. Did they have their arms around? Were they holding hands? Maybe they're Locked arms and they're before God praying. Husbands and wives, parents and children. I got to thinking, I'll bet you there was some brothers and sisters praying together Brother, that's miraculous right there. Brothers and sisters praying together. Would you agree with me, children, brothers and sisters praying with each other? Praying for each other, praying with each other The other I think it was last Sunday night, and I don't mean to put anybody on the spot, but it just almost brought me to tears. It was such a blessing. We gave the invitation, people respond, and I tell you our church is so good at being responsive. at invitation time and there's people praying and I noticed here last Sunday night I noticed here as I'm giving the invitation uh little Brantley was on his knees here. And I don't know if it was Kinsley or Allie, one of them. Do you guys? Was it Allison? And uh Brantley was there, and Allison was beside him. And a brother and sister on their knees at the altar praying to God. And when they were done, they got up and Brantley took his sister by the hand. And they just walk back. I don't know about you. That's the way it's supposed to be. And that's what's happening here on the shore in the sand. The families are praying together. They're praying. Tell you one of the best things a family can do is learn to pray together. Learn to pray together. A couple thoughts I want to bring out that I noticed here in this passage. The first thing I notice is the posture. of their prayer, the posture of their prayer. Look what it says. It says, so we were out of the city and we kneeled down. We kneeled down. They didn't just stand around in a circle and hold hands, sing kumbaya, and then pray. They didn't just, you know, hold their hands and bow their head. They got down on their knees. I mean in the sand they got down on their knees. I looked up that word, I looked up that phrase, kneel down I looked at every dictionary I have, I wonder how it's used other places in Scripture, and you know what I found out it means? It means they kneeled down. I mean, they literally got down on their knees and prayed and prayed. By the way, that was very common with Paul. Come back to chapter 20, if you will. We're not far. Look at verse 36. It's probably on the same page, maybe, as you're where you're at now. But chapter 20 and verse numbers 36 it said, And when he had thus spoken, he's speaking to these preachers, he's giving his philosophy of ministry. And when he's finished, when he had thus spoken, he what Kneeled down and prayed. We won't turn to all these references. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 14, Paul said, For this cause I get on my knees and pray. It was common for Paul to get on his knees and pray, to kneel down. Jesus knelt in prayer, the Garden of Gethsemane. He got on his knees. He prayed. Stephen, when they martyred him, as they are throwing the rocks at him that are going to kill him, brutally, violently, painfully kill him Stephen gets on his knees. He talks to God. Peter When he raised Tabbit from the dead, he got on his knees and prayed. Solomon, in front of all of Israel, tens of thousands, maybe hundred thousand or more of the Israelites at the dedication of the temple. Solomon, in front of God and everybody, gets down on his knees and prays to the God of Israel. Ezra, when they rebuild the temple, prays on his knees. Daniel He gets word from the authorities. He's number two in command of Babylon. I mean, he's a powerful political position. known to everybody. I mean he is powerful position. And the other vice presidents are all jealous of him and they convince the king to pass a law that you can't pray to anybody For so many days. You know the story. The very first thing Daniel did is said he got on his knees three times a day. He knelt down his knees, prayed Prayed towards Jerusalem and prayed God. And it says, just as his custom was, Daniel got on his knees when he prayed. The posture I see here. And what they're doing in the sand here, getting on their knees, this is something we see all through Scripture. In Psalms 95, verse 6, it gives a call to all of God's people. It says, come, let us worship and Bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our God, our Maker. The posture Here on the sand, on the shore, as they kneeled down into the sand, their knees sinking down in the sand, it wasn't just some religious formality they were doing. It wasn't just some ritual, some outward show. Well, we're going to get on our knees, and some denominations and in some circles make a big deal about putting on a show when you pray. This was not a show. This was an instinctive, spiritually instinctive reaction to approaching the presence of God. To coming before the throne of God. They got on their knees. They knelt down. It wasn't a religious formality. It wasn't a religious ritual. It was an expression of humility Now think about that. Paul had apostolic authority. He had authority from God. He could just speak a word and cast devils out of people. We read of it. God gave him authority to heal the sick on a number of occasions. He had authority that nobody in the world today has to appoint pastors in a church. By the way, only the apostles could do that. Appoint a pastor. I have no authority to go to another church and say, all right. I'm appointing this person to be your pastor. By the way, a denomination does not have authority to appoint a pastor over a church. That is God and the church make that decision. Are you with me? Now I digress here a little bit, but that's Bible. But Paul, at that time, as the church is being established as an apostle, he could go into town, start a church, and appoint a pastor. And here he is. He has this power and this authority of God as an apostle. Yet he humbles himself before God and he kneels down. He knows. That whatever authority a man may have, there is no authority equal to the authority of our God. And he kneels before God. It's an expression, it's an act of humility, and an expression of humility. He kneels down. When they knelt down in the sand there to pray, what they were saying by their posture, they were saying, God is great and man is small. We have a problem in our society. We have a problem within a lot of our Christianity. We are exalting man and we are maximizing man and we are minimizing God. I'm telling you, that's the exact opposite of what ought to be happening. God should be maximized, and man were minimized. And they got on their knees, saying, God, you are great, and we humble ourselves before you. It was an expression of humility. It was an act of humility. It was an act of submission to God. In the Garden of Gethsemane, as I mentioned, Jesus knelt and prayed. This is the night that he's going to be betrayed. The soldiers are about to come to him and take him by force. They're going to lead him down into Jerusalem, and there he's going to be ridiculed, he's going to be spit on, he's going to be mocked They're going to have this facade of a trial and condemn him, an innocent man. They're going to beat him, they're going to pull his beard out of his face, they're going to whip him, they're going to put a crown of thorns, and they're going to crucify him. And that this night before all that's about to take place, in the next twelve hours, all that's about to take place, and he kneels in the Garden of Gethsemane and he prays. And he makes this statement on his knees. He says, Ah, the Father, thou canst do anything. Nothing is too hard for thee, I think, is what he says. And then he says this. It will be possible. Take this cup from me. Listen, nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. I don't know about you. I'm glad Jesus prayed that prayer. That he was willing to submit to that cross. But my point I'm trying to make is this. The posture of him on his knees communicating was an expression of his submission to the will of God. The will of God. We're told numerous times in Scripture that when we pray, we should make our request be known to God. We should tell God what we want. That's what Jesus did. Let this cup pass from me We ought to pour our requests out to God. We ought to tell Him what our needs are. And it's not wrong to tell God maybe what we think the solution is. But all of that needs to be governed by our submission to His will His will. God, this is what I like. God, this is my request. God, this is the way I see it. God, this is what I believe I need. But Lord, you're far wiser than I am. You're perfect in your knowledge. You're perfect in your wisdom. You're perfect in your love for me. And God, these are my requests, but I submit to your will. I want your will to be done. Anybody here ever pray a prayer and God didn't do it and you look back and said, Praise the Lord, God didn't answer that prayer. I've got a bunch. You know why? Because I didn't know what I was praying. I didn't know I didn't have all the information. I didn't know how things are going to play out. And I was asking one thing, and God's like, in his perfect wisdom and his perfect knowledge, his perfect love for me, he says, you know, we're going to do it my way. And I say, Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. And so this posture of kneeling communicated humility before our infinitely powerful, wise. majestic God. And I humble myself before Him. And it's a posture that communicates submission. God, your will be done. God, your will be done. Though kneeling is not absolutely necessary, we can pray without kneeling. I'm glad because sometimes I'm driving down the road and I really need to pray on something. I'm glad I don't have to stop and get on my knees and pray. Amen. There's a truck coming towards me. It's like, oh Lord help. Hold it Are you with me? Nehemiah, when he goes before the king there and he's the uh the the the food taster And uh he said a little prayer before that King Justin in his heart. Listen, we uh don't misunderstand, we don't have to get on our knees to get our prayers answered. We can pray anytime, anywhere. Peter was sinking in the water when he was walking in the water. He said, Lord, save me. But That posture of kneeling is a powerful message. I think it communicates the fact that I'm small and God is big. If I'm too big and I'm too proud to kneel before the God of the universe, That I'm too big and I'm too proud to get my prayers answered. Amen or not. I don't have to kneel in situations, it's impossible. But there's a place. And it was a common practice all through Scripture, this posture of kneeling. I want to remind you, according to Philippians chapter 2, verse 10 through 11, there's a day coming when every knee shall bow. And every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Even the devil himself. Will kneel before God, before the Lord Jesus Christ, in submission and in humility. And he will be forced to testify. Jesus Christ is Lord. So the posture is significant. On their knees, on their knees The second thing about this posture, first of all, they kneel down, but the other part of this posture I noticed is it's on the shore. They're kneeling down on the shore. They didn't say, oh, we gotta uh we're gonna pray. All right, uh let's get somewhere out of the public here. Let's Uh let's get back here behind this shed and we'll pray back there. Uh let's go down in the ship and get in the bottom of the ship. We'll pray there. I mean if we pray here on the shore, we get on our knees. Are you kidding me? Everybody's gonna see us Yeah. By getting on their knees on the shore, they were praying publicly. They were unashamed of the fact that God was their God. That they were worshiping God. They prayed to God. It was a public act. It was an unashamed act. I'm talking to saved people this morning. How many folks here? Saved, you know it. Say amen. I hope you've got that settled. If you don't, that's your biggest issue in your life right now, getting salvation settled. But those of us that know Christ, this is who this is addressing. And our relationship with the Lord As a believer in Jesus Christ, my relationship with the Lord, and all of us that said amen here a few moments ago, that relationship is intensely personal, right or wrong. I have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ that is intensely personal. It's me and my Savior. I'm sure many of y'all did the same thing this morning. I spent time just alone with me and my Savior. And he spoke to me from his word, and I poured my heart out to him. That is a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Very personal, intensely personal. However, it is also very public. At least it should be. I should never, ever, ever Be ashamed of the fact that I am a disciple of Jesus Christ. Jesus said, You're ashamed of me, I'll be ashamed of you before the Father. I don't know about you. I don't want Jesus to be ashamed of me. I don't want anybody to be ashamed of me. And they were unashamed. Unashamed. We should never be ashamed of Jesus Christ. And so they uh bowed publicly right there before the Lord, unashamed. So our our relationship with the Lord is intensely personal, but it's very, very public. We worship publicly. We don't hide. I trust that our church folk, and when we're out in public and we have a meal in a restaurant, in a Chinese-Mexican restaurant. That we're unashamed before we have the meal, that we bow our heads and we thank God for the food. Amen or none. I had a roommate in Bible college, Johnny Downs. He was he was a heroin addict in Texas, in Dallas, I think, is where he lived. He grew up. I mean hardcore heroin addict. And uh he got arrested, he he he broke into an emergency room, he was trying to get syringes. He broke into emergency room, if I have the details I'm not sure I have the details correct, but he got in this emergency room, he's stealing these syringes And they caught him and arrested him, and they gave him a choice, either go to prison for whatever long, or go to the Lester Roloff boys' homes down in Corpus Christi, Texas. He said, I'll go to the boys' home. How bad can it be? If you know anything about Lester Roloff, it was uh pretty intense. Well, you and take a long story short, he ends up in the Roloff homes and he gets saved. I mean, life is transformed. And it becomes one of Ro Brother Rof's prize young men. And they go out and travel and the gr he had a singing group of boys that lives have been changed. They'd sing in churches and he Always had Johnny Downs would go there and Johnny testify and yeah, I mean he was a trophy. And Johnny we ha shared an apartment one year in college and um uh he was a neat guy and we became dear friends. And uh he was telling me one time, he says when these young people would first get there, these guys, they show up in the homes. They d they were they were a like fish out of water. They didn't know what was happening. You know, it's all Christian environment. Lester all it was intense So they go out to a restaurant and he'd say, Brother Homescher or Brother Roloff would say, All right, we're going to pray. You know, he's got ten, fifteen boys in this big restaurant. Let's pray And he says some of those newbies were so embarrassed to pray publicly, so they'd be like, you know, and they're all bowing their heads, they would go pretend they dropped their pepper, you know, and they're reaching down and praying, Lord bless us here, you know It was uh humorous to hear him say it, but the thing was they were ashamed. They were ashamed that they were praying. People might think I'm praying. Paul and this husbands and wives and these little children, these families are all gathered together, probably a pretty good group of folks. They're on the shore in the sand. They all get down on their knees. And they begin to pray. And all the people passing by are watching and looking, talking. They didn't care. They didn't care. Let them talk. Let them think. We love God and we're not ashamed of it So the posture of this prayer, they're on their knees and they're on the shore. And they're praying. I put this down. The effectiveness of my prayers very much depends upon my understanding of God. The effect of my prayers very much is dependent upon my view or my attitude towards God. If my understanding of God is that He is great and He's magnificent, He's perfect in all His attributes. And I'm a sinner saved by grace. If I understand that, I have no problem humbling myself before God publicly and acknowledging that I need you, Lord, and I'm depending and I'm looking to you. If I got some little God that's no different than I am, and it's just uh some little vending machine that I come and get what I want when I need it and never think about them any other time, I tell you, you're gonna have a hard time praying like these people pray. So, understanding of God is going to affect, is going to be a factor in my effectiveness of my praying. So the posture there, let me quickly give you two other thoughts real quick. And number two, I put this down the priority of prayer There's no way in the world Paul was going to leave these dear people without a time of humble and earnest prayer. I'm not leaving you until we pray. If we don't do anything else, we're going to pray. If we never see each other again, we're going to make sure we pray. I tell you, one of the highest priorities in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is our practice of prayer. Our commitment to prayer. Jesus said, My house shall be a house of prayer If we don't do anything else, we ought to pray. I think the two priorities in any church, and ours is my concern. Number one, we be a people of prayer, and number two, we preach the gospel. All through Acts. Prayer, preaching, prayer, preaching, prayer, preaching. If we don't have prayer, our preaching is ineffective. I think our church folk ought to pray for all these little bus kids come in. If we're ever going to see little children come to Christ, we got to saturate them in prayer. Amen or not. We've got to pray for our Sunday school teachers that they're filled with the Spirit of God. They have the compassion of God and that God is working through every teacher. Change lives. Prayer, prayer, prayer, priority Before any any bus worker climbs on a bus, before any Sunday school teacher steps up in front of a class, before any preacher stands behind the pulpit, before any choir member lifts their voice up in the choir, there ought to be a time of prayer. God bless this, fill us, use us, meet with us. Priority of prayer. Paul said, I'm not leaving y'all till we pray. Mom, dad, kids, get them all together. We're going to pray. If we don't do nothing else, we're going to pray. We're going to pray. Priority of prayer. In John chapter 15, verse 5, Jesus said, Without me, you can do nothing. We need God, and we need to pray. Our relationship with the Lord is too important to neglect prayer. Our relationship in our families, our marriages, our children is too important to neglect prayer. The well-being of our church is too important for us to neglect prayer. The condition of our nation is too important for God's people to neglect prayer Begins and ends with prayer. John R. Rice said all our failures are prayer failures. You say, why is our nation the condition is maybe we failed praying like we should? Why are our homes and the condition therein? Maybe there's not prayer there as a priority like it should be. Say, preacher, why do I struggle so much? Why am I so defeated in my Christian life? Why am I so cold? Why is my heart so hard? Hey, because prayer is not a priority. Prayer. Without me, you can do nothing. Our nation, we're making a big mistake if we neglect prayer. I've said this often, and I'm so much, I've referenced so much that I'm almost ashamed. But I thank God for my daddy. I'm telling you, I would be, there's no doubt in my mind, I would be in hell burning in hell right now. Right now, I would be there if it wasn't for the prayers of my daddy I don't know how many times I can tell you I come home on a Saturday night, a Saturday morning, or a Sunday morning, two, three, four o'clock in the morning sometimes. Not every time I'd come home, but often I'd come home and daddy's bedroom door would be open. I'd go by, stagger by there. I happen to look in, he'd be in there on his knees, praying that God bring his boy home safely. God save his son. I thank God for a daddy that prayed. And every kid in this church needs a daddy who'll pray on his knees before God. To save my child's soul. God, keep them from sin and perversion and wickedness. Oh God! Priority of prayer, the power of prayer. We humble ourselves before God and seek Him Say, preacher, my child's away. My child's a backslidden. They're away from the Lord. Very prodigal. I tell you what, prayer, they can never get beyond the reach of prayer. God can bring them back. God can bring them back. So priority prayer. Paul said, there's no way in the world I'm leaving you until we pray. It's a priority, it's a high priority. I thank God for a praying daddy. I'm convinced behind every soul saved there's a praying Christian somewhere. Somewhere there's a Christian praying. I led a fella from India. I was down in Sydney, Australia, a number of years ago with Byron Fox. We're out in the street witnessing the people and this Brother Fox brought this boyer. He's probably 25, I would guess, an Indian. From India. And uh Brother Fox came over and says, Hey, I met this guy, he wants to get saved. Uh how about lead him to the Lord? My first thought was, why don't you? I don't know. So I said, sure. And so I got my Bible out. We stood there out in this plaza, big plaza in Sydney, Australia. And I went through the gospel and he was right with it. And he understood I said, would you be willing to understand all the things? Yeah, yeah. We went through very thoroughly. I said, you'll be willing to bow your head, call on the Lord, trust Jesus, your personal Savior. You know what the boy said? He goes, I sure would. He bowed his head there and prayed with me to call on the Lord Jesus Christ from his life be his personal Savior. From India. He'd only been there. He said he'd been there a month or two, just moved there from India. I don't know. I have no idea. I could be dead wrong. But I've got a seeking suspicion somewhere there was somebody who knew this boy was praying that that boy'd get saved. I'm convinced of it. I was in Boulder, Colorado when I was lived out there, and we were doing open-air preaching on a plaza there, and this boy came up and a college student and in a CU in Colorado University there And uh I got talking to him and going through the plan of salvation. I invited him to call on the Lord. And for some reason I said, Do you have Christian family at all? The boys, and he I mean he's out in the streets, they've been out partying, and he starts sobbing, and he says, I've got a mama back in Nebraska is praying that I get saved. He bowed his head, prayed with me to trust Jesus Savior. When we were done, I said, the first thing you need to do, you need to call your mama and tell her you got saved. Prayer, the priority of prayer. Praying for our family. And then last of all, the power of prayer, and I already touched on it. James 5. 17, the factual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much Jeremiah 33, 3, call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Ephesians 3:20, who was able to do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask, pray, or think. Now, either those verses are true or they're not. And they're just as inspired as John 3. 16 and any other verse you want to come up with in the Bible, those verses are true. God is powerful. And he says that prayer is powerful. Prayer is powerful. We become too comfortable with unanswered prayer. We're content with going through the motions. Our churches are powerless and ineffective in our witness. Our homes are dysfunctional and bitter and broken. Our lives are frustrated and bitterness takes root in our heart. And it doesn't have to be that way. We can pray. We can pray to a God that is all powerful, that has given us precious promises We humble ourselves and submit to Him and pray. Pray. Here's what I leave you with. Why don't you pray? I mean, just pray. The number one reason prayers aren't answered is because prayers aren't prayed. How many things God would do for us if we just ask Him? And then have passion. Get serious about it. Get earnest about it. Get focused on the Lord. Be persistent. Keep praying till something happens. Keep praying and keep praying and keep praying and keep praying I read this morning or yesterday in a devotional book I'm reading. Mueller, George Mueller, paid five men. He was praying that they would be saved. Three of the five got saved. He prayed for 20-some years. Three of the five got saved. He died. Those two fellows were still unsaved. Fifteen years after he died, both those fellows got saved. And the people there said God answered George Mueller's prayers. Just stay at it, stay at it. Don't quit. Don't quit. Don't back up. Don't let down. Don't cool off. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. So pray, pray with passion, pray with persistence, and then pray in purity. Psalm 66, 18 says, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. I'm afraid too many of us are okay with sin-stained hearts. We're satisfied with dirty hearts and unanswered prayers. We're accepting the fact there's sin in my life and we don't address it. We regard it. We're okay with it. We're comfortable with disobedience in my life before my God. My prayers are not answered. Even if I do pray, they're not answered because of impurity in my life. The Lord won't hear me. What we need is the Spirit of God to move on us and make us dissatisfied with our carnal state. We need the Spirit of God to move on us and make us sick. Of the sin we become comfortable with. That we tolerate. The Spirit of God move on us and we can get a hold of God and start seeing God do things. Are you with me? I read about, oh, by the way, let me say this: revival never comes to an indifferent, prayerless church. Never. The power of God never comes to an indifferent, prayerless Christian. Never. The blessings of God never fall on a home that is indifferent about God and about Righteousness and about prayer never. The joy of the Lord never comes to a proud, prayerless Christian. We need to learn to pray, humble ourselves before God in submission, and pray with pure hearts and passionately, persistently. Early African converts to Christianity were earnest and regular in their private devotions and private prayer. In this one village where Christianity, the gospel had come, and many of the dear folks in that tribe there had come to Christ, each one reportedly had their own separate spot out in the jungle where they would get alone with God and they would pray. The whole village. They all had their own little thing. And they were so They were so consistent in their daily prayer. They wore little paths into the jungle ground and the grass to where their prayer spots were each morning. And everybody had a little path going into the jungle where they would go to pray. Over time, these paths became well worn down. And as a result, occasionally the villagers would notice that one certain person's path, grass, started growing up on the path to where they would go to pray. And then over here there was another path and weeds and grass were starting to grow up. And they started say to one another, if they noticed that, they would come and say, brother, there's grass growing on your prayer path. What it meant was they weren't praying. They weren't getting alone with God. They weren't seeking the Lord. Here's my question. Is there grass growing on your prayer path? Is there grass growing on your prayer path? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us. I pray, dear Lord, you'd teach us to pray. The disciples ask you, Lord, to teach us to pray, and that's our request as a church, myself as pastor. I ask, dear Lord, you teach us to pray, to pray humbly, to play submissively, passionately, persistently, and purely. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know God saved me. There's no doubt. That's settled. But my prayer life is not what it ought to be, and I need God. Without him, I can't do anything. And I need to get this prayer My prayer path cleared out. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God speak to your heart this morning. Any at all? God bless you. Hands all around. I need God to help me pray. Let me challenge our families. Mom and dad, kids, why don't we establish a prayer time as a family? Make that a priority Mom and dad, husband and wife together pray on a regular daily basis. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I've got to get that in my home. Is there any? Preacher, pray with me. I need that in my home. Get that. God bless you Hands all around. I tell you it'll make a difference. What God could do if we learn to get a hold of him. What God could do Maybe there's some say, preacher, I have a burden on my heart. I've been praying a long time. A need, a person. Sometimes I get discouraged and I just wonder if God even hears me. Maybe this morning God stirred your heart and you say, I'm not going to quit. I'm going to keep on praying for my husband, my wife, my child, my friend, this need. Journey like that, preacher. I'm not going to quit. I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. Any at all like that? God bless you. Hands all around. Don't quit Let God have his way. Father, bless now. Lord, if there's something in our hearts that needs to be made right, help us do that. Oh, one last before we give the invitation. Is there someone here say, preacher, I don't know. I'm saved I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. Is there anyone like that? I'll include you in this prayer. Any. I need that settled. God bless now our invitation in Jesus' name