Is named after David. He's going to sit on the throne of David. And uh that's an incredible thing to me that um that uh uh that uh David's character and and David in the eyes of God is such that he would do that. And uh I was trying I was I kind of reviewing today a little bit our study. Am I turned on here, Dave Alright, we're good there. Alright, good. I was thinking some of the subjects that we've covered in studying the life of David. Some different topics that came up as we went through the life of David. Can anybody think of any particularly uh in the area of Christian living Anybody think of any topics that we've discussed studying the life of David? Anyone here last Wednesday? Remember what it was? Patience. Yeah, remember we studied patience. And I got thinking back through our study and so many areas that came out Respect for authority. We talked about that. We talked about holiness. We talked about vengeance. In fact, that came up several times with Nabal. Remember that? Nabal And then his gracious that he showed grace and mercy that he showed to King Saul. And all going through there, let's look at 2 Samuel chapter 2. I'm going to read down through verse four. We're not going to get to all this because there's another subject uh Christi uh area of Christian life in verse number two that I want us to zero in on tonight. But look what it says there. 2 Samuel 2. 1. And it came to pass after this Now I underlined the next five words. Came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord. Saying, Shall I go up unto any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said unto Hebron. So David went up hither, and his two wives, also Ahinoim of the Jezreelitis, and Abigail, Nabal's wife, the Carmelite. And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household, and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron. And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying, that the men of Jabesh Gilead Were they that buried Saul? Last week we talked about the patience of David, and tonight I want to look at the prayer of David. the prayer of David. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask your blessing now on our study of this portion of David's life. I ask, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us and help us. I thank you for what you've done in our church this past week, the last few days And now, Lord, as we're back to our Wednesday schedule, I pray that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew and pray with all my heart. That you fill me and speak through me and be the teacher and preacher tonight. And Lord, I pray with the disciples that you would teach us to pray. And help us to learn from David here in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, I quoted a friend of mine last week to start the message. I want to Make that quote again. A friend of mine, Tim Susa, he made this statement. He said, God blesses us for what we really are, not for what we pretend to be. Now I think that's a important truth to understand. We get pretty good, Christians get pretty good at putting on a show. We're awfully good at that. In fact, in the Sermon on the Mound, Jesus cautioned the disciples numerous times, not just the Sermon on the Mound, other places, but throughout the Sermon on the Mound, he would make statements like this. Be not like the hypocrites. Be not like the hypocrites. Now my question is this, why would Jesus Feel it necessary to warn disciples of all people not to be hypocritical, not to just pray to be seen, not just give to be seen, not just a put on a show. The reason he would warn them of that is because that's a very real danger for Christians to put on, pretend, put a facade out there that we're something we're not. And God doesn't bless us for what we pretend to be. God blesses us for what we really are. And as we're studying the life of David here, we're seeing David for what he really is. We see his ups and downs. We see his virtues and his vices. We notice he's got a little bit of a temper there. We're going to see some other things as we get through. But we see some positive things in David's life. Now I pointed out four observations I made from these four verses. And the first one we looked at last week is the patience of David. Saul is dead now. There's no more being run around the wilderness by King Saul Saul has been killed. Jonathan's dead. David has already been anointed to be king. I mean, uh the door is open now. God's anointed him. God has promised him And uh he could go march him back into Judah and he could claim the throne and he could uh declare himself king and everything would be legitimate. But he didn't do that He waited, he carried. He didn't go rushing into that, and he waited on God. And I'll tell you, it's a tremendous, tremendously important virtue in the Christian life is to learn to be patient. Amen or not on that. Man alive. It's probably one of the hardest things to learn. But uh nevertheless, David exhibited patience. here at a time when he could when he could have been very uh hasty in going in there. Then I notice in verse one that uh again that not only did he show patience, he waited before he went back in there He prayed, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. David inquired of the Lord. And then we're going to look, Lord will in next week in verse 2 and 3. And this is important in the Christian life, and particularly in Christian service, we're going to see the participation of David's family. He doesn't leave them out there and go marching in uh back to uh Judah and and become king. He brings his family with him. Uh he brings his uh men that had been faithful to him and follow him around the wilderness and work him with him. He brings them in there with them also. And he includes his family in his uh uh walk with the Lord. And then we have in verse four we're going to notice the public anointing. This Is the second time David has been anointed. Before it was private with the prophet Samuel, and now it's public, and there's significance to that. So I want us to look at this matter of David's prayer life. David did not presume upon God. He didn't just say, all right, Saul's dead, I'm going in there. What does it mean to presume on something? I want class participation. If you're going to presume something, what what does that mean? What is it Take it for granted how many people said that. Yeah, you act on something, maybe impulsively, you presume. What'd you say Assume there's a there's a keyword assuming something is going to take place, assuming something, right? Anyone else have a different take Expecting something to presume on something. I'm expecting accepting something. Uh I looked this up and I and And and uh I this is what I came up with. The first definition that came up was this, to assume something is a certain way. Anybody here ever assume something and you got burnt Anybody here ever hear or say this little statement? Never assume. Right? You always double check. Did you ever go on vacation and you get out the road about a mile and you think, did I unplug the iron? Anybody here? Uh or if I'm if I'm traveling or something, be when I pack up the motel room or whatever. I was up last week, uh my mom's eightieth birthday, we s rented a house on New Jer at New Jersey at Ocean City And before we left, you'll always hear some great practical advice when you're traveling. Whenever you pack up and you're walking out, before you walk out that door, do a walkthrough. And double check, make sure you got your phone charger and all your stuff. And uh we assume we stop. So presume means to assume something is a way when it might not necessarily be that way. And that gets us in trouble sometimes. The word presume also means to take something for granted, which is along what we just said. I take it for granted that the iron is turned off. I take it for granted that the car is locked. When I go in, I go back and check. Uh my wife used to get so mad at me, I'd I'd I'd always say we'd get out of the car or somewhere, I'd say Lock your door over there. That that was back before they had all these fancy things where you push the button and locks them all at once. Remember those days? I mean now they're so fancy But uh I'd say lock the car and uh we'd get out, walk back, and I'd always go back and double check. Make sure, oh well you don't believe me? And uh so no, I'm just not assuming it happened. I just want to make sure And so, all right, I'm cooked on that one. But um, to take something for granted. Ah, listen to this definition, to presume. Now think about David's situation. Saul's dead. He's anointed. He's going to be king. Saul, the previous king, is dead. But he's not going to presume on God or the circumstances before he goes in. Listen to this definition. to undertake something without clear permission. To undertake something without clear permission. Maybe you're on a job somewhere and you you uh you assumed, you presumed that I could do this, and then the boss comes in and says, what in the world do you think you're doing? You know what I'm talking about? And I thought that was important. And then here's another one that I thought was interesting. To act with unjustified boldness To act with unjustified boldness, to presume. Now here's what I'm getting at. David did not presume on God that this was the time for him to step into that position, or this was the method for him to step in that position. In fact, he put aside He put aside his own understanding, put aside his own reasoning, and rather than presume on God, he prayed to God. And I'm telling you, if you and I can get that into our heads as Christians, that before we act Before we presume on a situation or on God's will for our lives, we just stop and pray and check and make sure. Make sure. I'm telling you, the Christian life and the spiritual warfare is there's too much at stake to assume things in the Christian life. It's too easy to mess up our testimony and our walk with God to assume things or to presume things on God. And I tell you, as I was studying this David's, my respect for David in this situation just went up about four notches. Because humanly, human reasoning would have said, David, just go right on down back there. Just go right on back there, you step in there, and you claim the position God gave you. Now he's going to be king But he wants to make sure he's doing it in the right way and at the right timing. I'm afraid that too often we mistake we mistakenly think that we can operate or function without God's assistance or without God's direction. We just get up and go about our day. We just make a decision in life, and uh we never even think about whether I ought to check with God and see what was what would be God's say on this. We in in in uh in um practicality in real life, we end up l living independent of God. I wonder how many times we made decisions and did things. And then afterward we stopped and say, you know, I wish I'd have checked with God first before I did that. I wish I'd have paused a little bit and prayed, been patient, spent some time in prayer, and make sure I had the mind of God, make sure I had the Lord's direction on this. And yet too often, and I'm preaching to myself at all uh uh as well, uh, we try to help God. Now David had the promise and David, you're anointed, you're going to be king. And he could have said this, God, I got this from now on. You anointed me. You promised me king. All right, I got this. And we go on and we try and help God. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that had a promise from God And then they didn't know how God was going to do it, so they tried to help God with their own shenanigans. Abraham and Sarah, classic example. God says you're gonna have kids. And uh uh Sarah laughs I wish I could laugh like Byron Fox. And uh so she gets scheming And she what's she do? She gets Hagar and says, Abraham, why don't you sleep with her and have a child by her? And then we'll just claim it. That'll be the promise of God. Like God doesn't know what he's doing. How many of you agree with me? It'd been pretty good if Sarah would have just stopped and prayed and say, Lord, should I do this or not? Boy, I don't think we'd have that Middle East problem now today. Just a simple prayer. Just wait on God. And so a lot of times we uh we uh we just go on, we don't even think about stopping or praying. Um Prayer is not just for church time. I think some folks get the uh get the idea, well, you pray at church. Or uh prayer is just at when we say our meals. And by the way, I think a Christian ought to pause and And thank God for a meal. We've done that ever since I got saved. In fact, when I was little, my dad would always we always had prayer for our meals. Just pray and that's a good thing. We should do that. And y remember when you used to see that in public? People bow their head in prayer. I saw somebody uh not long ago somewhere and they bowed their head in prayer. Uh and uh but prayer is not just for church, not just when you're going to eat a meal Uh prayer's not just at bedtime, for just at bedtime. Now I think folks ought to pray before you go to bed at night. That's when we do our family time, Kathy and I, and when the boys room. Uh we'd get together, read the Bible, pray, we'd sing a hymn And um I still believe I I tell you one thing I appreciate old Paul s uh Paul um uh Harvey He gives his testimony. And uh, you know what he says over and over? We always had family altar. We always had family altar. We always had family altar. I tell you, we could use that But what I'm trying to say is this. Prayer is not just for church or at lunch or at bedtime. Prayer is for decisions throughout the day. And throughout my life, praying, praying, praying over things. We ought to saturate our homes and our lives with prayer I have tried, whenever I had a decision to make, especially significant decisions, I've tried very hard to seek the Lord's direction. And I've tried to wait until God settled in my heart and mind what God's will was for that. I didn't want to just make an out. I haven't always done that, and sometimes I've regretted it. But I've tried. And what stands out in my mind, as I read here, David inquired of the Lord, my mind went back to when we were in Colorado. And uh I knew God was calling me to pastor somewhere. We were thinking West Virginia, somewhere in the mountains of West Virginia. I'm Philly boy, Kathy's from West Virginia, so we prayed about it and compromised and we're going to go to West Virginia. And um no, we knew it was the Lord's will. And so we uh uh we started preaching around different places. We went down to Webster County, we were gonna start a church down there, we canvassed and And just never got any clear uh direction from God. We prayed and prayed. And then there was a little church up uh in western Pennsylvania in Phillipsburg, Pennsylvania, and a little church there asked me to come up. I preached They gave me an invitation. I knew it wasn't God's will to go there. Glenville, West Virginia. There's a little church there We preached and I just knew it wasn't God's will. We prayed. And then there was a church in Charleston, West Virginia. And man, I like that church. And we got there and the people we connected. I preached for the weekend and um uh I I told Kathy, I said, I think I like it here. I want to come here. I liked where it was, the location. It was like a suburb of Charleston. They had facilities. The people were good, strong in the faith. And uh, you know, I could not get peace about that. I prayed and prayed and Lord and uh I tried called other preachers and they would say, well if you don't have peace about it, you know, yeah and uh I'd say yeah but I really want to go there And uh well maybe god you know we ought to wait and we pray and pray and finally I had a call and say, No, I just it's not God's will. And then God got the call from Brother Williams to come up here And you know, I've thought many times, 27 years, I've thought many times, boy, I'm glad that I didn't do what I thought I should do. But that I waited on God, sought the Lord in prayer, listened to what he said, and followed his direction And 27 years later, I am so grateful. God, hey, this is what I'm getting at. God knows what he's doing. And if we'll just look to him and trust him. And so that's what David's doing here. He inquired of the Lord. He could have went barging down here and uh walked in there, but he didn't. He stopped, he waited, he didn't rush, he prayed. I've never lost anything because of prayer. I've never lost any. I never look back and regret, boy, I wish I hadn't prayed over that. I've never felt that way at all. I'm always glad that I prayed. I've never regretted waiting on God in prayer. And the other thing is, David didn't have to worry about someone else taking his position as king. Now I don't know about you, but uh uh that would uh uh that might have been a factor in my thinking. I better get down there. Somebody else is gonna in fact w one of Saul's boys did try and horse around there a little bit, but it didn't amount to much. But I know me and I'd a thought, yikes, if I don't hurry up and get down there, somebody else is gonna get the king and I'm gonna miss out. And um I sh this is I don't know if this has much to do with this or not, but I just thought of it. Uh number of years ago I shot this buck Ed six point. I mean it was a great shot. I mean tremendous hunter had to do something like that And the thing ran off and I thought, well, I'll give it time. I'll I'll wait till it dies. And then I got thinking, somebody else is going to find that deer and steal it before I get there And so no I need to wait. No finally I couldn't take it anymore. It only went about ten, fifteen yards. I just couldn't see it. But I was worried sick. Somebody else was going to get that deer Now that's the way I think. I wonder if I was David, if I wouldn't have been thinking, somebody else is going to get that throne if I don't get down there. But he didn't do that He he didn't have to worry about someone else getting it. He had God's anointing. He had God's promise. It was just a matter of waiting on God in prayer for directions. In other words He had to say, all right, when do I go down here, Lord? You promised me the throne. You said I'm to be the king. When do I go down here? Uh how do I go about this? And he just wanted to be sure. I put this down. Prayer is one of the greatest gifts and privileges in the Christian life. The privilege of prayer, the gift of prayer. Listen to Isaiah 46, verse 9 and 10. Listen to what God says. God says this: I am God, and there is none like me Declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times, the things that are not yet done Did you get what God said? God says, I already know what tomorrow holds. I already know what the future holds. I know what's going to happen. And my this is my thinking. If God knows what the future holds and he knows every scenario, outcome of every decision I could possibly make, if he knows the outcome of all of that. Be pretty smart to go to him and find out what's the best course of action to take. Right? If you're coming if you're traveling and you come To a fork in the road, and here's a guy, and he's traveled this, he already knows where both those roads go to, and I don't It would behoove me, it would be wise of me to listen, come to this guy, say, hey, which way do these roads go so I know where I end up? And that's exactly what prayer is. It's coming to God. God lead me. God direct me. You know what the end result of this will be. You know where this decision leads to. And so David comes to God. What a gift that God has given to us. What a privilege we have as Christians that we Can come to a God that knows where every decision is going to lead, and I can get his leadership and I can get direction from him. I put this down, one of the most important things a Christian can do is pray Communicating with God. I put this down. Prayer is not complicated. Boy, I'm glad for this. You don't have to pray long words and all kinds of fancy oratory. Do you ever hear some, and I'm not trying to be critical, God answers those prayers, I guess. But sometimes you hear people who pray, Oh, our Father who art in heaven, eternal, majestic, uh sovereign God of uh uh eternity pass, and they'll go on for all this stuff And sometimes I think, you know, all we maybe need to do is just say, God, I I need to pay this bill. Can you help me pay this bill? You know? I my boys were small. They never walked up to me and said, Oh thou great, intelligent, handsomest dad Unless they really wanted something. Uh, and go through all this stuff to be they'd say, Dad, can I ride bike this afternoon? You know what I'm saying? And so it's not that complicated. Man complicates things. Prayer, I like what John O'Reilly said. He said prayer is asking and receiving. Just come and ask God. What do you need? What would you like? What do you want God to do? What's the question you have? What's the decision you make? Bring it to God and just ask Him. Just ask Him. It's not that complicated. However, God is not just an ATM machine, an ATM cart, uh when uh just a run we don't think about it at all. I don't know about you, I don't go around thinking about ATM machines Until I need cash out my wallet and there's none there, all of a sudden, oh where's the ATM machine? I gotta find an ATM machine. We went out to eat with my mom last week and uh we got to the little Mexican restaurant and they don't take cash or they don't take checks or cards. And it's like, seriously? And um they said, Cash only. I said, All right, uh what do we do? And uh they were very conveniently had an ATM machine right there. I think they got kickback off the charges on that ATM. And that's the way some people are with God, never think about God, never think about His will or what do you want until the need comes up, then all of a sudden, oh, I I need God How many times have we seen it here in 27 years? Somebody gets sick, somebody gets cancer, something, oh, they come to church. I'm going to get right with God. And I'm glad they do And then as soon as the cancer's over, God heals them, God gets them through it, and they're well, then you never see them again. God's not an ATM machine What we're seeing in David here is a way of life, a frame of mind, of prayer. And we're going to see it throughout his life. So prayer is not complicated, but it's not just for emergencies only. It's for living life. It's for direction and light. Let me give you three reasons why I think it was good for David to start out inquiring of the Lord right now. Three reasons I think this was good for him. Number one David is setting the tone for his administration. He's going to be king. And he doesn't make one decision. Before he's king, he doesn't make one decision. He's learned this the hard way. We've seen that. But he's learned, I'm not going to make any decision about this being king business until I come to the Lord and get some direction from God. He was determined to follow God's direction This year, Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 have been on my, just about daily on my heart and mind. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy paths He shall direct thy paths. Uh Brian and I were talking toward church back there about just COVID and everything going on, the chaos, stress and all of that And uh I said, I've kind of gotten to the point where I just plan things out like it was like it was planned before, but every week we're just going to make a decision, week by week, pray, seek the Lord. What can I do? What can I do And I think that's what David's setting up, the tone of his administration was. I'm just going to seek God on a regular basis. I'm going to come to God and say, God, what do we do? God, you lead us, you direct us. Take your Bible, if you would, real quick, and turn to Psalms chapter 5. Psalm chapter 5 and verse number 8. If you notice above verse number one in Psalm chapter 5, it says to the chief musician upon Nehithloth, Nehaloth, A Psalm of who? David. Now look what he says. Look what David says in verse number 8 of Psalm 5. Boy, this is the tone of his administration. This is the tone of his life. Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies. Make thy way straight before my face. Now that David's saying, I've got enemies out there And when he's king, there's going to be enemies of Israel. And his prayer is, Lord, lead me in thy righteousness. Make thy way straight before me. Come over to chapter 25 of Psalms. Again, this is a Psalm of David, it says above verse 1. And look at verse number 4, Psalm 25. And verse 4. This is a prayer of David. He's praying this. He says, lead me in thy truth, teach me. For thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day. Or verse 4, I meant to start. Show me thy ways. O Lord, teach me thy path, the way to go. The path. Lead me in thy truths. Teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day long. One more, Psalm 27, just a page over. And look with me at verse 11. Again, this is a psalm of David. And look what he says: Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain path because of my enemies. Over and over and over, we find through the life of David, he came to God and said, God, you show me the way to go. You lead me. You direct me. I don't know about you, but I feel like if I could get God to lead me and direct me on a daily basis, things might turn out okay. I'd like to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ and to be able to think, praise God, I let the Lord lead me and direct me in my life. Rather than leaning on my owner standing and doing things my way. And so David is setting the tone for his administration. We're going to trust God. We're going to get God lead us. We're going to let God direct us. Wouldn't it be something Everybody's talking about president elections and all that, and it's important. Don't misunderstand. But wouldn't it be something if we had somebody up there say, we're going to let God lead us and direct us in the leadership of this country? Wouldn't that be something? Or a governor or a mayor? They're going to seek God and let Him lead us. Paul understood this. Let me just read this to you. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 5, Paul makes a statement that has encouraged me so much. Over the years. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and let me read to you verse number 5. Listen to what he says. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves. That word sufficient has the idea competent. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, listen to this. But our sufficiency is of God. And then verse 6 he says, this, who hath made us able ministers. Paul said, Listen, it's not me, it's not my understanding, it's not my reasoning, it's not my wit or my intelligence. I'm not sufficient for the responsibilities God has given me. But my sufficiency is not of us, but it's of God. And if I let Him lead me and God direct me and use me. Then it'll get done. David started his administration with prayer. I think it's a good idea to start every day with prayer. Start off on the morning. Just before your feet hit the hit the floor in the morning. Lord direct me today. I have a prayer list I use and have have it broke down in different things, our missionaries and church members and preacher friends. And up front, uh there's a I go through a few steps in my prayer time And I added one about five, six years ago. I added a little step in my prayer time. Uh first is worship. I worship the Lord and I praise him for things he's done for me. Then um I confess my sins. Very short. time on that. And uh confess my sins. But I added one in there before I started praying for the church members and family and all that. I added a little step in there and it was this I surrender my day to the Lord. Every morning I try this. Every morning I try. I pray, Lord, I yield my will and surrender my will to you today. You lead me today, you direct me today. And guide me as I live through the day. And I tell you, that has brought great blessing to my heart. In the morning, say, Lord, I'm yours. I just yield myself to you. You lead me and direct me today. And so that's what David's doing, to start our day with prayer. I think we ought to saturate our homes with prayer. Our prayer prayer ought to be very common part of the home. Can you imagine if prayer was as prevalent in our home as the television is on? Imagine that. The kids were as accustomed to having prayer in the home as they are to that stupid TV play in the whole time. If prayer would saturate our homes, prayer at work, prayer on our finances, praying over our finances, Kathy and I pray over it, Lord, give us wisdom. Help us to handle this wisely and correctly. You've entrusted us with this. We want to honor you. Praying for our ministries So we teach a Sunday school lesson or run a bus route or sing in a choir, sing a special. Lord lead me. God fill me. God use me And so David set the tone for his administration with this inquiring of the Lord. Second thing I put real quickly, he's accessing God's wisdom James 1. 5. Anybody know what James 1. 5 says? Yeah, that's that's the Heinball version there If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not. God says, you want wisdom, you ask me. That's one major stay that's one major part or act on our part to get wisdom from God is just to ask him for it. And ask him without wavering So David is accessing the wisdom of God. Success in life is dependent upon wise decisions. I said this the other week. Our success and failure depends primarily on the decisions we make. If we make foolish decisions, guess what we're going to get? We're going to get bad results. Amen? Can I get a witness? We make wise decisions, we get good results. And David comes and inquires of the Lord, and what he's doing, he's accessing wisdom from God. God, should I go up? Where should I go? How? When? He's getting wisdom from God. Prayer can help us avoid bad decisions. And then thirdly, last of all, I put this down. What he's doing by inquiring of the Lord at this time He's submitting himself to the will of God. Now, I don't know if you ever thought about it this way, but I think prayer, in its very essence, is submission to God's will. It's Lord, show me what to do. I'm putting aside what I think I should do. I'm putting aside my own reasoning. And Lord, I'm submitting myself to you. I'm inquiring of you. Lead me and direct me. And David is submitting himself to the Lord. What did Jesus say the night before he was crucified in the Garden of Gethsemane? He said, Lord, if it be possible, here's his prayer. He's prayed. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. That's his request. But he didn't end there, did he? Nevertheless What did he say? Not my will, but thy will be done. You know what God said? No, I'm not going to pass this cup from you. You're going to drink it. God denied his prayer request. But he was yielded. He was submitted to the Lord. I think, this is just leathermanism here, but I think our salvation was secured In the Garden of Gethsemane, when Jesus said, Not my will, thy will be done. Boom. Going to happen. Now there was no chance of Jesus not Sorry, the will of God. But that that act right there when Jesus said, not my will, but thy will be done. Boom. Boom, it's going to take place itself. The Christian life is really a life of daily submission to God. The greatest kings all through the Bible were the kings who lived in submission to God. And the worst kings, Ahab and others, they lived for themselves. It was all me, my will. The greatest leaders in the history of the church were those who lived in submission to God. Can I say this? The greatest parents are parents who live in submission to God. Israel desperately, desperately needed a king who was submissive to God. They had just spent, what, 40 years With a self-centered, self-willed, self-destructive king. What they really, really needed was a king who was submissive to God. And guess what? They got one. They got one. They live in submission to God. David's taken leadership of a very unstable nation. And he needed wisdom from God, he needed direction from God, and he needed to be yielded to God so God could use him. You and I live, I know you know this, I don't have to say this, you and I are living in an unstable world Our world and our homes and our churches need submissive Christians that inquire of the Lord. Lord, lead us. God direct us Tell us, show us. We need your wisdom. And this world needs that. This world needs that. Roger Staubbach. Anybody recognize that name? Quarterback for the uh um the I can't hardly say that name, Dallas Cowboys. 1971, they went to the World Championship. They won. They were interviewing Roger Stalback afterward. I mentioned this in a message Some time ago. They were interviewing Roger Stahlbach, and um throughout the interview it came out that he was initially very, very frustrated with Tom Landry, the coach. Because Tom Landry would insisted that Roger Stolback could not make his own calls. Every play, Tom Landry's sending the play in, and he has to do what he is told. And he said that was very, very frustrating. But he made this statement. He said, When I learned the importance of obedience and submission to the coach. He goes, then we started winning. Then we went to success. And I thought, man, what a great statement about the Christian life. If I can get to the point where I learn the importance of submission to God, then I can grow. And be a successful Christian. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for David. Just this little statement here, this little act when he waited, and then Lord, when he prayed to you, inquired after you. And Lord, what an important step that was. What an important act on David's part. And I pray you'd help us. On a daily, regular basis, in every decision, every aspect of life, to pray, inquire of you. Lord, yield to your leadership and your direction in our lives. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes close, I wonder how many would join me in saying, preacher, I need to learn to pray more consistently. And more more prevalently in my life and decision I make. Is there any like that? I just got to learn to do that. I got I, yeah, God bless you. My hands raised I've never been satisfied with my prayer life. How many times we make a decision then think, oh, why didn't I seek the Lord first? I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm in a situation, I need God's wisdom. You say, pray with me that I'll trust him and I'll be sensitive to his leadership in my life. Is there any like that, preacher? I've got a situation. I've got some. God bless you. A number of hands around And let's pray and let's seek the Lord. Let's teach our kids to pray. Let's saturate our homes with prayer. Let's saturate our ministries with prayer. Let God lead us and direct us in these crazy days. That we're in Father bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen.