Start with me the Mar uh Matthew chapter seven and we'll go to Luke chapter eleven tonight and revival service. Uh prayer is very important and uh You know that, and I know it, and uh I kind of kind of I told one guy tonight I'm gonna kind of shoot all over the place. And I want the Holy Spirit to work. Amen. If I want to run an invitation, I would say, uh I've seen evangelists do this, and I don't want to ever be accused of it. If you don't pray enough, raise your hands. Alright? If you don't read your Bible enough, raise your hands. If you don't trust God enough, raise your hands. All come forward, service over, let's go home. I've been in some meetings that that evangelist would have an invitation, and if you were saved, you had to come forward just to get people to move. That is not how God works. Tonight we're going to work on something that's very important. It's our prayer life. I'm going to unwrap some things for you. I could preach just a week on prayer. I I have seventeen messages on it and and on the family I've developed uh uh five new messages on the home. The homes are a mess today, even our missionary homes. Fu fussing with the devil and all these things. But let's talk about prayer. Uh as uh I got some kids in here tonight and maybe you adults will go back with me a little bit. How many of you remember in your prayer life when you was young that you would pray that God would bless you with a a dog. Uh I prayed for a dog when I was seven years old. I I got a little rabbit dog named Stinker. And uh she was the best little thing you ever saw and she had one bad habit. She would chase cars and one day she chased one too many cars and She went to dog heaven. But anyway, uh how how many's ever prayed for God to bless you while you was out there deer hunting about the age of nine I said, Oh God, bring the biggest buck in Southeastern Ohio about my you know, and nothing ever came by. And then I got a little older and started to get interested in girls, amen. And I asked God, I went to a Christian camp where I got saved. But I was about sixth or seventh grade and we had Shady Hawkins Day. That's where the girls chased the boys around on Wednesday at this Christian camp, and if they tagged you, you had to eat supper with them. It's gonna be my first official date And I man there's a man there's this one girl, she was so pretty, and then there was another one bigger than the state of Delaware. And uh and I I I would outrun that big one just enough and I'd get put myself right and front of that pretty one and she walked ran right by me and touched the other guy. And while I was looking at her, the big girl grabbed me. I was in therapy for three years. But anyway Now I've had foolish prayers and so have you. I got a little holder in high school playing football. I asked God to bless me and if he would bless me with ten tackles, a touchdown, I promised him I'd be in church the next day if God answered my prayer on Saturday night. How many ever did that? You do dealing with God. How many ever dealt with him? God, if you take care of me, I'll do this. Who are you? What are you? Where did you come from? And it depends on you, doesn't it? No, it depends on God. God can do anything, anywhere, at any time And it's exposed to us to see. And tonight I hope to unwrap a little bit of, I could do it for a week, but uh unwrap what is the purpose of prayer. Uh unwrap what's the plan of prayer? Unwrap what's the program of prayer. Man, I could go to the book of Daniel. I mean the book of Daniel was something else. And everybody believes he he prayed three times a day so he would set a standard for all of us to know. He had a relationship with God When you study Daniel chapter 10, I mean he God loved that man because that man had a prayer life. And that man had nothing to go back to. And that man was a slave. And that man, when he was taken into slavery, was made into a eunuch. That man was not big, strong, and powerful. He would never go back home. But do you know what he learned to do? He learned to get a hold of God. And he purposed in his heart to do so. Started when he was a young child, carried him all through those three kings and those dynasties, and God used him in a great way to give us the Bible. But tonight I want to take you on a little journey with me. And I want to unwrap a few things about prayer. And I want you to see with me as we start tonight. Let's go to Matthew chapter 7 to start with. And let's just look at verse 7 for just a moment. The Bible says, Ask and it shall be given you, the seek, and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that seeketh receiveth, and to him that seeketh, findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. The Bible is very clear. Now you slide with me back to 11, book of Luke, chapter 11. And I want you to understand here that the Bible tells me in the book of Matthew 26, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Luke 18, 1 says, and he spoke, uh, spake a parable unto them, to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. First Thessalonians 5. 17 says, prayer without pray without ceasing. First Timothy two eight says, I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands. Without wrath and doubting. That means don't doubt God when you pray. And then you don't need to pray the fire of God's judgment on anybody. God will take care of that. How many have ever prayed that God will deal with somebody? Uh be careful how you pray that. Just pray God will get a hold of their heart. You know, and that the verse is very clear. Some of us Christians sometimes get in the flesh. Amen. Watch this here a little closer. Look with me please in Acts chapter twelve and verse five it says this But prayer was made without ceasing. This is for Peter of the church and to the to God for him and Philippians four six be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known unto God. James five sixteen, the effectual verbent prayer of a righteous man. What Availeth much. 1 Peter 3:7. Watch this. Men, you're going to love your wife, you've got to love your wife, men, that your prayers not be hindered. Isn't that great thoughts? Now it's all over the New Testament. Prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. And I've watched Noah and I've watched Moses and I've watched Abraham and I've watched David pray. But not one of them ever taught on prayer But they walk they walked and talked with God. The number one teacher in prayer in all scripture is the Lord Jesus Christ I take you to a chapter of Luke chapter 11 verse 1. I want you to see this with me. It came to pass as he was praying in a certain place when he ceased. The disciples had been watching him. Every time 5,000 people was fed. With his five pieces of bread and two s uh uh ten fish, sardine type fish, when uh he prayed, uh th those people all got fed. He prayed that little boy got healed. He prayed Jarvis's uh child got healed. Every time Jesus went away to pray, special things happened afterward. And after one of those incidents as he comes around the corner from behind the rocks there in the woods, spending some quiet time with God of heaven. It came to pass as he was praying in a certain place when he ceased, when he came back, one of his disciples saith unto him, Lord Teach us to pray. Can I stop here and say this? Everything the Lord did is pre-wrapped in prayer. You back up with the Matthew chapter 6 for just a moment, as I set the table for this message. Look at chapter 6 and verse 6. The Bible says But thou, this is Jesus, when thou prayest enter into thy closet, and when thou shuttest thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. When I was at Bob Jones I went the first uh nine weeks of school I got my grade card and I was playing ball in the gym every night or soccer, running around, you know, goofing off, and I had my grade card come out and said Dan DeLong at the top Then I had like eight classes that was D D D D D D. I thought the computer printout stuck. But it didn't. I'd never studied in high school and Uh the next day I got a notice from the Dean of uh Education and went in there and they said, Son, your days are gonna be over. You cannot play in the gym, you can't do this, you can't do that till your grades come up. I go, man, they're putting me in prison if my grades don't go up But man, I wanted to be free. So I started studying the next day. Amen. But before I did, I went into a little closet. Yeah, I uh just a little closet in a prayer room we had there on our floor. Now locked the door behind me. It was the first time in my life. I really, really sat down and said, besides getting saved, 19 years old, I said, God, I need your help. I can't spell physics, let alone do it I have no idea what trigonometry is. I have no idea what zoology is. I thought we was going to, you know, zoo, go to the zoo. I didn't know all the other things. And I thought when I did the Bible test, uh, what was is the book of Job in the book, is it in the Old or New Testament? And I said, well, I heard about the guys working for some pennies now, so I guess it's in the new. It's the book of Job, by the way. Man, I didn't know a thing. That's the first time I started to get a hold of God because I was over my head. Amen. Look what it says here in verse 7. But when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Hey, God can hear you the first time, amen. Down south they have what we call some stump jumping prayer prayer times. Prayer meeting starts and guys start walking and shouting. I'm sitting in that thing and say, God's not hard here. Amen. They say, Papa God, Papa God, Papa God, Papa God My dad thought there'd be something wrong with me. I've used his name nine, ten times in the same sentence, asking for the car, amen. God could hear God understands. And God knows if you're real or not, if you're just going through the motions. Hey, watch your vain repetitions. Look at verse 8. Be not ye therefore like unto them. For your father knoweth the things that you had need of before you asked him. He knows what you need before you ask. Now here's the thought tonight. Ask, seek, knock. My prayer life changed in 2009. Been in the ministry for several years. God's blessedness in New Guinea. I went to get a checkup at the doctor's office there and Dr. Zoe, Z-O-E. Uh and uh uh she uh was the doctor there and she gave me some blood tests and I was uh you know bul bulletproof back in those days. And uh She said you're in good shape and your blood looks good, but we're going to run the test. You're a little older, see where your cholesterol's at, see if you're like a buttered ball turkey on the inside. See what your PSA is and all that. And so and they run the test and two weeks later it came back and she called me. Come see me So I went to see her, and my wife and daughter went with, and they got their shots and everything. And she said, Brother DeLong, you've got a problem. I said, What is that? She says, I don't know. I said, is it mental? Is it uh you know bipolar? What's going on here? And she says, Well, uh your blood came back funny. And uh we I need to send you over to a doctor named Dr. Slaughter. What a name I don't know what does he do? And she said he uh he does uh studies for cancer. Oh. Have I got cancers? She says, no, you don't have you're fine. It's just you're a little older, you need to take some medicine, lay off the bacon a little bit, and you'll be all right, you know. And uh so I went and I had a test and they did a an ultrasound, they run me through this machine, did blood tests, and they put this stuff into me that some of my and I saw it up on the TV screen uh some of my uh joints lit up like uh Christmas lights, you know. And I go, what's that? They said old age and arthritis Then the doctor said, There's nothing wrong with you. I'll get the paper back in ten days. I'll call you and we'll come you'll come over and see me. So he did his test, ten days went by, and he called me, went back over, and he said, I hadn't opened up your Pamphlet yet, but I'm sure you're fine. And he opened up the pamphlet and he put the stuff up there on that X-ray screen and he said, Oh, blankety, blank, blank, blank, you're full of it I said, what are you talking about? He says, son, you got cancer. I do? Yeah, look right there. See that? Yeah. That's cancer. Well how'd you know that? Well the picture says it is. What's that computer know? Well the blood says it is. He said, now son you're gonna have to make a decision here. Uh you're gonna get that cut out, or you're gonna die. And I said, well let me pray about it Dr. Slaughter was an unsaved individual, and uh he laid in the meat. Yeah, I said, you don't need to talk any, you know, either you want to live or you want to die. Well, how long do I have if I don't have surgery? He said less than twenty-four months Wow. I'll see you next week. And I left and uh as I was driving home. That's kind of hard to handle. Did you know that? Right in the middle of God's will. Starting a church in Australia, Cairns, Australia, been at it about two years, went from zero to about forty people Praying every morning. Preacher, every morning I would get up on a t I had one of those those little rat things you run on. You all know when I've ever seen a hamster go around in a circle. We got for humans we call them elliptical or a treadmill, you know what I mean? And so every morning I got one of those or I'd go walking or jogging six, eight, ten miles a day And I would take a piece of paper like this with me, preacher, and it would be uh in encapsulated laminated and plastic. And by first Sunday we had seven people in church and I prayed for them seven days a week while I was running and walking or jogging And I would do that and the and and then it got up to ten. It got up to twelve. It got up to fifteen names on that sheet Every morning I'd go out running, my wife would add to that thing every week, and it got so thick I had over a hundred and seventy names folded four times. The little fat man running down the across the street to Cannes with a white piece of paper. Who is that weirdo? What's he doing? I I'm praying for the people. It's in my hand right here. And you know the church wasn't growing like I wanted, but why I'm gonna work out, I'm gonna pray. And I began to pray, and I was asking God, and then all of a sudden I get the news I got cancer. Man, I went home to the wife and I said, Sandy, listen, here's what the doctor said. And she says, Well let's pray. And she started to cry, you know, and and uh I said, Well let's let's pray. We prayed all night and got up the next day and I'm having devotions with Selena. Selena doesn't know anything and my Sandy said, I want to see you. And we Went outside in the yard, she said, I love you, but I won't let you know I am not ready for you to die. And by the way, do you have your life insurance paid up? Amen And she said, have that surgery. Have that surgery. Do you know God's going to bring things into your life that you did not plan? And he's going to bring things into your life to make you a little bit better than you are now. Or in some cases, a whole lot better. And you're going to discover like I did. That you're not really ready for some of these things. Amen. And the key is to when you have revival, the first place you need to have revival, and the pastor said it, is in your prayer life. And before you get it in your prayer life, you've got to have the right relationship with Him. And you know Jesus enrolled me in His intensive care of prayer. And I I I went through everything up and down and backwards and I didn't, you know, and I don't walk on water and any sin that I had, I got it right with him. Went back in for the second t test and still discovered I still have cancer But I'll tell you what, I I felt helpless without God on this thing. I read books about it, I I studied a little bit how other people went through these surgeries, but to come down to it, I I asked God that, hey, in desperation. I ask God to take control. Now when we get desperate, does our prayer life change or not? It changes. Let me illustrate. I was at a camp two years ago in the southern part of Ohio. We had 126 senior high kids, all public school kids, no no no Christian school kids. And And we uh and I mean we got to preach in there and and before we preached we started to pray. And the week before we got started to camp, we prayed that God would would bless us, and every morning at 6 a. m. we're praying. for that camp and and I mean we had seventy some kids get saved, several get right with God, some got called to the ministry, but the day the camp was over, the prayer stopped For that situation. And I think there's a lot of us live lives like this when there's something going on. We're just going to pray for it. We're going to pray for them till they're out of the youth group. We're going to pray for them till they get married. We're going to pray for them till they get the child raised. We come up with these prayer points. When I study scripture, no one ever taught on prayer. They say they did prayer, but Jesus alone taught his disciples to pray. It's amazing. He never taught them how to preach. But he taught them how to pray. So this is very, very important. And I want you to understand when I talk about Jesus this morning, our infirmities are the sirens. that call us to pray. And I and I want to add this that no miracle began in the Bible that did not start in and with a problem. And prayer is uniquely shows you and me two truths. Here's the first one. It shows us the riches of His grace for us. Amen He wants to do this for us. And number two, it shows the poverty of our resources. Prayer is not a natural instinct. It's not a natural first thing to do. Prayer is is is is waiting on God and folks we're very impatient. Do you know you folks with your smartphones in here? I turned mine off and I I and I want you to understand this. Every four minutes and eleven seconds The normal, human, independent, Bible-believing Baptist church member looks at their phone every four minutes and eleven seconds. And when it comes to your prayer life, I've been in prayer meetings and in prayer times when why the guys are praying that their phones go off or there's a ting that goes off and they get up and walk out of the prayer room because that that that phone call is more important than talking to God. We live in a society that is where? Upside down. Amen. And you don't hear much prayer closet preaching anymore But when God takes you through and drives you down the road of discouragement and losing the job and you get cancer, or your wife leaves you, your dog bites you, your kids turn on you. And your life is falling apart. Where are you going to go? Well, I'll go to him then. No, he wants us now. And he said, boys, before anything happens, you need to ask, you need to seek, and you need to knock. And because of your importunity, because of you staying after it, hey, I'm not going to give you a rock. I'm not going to give you, but I'm going to give you the bread. I'm not going to give you, you ask for fish. I'm not going to give you a snake or a scorpion. I'm going to give you exactly what you need. Now we Americans, as I say in Australia, we Americans want God to meet our will and our wants. Not our needs. So I want to point this out to you tonight and I want you to see this that prayer is is is acknowledging that we are helpless Prayer is calling to God for help and seeking counsel. Prayer is that curing medicine for that disease of self-confidence. And Dan DeLong is a type A And Dan DeLong has problems with self confidence because he tries to manipulate everything that's going on. All God's people said Let's do a little test here. I learned this in defense school and different things I've done over the years. You ready? I want everybody to cross your arms. Just cross your arms. Cross your arms. Can you do it? Just cross them like this. You ready? Girls, cross your arms for me. Okay, yes. You're Mrs. Matt, right? She is an alpha, alright? He's a talker Talker, talker, talker, talker, talker, talker, alpha, alpha, alpha, talker Toss now you say what that mean? Okay, let me tell you what it means. Cross your arms the other way and tell me it's natural. Just cross me the other way Whoa! Whoa! It's not normal, is it? Oh yeah it is. Well you always have a smart aleck in the cloud, but it's not normal. Okay, now what's an alpha? Well there's the ones when the situation gets tight and is trying to talk or get their way out of a tight situation, they'll just pull the trigger. Those are the ones I need to neutralize first or address first in the situation. Those that cross their arms left over right like this, you'll talk and you'll listen, all right? Ones right over left, they got the decision made already Now, watch me now. Do you trust me on this? It's not natural to cross them the other way, is it? It's not natural to pray. But once you get to praying to God and you get a relationship to Him, you'll get so used to it, you'll turn to Him first instead of the psychologist. You'll turn Him to the first to uh but before you turn to that aunt and uncle. You'll turn to him first in that time of need instead of the social service system or Medicare or Medicaid. Because I'm telling you what, we need not only a church here, but we need a group of people in our movement to get a hold of God again. Are you listening on this? Well, I want you to understand this. And right in the middle of my type A-ness, I found out that I wasn't in charge anymore. The doctor said, you're going to have to have to have a surgery or die. He said, I don't care how many gods you worship. Okay. My wife said, let's do it. So we prayed about it and we decided to do it. And I had to fly. We had to fly from our church. Right in the middle of starting this church, preacher. We were up to 40 people And God gave me cancer. And I got to go deal with this thing. My church is going to die. It's going to fall apart. Excuse me. That's what I thought. Went down there and they got me ready for surgery. And the first night I was there, Sandy and Selena said goodbye. At 6 a. m. in the morning I'm going under the knife and so you guys go ahead and go on home and they had to drive three miles to the hotel. The nurses is getting me prepped, the doctor's getting me ready for my 6 a. m. surgery. They got pipes in me and they uh they have sterilized my room and they're gonna haul me out, and right in the middle of it my wife calls. Hey Dan, I'm lost. Oh, you are. And she was following an Indian cab driver twenty-five miles the wrong way. I said, don't get out of the car, turn around, come back this way. You nurses tell her how to get here. It was a bad night, amen. Six o'clock the next morning went into surgery and uh was laying there on that yearning and I said before we go to any surgery docs let me pray. And the the anesthesiologist looked at the head surgeon, this this Yank's a Christian? Oh man, what a day. And he's first on our docket. And I said, Yes, sir, and I I don't want you to make any mistakes so I don't have to sue you. And and He looked at me and said, Hey mate, I'm going to put you to sleep, and I may forget to bring you back. And I prayed and asked God to bless them and to bless through this thing. And he said, you know, you're the first American I've ever had pray for this. He said, how tough are you? I said, well, I'm pretty good. He says he didn't get to ten. He turned that juice on, I got to one. When when I woke up I got to two six hours later. They had taken the cancer out. They said it was successful. They they had me on on morphine. Now I got a t-shirt and you've seen it. Laughter's the best medicine until you've had morphine. And I I I'm telling you, it's good stuff. And my insurance had paid for five things of it. So I'm laying there and got pipes going in and out and my wife come in with Selena Selina's about seven at the time, comes in, you know, and she'd never seen her dad like that before, and she took off running. Screaming down that hallway on the fourth floor in Brisbane, Australia. A New Guinean family was there to help my wife through the surgery, and their teenage daughters went chasing her They caught her on the first floor before she got outside. And they brought her back. She thought Dad was dying, you know, and she's having a little meltdown. I said, I'm fine, you know. And we talked a little bit and I said, honey, I'm uh God's answered prayer. They said they got it all, and so this is great, you know. And and then she walked into the room. Not my daughter, not my wife. With the nurse. She's about six foot three, and she was Australian, and she was in charge. So he said, good morning, uh mate. And I said, good morning, ma'am. Oh, you're a Yank. Yes, yes, ma'am. Well, I'm going to be your nurse. I said, Well that's great, ma'am. And uh and I see my five morphine. Yes, yes, they're there. And I said uh how do I use those? She says, Well about every six hours, about uh you know, there's a light going to go on and you have a minute to When the pain's going to start coming back now, in about six hours a little light will go on and you can push the button and get another injection, but it won't work. Till the six hours is over with. So you can push that thing as much as you want. There ain't nothing gonna come out. Yes, ma'am, I understand that. Praise God, I've got six of these or five of these on my insurance. I'm gonna use that right up for three days, whatever. I wanna be pain free. How about you? Man, I'm telling you, as hours went by and she's still on that shift. And uh she came in there, and about five minutes before I was going to push the button, she unhooked them. From my arm. And she took my dope right out the hallway to the nurse's station The title of my message is Prayer and Buzz the Nurse. I buzzed her I've been praying to God to take care of this for me. She walked back in and says, Pastor, what do you want? She called me Pastor. I want my dope back. I paid for that medicine. She said, no, you don't need it. She said, all you need is two aspirin and some water. Are you kidding me? I just had major surgery I mean I got more holes in me than a piece of paper and a notebook. I'm just telling you. I I I I I I you I need it back She says you don't need it and you're not going to have it. I I've been doing this for thirty years. Well I I guess, I mean just taking somebody's stuff. I'll get you for steep sleevery. She says I'm not stealing, I'm going to destroy. No, no, don't do that And I said, if you leave, I'll buzz you. She said, Sir, I'm not going to give your medicine back. And she left. She got outside in the hallway and I buzzed her. She came back in and says, Well, I want my I want my medicine. She said, son, you can't have it. And she reached over and unplugged my buzzer. How many of you folks have ever been in the middle of God's will and things did not go your way? And you didn't like what was going on? And you asked God to take you out of a situation because you was going through something. Amen? Listen to me. Hey Gideon! How many army guys you got? 32,000. Too many. Send a bunch of them home. Ah, 20,000 went home. Got ten thousand left. Got too many. Get rid of the rest of them. How many you got now? Three hundred. We're dead meat Use what? A lantern and a horn? No guns? No machine guns? No cannons? No nukes? Just break these pictures with lights inside and Yell the sword of the Lord and Gideon. Wow, glad we're doing this in the dark. They can't shoot us, can't see us. We're going to live till daylight. Amen. It's amazing when God takes over. You got that? Are you listening? It don't go your way. How does your prayer life go? How many times have I heard Pastor Leatherman in my life and yours, I don't do this for God anymore? I quit church because God did not take care of me like I thought God should take care of me. They don't physically say it, but they live it out, amen. It's not rocket science. Jesus said, listen boys, you gotta ask. You've got to seek. You've got to knock. And I'll tell you what, I I was in this system. I'm going to give you a couple of things tonight. Number one, when you have a right relationship and prayer life with God, you will have wisdom for the journey We pray because there's nothing else to do. But Jesus wants us to pray before we do anything else. He doesn't want us to worry. We think good people pray when they're doing their best. That's not true. God bless His people. Because they have a serious relationship with him. Our language must be honest, our language must be true, our language must be personal, it must be humble, it must be focused on the fact Lord, I've got to trust you in what you're doing. Before we had this message tonight, I didn't turn around, but several said, I need to learn to trust God more. I need to have more faith And I'm telling you what, he will give it to you if you'll step up and lay down there at your hand and say, God, I want you to use me. You ask God and you you want God to that you want to seek God's blessing in your life. And when you get to the end of it, he said, you all you gotta do is knock. You gotta be persistent. And when I look at this I think of two things. The prayerless Christian is like a bus driver driving through this county here, and his bus goes in a ditch on a snowy day, and Superman sitting in the front seat right by him He calls the record company, he calls the uh another company, he calls the county, he tries to get tractors, and Superman's on board with him. He can fly that thing out there in a heartbeat. Do you see the scenario? But we want to run in front of God, don't we? We want to ask, seek, and knock when it's convenient for us. And I want you to understand, God, for revival to come, there's two types of prayer. There's personal prayer. That's me and my stuff. Amen. And then there's intercessory prayer where you pray for others. And God, when He got a hold of my my my uh my attention with this cancer, right in the middle of His wi uh will, I'm telling you what, He brought me to a slow walk. And I was spending more time in prayer, and man, I thought my church was going to fall apart, and here is this lady taking control of my life. I d I mean this is not going to work. I called the church after the week after the I had to stay down there for three weeks and the week after I had the surgery. They said, Pastor, we've been averaging 40 in church, but today we had 60. I mean, I need to get sick more often, amen. And uh three days went by and she took that painkiller off of me and she gave me the aspirin and The old lady was right. I didn't have any pain. And uh I still mad that she took my dope and crushed it and flushed it down. I could have sold that on the street and been rich, amen. Just teasing. And uh it got time for me to leave the hospital for a week. I had to take all the pipes out. They had things going this way and things going this way through my stomach. Two young nurses come in that morning to unhook me. And they tried to pull a something out of this side, I'll never forget it, but it was sewed inside on something over here As they was pulling here, they're ripping guts over here, and I said, stop it. They said, no sir, we're doing I know don't you don't touch me. You pull all these things out of me. What you're pulling there is pulling something over here in China. Stop it. No she wouldn't, so I grabbed her. I said, ma'am, that's enough. I want you to go get Buzz. She goes, who's Buzz? I said, she's a big old woman. Oh you mean Mrs. Jones? I don't know what her name is. She's about your size, son. I mean she's a big girl. They said she's up on third on the seventh floor today. Well go up three floors and get her. Go get her And boy, she came in that hallway. She said, Reverend, you acting up again? No, ma'am. But you know, you took that dope off of me, and you were right. You took good care of me and you send these young girls in here and man they're starting to take the stuff off of me and that one's hurting me. She says, What do you mean? Well take a look. She reached down there and looked and took a razor blade and snipped something and it all came right out. She looked at those girls and said, I told you a dozen times this is how you should do this. You apologize to the man. God brought Buzz the nurse in my life on purpose. I didn't see it at first. I began to trust that lady. Seven, eight days went by. Ask, seek, knock. It got time to be dismissed and do one more test and had a choice of this nurse or buzz. I went with Buzz. Went down there, she told me what to do. I passed the test with flying collars. Praise the Lord. Amen. When I left the hospital, I went by and thanked her and my wife and I bought her flowers and a gift certificate to Australian out and back and uh uh you know, in a shopping card. Just said, I want to say thank you. She said, Well, I never. I said, Well God used you. I prayed for God to help me through this. I disagreed with the dope and I disagreed how you took my buzzer away A year goes by. The cancer comes back. I gotta do eight weeks of radiation to kill it. I show up down in Brisbane, had three choices of special nurses to do my radiation, to cook me for 45 minutes a day on Monday morning through Friday. Guess who I chose? Was the nurse. Let me tell you something. God's going to put you all through something. When you ask Him to take care of it, when you seek His will and you're right with Him. When you stand at that door and knock and He opens it. Don't you sit there and argue with him. Don't you sit there and try to manipulate him. He's very very very very very very very strong on this. He said, I'll not give you a fish, a rock, if you ask for a fish. I'll not give you something you won't ask for. And if it said, My will, ye will get it. But first first we gotta ask. That's our pride. You gotta seek. That's when we think we're in control. And when you knock, you stay after it. I want to tell you something. You'll get wisdom for the journey. And lastly What you'll find is that God wants to meet your deepest need. I'm going to close with this thought. God wants to meet your deepest need. He wants you to give yourself to him. He wants you to seek his will in every matter And he wants you to knock, he wants you to knock, he wants you to knock, he wants you to knock, he wants you to knock. Who is here and here among us tonight that struggles with That knock insane By the way, when I got back to the church after those three weeks, we were running 60. The second year I went back for eight weeks of radiation back and forth every week. The church was running over 120. But it goes way back when I was praying in the early days, planning to have that relationship with him, and I didn't ask for Buzz the nurse, he gave her to me I didn't ask for cancer a second time, but I trusted him. He gave her to me a second time. And now here I am. It's ten years later. And I am cancer free, not because of Buzz the nurse, and not because of me, but because of him. Now if I can talk to you for a minute tonight, it's real. And you've got to ask God, as Daniel did, hey, put me in that hard spot Ask God as Paul did. Put me in that hard spot where I can shut the cell phone off, where I can shut this off, I can shut that off, and I can, God, just ask and seek and personally knock and be persistent in that. Because folks, God wants to bless us in a wonderful way. And you know what? If I'd have died with cancer back in those days, so be it, I'd go to heaven with a peace that Jesus, I knocked. And I and I seeked. And I asked you. But you brought me on home. I'm good with that. Amen. But you know where we get upset? Is we don't use the prayer life that is before us. Amen. Bobby Robertson, my pastor, used to say, when you pray for rain, you gotta deal for the mud. Folks, we better pray to ask God to bless. You want revival in this church? It doesn't start with Him. Yes it does. It doesn't start with me, but yes it does. But it starts with you in your relationship with God. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. He said, Jesus, teach us how to pray as John taught his disciples And Jesus, when he was done teaching, said, You've just got to ask me. You've got to seek seek out me. And you've got to knock. You've got to stay after it. It can't be just one of those hit and miss things when you feel the heat. But when you're right with God, you'll have a relationship in prayer like David did, like Moses did, like Noah did, like Daniel did. And that's what you want as a church. You can say, Brother DeLong, in my seeking for revival this year In my seeking to do something for God this year as a Christian, God has spoken to my heart that I need to have a deeper, need to have a stronger prayer life. with a faith and trust, not about my little tiny needs, about my little health things, but by the will of God to make a difference in somebody's life and whatever need I have I need to take it to him first, lay it at the altar with him, and trust him with it. Who can say, Brother Long, God spoke to my heart about that tonight? Could you raise your hand Couple, three, four, five, six, seven hands. Who can say, preacher, I got a prayer request tonight about my my wife or my daughter? my my my my uncle my aunt my son my grandson they've turned their back on God they they're not saved and I can call their name out God has put them on my heart to pray for them. And I need to really make that special ass, seeking, knocking thing that you spoke about tonight. And I want to hold them up before God who can raise their hand and say, pray for me. I'm going to dedicate this year, 2019, many, many hands. Who can say, preacher, in my life I don't have that faith. I don't like going through those hard times. But who's saying, you know what, in that journey of struggles, that certain journey of discouragement. I'm telling you what God spoke to my heart tonight that I need to turn to him first. I need to trust him with his plan and his program and his purpose of prayer. We've got to come to him first. And it's gotta be without ceasing who can say, Brother the Long, I need that tonight. Would you pray for me? Would you pray for me? Thank you. I see many hands The preacher's going to come in just a moment here. We're going to start the invitation. And Father, we give you this invitation tonight. You met with us this morning, you met with us tonight. A little different type of message. But I pray you'll touch our hearts to be that person. Be that church, be that individual, that family that will come to you in prayer, seeking not your blessing, but Lord, seeking your relationship, seeking your power to make a difference not only in your own life, but all those around you. Father, we pray these things in your name, Pastor. Let's stand together our heads. Now's the time. God's