Heaven, if you would, turn there. I thought of the name of this town we were in. Uh it's actually a city. Uh Wanawanto. Guanawanto, I think is how you say it. How many people that is totally meaningless to you? But uh it is a large, very large city and uh I th I want to say I I'm going just going off the top of my head. I want to say that uh the missionary uh said uh three hundred plus thousand people. I think that's right. Might be more than that. I'll find out by Sunday night, but uh no gospel witness. Whole city down there. And um one thing uh I'll say uh about this trip, but uh I had in the back of my mind, I told the missionary down there, we talked about it, and uh I had to correct some thinking in my mind. And I never really analyzed it and I never really sat down and thought this is the conclusion I'm coming to. I just kind of in my mind had the idea that Mexico for the most part was a reach country. You know, we've been pumping scripture down there for you know, decades and years and years and missionaries going to Mexico and some phenomenal works in Mexico. And we got down there. That country is bigger than what you think. That is a huge country. And uh he had a map out, showed us a map where we were and where the camp was we stayed in some towns we canvassed. And um he must have showed us 350 to 400 towns. Some of them, you know, several hundred thousand that he says there's absolutely no witness, has never been a witness there other than the Catholic Church is it in Mexico. And so, you know, 350 bucks for a plane ticket, one day you fly down there and you're in a you're in an area that is unreached with the gospel. completely and just it it changed my whole view of Mexico as far as the needs there. So you're gonna hear a lot about it and we're gonna pray much. So Alright, Matthew chapter 7, verse number 7, here we are again, back on this passage. We parked here for a few weeks, a couple months, and the Bible says this. This is Jesus, of course, speaking to his disciples Not evangelistic. He's talking to believers. People are committed to him. And he's talking on prayer. He says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, he that and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. Or what man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will you give him a stone Or if ye ask a fish, will ye give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? And so he's preaching, he's teaching on prayer. We've already looked at this. My plan is, as of right now, is to bring the message I have tonight and then I really want to zero in on verse 9, 10, and 11. I want to bring a message on that part about our relationship with the Father in prayer. a child coming to a father. And I may bring one more on a statement he makes in here, and then we're going to move on. So we're going to move beyond this prayer, this little sub-series on prayer here in a in a year or two. And so but that's the plan. I want to talk tonight on prayer and Christian service. Prayer and Christian service. Let's ask the Lord to bless. Father, again we bow before you this evening and we're asking you to teach us from your word on this matter of prayer. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. And pray that you would speak through me, that it would not be Pastor Leatherman teaching on prayer, but Lord, I pray it would be you teaching us on prayer through me. from your word. So bless us now and help us revive us in this matter of prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen And so we're preaching on prayer. We're doing this little series. I don't know about you, but it's challenged me. One night during the trip down there, one of the fellows brought a message on prayer. Tremendous convicting And so we're studying prayer. But here's what I'm concerned about in this little series for myself and for all of us. And that is this, is that we don't simply learn verses about prayer. We don't just learn facts about prayer and just learn what Jesus said about prayer. My concern is that we really get to the point where we understand what prayer is personally And that we uh understand how does what Jesus taught about prayer, how does that apply to my life in a practical way I don't know about you, but I'd like to think in practical ways. If I'm going to preach on something, I want when it's said and done to walk away and say, all right, this is what I need to do. This is how it affects my life. And so that's my concern for this matter of prayer. How does it apply to my life? And the issues I'm dealing with and the role I have in my home, how does it apply to my life? How can I become How can I become effectual in my prayer life? Not just saying words and saying prayers. But seeing things change as a result of prayer. How many people know what I'm talking about? I mean, not just saying stuff, saying stuff, saying stuff, and nothing any different than the person that doesn't pray. But getting to the point where I pray and God is actually responding and things are being affected As a result of my praying. That's my concern. That's where I want to get to. And that's why we're studying this and looking at this. So I don't want to, I hope it's more than just facts I'm giving out. I hope it's us saying, Lord, teach me to get to the point where I'm seeing the results of my prayers that you promised in your word. I'm seeing that effect. So what have we looked at so far? Well we looked way back yonder, if you remember, we looked at the incredible promises of prayer. God makes some astounding promises of prayer. Whatsoever ye ask, believing, ye shall receive. How many people agree? That's a pretty amazing promise, especially coming from God. Um, can you imagine if the president walked in here and he said, Listen, uh Pastor Leatherman Mount Lake, whatever you ask from me, I'll give it to you. You say, good night. Anything? Whatever you ask, I'll give it to you. We'd be, whoa, that's amazing. We'll build new buildings. We're going to buy all this stuff. But what about when God says that to us? And so we looked at some pretty incredible, this is amazing statements here. Ask it shall be given to you. So we looked at these incredible promises, but we also looked at the prerequisite for prayer. And I emphasize, if you remember, and I believe this is the emphasis of Scripture, I emphasize the fact that if we're going to come in genuine prayer and see this stuff, we need to come with a submissive spirit We be submissive to the Lord. So that was the prerequisite. And then we looked at some problems with prayer. And why do I pray and I don't have answers? And we looked at some things that hinder our prayers. One of the first things I ought to do when I pray and nothing happens, well, I think one of the first things I would do is examine my heart and life, and is there something in my life that's hindering why this guy is? God why this promise isn't being fulfilled is there's something that's uh between God and me and we gave a series of things there. Sometimes God doesn't answer our prayers if we remember we pointed out sometimes God doesn't answer our prayers because of an issue in my heart and life. The condition of my heart and life would hinder me from God says I won't answer that prayer if you're in that condition. Sometimes God's prayer to our answers to our prayers don't come immediately, but they do come on his timeframe. I think we have a lot of prayers answered, but they're not answered when we thought they should be, but they were answered in time God's time frame. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I found that God very seldom works according to my schedule He hardly ever calls me up and asks what's the what do you got on your calendar that day? You know? How many people want God to do something? And right now. Yeah. God hardly ever does it right now. His time praying. So sometimes we pray and and God we don't get the answer because we we're messed up somewhere. Or sometimes it's because God's going to answer it later on at a more opportune time, a little better profitable, beneficial time than right now. And sometimes God just says, no. That's not a good thing. I'm not going to let you have that. That will hurt you. And I say this often, I think a lot of you feel the same way. I'm so grateful for prayers that God did not answer in years gone by that I thought had to have and God did not answer. And I look back now, thank you, Lord, you're wiser than I am. So we looked at these problems that hinder prayer. Then the other week, the last one we looked at was, I put it this way, the products of a day without prayer. What happens if I go a whole day without prayer? And we gave a list of things there. Now tonight I want us to consider the power of prayer in Christian service. I'm going to make some very obvious statements here. I think you'll agree with me on some of these. Every Christian should pray. Everybody agree with me on that? Every Christian should pray. Christian is not going to grow spiritually if they don't prayer. Pray. Neglected prayer Will stunt my growth. We've already talked about that. So every Christian should pray. Now our subject is this: prayer and Christian service. So every Christian should pray. I want to submit to you, every Christian ought to serve the Lord. Every Christian ought to serve the Lord. Serving the Lord is not the exclusive responsibility of the pastor. It's not exclusively for the pastor. He says, well, serving the Lord, that's what we pay the preacher to do. God saved us all to serve him. I think every Christian ought to have some sort of ministry, some sort of gospel ministry. So every Christian should pray. We understand that. Yes, we agree with that Every Christian ought to serve the Lord. And I believe we ought to have this attitude in serving the Lord. Our service to the Lord ought to be of serving God as a very sacred service. I am serving God. This is not man. I'm serving the holiest being in existence, perfect holiness, perfect power. The God that Tammy sang about that loves me beyond the ability to comprehend, and I have the sacred opportunity to serve God. Well, never take it flippantly. And I tell you, I like to joke around, you know that, and horse around a little bit, but I'll tell you one thing, we open the Bible, we start preaching the Word of God, that's serious stuff. At that point. That's serious stuff. We go out soul winning. That's serious stuff. Teaching in a class, teaching in front of a room full of kids or or adults, that's serious business. Hey, singing in the choir. That's serious business. We have, we are, it is a sacred opportunity to serve God. I believe it's a privilege. To serve the Lord. I do not have the right. I have the right to no no no. God gives me the privilege of serving him, of being his ambassador. If you remember before we went to um uh uh on vacation to Mexico, the way some people Before we went down there, I actually went down to DC. I was at the Capitol Connection. Anybody remember that? That was a lifetime ago, uh a week ago. And um we're down there and it we had the big Monday night meeting, fantastic. Winter weather storm watch uh warnings everywhere, uh Washington DC, they saw five snowflakes shut everything down. And it snowed a little bit, but they uh the federal government closed uh for a three-hour delay. Well that's when our meetings were with the senators and everything. So we said, well, we'll go down anyway, maybe they'll be in whatever We went down, went to all the doors locked, everything. I mean it was shut down. So we went down to the cafeteria and drank coffee all morning and uh it was wonderful. But um While we were there, there was a security guy coming around. We're kind of wandering around the halls of the Capitol Hill and trying to find the offices and this guy comes by and says, can I help you? And there's about five or six of us there. And uh we said, yeah, we're telling what we're doing. And uh he and he got he went like this, well I am on security here. And he started telling us all about everything, and you got the distinct impression that he was very honored. To be able to serve his country in that capacity. And he spoke very, very proudly of what he was doing. And when we were done, we walked away, I thought, that guy used his job has a tremendous privilege because he is serving his country in that capacity. You follow what I'm saying? Now listen, if there is honor and privilege, And almost a sacredness for him in that capacity. And I agree to some extent, that is. What about you and I serving God? Man, I I am a bus worker for God. I drive a bus for the King of Kings. You know, that guy probably the senators and all that walk by him 500 times a day, never pay him a bit of attention, but in his mind, he had a tremendous job. And I think that's the way we ought to be serving God. I give out gospel tracts for God. I'm an ambassador. Of God. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so serving God is a sacred, sacred privilege that we have. And we're serving the God of the universe. It's God's work that we're involved in. And then same thing with prayer. I think prayer is a sacred, sacred endeavor on your part and my part. When we have prayer time, that is God's time. I am interacting with God of the universe How do you think we're going to respond when we when we face the judgment seat of Christ after the rapture takes place or we die and we stand before God, what do you think is our frame of mind going to be standing before that throne? A little intimidating. This is sacred gown. This is the God of the universe. That's what we're doing when we pray. We're coming, Hebrews says that we have boldness to come right to the throne of God And what a sacred thing that is. What a privilege it is to enter into the presence of God. Jesus Christ, when we accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, we were given full access. To the power of God. We were given full access, free access to the very throne of God for His power and His wisdom. And uh his uh his uh uh direction in our lives. What an amazing thing that we have that in prayer. We're interacting with prayer. So serving God and prayer to God are both very sacred. uh privileges and are both necessary to advance the gospel. And so we need to take every Christian ought to ought to pray and every Christian ought to serve God. And those two, linked together, are vital. in the Christian life. Prayer and Christian service, linking them together, saturating my service To God with prayer and the impact that has. I've got looking at these verses here and studying over the last several weeks, and I've come to the conclusion that God is, now God doesn't worry, right? You understand? God doesn't worry. God starts worrying, you and I better start worrying. God ain't worried about it. He said if I lack something, I wouldn't tell you. Even the lion young lions do lack and suffer hunger, uh, but the those that fear God do not lack. Something like that. But um I got a study of what God says about prayer, and it's almost I almost get the impression That God's concerned that we don't ask enough. That our requests aren't big enough. Oh, that's too big. I could never ask God for something like that. God's concern, we don't get that frame of mind. I want to show you a verse. We're going to look at a lot of verses. I've got to jump here a little bit, but come with me if you would to Psalms 81. I love this passage. Psalm eighty one And look at verse number ten. Psalm 8110, you find it? Notice what it says here. I still hear pages, so let me give you a chance. Psalm 8110. Look at what it says, I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Now look at this last statement. Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. Isn't that a neat way of God saying You can't ask too much from me. Ask a lot. He doesn't say say open your mouth and I'll I'll drop a little wafer in there. He doesn't say that. He says open your mouth wide, as wide as you can. I'll cram it full of mashed potatoes or whatever. You know? And I get this impression. Jeremiah 33, 3, call into me, and I will answer thee and show thee. Great. And mighty things, which thou knowest not. I mean, it's like he goes overboard concerned that we ask too little I go to Romans 8. 32 where he says, He that spared not his own son, how shall he not much more freely give us all things? Man alive, if he's not going to spare his son, we can't be afraid to ask for great things from him. So I get this impression that God's concerned that we ask for too little or we quit too soon. Over and over and over, we keep emphasizing, pray without ceasing, keep on praying, persistent prayer, persistent prayer. In fact, we preached on that one time, persisting in prayer. Alright, now let's get to my thoughts here. I've got a few things I'm just going to give you. If you're taking notes, I'll help you write down exactly what to write in the notes so you can get your little badge and maybe learn something. Alright, why is prayer important in Christian service? Number one, write this one down, and it's on the back of your prayer list there if you want to uh take the sermon notes there. Number one God does nothing without prayer. You'll study your Bible very carefully. You will find That God's actions are almost without exception in response to prayer Let me give you a few. Now, there's a few could come to mind, but the overwhelming majority of God's actions are done in response to prayer. For instance. God bringing Israel out of Egypt. If you'll study very carefully, he says, I heard their cries. I heard their groaning. When he approaches Moses, it was in response to Israel's cries and prayers. When God parted the Red Sea. It was Moses saying, Lord, what are we going to do? Here's the Egypt. God says, be still. See the salvation of the Lord. And you go through the Bible, and if you'll notice very, very carefully Uh just about everything God does is in response to prayer. God does little or nothing without prayer. So if I'm going to serve the Lord And I'm just grabbing at different a areas and you can name any. I'm not trying to uh highlight one more than another. But say you guys somebody has a bus route And I'm going to serve that bus route. If that bus is going to succeed, there has to be prayer behind it. If I'm going to see lives changed and a community impact with the gospel of Christ Getting people and bringing them under the sound of the gospel, there must be saturated in prayer. I put this down, behind every soul saved, at some point there's a praying Christian. I believe that with all my heart At some point behind every soul saved, somebody was praying for that. Behind every revived church, there are praying Christians. And I've referenced this many times. Some of you all experienced it, but this church was just about done. Back in the early 1990s, I mean it was just about ready to close the doors, but there were a few folks that were praying and said, God, don't let that happen. And God brought the thing back to life again. And I'm convinced it is in response to a handful of people laid back yonder were praying that God would keep this thing alive. And you can see that all across the country, churches. That revival comes in response to God's people praying. Behind every growing believer, there is a praying Christian Behind every successful growing ministry, there is a praying Christian. So number one, I put this down, God does nothing without prayer. If I'm going to serve God successfully, if I'm going to see God use me to impact people, I must saturate my service with prayer. Whatever it may be. I believe the choir ought to be a praying choir I believe every Sunday school class ought to be saturated prayer. Every Sunday school teacher ought to be a praying Sunday school teacher. Every nursery uh the nursery and uh I know you're I'm preaching the choir and I'm not suggesting it's not this, but I'm saying Uh the nursery ought to be a nursery prayer room. The Sunday school classes ought to be Sunday school class prayer rooms. The children's church ought to be a Prayer time. The master sons ought to be saturated in prayer. Teens lives saturated in prayer. Super seniors saturated in prayer. Bus routes, mobile prayer stations. You follow what I'm saying? Because that's what God responds to. That's where the power comes from. That's where the blessing comes from. Number two, world missions is initiated by prayer. World missions is initiated by prayer. I've read this verse hundreds of times, no doubt. But I noticed something. Come back to Psalms chapter 2. Now I'm going to see how many Bible scholars we got here. How many people? Psalms chapter 2 is about what? Anybody remember? From Bible college days or anything? Psalms chapter 2 is a prophetic psalm Prophesying the crucification Of Jesus Christ. Psalm chapter 2. Come back there. Look what it says. I'm going to start in verse 1. Actually, let's jump down to verse 7. Psalm 22 is the crucifixion, but this is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ, prophesying the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 7. I will declare the decree. The Lord hath said unto me. Now think about this. The Lord, that's no, what do you notice about the word Lord there? All capital, it means it's Jehovah. The Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. So who is the Lord speaking to? He says, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Who is that? That's Jesus. Hebrews tells us. Hebrews quotes that, referencing Jesus Christ. So this is a prophetic speaking of Jesus Christ. Now look what he tells his son. Lord said unto me, this is prophetic of Jesus, Thou art my son, this day I've begotten thee. Look at his instruction in verse 8. What is he telling the Son to do? Ask of me. Prayer? Yes or no? It's prayer. Ask of me and I shall give thee. Sounds like Matthew 7:7. Ask and it shall be given unto you Ask of me, and I shall give thee what? The heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. How does a heathen become part of the inheritance of Jesus Christ? By Jesus Christ? By accepting Jesus as their Savior. When you and I accept Christ, we're born at time to come, we become joint heirs with Christ. And he is telling us here that I put world missions. He says the heathen, and then he adds the uttermost parts of the earth. He's referencing the world missions. And it is contingent upon Jesus pray And asking God to do that. Now I don't know how the logistics of all that works out. That's above my pay grade there. But I know this. Prayer is vital in world missions. Starting with God speaking to Jesus Christ, saying, Ask of me and I will give thee the heathen for thy inheritance and the othermost parts of the earth. I put in the margin of my Bible there, Kazakhstan. Pray for Kazakhstan. I'm asking that God would reach Kazakhstan, send missionaries. They could become uh part of his inheritance. Um I wonder how many cities are being reached with the gospel because somebody's praying for that city. Or down there in Mexico and Uh we got to speak with Sam Estep. By the way, Helen, uh they said to tell you, hey, they they remembered you and appreciate you. I think did they stay at your house when they were here But uh they remember you are very very grateful and um uh and he's now in another city, Lyon, and started a church. And just the incredible story's taking place. And I was looking at this, I wonder how many cities today have gospel witnesses in them around the world because somebody took it upon themselves to pray for that city and say, God send somebody to that city. World missions, I believe, is initiated by prayer. I wonder how many cities are unreached because nobody's praying for that city. Nobody's praying for it. Lack of prayer. It's interesting, while we were down there This fellow, Lacey Wheeler, this missionary, he's kind of become the hub for Beacon of Truth. Seven million pieces of gospel literature, tracts, Romans booklets, and Spanish Bibles. Seven million a year. He is getting out into that country. Now he's not just giving them out himself. He's getting them. He's giving some. But then there's 32 states in Mexico. Every one of those 32 states has beacon of truth. gospel literature in those states. This guy's getting it out too there. Uh our fingerprints are all over Mexico. Seven million. So we're there and um one of the other preachers with us, John Leatherman, has another missionary supported. They got in touch. He's about three-hour drive away, two and a half, three-hour drive away. He says, I'll come down and get you, come up and preach to our people So he drove down Saturday, picked him up, and he says, What's going on? And he saw all the literacy. He said, We have been praying and praying and praying. That we could get some good Romans booklets and these types of things to distribute in our city. He goes, I didn't know anything about what you have here. This is a direct answer to prayer That we now have access to this literature. And that's something. Missions is initiated by prayer. And uh Uh this is just amazing thing. Number three, let me get through here real quick. Number one, God does nothing without prayer. Number two, world missions is initiated by prayer. Number three, workers are raised up by prayer That's how we get workers in Christian service, is by praying. Jesus said it very clearly in Matthew chapter 9, verse 36, 37, 38. For sake of time we won't turn there. But he said, look into the fields, they're white unto harvest. The harvest is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore. The Lord of the harvest they will send forth laborers into the field He doesn't say have seminars on missions. He doesn't say have missions conferences. He doesn't say give out little banks. Those things are fine, and they're part of it, and they're important. But he starts with praying for laborers. So if we have us if we need Sunday school teachers, what should the first thing we should do should be what? Pray. If we need bus workers, first thing we should do, pray If we need somebody to help with uh Pastor Brett and uh Pastor Yates and Jenny and the teams, first thing we ought to do is what? Pray. God has some people that can help him so he'll do everything himself Um so prayer is how workers are raised up in Christian service. Acts thirteen, I wish we had more time. Verse one, two, and three. The church at Antioch. They're praying and fasting and they're ministering to the Lord. And as a result of that, God calls out Paul and Barnabas. And they're un and they're ordained by the church and sent out. Isn't that something? As a result of prayer meeting, prayer meeting, prayer meeting. They were praying. Number four, write this one down. Are you getting it? Number one, God does nothing without prayer. Number two, world missions is initiated by prayer. Number three Workers are raised up by prayer number four. Workers are empowered and enlightened by prayer. Wow What does that mean? Workers are empowered and enlightened by prayer. Turn with me if you would. I got a couple minutes. I want you to notice in Ephesians chapter number 3. Paul has a phenomenal prayer here. He's praying for the church at Ephesus. Ephesians chapter 3. Let me get here quick. And notice what he says. Ephesians three. Workers are empowered and enlightened by prayer. In other words, they have the power of God on them. They have insight in what to teach and how to teach and how to reach people Ephesians chapter 3, and uh look with me at verse 14. Paul says this under the inspiration of God, for this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So what's he doing? He's praying Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, look at this, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. He's praying for the power of God to be on them. He's praying that in their witness and in their service they would be strengthened in the inner man by the Spirit of God. In their inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that you might be filled with the fullness of God. He's praying two things, that they have power on them. And that they comprehend the love of God. But then he adds this on, which is beyond the ability to comprehend. How many people agree with me? A person serving the Lord ought to have two things. They ought to have the power of God and they ought to have the love of God. Right? I think people agree. Soul winners ought to love people. Sunday school teachers ought to love people. And thus it's through prayer. Say, preacher, I could never love these kids. They're driving me nuts. What's the solution? Pray. Lord, give me love for these kids. God, give me love for these people It's not our great intelligence that is going to impact the world for the gospel. I had a preacher years ago, and he is a fine man. I'm not trying to be overly critical. I'm not trying to be critical. Uh but he always bragged about his high intelligence. Well he has I this high IQ. His IQ is so astronomical. My IQ is about I think it's my shoe size if I remember somewhere around there But um he had this astronomical IQ. And when I was first out, I thought, well I could never so I'll never be successful. I'm not even close to the intelligence he has. And I learned, studying the Bible, it's not my intelligence, it's God's power. It's not my intelligence. A person with low intelligence, but the love of God in their heart can do a whole lot more than a person with great intelligence than no love of God. And so prayer is what gives it to us. It's not our great illustrations. I'm always looking for illustrations. But that's not what does it. It's the power of God. It's not our object lessons, it's not our presentations, and those are all fine and they're part of it, but it is God giving me love in my heart and God giving me power. God doing that through me is what reaches the world. And that's what we need in our service. And let me give you the last one here. Number five, lives are transformed by prayer. Lives are transformed by prayer. Man, I got a ton written down here. And we referenced some of these in a previous message on this, but you look through the Bible, the Gospels in particular About people came and prayed to Jesus Christ for a family member or a loved one or a servant. A Roman centurion comes and says, Lord, please come and heal my servant. They're going to die. What's he doing? He's praying for that servant, and that servant is life is spared and they're they're changed. I referenced the other week the the father When Jesus was on the Mount of Transfiguration, remember, and the disciples couldn't help him. He said, what's the matter? He said, my son is a lunatic. He throws him in the fire, he's trying to destroy him. And the father is praying for his son, and that son is delivered from those devils, and his life is transformed. And you see it all through Scripture. Children and servants and widows. Just amazing things, all the result of prayer. Um Sunday morning I preached for Sam Eastap up in the other town about an hour and a half away, and I'll talk about that another time. But Sunday night we're at the church there where Lacey Wheeler is there in that city Aeroporto is the name of the city where the church is. And um uh there's a fellow up there, Spanish guy. We had met him Saturday out canvassing, and he led the singing. Singing is Antonio I 35, 40, maybe in that range. Um sharp guy. He's outsole winning. He wo he was one of my partners. About three or four of us were in this market. Man, he's just right up to everybody with his Bible. Boom I know what he's saying, but I was amen at him anyway. And um I mean he's just getting after it. Here's his story They're praying. Uh brother Wheeler got in there praying for the church that God would save souls and establish the body of Christ there. They give this liter literature out everywhere. I mean they you think we're bad on track month They do everything. They just throw it on the ground. Put it on that sidewalk there. Put it over there. Put it up there. Put it there. Antonio shows up at their church. What happened was one of their little packets They give out. I got one here. Got this little packet. Has our Romans booklet in there and a couple other things and information about turrets. And they seal it. They just throw them everywhere. And um his mother, Antonio's mother, found one of these laying on the sidewalk, just laying a sidewalk, picked it up. What's that? Or Capaso. And uh opened up, walked home, read it, she got saved. She came to church a little bit, started praying for her son, sent it to her son, Antonio. He reads it, he gets saved. He starts coming to church. Well, he disciple him. He gets involved in different things. He starts growing. Now he leads singing. If the missionary's away, he preaches for them. Heads up various ministries. Somebody threw one of these on the sidewalk. Now I'm not suggesting go out and throw tracks on the sidewalk. He starts taking this where he works. He started bringing some of this literature, Gospel Romans, Romans, and uh giving it out at work. A girl at work starts reading it, gets under conviction. She starts talking to him. She comes to the church, she gets saved. She's teaching Sunday school. She's a leader in the ladies in the church there. You know what that comes down to? One fella started praying, God say, raise up a church. in this town. And there is at least two lives completely transformed because of somebody praying and the power of the gospel. What I'm trying to say is this, and I had this in mind before I went on the mission trip, but this past week just reinforced, we have got to saturate our service with prayer. We cannot try and serve God in our own power. We've got to come to God, pray, pray, pray. And so let's make every ministry of our church, regardless of how mundane you may think it is. And saturate that with prayer. Because if we don't, we'll get what we can produce. But when we pray, we get what God can produce. Does that make sense? You follow what my burden is? So let's pray tonight and ask the Lord to send a real revival of prayer through every ministry, every area of service we have. Blankets for babies, saturating that with prayer. Fingerprints, saturating that with prayer And uh pray, pray, pray. Let's pray. Father, I ask, Lord, for a revival of prayer in my own heart and life. tract given out, every sermon preached, every lesson taught, every deed done for the cause of the gospel, that you would teach us to pray and seek you, that you'd fill us with your power, your spirit, and Lord, fill us with your love. And uh have a tremendous impact in this world for the gospel. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many people say, preacher, my heart's stirred, and I want to be a prayer warrior. I want to serve the Lord And I want to be a prayer warrior in that service. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Of course that's how we feel. And let's ask the Lord to make it so. Let's ask the Lord to make that true in our hearts and lives. And there maybe just at your pew, again, with the invitations, a little challenge, but let's make the pew an altar. And just say, Lord, here I am, teach me, make this true in my life. Father, Lord, we bow before you tonight as an invitation, an altar call. And we're going to ask you, Lord, to instill in our hearts a hunger to pray, a drive to seek you and your filling and your love And then go out and serve you effectively. So please hear us and please bless us. Like in the book of Acts, they prayed and the place was shaken. They spake the word of God with boldness. Pray that be true in our lives, our ministries. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.