Alright, you got Ephesians 6. You got that marked, right? Now we're back in Psalms chapter 40. We're preaching our way down through here. We're down to verse number 14. And I want to read verse 14 and 15. Now I'm aware of what time it is, and so I'm going to give this evening, I'm going to give you the introduction. The introduction is only 45 minutes long, so I want to be respectful for that, isn't it? Psalm forty, verse fourteen. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Let them be desolate for a reward for their shame that say unto me, aha, aha. I've entitled this Prayer for Enemies. This is a prayer that David is lifting up to the Lord. And of course, he recorded it as he penned Psalm 40 under the inspiration of God. But it's a prayer. And he's praying for these people. If you notice in verse 14 it says that seek after my soul to destroy it. So let's pray and look at this section here. Father, we thank you for a good day. I'm just so grateful for the Lord's day. We can just do all for you, a whole day. That is yours, Lord, and your church here, and how you've blessed us over the years. Lord, we've seen things go up, we've seen things go down. Lord, we've been on some great mountaintops, we've been through some valleys But through all of that, Lord, you've been so faithful to us. And I ask that your Holy Spirit would help us just to press on. I pray your Holy Spirit would help us just stay the course. And uh keep at it, keep in the fight. Lord, of course, there's enemies. And uh we understand that So I pray you'd help us learn maybe a few thoughts from this passage here, how to how to deal with spiritual enemies. So I yield myself to you tonight. Father, I have nothing in and of my own self. I know that That is any spiritual, eternal value. God, it has to come from you and your word. So I present my body anew to you. I yield my heart and mind. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit and speak through me. your word to each of our hearts. And we ask you to bless now and help us to pray that we would benefit from this message tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we progress, and we've been touching on this the last several messages from here, we've noticed this as we're getting towards the end of the Psalm 40, that as we progress In our Christian lives, and as we grow closer to the Lord, I find two things happen It in in just two weeks, it'll be 47 years ago, that I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I would like to, I would hope to think that I've grown a little bit spiritually in 47 years. Of course there's ups and downs. How many people understand this? Christian growth is a lot like three steps forward, two steps back. Anybody? Ideally we just zing, but it's not that way. And I've noticed, and I and the scripture bears this out, is that we get closer to the Lord as we grow and develop our spirit spiritual maturity. I think there's two things happen. Number one, and we preached on this a good bit, number one, we become less impressed with ourselves. The more I understand who Jesus Christ is, the more I understand how good He is, the more I understand His holiness. And then I see myself. And I'm I I'm not nearly as pressed with my with myself as I maybe was before. And we see this through scripture. We pointed out, you know, Isaiah and Paul and different ones express that. John Newton, who penned the great hymn, Amazing Grace, lived a very wicked life before he was saved. God saved him, transformed his life, became a quite an influence for the cause of Christ and the gospel. The age, as he got older, his mind began failing him. The history books tell us, biographies tell us, his mind began to fail him. His memory became very, very weak. And as I read one account where somebody had come in to visit with him a bit, he couldn't remember who they were. And he couldn't remember some of their history together, and they got talking about memory, and he made this statement. He said, My memory is nearly gone. But I remember two things. I'm a great sinner, and I have a great Savior. And I found that as we grow spiritually and and we develop spiritually, be become more mature. We see the fact that we are great sinners, and we have a great Savior. A great Savior So one thing happens as we mature is we become less impressed with ourselves. Now, as I'm looking at this psalm here, penned by David, under the inspiration of God, of course. I find something else takes place. I think we become more aware of the spiritual warfare we are in. I become less impressed myself, and I become more aware of the fact that Life is a spiritual warfare. Whether we recognize it or not, whether we want it or not, whether we like it or not, that's reality. As we grow in our faith, we understand that a little more and more. Spiritual warfare. What do we mean by spiritual warfare? What are you talking about? Spiritual warfare. Spiritual warfare, here's the definition that I came up with. Spiritual warfare is a struggle between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the devil. And this struggle between these two consists of the effort on either side to influence The soul, the destiny, and the purpose of individual people Conflict, struggle between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the devil. And these two conflicts, the area of combat, the combat zone. In this spiritual warfare is in your heart and my heart. And both sides of this conflict seek to influence me, my heart, seek to affect my destiny, and seek to affect the purpose I'm living my life. Of course, the devil's purposes, the devil's influence is diametrically opposed to God's influence. Galatians, and we don't have time to go all this, but Galatians chapter 5 touches on this a little bit where we have this the spirit lusts against the flesh And the two are contrary one to another. The kingdom of God and the kingdom of the devil are contrary one to another. The devil wants me to go one way. The devil wants me to end up in one place, which we know to be hell. Of course, God wants all men to be saved and go to heaven. The devil wants to destroy my testimony, my influence in the world for Christ. He wants me to mess up and live in my own lean on my own understanding and indulge the flesh. In such a way that I have no testimony for Christ, no influence for the gospel. And God is just the opposite. He wants me to influ He wants me to live my life and And uh in such a way that I have an effect on society for the glory of God and for the salvation of souls and for uh um uh and for the advancement of the kingdom And the devil wants to run us over like a train. I'm sorry, Dave. I'm trying to. It just came out So, spiritual warper, as we grow and we develop, and we see this in David's progression through this psalm He starts out praising God. He brought him out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set his feet upon a rock, established my going, put a new song in my heart. Woo! Praise the Lord And he progresses from that, that he gets focused on the Lord then in the middle of the chapter, and he starts, and he prophesies of the coming Savior and how he's going to pay fully all our debt for us, all our sins, and fulfill all the sacrifices. And then he turns to himself and he prays for mercy. And he's saying, I think, to a degree, he says, Lord, I'm not I'm not much, God. I need you. Remember what he said there in verse number 12? Innumerable evils have compassed me about my iniquity. He sees his own sinfulness. By the way, let me say this. If you find a Christian that is very impressed with themselves, you found a very immature Christian. You find a Christian that really thinks they've arrived, you find a Christian who is very, very far from arriving. The great apostle Paul says, Not that I have attained. Paul said, I haven't arrived. And when we start thinking highly of ourselves, whether it's as an individual Christian, and let me caution, whether it's us as a church. We start thinking highly of ourselves. That tells me that we're not nearly as mature spiritually as what we might think we are. That's what we might think we are. And then we see that spiritual battle, that conflict between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the devil. And they are both very, very real kingdoms. Now, the spiritual conflict is not, it's not a struggle. It is not a conflict with people. You follow me? In this warfare, this spiritual warfare, we are not at war with other people in this spiritual warfare, although it involves people. But that's not who our battle is with. Sometimes sometimes I think we we get confused or we lose sight and we think that the that individual is the one that is fighting our spiritual growth, that is trying to destroy our testimony. That individual is the one that's trying to uh uh keep me from being a witness. And we and we get focused on that person. I'm here to remind you, it is not the person that we are at conflict, it is the devil that we are at conflict with We preach against false teaching and false cults. There is no such thing as a true cult. So that's a redundant. But we preach against these doctrines. But Timothy, Paul told Timothy, these are doctrines of devils. And the people get caught up in it. And the people are deceived And our battle is not with the individuals who are caught up in that doctrine. Our battle is with the devils who are behind that doctrine. It's a spiritual warfare, and it affects people, it affects us. God uses people, right? That doesn't use robots, he doesn't use programs, he uses people, you and me. God uses ladies giving out tracts. He uses men giving out tracks. God uses to bless these ladies, but Jed touch on it God uses these dear ladies pushing a straw with their little baby and giving out tracks with the other hand. God uses people. Teach little children. Run buses. Invite and visit kids and bring them in, get up early. God uses people. But our battle is not with people. By the way, the devil uses people. We read in the book of Jude and other places in Scripture where the devil would use people in a church to disrupt. And divide and bring in false teaching and ungodliness. Devil will use people to influence a young person that dedicates their life to the Lord Jesus Christ and they want to be a witness and they want to be pure and clean and undo right. The devil will influence and use people to try and corrupt that and and draw them aside. That's why I think Psalm chapter one says Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Why? Because the devil can use people. We got to be careful So this spiritual warfare that we're going to eventually get to here in Psalm 40 that David's dealing with is a it's not a battle with people, although they're involved. It's a battle, it's a spiritual warfare. The spiritual warfare that we're going to notice here is not a physical battle, although it does affect us physically. It's a spiritual warfare. And again, we have to keep in mind, and I think I'm afraid sometimes it just escapes us. The spiritual realm is just as real as the physical realm You follow me? The spiritual world that we read about in Scripture with angels and devils and heaven and hell. And all this spiritual realm is just as real as this physical pews we're sitting on and the bodies we live in. And so the spiritual warfare that's going on is not a physical warfare. We're not taking up arms as a church against anybody. You know, do you believe in self-defense? Absolutely. We have a responsibility to defend ourselves. I think a nation has a responsibility to defend itself as a nation. But the spiritual warfare It's not physical. It affects it. It it'll affect the physical very much. So David is Developing he's went from praising for what God had done for him, what he received from the Lord, then to praising the Lord Himself, then to realizing I'm not everything I thought I was, I'm not very impressed with myself And there is a very real spiritual warfare going on around me. This spiritual warfare is a battle with unseen, invisible, spiritual forces. Every day you and I fight them. Whether we realize it or not, it is going on all around us. David recognized in our text, David recognizes the reality of the spiritual warfare. Look at verse 14 with me He says, let them be ashamed and confounded together. Now look at this next statement. Notice the words he uses very carefully. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. The soul is the spiritual part of our existence. He doesn't say that let them be ashamed and confounded together, that seek after my throne. That seek after my body. They want to hurt me and break my. Now it may have involved it, but he saw beyond what these enemies were doing, and he saw there's a spiritual warfare. It is my soul that they're after. David recognized the spiritual aspect of this. And notice it says that it says that they seek after my soul, not my body, not my palace. Not my military. They were after my soul to destroy it. I did, as I thoroughly enjoyed doing, did a study on that word destroy. Means basically to do away with, to eliminate, uh, to consume It's translated a few places in our Bible to capture and keep from being free and moving about. They want to destroy my soul where I can't function That's a spiritual warfare, my friends. Um there are unseen spiritual forces Out there in the world that you and I live in, there are unseen spiritual forces that are seeking to destroy our soul. I may be talking to somebody either here in the auditorium, maybe you're listening online or recording later, and you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior. And maybe somebody's just going through the motions and they're they're just uh just outwardly read this, but they've never been born again, do not have spiritual life. What Satan, the spiritual warfare, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of the devil, what the devil was wanting to do is keep you unsaved. That is number one objective for the enemy of our souls, the enemy of our God, is to keep an unsaved person unsaved. One way or another. And I could testify firsthand the night I got saved. I'm telling you, there was a spiritual warfare going on for my soul that was so real to me, I almost literally trembled As I knelt on my knees to call on the Lord as Savior. Devil does everything to keep an unsaved person unsaved. And if that means keeping a church from going soul winning, then he'll keep that church from going soul winning. If that means keeping a church from sending missionaries out so that people won't get saved, then he'll do that. But his number one objective is to destroy the souls of the unsaved, keep them unsaved, where they ultimately end up in a devil's hell, lake of fire for all eternity. So it's a very real. It's real. To ruin our testimony. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. You know what the our enemy of our soul wants to do? You know what the the devil the kingdom of the devil the devil wants to do? He wants you and I to mess our testimony up so much That nobody will respect us as a believer. If he can get us to mess up Say and do things. Behave in such a way. Treat other people in such a way that I am a stain on the name of Jesus Christ. If he can influence me to behave and talk and treat people in such a way that people won't respect me and I can't have any influence on them. I mentioned a number of times earlier, years ago, back shortly after I came, we were uh doing soul Thursday night soul winning and had some folks that come out. And um I had some names. I said, I want you to go visit this folks here, these folks here, they're pro prospect, be a good visit. And he saw the name and the one fellow said to me, I can't go visit him I said, what do you mean? Why not? He goes, I've got a terrible testimony with him. He won't listen to a thing I say. You know what that is? It's exactly what the devil wants. There's anybody out there that I can't talk to Christ about because of my behavior, Satan is accomplishing his goal. He's accomplished his goal. So he wants to keep the unsaved lost. He wants to keep saved from having any kind of influence, having any kind of testimony. He wants to minimize our influence He says here, verse 14, he says, they seek after my soul to destroy it. Peter put it this way, again, under the inspiration of God in 1 Peter 5. 8, he says, be sober, be vigilant. He's saying, take this seriously, my friend. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. That's the same idea as that word destroy there. Spiritual warfare. David said, I'm in a spiritual warfare. Now, if you would, I'll end with this. Come back to Ephesians. Chapter 6, we have a list, beginning in verse 13, we have a list of pieces of armor that God tells us we need to put on. So that we're not devoured by the devil and we're not, our soul isn't destroyed. Now he's talking to believers here. If you're unsaved, you need to get saved. If you're saved, if you know the Lord, then we need disarmor. Because if we don't The enemy of our God will devour us and destroy us. Look at verse number 13. Let's start there. Wherefore Well, go back go back to verse twelve. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. It's not a physical, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness in this world. against spiritual wickedness in high places. Powerful, powerful forces that we can't see, we can't feel, we can't hear, but they're just as real as flesh and blood. Wherefore, because that's true, take unto you the whole armor of God That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand in this warfare. Now look, he lifts the armor. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth. Having on the breastplate of righteousness, and we don't have time to discuss these, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all The taking the shield of faith, I mentioned this morning, the importance of faith, the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And then look at verse 18. Praying what? Always, with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance And supplication for all saints. He's saying, You pray, you pray earnestly, you pray unceasingly. Why? Because prayer is a key weapon In the spiritual warfare between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the devil. And that is exactly what David's doing in Psalm chapter 40. He is praying for these enemies that the Satan is using to try and reach his soul, to destroy him and devour him. David is dealing with enemies that are out to destroy his soul. He's dealing with enemies that are out to destroy him spiritually. Now he doesn't say who they are, and we'll look at his prayer in detail next time. He doesn't say who they are, but he recognizes the spiritual aspect of this struggle. They're after my soul. The devil is after my soul. Ruined my testimony. And by the way, he got a shot in on devil, on David, didn't he? Nathan says, the sin with Bathsheba, you've given opportunity to the enemies to blaspheme God. So David approaches his situation. We don't we don't he doesn't tell us any details there in chapter 40. He doesn't tell us who they are. He doesn't tell exactly what their tactics are. He talks about what their goal is, their objective. But he handles it appropriately two ways. One He makes sure he's right. We looked at that before, verse 12 and 13. He made sure his heart is right. Made sure he's right with God. That there's no sin. It's not regarding iniquity in his heart. He's right with God. And then he goes to prayer. He goes to prayer. Spiritual warfare is going to rage this week. I'm here to tell you. Been doing this for a little while. A lot of us here have been involved in this for quite a while. And we take up an attempt to try and do everything we can to get the gospel into all the world. You mark it down, the devil doesn't take that sitting down. He's not just going to sit back and say, oh yeah, we'll let Mountain Lake raise up money, hundreds of thousands, hundred thousand, two hundred thousand dollars to get missionaries out all around the world. He's not just gonna sit back and let that happen, I guarantee it. He'll do everything he can to derail us, distract us, and hinder our faith in God. And so what we need to do tonight, I believe, and I'm talking to myself. We need to get thoroughly right with God. Just like David did in verse 12 and 13 there. My iniquity, God, cleanse me. Purge me. God, do what you need to do, that I'm right with you. And then we come to God in prayer. God. There's a world out there that wants to destroy your people. There's a devil that wants to destroy. God, we pray you'd hedge us about. God, we pray that your will be done. And pray and pray and pray. Now we'll look next time at what he prayed. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd help us. We go into an incredibly important week. Understanding that there is a spiritual reality all around us that sometimes we're very blinded to. And I ask you to help us. As we go into Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, then big day next Sunday, that you would help us be thoroughly right with you, and God stir us to pray, pray, pray. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to do some house cleaning in my heart and soul. That's all. I'll just leave it at I need some house cleaning. Anybody like that? You know what I'm talking about? Let's do it. Let's not just say, oh yeah, I need it. Let's do it. Whatever it takes, I need to go get right with somebody, whatever it may be, clean out some stuff I wonder if there's some who say, preacher, my prayer life needs revival. And I need to take this a little more seriously, my praying, getting a hold of God. I wonder how many would join me, say, preacher, I need revival in my prayer life. Anybody, any like that? Any at all? God bless you. And let's do something about it. I think at an altar on a Sunday night before missions, a good place comes, say, God, clean me up. God help me pray. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand