Matthew chapter nine is where I want to start out. I've actually preached along on this passage. few months ago, back in December, I think it was, I want to preach again from this passage, but a little different direction. Uh verse number thirty-six of Matthew nine, of course Jesus is speaking here, his heart is stirred And he says, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them. I don't know, every time I read that, that stirs my heart The Lord saw the people and he was moved with compassion on them. How many times do you ever any do we have any folks that here that like to watch people? People watchers, anybody. I was in airports, a bunch of lats this week, and you just sit there and watch people go by. And um uh how many people ever watched someone and thought that person's really weird, anybody And um but the thing is when the when the Lord watched and saw people, his heart was moved with compassion. He loved them. He loved them. And we need that. This isn't my message. But we were talking this afternoon a little bit, some of us, and uh, you know, we just need God to help us love other people, don't we? I don't know. This Sunday school lesson in adult Sunday school class has been stirring my heart from 1 Corinthians 13. So that's the way the Lord was. He saw these multitudes. He didn't see them as weirdos or sharp or this guy's that or the other He saw him as people that were and look what it says, because they were fainted and scattered abroad. I mean they're struggling. People are struggling. As sheep having no shepherd. Then he said unto his disciples, The harvest is the harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Now, what was his solution? We're familiar with this. What was the solution? What's it say? Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labors into his harvest. Pray. Pray. Come to Acts chapter number one with me, if you would. And if you're familiar with Acts chapter 1 and Acts chapter 2, you have the debut of the what? Acts chapter 1, chapter 2. It's the start of the what? The church. And here you have the Holy Spirit comes upon And uh man, Peter preaches that powerful Pentecostal message, very simple, but power, the power of God's on him, the Holy Spirit has filled him, and how many people get saved? Who knows? 3,000 people get saved. What an amazing thing. I've never been in a service where 3,000 people got saved as a result of one message. And so it's an amazing thing. But what I want us to point out is look at verse 14. This is leading up to Pentecost. This is leading up to this event. Where the Spirit of God comes upon him, he preaches, and three thousand get saved, people get baptized by the thousands. Look at verse 14 of chapter 1. These all continued with one accord in what? Prayer and supplication. They're praying and they're praying earnestly. So the Lord looks out on the harvest field, he sees the multitudes, he's moved with compassion, he says, Pray, Lord of harvest. Interesting thing is Matthew 10, then he sends his disciples out as a result. The very next thing, after he says that, pray that, then he sends them out. Acts chapter 1, verse 14, they prayed, earnestly prayed. Chapter 2, Spirit of God falls. Message preached. Souls are saved. The church is ignited. Come to chapter 13, if you would, with me. Uh let's see, you Bible scholars, chapter 13. What happens in Acts chapter 13? Anybody? Any Bible scholars out there? It's a key turning point in the church's history. And ah, missions to the church at Antioch. It's been established, a good, strong, godly church. And they're about to send out missionaries all around the Middle East there. Paul and Barnabas are going to go out. But look, there's a little statement there in verse number two. And it says this as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, generally what do you associate with fasting? Prayer. We're going to see here. That's exactly what was going on. The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and Prayed, prayed, prayed. John R. Rice, I've quoted this so many times, one of my favorite quotes from John R. Rice, he said this, all our failures are prayer failures. He said, little prayer is little power. Much prayer is much power. And no prayer is what? No power. And so I just want to talk about prayer and the ministries of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Prayer's role. In the ministries of our church here. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father, I ask now On this matter of prayer that you would teach us to pray. Teach me, Lord. And um I pray for this coming year as we in the this coming week we look ahead and we envision what could be the potential, the possibilities in this church body and what you can do, the possibilities of what you can do through us and through your church here. But Lord, teach us to pray. Every time I see in the word here, Lord, there's always prayer going on, earnest prayer before these great events took place. And so I ask that you would stir us, fill me with your spirit, and speak through me and teach us this, Lord. We're asking you to teach us what this means and what it means to us. And how we should respond to this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing about the ministry, and that's what the church exists to minister, right? You understand that We we exist to minister, to serve others. And we have you know we have all kinds of ministries going on. Somebody help me out. We we're We're a small group. We can talk to each other a little bit. What are some ministries of our church that come to mind? We talked about the ministries of our church. Soul-winning ministry. The bus ministry has been very effective for many, many years. What else? Children's Church, Children's Ministry, Master Club, Teens Alive, Bible Time in the Summer, these types of things. What other ministries? What was it? Blankets for babies. I was waiting for Sandy to say that, but she deferred. You wanted somebody else to. What a tremendous. I want to encourage you to be out Wednesday night. I fail to mention, again, we have our annual business meeting Wednesday night. We're going to give a report. On blankets for babies and some of these other ministries. What else? Blankets for babies? Fingerprints? The music ministry is tremendous. You're missing some. Radio station. Man, what an impact that has. Uh others You're running out too soon. Wow, game dinner, big events like this, uh track month, did somebody say track month? Um uh Bible time, how about the web ministry? Hundreds and hundreds of sermons every month going out. We exist, God established the church to minister To get the God. Oh we man, we missed a big one. It's on the wall right back here. Our Faith Promise Missions Ministry. And that's what we exist, to serve others, to help others come to Christ, to help them grow in Christ, to encourage them in their walk with the Lord. But here's what I'm trying to get at. I said all that to say this. All of these begin with God. All of these begin with God. God touches the heart. Now Sandy's right in my line of fire, so I'm picking on her a little bit. But what was it, a couple, three, four years ago, she comes and said, God, God laid something on my heart, like it's for babies. Dan Hummel says, God laid on my heart to have a printing ministry. Will you guys get on board with us? God laid it on my heart. Ministry begins with God. All of this begins with God. And then it's carried out by prayer. A prayerless ministry is a failing ministry, I think. If we plan, we had that planning this afternoon. We're talking about what do we want to what's what do we want to happen? What's the potential for this year? But planning, prayerless planning is going to be empty. You follow what I'm trying to get at here? Methods. We have some great methods. Master Clubs is a phenomenal children's program. Great methods. of discipling. But if we don't saturate it with prayer, um uh it's going to be a failure. John R. Rice said all our failures are prayer failures. And so we uh uh we need to understand that this is God's doing. This is God's work And it requires prayer on our part. Ministry is a spiritual endeavor. This is a spiritual thing that's going on. Uh the the Elks Clubs and um lions clubs and the what other clubs? Raccoon clubs And uh moose, lodge. Um they're all man. They're working up what man can do, what man can do. But that's not what we are. This is a spiritual endeavor. Soul winning is a spiritual warfare. Bus ministry is a spiritual warfare. The radio station, spiritual combat. Spiritual conflict, the forces of this world, the uh demonic forces, and the spirit of God and the gospel of God. And so that all requires prayer, earnest prayer. All right, let me give you Uh-uh. So I'm trying to emphasize the importance of prayer. How many people catch my emphasis? Everybody? We're talking about what? Prayer. And we're talking about the desperate, earnest necessity of prayer in everything we do. Now let me give you a few things that prayer will help our ministry. Several ways prayer will help our ministry. Number one Encourage you to jot this down. It is prayer, it is in response to prayer that God provides workers. The harvest is great, the laborers are few. Solution pray. Right. We need more workers at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we're going to accomplish what we believe the potential is out there. This afternoon we were playing, we said, oh, this, we boy, I think this could happen, think this. Now we said we need more, we need more of this. We need we need more workers, need more workers, need more workers Uh so what do you do when you need more workers? You call school, you order it offline on eBay, Christian workers, ch-ch-ch-ch. No. What do we do? We what? We pray. It is in response to prayer that God provides the workers for the church. We we complain and uh well not complain but we lament the lack of workers in our churches and we blame all kinds of things. Well contemporary Christianity has taken all our workers, oh this old sinful world and We come up with all these reasons. And I got thinking this afternoon, I th I wonder if maybe the reason we lack workers isn't because of contemporary Christianity and compromise and worldliness and saying, uh I wonder if it isn't because we're not praying like we should. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers. And maybe that's where our lack is. So, number one, it's in response to prayer that God sends workers to our church, raises up workers. Number two I put this down, it is in response to prayers that God provides for the material needs of our ministry We believe that God would have us build a building, an activity building, so we can expand, have room to do some things not piled up on top of each other. And we need what to do that? What are we trying to raise Money. And so he says, man, I wish we had a millionaire in our church. I wish we had a billionaire in our church. Boy, that would be great. Boy, we could have this money and all of that I'd like to think we have something better than a millionaire and a billionaire. We got God in our church. And last I checked, God's richer than Donald Trump God's richer than anybody I know. And so pray, turn with me if you would to Matthew chapter 7. This is a Sermon on the Mount. Matthew 7. And notice with me, if you would, verse 7. Matthew 7, verse 7. Great passage, very familiar. Probably people, I'm talking to people that have it memorized. Matthew 7, 7. Ask, and it shall be what? Given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be what? Look what it says: for everyone that asketh receiveth And he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh it shall be open. What man is there of you, whom his son, if his son asked bread, will he give him a stone? The answer, obvious answer, is what? No If he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent? No, of course not. That's ridiculous. If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more? Shall your father give uh father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him. Now here's what we do. I I don't know. We Particularly us, but here's what people do a lot, and I'm probably guilty of this also. We look at that verse. How many of you agree with me? That's tremendous prayer promises there. Man, alive. These are phenomenal prayer promises. And so we say, oh, wonderful. God has promised if I ask, it'll be given to me. If I seek, I'll find. If I knock, it's open. He'll give good things. Oh, I'm going to ask God for a brand new four-wheeler. Oh, I'm gonna ask God for a bigger house and a nicer car. I'm gonna ask God for a uh a fancier fishing pole or a more expensive uh what's the purses the ladies are buying real um Oh, somebody was just talking about Carol, you know, carriage, coach Oh brother, I started a whole new conversation here now. Oh, God has promised my God, give me a coach first. Now, does God ever answer prayers like that? Sure. He gives us good things to enjoy, right? I mentioned in Sunday school I was flying and the plane was jam-packed. I just said, Lord, if I can have an MPC Lo and behold, a plane that seats 175 people, one empty seat behind me. It's like, ah So God does give good things to us, and he does stuff like that. But that I don't believe that's the intent of this passage. In fact, I don't think that's the intent of prayer promises, so you and I can have more stuff and need to build a bigger garage and buy a s a storage unit, rent a storage unit to keep all our stuff in because God keeps giving us what we ask for I don't think that's the intent. Now he does that. He's very gracious. He gives us good things. But I think the intent here is, hey, ask of me what you need to serve me and reach this world with the gospel and minister. Ask of me, and I'll give that to you. I'll provide for your ministry. I'll provide for your bus ministry. I'll provide for your radio station. I'll provide for your track month. I'll provide for your missions outreach. I'll prov In for your new building But ask me, knock, see, knock. I think that's the whole intent behind. I think we miss the point when we think, oh, he's given us all these prayer promises so I can get more stuff. And that when I die, I leave it all behind and take nothing to heaven. I think he says, you ask of me asking me of things you need, so you can serve me, invest in eternity, invest in souls, invest in the gospel. And so it is through, in response to prayer, I believe, that God provides the material needs of our ministries. Write this one down, number three. Now this one's important. We're all important, but this one especially. It is through prayer that spiritual strongholds are brought down. Spiritual strongholds. Come over to Matthew chapter 12. How many people know what I mean when I'm talking about spiritual stronghold? Anybody? Anybody understand what I'm saying? Spiritual stronghold, generally what somebody means when they talk about a spiritual stronghold is some area that Satan has a firm grip on someone. And man, they just cannot seem to get victory over that, and they just cannot seem to break loose of that. It is a stronghold How many people understand what I'm uh what I'm trying to say? And it just seems like some people they just struggle so much. And it seems like Satan just has such a stronghold on them they cannot break free Now how do we break those strongholds? How do we get young per a young person maybe that's saved and or a uh a another I'm thinking of so many things that are going through our mind right now, situations where people are just struggling Let's say this. Suppose you got somebody that gets saved, but drugs has such a powerful grip on them. How is that stronghold broken? Or Um liquor, you're just anything. You know, they just struggle. They struggle. They cannot get victory. Satan is such a stronghold. How is that stronghold broken? Through prayer. Look at uh Matthew chapter number 12 and verse number 29. How can else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods Except he first bind the strong man, and then he will spoil his house And what he's trying to point out here is here's a person that is that is being held bound by some sort of sin, unbelief, they're struggling. And he says, you have to first bind that strong man. And I think the context here is referencing that satanic power, that satanic influence over them. And first you have to bind him. And I'm suggesting to you the way we bind that, the way we hinder Satan, the way we stop Satan's influence and break his grip on someone, is through prayer. Is through prayer. And that's where I think fasting and prayer comes in. Earnest prayer, earnest prayer. Sometimes Satan's strongholds grip people, and only prayer can break that. We don't need bigger schemes. I thank God for our Teens Alive program I thank God for Master Club program, our King's Kids program, our fingerprints program. We thank God for programs, but programs don't defeat Satan. It's a spiritual thing and the and prayer and the power of God is what does that. Um I'm pastor of the church here, my heart and my life is invested into Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And many of you I think are feel the same way. I'm telling you, we need God's power. And I'm telling you, there are satanic strongholds in people's lives that are part of this church, they are struggling and they're hurting. And they need victory and they need God to do what they cannot do themselves. I'm thinking of a couple situations where the only solution isn't more counseling, it isn't more programs. It isn't more information. They don't need more training. What it needs is the presence and power of God. To give the victory in that situation and change a heart and turn that way of thinking around. And that comes by prayer. That comes by prayer. How many people here would like to see, in this coming year, would like to see lives, not just soul safe, lives transformed by the power of God. Transformed. I'd like to see drunkards get sobered. I'd like to see drug addicts come to Christ, crack his huge, opioids, all this garbage going on in our community. I'd love to see the power of God break that through and change those lives and become productive, godly Christian homes. There's not a program in the world can do that. Only the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit can do that. And that comes in response to prayer. Salvation is a spiritual thing. It's not me changing my life. It's a supernatural spiritual thing. God saving a soul and making a new creature. And that requires prayer, an earnest prayer. Let me give you my last one. Number four, it is prayer that gives us wisdom to deal with the issues our ministries face. I tell you, we're going into a building, we're raising money to do some building. I tell you, that's going to take some wisdom on dealing with all the stuff that is involved in doing that. How many people understand that? That's going to require wisdom on our part. People come with problems. Man, there are problems today that are so complex Brother Kuhnz and I were together and we were talking about some situations and he says, it is amazing how sin can so complicate stuff. And you don't know if you're coming or going. It's such a mess. And I tell you, it takes the s wisdom of God to be able to deal with issues. Some of you all are dealing with situations, you've got situations going on, and you say, I really need wisdom. Now here was our assignment last week that everybody ignored. I'm going to give it again. James 1. 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him Asked of God. What is that called? Prayer. Prayer So I'm emphasizing as we start this new year and next week we're going to talk about what we can see out there, what we see as potential, as we see possible. I want to ask us to pray, pray, pray, pray, pray this coming week. And I'm asking us to do this. This coming week, let's pray that God's hand, God's power, God's presence be upon our ministries. And we see what God can do this year, not just what we can work up. Amen. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would stir our hearts, a revival of prayer. In my heart and uh in our church, that our church will be saturated by earnest, earnest prayer, an intense hunger and desire. To see the power of God to be upon us, the preaching, the teaching, the ministries. God, we need you. In this day and hour, we need you, and we need your power. Teach us to pray. Teach us to pray. Our heads are bound. How many say, Preacher, my heart is stirred to pray For God to do what we cannot do. God to do great things in our midst. Any like that? My heart's stirred. My heart is stirred. Now maybe as we go into Lord's Supper, we go into a new week. Maybe we'd want to find a place in altar. And if nothing else, just say, Lord, put that hunger in my heart to pray. God, stir me to pray. Teach me to do it. I believe God, that would be God's desire. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's playing the piano for us tonight.