Look with me if you would at verse 14 and 15. This is David's penning this under the inspiration of God. And he's testifying in the first several verses there, he's praising the Lord. And then if you remember, we repeat this every time, but verse 6 down through verse 9, then he prophesies about the Lord Jesus Christ. And his focus goes first, it begins with what God has done for us, then it's on the person of Christ Himself. And then this last section from verse 10 down through the end of the chapter, it's a prayer. He's praying to the Lord. And um and uh he's uh asking God for some things. Now verse 14 and 15 is what we started uh in a previous message. I want to pick up where we left off. Notice verse 14. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha. David had some enemies. He had some adversaries. And he's praying for these adversaries, praying for these enemies. And uh so let's pray now and we'll try and pick up where we left off uh before. Father, we ask now your blessing on our study of your word tonight. I pray that your Holy Spirit, who really is the author of this would open our hearts and minds, our eyes, to see how these how this passage applies to us as individuals and to our church. I ask that you would fill me, dear Lord, with your Holy Spirit. I yield my mind and my thinking to you, that you would guide my thoughts as I preach. I present my body that your spirit could fill me and speak through me, and that we would leave here a little stronger in our faith, a little clearer in our understanding of our adversaries. and how to respond and how to deal with them in a biblical, spiritual way. So I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. David is progressing through the chapter here, and if you remember, we pointed out before that he's becoming more and more aware of this spiritual warfare we're in. And we spent a message on talking about what the Bible says about a spiritual warfare that we deal with. And it's very, very real. If you've been saved any s any amount of time, if you've grown spiritually at all You're aware of the fact that we are in a spiritual warfare. Can I get a witness? And so we know that. And the Bible clearly teaches them, we're giving a good bit of instructions there. And so our adversaries We need to keep in mind our adversaries are not the people that are given us, that are, that are opposing us. That maybe are threatening us or whatever. It's not the people, it's the spiritual forces behind them. They are what we might say pawns. In this spiritual warfare, this conflict between heaven and hell, God and the devil. And so David is seeing that. And if you notice here, and I think we pointed this out before, he doesn't mention any names. He just refers to these people who are seeking after his soul to destroy it. They are wishing him evil. They are saying to him, aha, aha. He doesn't mention who they are, and he doesn't say specifically what they're doing other than just general statements here. And so he realizes this is a spiritual warfare, and we understand that to be true. Now, he approaches whatever the specifics are, whoever these individuals are, we're not told But he approaches this conflict, these adversaries, very wisely in my mind. Very spiritually. The first thing he does, and this was in the previous passages, verse 11 and 12. And verse 13, first of all, he makes sure he's right with God. If my heart is not right with God, I am not going to be able to defeat my spiritual enemies. I've got to be right with God. I need to walk with God. And so he that's these verses there. He's dealing with his own heart, his own condition. He says, My heart's failing me. He says, My heart's deceiving me. My heart isn't helping me at all. Lord, I need you. And now he addresses these enemies, these adversaries, and he does it by going to prayer. Now this is where we kick in tonight. He does this by going to prayer. Now, if you look at this prayer, and it's exactly what it is, verse 14 and 15, praying for his enemies. It's um uh if you look at it, it's a little different than what we imagine prayers for enemies are You're going to be so excited what I'm about to do. You will be thrilled. I'm going to teach you a theological term. How many people are excited about that? Oh, this is great. This prayer here is described by theologians, people study, they're described as an impeccatory prayer. Impecatory prayer. How many people have ever heard that word before? Impecatory prayer. What in the world is an impeccatory prayer? An impeccatory prayer, and there's numerous. There's David praised a lot of them In the Psalms. I mean, we're talking 15, 20, 25, maybe more times in the Psalms. David prays these impeccatory prayers. Now what is it? It means to pray for God's curse on an enemy It is to pray for evil to happen to somebody that is an adversary of mine Sometimes he prays for their total destruction, violent destruction. And these are prayed a number of times, particularly in the Psalms, these impegatory prayers. And you say, what in the world? Why would God want us to pray in that way? Well, there's several purposes of these impeccatory prayers, these prayers for God's judgment on adversaries. One is rather than uh what one is David is uh uh he's frustrated with these adversaries. He's trying to grow in the Lord, he's trying to be what God wants him to be. He's rejoicing in the Lord. He's praising God for all he's done. He's exalting and glorifying Jesus. And here we have these enemies are trying to destroy his soul and wishing him evil and mocking him. And it and it's frustrating. Anybody here ever work with an unsaved person and they gave you a hard time about being a Christian? Anyone can you get a witness? Would you agree with me? It gets frustrating after a while Gets discouraging after a while. And so David, what I'm point the point I'm trying to make is he takes that frustration and maybe discouragement and he and he brings it to the Lord He's frustrated, Lord, and he and he brings it to God. He is putting his enemies in the hands of the Lord. And God is perfect in his wisdom, and God is perfect in his judgment. And I believe David understands: God, you can deal with these people a whole lot better than I can. I'm getting a little ahead of myself in this statement, but it's almost like, and if you look at some of the others, and we won't take the time tonight, but if you look at some of these other prayers and things that he is asking God to do to his enemies, it's like, whoa! And I think what it is, he's saying, I think he's bringing it to God. God, you are perfect in wisdom, you are perfect in your understanding, you are perfect in your justice. I'm not And it's almost like you're saying, God, if it was, if I had my way, this is what I would do to them. I'd break their necks and break their legs and I'd throw them in the river But God, you are just and you are good and you know the best way to deal with them. So rather than taking them, taking the situation into his own hands, He's bringing it to God in prayer, putting it in God's hands, knowing God is perfect in wisdom and justice. He says, Lord, I trust in you. Now, God, this is what I would do. But Lord, I'm putting it in your hands. And so these impeccatory prayers, and again, that's what we have here. He's bringing his frustration, his anxiety about this, he's bringing it to the Lord, saying, Lord, you deal with this. I don't see where he's seeking personal vengeance on them, but he's appealing to God's. He's appealing to God's promises. God had promised David, I will take care of you. I will protect you from your enemies. I'll deal with that. So he's dealing with he's appealing to God's promise to take care of him, and he is appealing to God's righteous judgment And so there's a lot to be learned by that. Any church that is going to take a stand for the Word of God And by that, I don't mean in an arrogant way or an in-your-face type of thing. Some, you know, some folks, you know, some churches, some pastors, man, they just like to be in the face. They like a good fight And they're out looking for it. You know anybody know what I'm talking about? I got I got some preachers I know. I mean they are just uh come on, bring it on And uh, you know, God bless them. They're they're just let them, you know, let God deal with them and lead them however. I'm not that way. But I do want to stand on the Word of God. And I want to be true to my Savior. And I don't want to compromise the truth. I want to be a good, pure A biblical effective witness in this old sinful world. Now, in doing that, if that's the case, then we are going to face opposition. We are going to have enemies. There are people in the world that very much dislike our Savior. There are people very much disagree with our stand on taking the Bible for what it says. And sometimes they oppose us, and sometimes they harass us, and sometimes they they uh uh wish us harm. And so, how do we respond to that? And then, as individuals, as we're out in the world, we're going to face that. If we're trying to be a good witness, try and do right, be honest, and be a good, faithful witness for the Lord If that's the case, then how do we respond to that? Well, David prays. And he brings these people to the Lord, the situation to the Lord. And he tells the Lord, Lord, this is the way I deal with it. But God, it's in your hands. It's in your hands. I have three three things I observe here, real quick, I want to give you. I noticed in the first part of verse 14 David prays that God would disappoint those who seek to destroy his soul. He prays God will disappoint him. Look at verse 14 Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Now that word ashamed. uh has the idea to be disappointed, to be frustrated. They're trying to do something and it's not working and they're getting frustrated and uh they're just, man, what in the world? And they and they're ashamed. uh of what they're doing. The idea here is he's praying that these efforts on the part of whoever these people were, now there's spiritual motives behind it. But whoever these people are, he's praying that what they're attempting to do to David would completely fail. And fail in such a way that they're ashamed of, they're completely disappointed. Man. What they're investing their effort in to hurt and destroy David, that it will completely fail. So he says, let them be ashamed And confounded. The word confounded is very similar to the word ashamed there, but it has the idea of be embarrassed Lord, I pray that what they're trying to do with me would fail in such a way that they're embarrassed. It embarrasses them. That's pretty good prayer, huh? Now he's not trying to do that himself. He's saying, Lord, this is what I think. Lord, just make what they're they're trying to destroy my soul. Let them be ashamed. Let that whole endeavor fail in such a way that they're confounded, they're ashamed, they're embarrassed by what they tried to do. And God can do that. God can do that. It's not just that they would fail, but also that they would be exposed and ashamed. For what they were trying to do. And we see that happen sometimes. People try to hurt us. We put in God's hand. And man, God turns that thing around. And uh we we put it this way, sometimes they hang themselves with their own rope. Anybody know what I mean by that? They just make a fool out of themselves. They tried so hard to do wrong, tried so hard to hurt God just turned that around, and they end up hurting themselves and being ashamed of themselves. Apparently, they were working in secret He's wanting them to be exposed. He's they're they'd be ashamed, publicly ashamed of this. So apparently, whoever this was that was trying to undermine him, trying to hurt him, destroy him spiritually, hurt his walk with God Um apparently they're working in secret. They're working undercover to try and d destroy him. And uh he wants them exposed. And I thought as I was looking at that, that's exactly what the devil does. The devil doesn't walk into a church and say, by the way, Pastor, I'm the devil And I'm here to disrupt this whole thing and destroy your testimony and just ruin this body of Christ. The devil never does that. You understand? And by the way, he doesn't come into your life. He's not going to knock on your front door and say, uh, please to meet you. I'm the devil. I'm here to destroy your marriage and to ruin your kids and corrupt your heart. Bring all kinds of wicked worldliness into your home. That's exactly. He never works that way. The devil always works secretly It always works under the cover of deceit. If you would take your Bible, turn to me to Corinthians, 2 Corinthians And chapter 11. Now keep your place here, because we're going to jump back and forth a little bit, and I'm going to try and budge through here. Anyone ever hear of those frogs down in Amazon. They're poisonous frogs. If you touch them or if you lick them, you'll die within minutes. Anyone know that? Any I think I got some of them in my throat right now So I'm going to try and make my point here before everything, my voice completely fails. But notice 2 Corinthians 11, and look with me if you would at verse 13. God gives us a little insight into the tactics of the devil. Now we saw this when we studied the book of Jude in Sunday school: how he is deceitful. They're sneaky creeps. That come in and try and undermine a church spiritually, undermine a home or a life, their spiritual walk with God. Notice what he says in verse 13. He says, For such are false apostles Deceitful workers, look at this, transforming themselves into the apostles of who? Christ, not the apostles of the devil. That's who they are. They don't put on that. They don't let that know. Listen, if somebody is unwilling to tell you who they are and where they stand and what their teaching is If that's some secret behind it, then you stay away from that. We don't hide our doctrines. We don't hide our teaching. In fact, we Print our doctrines, we have them on the track rack, we have them on our website, we have them available. Anybody in the world wants it. And if somebody knocks on your door and they got secret doctrines and secret teachings that only certain people can know You stay far away from that. That is not of God. So look at this. They are they transforming themselves in the apostles of Christ. Oh, we just believe the same thing you do. And no marvel. He says, it's not surprising that the false apostles do that. It's no marvel for Satan himself. is transformed into an angel of light. He doesn't come in as an angel of darkness, an angel of death. He comes in as an angel of light. Therefore, verse 15, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the minister of righteousness and whose end shall be according to their works. And so the devil never introduces himself as the devil. He comes under the cover of deceit And he tries to undermine the people of God and the works of God secretly. So David back in Psalm is praying. He says, Lord, expose them. Let them be ashamed for what they're trying to do. Confound them. Publicly expose these people who are trying to destroy my soul. By the way, this prayer back in Psalm 40, verse 14, let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Apparently, this is one of David's go-to prayers. Because it's recorded almost verbatim several times in Scripture. If you're back in Psalm, just turn a page back to Psalm chapter 35. Page or two, depending on your Bible. Psalm 35, and look with me at verse number four. This is the Psalm of David. We see that there above verse number one. Then you come down to four. It says, look at this. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul. Almost verbatim. What he prays in Psalm 40. Come over to verse number 26 of Psalms 35. Same chapter. Look at verse number 26. He says, Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at my hurt Again, a very, very similar prayer, almost verbatim the same. And so I think this is David's go-to prayer He gets opposition. People are trying to undermine him, hurt him spiritually, influence him in a way that is displeasing the Lord. Get him out of the will of God, destroy his soul, and go to prayer. Lord, let him be ashamed and confounded Now he says there, again, back in verse 14, he says, let them be ashamed and confounded. Let them. I got looking at that phrase. And that implies there a an anticipation on David's part He was fully expecting them to completely fail in their efforts to destroy him. And apparently he'd been through this before. Apparently he'd seen how God had took care of them and protected them. I got a message from a young preacher, I think it was yesterday, it was late last night. I answered it early this morning. He's trying to get some things going in this church, and he's trying to get some more effective outreach and just get things going. For the Lord and for uh the missions and world evangelism and local witnesses trying to get things going. And he says, I got key people in my church that are opposing it opposing to us trying to be a witness and you know discouraging it. And I wrote back to him and and um uh I I told him in in so many words, I said You know, I've been through this for a little while. I've seen how this plays out. You just keep doing what God says, stay the course, and don't let the naysayers derail your obedience to the Lord. And we've seen it. And I know that's true. God, be faithful to God, and God will take care of you. David's David's apparently been this isn't his first rodeo. And he goes to this prayer over and over. He says, Lord, let it happen again. God, look into you. Make them confound them, Lord. Let them be ashamed. And so the first thing he prays here for his enemies is he prays that God will disappoint their efforts to destroy his soul. Then number two, I notice In ver the second half, verse 14, he prays that God will drive back those who wish to distress his testimony. Now let's see how he words it. That's the way I put it He says, let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Driven backward I think what he's at that phrase driven backward, I got looking that up. And it has this idea, Lord, let them be forced to retreat. Lord push them back. Um has the idea, Lord uh force them to flee From their efforts to uh wish me evil, their efforts to bring evil in my life. And again, there's a New Testament parallel to that. I don't know who these people were. I don't know what exactly they were doing to wish evil on them. I don't know what they're Methods were. But David prays and he says, Lord, make them retreat. Drive them backward Don't let them progress in their desires. Don't let them have success. Don't let them make progress in their efforts to wish me evil. Take your Bible. Again, keep it here. Go with me to the New Testament again to the book of James. And we find a very similar statement along these lines, not with necessarily physical enemies, adversaries. But with our spiritual adversary, and who is our primary spiritual adversary? Ourselves and the devil, the world, the flesh, and the devil. And James chapter 4, and look with me if you would at verse 7. And this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible, good verse to memorize, to be honest. James 4, 7, are you there? Says, submit yourselves therefore to God. Here it is: resist the devil, and he will what? Flee from you. That's the exact same idea as driven backwards. He will be driven from you. He'll be forced to flee from you You say, preacher, how do I defeat the devil? He's trying to discourage me, he's trying to derail me, he's trying to distract me, how do I defeat the devil? Well, the Bible says here: submit yourself to God. Do what God says. And then resist them. What does it mean to resist the devil? It means to simply say, no. No. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going there. I'm not engaging in that. I'm not indulging that. No! You know, no is a good word. The right context, right circumstances. In fact, I want to suggest to you there are people who would be alive today if they would have just said no to something. Some temptation, some involvement, some allurement. Just said, no. There are people that would still be in the ministry today. They'd have just said, no. No. My Bible says, my God tells me through his word and us as a church That when we face adversaries that wish us evil and want to destroy us and want to distract us and derail us, we submit to God, we do what God says, we stay the course, keep trusting God, keep believing His Word. Keep doing what he instructs us, and then say no to that which wants to come in and harm us. And in our homes. How many marriages would still be together if somebody would have just said what? No, say it with me. Ready? One, two, three. No. Resist. David said, drive him back. They wish me evil. How's God going to drive him back? When David submits to God and says, no, says no. No, I'm not doing that. And so he prays that God will drive back those who wish to destroy, distress his testimony. And then number three, last of all, back in Psalm 40 here, he says, he prays, verse number 15. He praised that God will desert those who deride his service. Now let's look at how he words it. He says, let them be desolate. Now he's prayed in verse 14 they would be ashamed. He's prayed that they would be confounded. He's prayed that they would be driven backward. Now he prays that they would be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, aha, aha. Now, I don't know about you. That phrase, aha, aha, caught my attention. Reading through there and it's like, aha, aha. And these people are saying to him, ha ha, ha ha. I thought, what in the world's that? So I got looking it up. It has the idea of deriding him Or ridiculing him, making fun of him, mocking him. Aha, aha, look at him living for God. He thinks he's something. They did that same thing to Nehemiah. Again, we won't take time to turn there, but in chapter 4, verse 3, Nehemiah is following the Lord. God's led him and stirred his heart to rebuild the what? The walls around Jerusalem. And it's a disaster. It's rubble everywhere. And he gets the team together. He has a meeting with the men, and they get stirred up and they start rebuilding the wall. And lo and behold, the things coming together. And they're rebuilding the wall. There's going to be some defense for Jerusalem again. And there's some adversaries. There are always the adversaries. And Sambalat and Tobiah. They're standing out there and they're watching this all going on, and they know that if that wall gets built and the worship of God uh is restored to the temple and this thing gets back to where it ought to be. They're going to lose their influence and they're not going to get their way anymore. God's going to be God again and they're going to be out of the picture. And so they start mocking. Nehemiah building the wall. And one of them says out there in chapter 3, one of them says out, that's in the Hebrew. And they say, if a fox walked down that wall, the whole thing would collapse. Anybody here ever weigh a fox? A fox doesn't weigh very much. You know, if they said a rhinoceros walked down the wall and things collapse, we'd say, well, yeah, maybe. An elephant walks. He says a fox. You know what they were doing? They were making fun of him. They were mocking him. He doesn't know what he's doing. Oh, for Pete's sake, what a moron. It's basically what they were doing. And David said, these people, they're mocking me, trying to live for God. I'm trying to do right. I'm trying to serve the Lord. Trying to obey God. Trying to live my life the way God intends for me to live. And they're out there, uh-huh, uh-huh. And looking for every fault and looking for every failure and everything I do and make fun of it. If you've worked in the workplace much at all and you've tried to be a testimony, you've faced what he's dealing with here. Young people in school bow their head and pray before a meal and kids give 'em that make fun, give them a hard time. When I worked at the meat packing plant and um Uh there was two others got saved right about the same time I did, one of the foreman and another lady on the line. And I mean all three. Uh Rick was a was a devout Catholic, hard drinker. God saved him, transformed his life. I mean like that. The lady, her name was Debbie, she was just wild. And God saved her, transformed her life, and then me. And they started and it started up. Oh, let me say, oh, Leatherman's uh gonna shave his head and wear a robe, walk around Oh, he's a Bible thumper. And they started calling the three of us the God Squad. Anybody remember that show, The Maud Squad? They called us the God Squad and they were making fun of us. They did it in the book of Acts. They called the new believers, oh, these Christians, these little Jesus running around. They're mocking them and making fun of them. And the New Testament believers, they started calling them Christians, little Christ. That's what it means. They didn't offend it by it. They said sure. They embraced it. They owned it. Say, yeah, we're Christians. Thank you very much. The world is so good at mocking things, at ridiculing and making fun. Let me just throw this out and I don't know if it would affect apply to anybody, but be very careful. These guys online that are Christian comedians I've seen a couple of them. Some people go, oh, look at this guy. He's a Christian. You've got to be careful. A lot of those are doing nothing more than mocking the things of God. And make it in a funny way. There was one the other day somebody showed me and he was uh and I and I thought that's all he's doing is mocking Aha, aha. Listen, my Savior paid too high of a price For me to engage and indulge in mocking the things of God. I don't want nothing to do with that. I don't want nothing to do with it. David prays for them. He prays that they would be, here's his prayer. He prays that they would be desolate. He says, um He says, let them be desolate for a reward of their shame. What they're doing is shameful Now, what does desolate mean? It means, this was my wording. I came up as I looked up how it's used and different things. I put this down. Horrifically ruined. Desolate. If you talk about, you go somewhere, my son lived in uh in uh New Mexico for a while, and we drove through some areas there, it was desolate. I mean just nothing. It was like a nuclear bomb wiped the whole place out. He says, I want to, Lord, I pray they would be desolate. You just ruined them. They're mocking It means to be in awe of devastation. Something is so devastating. You just look back and oh, it's a good knife. It has the idea to be completely put to waste. It says, let them be desolate. Desolate. Take away all the influence they have. That are mocking me because I'm trying to live for you. So what's the lesson we learned from this? This is an impeccatory prayer. Praying that God would deal with these enemies. So I think the lesson is this. Over and over, we're told in Scripture, God tells us in Scripture, vengeance is mine, I will repay. So you and I don't have to go out there, try and deal with them and try, well, well I'll show them. I want to live for God. I want to be a good testimony. I want to be a witness. They're giving me a hard time. I'll show them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. David went to prayer. He went to prayer. Now, is there a place to take a stand? Is there a place to confront? But he prayed. And he says, Lord, I'm putting all this in your hands. I'm putting these people in your hands. Now, God, this is what I think. Wipe them out, just destroy them But Lord, you're just. You're wise. And so I'm putting in your hands. You deal with them the way you know is best. You know what I found out? I found that God is a whole lot better at dealing with my adversaries than I am. God is a whole lot better at dealing with those that give me a hard time than I am. And sometimes we just need to bring it to God in prayer and give it a little time. God will work that thing around. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be able to deal with a world that is in opposition to the things that we hold so dearly. I pray you'd help us learn from David's example here and just bring it to prayer. I wonder if there's some tonight, say, preacher, there's some situations. Maybe it's family member. That's always hard. Co-workers, people in the community, whatever. Preacher, I'm trying to be a witness, trying to do right. And it just seems like I have opposition. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me deal with it in a spiritual way, in a scriptural way, and let God deal with that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand? Sure Anybody that's trying to do anything for God, it's going to happen. Don't get mad. Don't get worked up. Don't don't deal with it. Just give it to the Lord. Lord, pour it out to God. Tell them what you think. I think that's all right Tell them what your ideas are, but let God deal with it. Father, I pray you bless now as we give the invitation in Jesus' name. Amen