That was a good introduction. If this was a cracker jack box, your preacher would be the nut. You always have to be careful what you say to somebody that has the gift of sarcasm and is quick on his feet. Huh? Took care of that, didn't we? Good to see everybody here tonight. Hard to believe, only one more night after this. Amen. One more night, and uh let me encourage you if you've made some decisions, write the decisions down. And then right after that, write what you're going to do. Do that. Because if you don't, six months from now, next time you have a revival meeting, somebody, you'll make the same decision. Because we didn't stick with the decision that we made this week. Hope you'll do that. Daniel chapter 6. Daniel chapter 6. In Daniel chapter 6, I'm not going to read it. I think we'll cover some of the verses. We go through it for the sake of time. But there are. Just some stories that uh everybody know. Am I not right? You can walk up to unsaved people and you can go, uh Noah and what The Ark or the flood. Amen. You can go up and David and Goliath. Daniel chapter 6. You can talk to somebody. Daniel and the Lion's Den. Amen. And uh that's what I want to talk to you about tonight. I want to talk to you tonight about what I believe is probably I mean right at the top, what ought to be at the top of the list for everybody sitting here tonight, our prayer life. You'll hear me say this a couple times, but if you don't have a prayer life, you have nothing You know what you have, you do have something, you have a wasted life. And so I hope we'll take the I hope we'll learn some lessons tonight. Amen. Let's have a word of prayer and we'll get started. Father, what's the time that we have here tonight? We we thank you for what you've already accomplished. But Lord, tonight, I pray especially tonight, that uh, oh, if only we could get a picture of what you want to do, what you could do. If the folks of this dear church would start taking their prayer life seriously, Lord, give us a burden for that tonight. I pray tonight also that if we have somebody here tonight, a man, a woman, a young person, and they never ask Jesus into their heart as their savior. Lord, I pray that tonight we'd be the night they pray the prayer of salvation, the prayer that God will 1,000% all the time, always answer. And that he'd save them. We thank you for the folks that have been saved this week. But Lord, we we would uh we'd sure love to see another one or two folks get saved, tonight or tomorrow. So Lord, give us a good service tonight. Take this a very, very simple basic message tonight, but help us to see Uh why I believe Daniel was so successful, so great, so powerful in his prayer life, which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let me make a statement here before I get started. You tell me your prayer life, and I'll tell you where you're at spiritually. I think probably almost everybody here tonight would agree with me when I say that prayer ought to be one of the most important spiritual areas of your life. Am I not right? But yet at the be honest here now, but yet at the same time, it is probably the single most neglected area In our spiritual life. I often wonder if instead of having and and I I we I'd never do that, but i i I often wonder if some night in s if if instead of having a uh a testimony meeting That we we'd have an answered prayer testimony meeting. I often wonder how long it would last in a church. I often wonder what would be said. I often wonder how many people in that church would participate in that prayer-answering testimony. I often wonder how many folks would just sit there. With a look on their face and have absolutely nothing to say. You know, I see uh I see men, I see boys that can dunk a basketball. But they can't touch heaven with prayer. That's a tragedy. I see ladies, I see girls They can talk for hours, come on, on the phone. But they don't spend a minute talking to God. I see people. They live for seventy, eighty years. And as they go through, and listen, we're all in this, this one here, as we go through life, we all have needs. We all have wants. We all have situations, problems, trials. But here's the sad thing: they've never learned to pray. And they have no idea what they've missed out on. What is prayer? In Bible terminology It's calling on God for things that we need or desire. You see, folks, understand. This is so simple. Understand this. When you don't pray, what you're telling God is, God, I don't need you, I don't want anything from you. Think about that. And so what happened? We don't pray. I I I think a great example of that is over in Revelation chapter 3 and verse 17. The the the uh Laodicean church I think is a perfect example of a lot of Christians today. What does the Bible say about them? Here's what it says, verse 17. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing. Now, what does God say about a church or a people that go through life and because they don't pray, they're letting God know this. I have, God, I have need of Nothing. What does God think about people like that? Verse 16. So then, because thou art lukewarm And neither cold nor hot I will spew thee out of thy mouth. That's what God thinks about a person. That has need of nothing from God. Jeremiah chapter 33, verse 3. Call unto me. What's that? Pray. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. God will show you, God will give you things that you can't even begin to imagine. That's what he's saying. Matthew chapter 21, verse 22, and all things. Now, what's that word all things mean? All things. Hey, you're pretty good at Greek, aren't you? Huh? And all things, whatsoever, that means anything, whatsoever you shall ask in prayer, believing, you shall receive. Now, think about this. God's saying tonight, listen, anything you listen, I understand something here. Listen, I'm not talking about the bongo drum, turtleneck, window washing crowd. Amen. I'm talking about us. God says, name it, ask for it, and I'll give it to you. The only limit is you You put the limits on yourself. Why? Because you don't ask. Can I remind you of something? God has never given things. If I can use that phrase, God has never given things to people that don't pray. You've got to pray to get God to answer your prayer. Does that make sense? So here in Daniel chapter 6, think about this. God opens up a door. That's what he does. He gives us a peek behind the door in the life of Daniel. And he shows us. This is a makeup, he shows us. Why Daniel had such an unbelievable, amazing prayer life Can I remind you of them? Listen, we we sometimes we read this and it just we it goes over our head. This is a real story. This is a real story. Daniel really got thrown into a den of lions. It's a few years ago. We went up to Minnesota. We went up to the Boundary Water, Ely Minnesota Boundary Water. Me and uh several other guys went up there camping, canoeing, stuff like that. And uh we all had our own uh our own ice chests. You know what I'm talking about? I mean we had our own stuff in there. You know what I mean? Food, pot, you know, everything we like. And everybody kept that ice chest right by their tent. I'm sleeping in my tent early one morning. And I hear my ice chest rattling. And I'm thinking, somebody's trying to get my stuff. And so I thought, yeah, I'll show him. I quietly went to the door, you know what I mean. I whipped that door. When I whipped that this door, I said, I said, I whipped that door open. The chest just right by the door. I whipped that door open and I went, hi! I'm looking right here at a big black bear. You could hear my scream echo All throughout the mountains. I mean, I'm gonna tell you something, that scared me half to death Now, we left, listen, we left. Can I remind you of something? That is nothing compared to getting thrown into the lion's den. I'm not a Betting man. Maybe you are. I don't know. Let me say, I'm not a Baton man. And they uh they say this that uh the lottery is a tax on the stupid Now I'm sorry, but that, you know, yeah, this last one here, this big, your chances of win one in 176 million, it's a tax on the stupid. But, but think about this, think about this. If we were taking bets tonight, if we were taking bets on Daniel's chances of surviving, In the lion's den. And I said guess something. You can be as spiritual as you want, but there ain't nobody betting on Daniel. Everybody would be saying, Bye, Daniel. Been nice knowing you. And all of us would say, you know, that's the end. Of Daniel. Now here's what I want to do. Don't get nervous here. I want to show you five things. See, as the week goes on, I can get more and more points. Amen. Because you're stuck. No. They won't be long. I'm going to give you the hook, you're going to have to hang the meat. But I want to show, boy, I'll tell you what, this will help your prayer life. I want to show you five things I believe that Daniel did That made him so successful in his prayer life. Let me remind you of this too. Think about this. Daniel did not start praying when he got to the lion's den. Daniel didn't stop when he got out of the lamb's den. You say, what do you mean? Prayer was a way of life for him, not a way of escape. It was just a part of his life. Now, I don't know about you, but in this spiritual area If somebody is successful, if Daniel is getting his prayers answered like, listen, I'm going to tell you something. I want to know what his secret is. How about you? And I'm going to say it again. God opens up the door here. And he gives us a peek at Daniel's life, and we can, I believe we can see why Daniel was so successful. Five things. First of all. First of all, number one The condition for prayer. The condition for prayer. We see this in Daniel's life. Take a look at verse 4. Notice verse 4 here. Then the presidents and princes sought to find a case against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find what? Notice this, none occasion, notice all this, nor fault. For as much as he was faithful, neither was there any heir or fault Found in him. You know what amazes me is that over and over God repeats the fact that, listen to me, that Daniel had an outstanding testimony. Daniel was absolutely right with God. No error, no fault in him. They looked, but you know what that? They could not find anything wrong in Daniel's life. The point is this in everyday life, there are conditions to getting certain types of privileges. Am I not right? And if you want that privilege, you meet those. Hey, give an example. These young people down here. I'm just guessing if they're normal. Someday you're going to want to drive a car. Amen? Heaven help us. But they're gonna want to drive a car. No, so so what happened? Well, number one, if you want to get a driver's license, most of the you got to have a driver safety course. Am I not right And uh then after that, you've got to have insurance. And then if you do have a vehicle, you've got to get that vehicle inspected, and uh that takes a lot of money. But you know what a lot of young people say today? Listen, I want to drive. You say the same thing, I want to drive, so I am more than willing to meet those conditions. And when you meet those conditions, guess what? What do you get to do? You get to drive. When I joined the Marine Corps, what did I have to do? Well, first of all, you got to enlist. Anyone in the military, am I not right? I enlisted. I went to boot camp. I had to wear a certain type of uniform. I had to get a haircut. I don't see anything funny in that. I had to obey all the rules and regulations. Was that not a condition? I signed my life over to Uncle Sam. They ran my life 24 hours a day. Now listen, when I met those conditions, what happened? I got to wear the uniform. You say, Well, Brother Bram, I understand all that. But then God says to you tonight, in this area of your life that we call prayer, God says, if you pray, think about this. God says, if you pray, I'll answer your prayers. God says, if you ask me, I'll answer your prayer. I will give you things, I will do things for you that you can't even begin to imagine. We say, woo! Am I not right? Wow! And then God adds that little word that we never like to hear. But But say preacher, what comes after? But God says there's conditions. You say, preacher, what's it? You gotta be clean. Come on, you've got to be clean. You've got to confess and forsake and get rid of the sin in your life. You've got to be right with God. You know what's sad today? We do more to drive a car, earn a couple bucks, catch a big fish, shoot a deer, than we do to see what God can do in our lives in regard to prayer. Something wrong with that folks. Psalm sixty-six eighteen. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. You say, well, preacher, what that has to do is if If I've got sin in my heart. No, that's not what it's talking about. Listen, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord, He won't answer your prayer. That word regard, you know what that means? Here's what it means. God says this, it's one thing if you sin. Amen. Come on, everybody sin. Even the Pharisees nod your head right now. Come on, am I not right? Everybody sins. God says this: it's one thing if you sin, but it's another thing if you don't do anything about that sin. That's the idea. You regard a nickname. We sit back and we say, Well, you know what? I know I've got this problem. I know I've got this uncleanness in my mind. I know I've got this sin. But I'm not going to do anything about it. I'm not going to confess it. I'm not going to forsake it. That is regarding iniquity in your heart. And by the way, God says then after that. Your prayer, I don't have time to preach that, but your prayer literally becomes an abomination to God. It makes it impossible for God to answer your prayers. That's how important this is to God. You've got to be clean. Proverbs chapter 15, verse 29. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. First of all, the condition for prayer in verse 4. What is the condition? God says, hey, you better survey your life tonight You better take a look at your spiritual, you better make sure that you are absolutely clean. If there's anything in your life, if there's any wickedness, any sin in your life, confess it and forsake it. Because that gets you back on prayer answering ground. And the only question now you've got to answer is, how important is this area of prayer in your life? First of all, the condition for prayer. Verse 4. Secondly, the command to pray. Get this here: the command to pray. Look at verse 5. Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his. What are they saying? They're saying this. We won't be able to find anything wrong with Daniel. We won't be able to find any fault with Daniel. Until we find out what what his God commands him to do that we can use against him. Now I'm gonna tell you something. If you even have a basic Bible knowledge, all through, all through the New Testament, over and over and over again, what does God command us to do? Pray. It's not an option. It's a command. Pray. Luke chapter 18, verse 1. And he spoke a parable unto this hand that men ought to always pray. Luke chapter 21, verse 36, watch ye therefore, and pray always. Ephesians 6:18, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. Colossians 4 2. Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Now, think about this. We sit here tonight and we say, Well, preacher Why would God have to command us to pray when the benefits and the blessings are so great? Am I not right? Hey, don't you think we would just naturally want to pray? I'll tell you why. And I believe this is the reason why the vast majority of Christians go through their whole life and they never really have a real prayer life. Matthew chapter 25, verse 42. Here's why some of you are sitting there, why you don't pray. You want to pray, but you don't. Here's why. Matthew 25, 42. Watch and pray. There you go. Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is what? Willing, but the flesh is weak. Now, let me make this real simple so that everybody understands this. The Spirit, if we could use this phrase, the Spirit is the one-to part of you. Amen. That's the part of you that gets excited about serving God, doing what God wants you to do. But the what? Flesh, what's that? That's the part of you that doesn't want. That's the part of you. See, listen, we've had great altar calls all week long. When you come down the aisle and you make that decision, that is what part? Spirit or flesh? Spirit. That's the part of you that says, boy, you know what? I'm going to do this. But the moment you get off your feet and you walk out the back door, who are you in a battle with? The flesh. I mean the flesh flights you every step of the way. Here's how it worked. Anybody here ever been on a diet other than me? Come on. Anybody here ever been on a diet? I'm preaching online tomorrow. Come on. I go on a diet. I go on a diet. You know how I go on a diet? I stuff myself for three straight days. That gives me enough character to go into the diet. I go on a diet. Now, when I when I first make up my mind I'm going on the diet, am I excited? Yeah, I am. Man, I'm thinking, boy, I tell you what, I'm gonna lose weight. I'm gonna get slim and trim and lean and mean. I'm going to revert back to what I looked like back in my high school days. Except for the hair. I go on to that. Man, I'm excited. The Spirit indeed is willing. The excitement part. Now, three days later, is it as exciting anymore? Come on! I'm walking by the refrigerator. And all of a sudden from the freezer, Bill Bill in here, Bill, it's the Turkey Hill, black raspberry ice cream. Bill, did you forget me? You know I'm your favorite ice cream. And you know it's a sin to waste. And so what do I do? I eat the half gallon ice cream. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak Suppose your preacher got up here tonight. Suppose your preacher got up here tonight and said, folks, this Saturday, we're going to have a church-wide fellowship. For the whole church, we're gonna have a fellowship. We're gonna have lobster tail, shrimp, filet mignon. Ribbeye steak, porterhouse, key bone, huh? And your preacher's paying for it Now, let me ask you a question. Are you going to have a crowd? You're going to have people that quit this church mad five years ago show up. You're gonna have your in-laws and your outlaws. Am I not right? Now watch, watch. The spirit indeed is Okay, aren't we excited? Here we are, food fun fellowship. Man, we're topping into that state. Lobster, where's that lobster lady? Lobster tail, amen. Oh, there she is down there, you know. And a man worked chewing. And so Then your preacher gets up and says, folks, y'all having a good time. Oh, preacher, bad. We ought to do this every week. Preacher says, okay, here's what we're going to do. The same amount of time that we spent having so much fun and so much food this Saturday, next Saturday. We're going to meet here for the exact amount of time in prayer for revival for this church. Anyone want to guess how many people show up? It's going to look like the rapture took place. Why? One is fun, one is free, the other, there's a price to pay And we're living in a day and age, listen to me, where people don't want to pay the price to see revival, to see what God wants to do in their life. We want to do it. But we don't want to fight against that old flesh. And that's why we never see what God has for us. Folks, listen to me. You have got to battle. You've got to say, you know what? I know I don't want to do it. But I'm going to do it. First of all, the condition to pray. Secondly, the command to pray. Why? Because the flesh is so weak. Thirdly. The content of the prayer. Look in Daniel chapter 6. Look at verse 7. Look at verse 7. All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors and the princes, and the counselors and the captains have consulted together to establish a royal statute and make a firm decree that whosoever shall ask a particip uh petition of any God or man for thirty days save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den Of lions. Now, the decree has been passed. Amen. Everybody has heard about it. Daniel has heard about it. Now, look at verse 10. Now, now, did you get that? That's an important word. Now, when Daniel knew What did he know, folks? Help me out here. What did he know? The decree was signed. You asked, you prayed, you're going to the lion's den. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house, and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he knew he ought to listen, he knew what was at stake here. He he uh kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. Then these men assembled and found Daniel praying and making supplication before His God. Look over verse 23 real quick. Just over to verse 23. Then was the king exceeding glad for him And commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God. Now Here's the key. If you go back to verse 10, there's a little phrase there that answers a lot of questions. Now, when Daniel knew. Now, we say this, Brother Barns. When we talk about the content of prayer, how do we really know what Daniel prayed that day? Real easy, real easy. What would you pray What would you pray if you knew that your life and the lion's den was at stake? Folks, this is not an argument from the silence of Scripture. It's not. It's an argument from common sense. If you knew that you disobeyed the king, you'd get thrown in the what would you pray? Think about that. I mean, it is just common sense. Let me go a step further. With Daniel, this also wasn't what we might call general prayer. God delivers from general prayer. It is what we call specific prayer. When Daniel was getting ready to get front, hey, there is no doubt in my mind. That God knew exactly what Daniel wanted. What's the point here? Close, listen to me. Here's the point. When you get down to pray, if you make up your mind, you know what? I'm going to start having a real prayer life. Get specific. Get specific. In other words, name it. Hey, either we have a big God or we don't. Name it. Big or small, get out of the habit of praying these general prayers. Do you know what they are? They're a waste of time. They go as high as the ceiling and they mean absolutely. Let me show you what I'm talking about. If if your preacher comes up to me and says, Brother Barons I've got six fresh-cut 20-ounce ribeis. Did I say I'm conivorous? I've got fresh pepped corn on the cob. Kathy has made a fresh Black raspberry pie. How about twelve o'clock, my house Where am I gonna be? Twelve o'clock. Why? Because he was specific. If he says what? If he says this, Brother Bears, you all come over sometime. What's that? I come up, I knock on the door, he opens the door. What are you doing? You said you all come up. Well, I really didn't mean it. That's a lot of you. Oh Lord, bless my church, bless the ministry, save my what is that? Listen, let's get specific. Name it. God is big enough to specifically answer your prayers. He is. But we just need to nail it down. First of all, the condition for prayer. Secondly, the command to pray. Thirdly, the content of the prayer. He was specific. Thirdly, the compulsion to pray. Look at verse 10. Now, when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house, and his windows being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees, get this, three times a day. And prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. In other words, as he did every day. What's God's word saying here? That Daniel was in the habit of praying. It was just a part of his life. In fact, I'll tell you something. Prayer in Daniel's life was more important than life. Because he put his life on the line knowing the decree. How else would they have got him on what they got him on? Daniel had an had an unbelievably consistent prayer. Same time, same place, every single day. That's how they knew how to get them. Can I ask you something tonight? Be honest. How important is prayer in your life? Do you have a compulsion to pray? Your preacher and I were talking, we're the the camp I'm out out west, out in Oregon. We were talking about that the other day. I I I do a it's a big, big camp. This this this church This church is a it's a huge church out there. Good church. It's a good church, good pastor. But uh I I preach their camp and uh it's kind of a white collar. In fact the vice president of Nike goes to this church. And uh they have a stream at this camp, they have a stream. They stock it with trout every year. That's why I like one. They they're they're only supposed to let kids fish, but one of the conditions is if I come I fish with the kids And uh but y you know what's interesting? Uh uh I I I do this in the summer, and uh so it's so early in the morning I'll get up. I it's it it's very enjoyable. I'll get up and And right by the stream, I'll sit there in a chair and I'll have my devotions. It's just nice. But the last time I was there, I I noticed it every year, but it just jumped out at me the last time I was there. The last time I was there. I got up early in the morning, and every morning, Monday morning, Tuesday morning, Wednesday morning, there were probably Oh, 25 or oh 20 or 25, I guess. Yeah. 20 or 25 men out on the basketball courts. Playing basketball 5 30 in the morning. Every morning. Men. And I'd have my devotee and I'd I'd watch it 5 30. That's early. And uh I think it was Thursday morning, I went up to the pastor and I said, uh preacher, I said, can I ask you a personal question? He said, sure. I said, those men right there. I said, how many of them are spiritual? He chuckled. He says, none of them. None of them. What was his point? Those men had more excitement, more zeal about playing basketball. Than they did getting up and having their time with God. And then we wonder. Why doesn't God answer my prayers? Hey, we get compelled to eat. We get compelled to sleep. We get compelled to play golf, hunt, fit, name your hobby. But there's very few today, very few today that get compelled to pray. Charles Simon, English revivalist. Prayed from 4 a. m. to 8 a. m. every single day. John Wesley. How many ever heard of John Wesley? John Wesley spent two hours a day, every day in prayer. He would start every morning at four o'clock in the morning. Two hours. John Fletcher An early preacher. They say that literally he stained the walls of his room with the breath of his prayers. Sometimes he would stay up all night long and pray. Amazing Martin Luther used to say this all the time. He said, if I fail to spend two hours in prayer every morning, the devil gets the victory through the day. John Welsh, a Scottish teacher, thought his day was ill spent. Now think about this. He thought his day was ill-spent if he didn't spend a minimum of eight. To ten hours in prayer. Now, watch. If you're like me and you read this stuff, you're like me, you know what I say? Come on. But let me ask you this. We look at this and we go, man. Let me ask you something. Do you think, do you think, just maybe, just maybe, there's some dear folks here tonight? That you could give God an hour of your time in prayer. Just maybe, hey, just maybe, are there maybe some dear folks here sitting here tonight, and you could give God 30 minutes of real prayer every day? I think for a lot of us, if God exposed the extent of our prayer life. There'd be a lot of Christians tonight that would be embarrassed. I look at this church. And uh I I think to myself, can can we even can we even begin to imagine? Think about that, can we even begin to imagine If just half, think about this, if just half the folks sitting here tonight went home and began to take their prayer life seriously. Just half. Can you imagine what would happen in this church? You see, our problem, think about our problem tonight. Is that we've got the work of the church being done by people that are perfect strangers in a prayer closet. And then we wonder, why no revival? Why isn't God blessing? It's simple. No prayer. No prayer. First of all, the condition for prayer. Secondly, the command of prayer. Thirdly, the content of prayer. Fourthly, the compulsion to pray. But then fifthly and lastly, the consequences of prayer. I'm not going to read. You can write these verses down. You can read them. I'll give you the consequences here. I'll give you the verses. I'm not going to read them Just for the sake of time. But there's three there are three consequences as a result of Daniel's prayer. In verses 19 through 23, the big one, Daniel was spared. Hey, that's a big one, isn't it? Huh? Daniel was spared. In verse 24, Daniel's enemies, the one that set Daniel up, his enemies were fed to the lion. Revenge is sweet. In a spiritual way. And verses twenty-five through twenty or yeah, verses twenty-five through twenty-eight, the third result is the king made a decree to recognize Daniel's God as the living God. Those were three consequences of Daniel's prayer. I'm done. But can I just say this? I think of the story. Of a man that was saved, he lived his life, he died, and he went to heaven. That's us if we're saved. Amen? When he got to heaven, the story goes, when he got to heaven. The Lord took him and showed him a, I mean, a huge warehouse. I mean it looked like a Walmart supply center Filled with everything. I mean you o you I mean anything amount it was filled with it. The man looked at the warehouse and he looked at how much was in it and He turned to the Lord and he said, Lord, what is this? What place is this? And the Lord turned to the man and he said, This is what I wanted to give you in life. But because you never prayed, everything that you're looking at was wasted. I think that's going to be the story in many of our lives Folks, don't you want to see what God has for you? Huh? Listen, don't you want to experience what God wants to give you? I. M. Baum said this. He said, nothing is more important to God than prayer. Failure to pray is failure in life. And that's the truth. I'll say it again. If you don't have a prayer life, listen. You will be a spiritual failure in this life. Let's get serious about our prayer life. It is almost scary. Think about that. It's almost scary. To think of what God could do in this church if just half, just half of the folks sitting here tonight said, you know what? I'm going to start taking this serious. I'm going to work. I'm going to go against the flesh. I'm going to win that battle. And I'm going to strive. I'm going to work to having a real and a vibrant prayer life. Let's do it. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed. Every eye closed. Nobody looking around. Every head bowed. Every eye closed. First of all, the for prayer. What's it mean? Listen, you're sitting here tonight and you're saying, Preacher, I I know I've I I've got I've got some areas in my life. They're not clean. I've got some sin. Listen, confess it and forsake it tonight. Confess it and forsake it. That puts you on prayer answering grounds. The command to pray. Let's quit being lazy. Let's quit putting it off. Everybody in here tonight, listen to me, everybody in here tonight when they walk out, no exceptions on this. Everybody in here. When you walk out the door, you've got a battle on your hands between the flesh and the spirit. Who's going to win tonight? Who are you going to let win? The content of our prayers. Let's quit playing these general prayers. We get down for five, ten minutes. We just we pray around the globe. Let's nail it down. We either have a big gun or we don't. Get specific That shows you where you're at in your spiritual life. It shows you where you're at in your in your uh your prayer life. And most people are afraid to see that. The compulsion to pray. If you're willing to do this day after day, this is this, you're willing to work at it. Pretty soon it'll become a habit of your life. First thing you think about when you get up, I need to pray. And then the consequences of prayer. I believe you follow what Daniel did. All of us would be shocked, stunned, and amazed at what God could do, what God could give you in your life, what God wants to do. Here's my question: very general question. Your prayer life is none of my business. That's between you and God. And so my question tonight is a very, very general question. It applies to everybody. You maybe you're here tonight and and uh you've never really had a prayer life and you want to start one. It applies to you. Maybe there's some of you here, and I know I'm talking to some here on this, but there's some of you here tonight and you you start, you stop, you start, you stop. It applies to you. And then I li I I have no doubt there's some here tonight you've got a very good prayer life. I have no doubt there's people here tonight you've got a good prayer life. But you want to have a better prayer life. It applies to you. Here's the question, very general. I'm wondering tonight how many might say this, preacher, as you preach this message tonight on prayer. The Holy Spirit of God dealt with my heart. I want to have, now get this, I want to have a better, a deeper. a more serious prayer life. Would you pray for me that I'd work at that? Would you just slip your hand up tonight, just slip it up? And hold thank you. Just again, just just tons of hand. Many hands. Too many to even count. Hey, it's up to you. It's up to you. I'll say it again. If I regard iniquity in my heart, we know we ought to do something, but we don't do it. You're going to walk out the doors bankrupt as what you walked in. That's how important this is. Anyone else? He had many, many hands perfectly. Anybody else, preacher? You know, I I really want to see what Even more so what God has for me. Would you pray for me that I'd really work at having a better prayer life? Anyone else, real quick? Just flip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody else? Let me ask one other question. There is one prayer. There is one prayer. No matter who you are, that God always, 1000% of the time, promises that He'll answer You say, preacher, what prayer? It's the prayer of salvation. It's the prayer of when a lost sinner comes to the Lord and he asks God to save him. Acts 221. And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call, what's that? The prayer of salvation, shall call on the name of the Lord, shall, that's a guarantee word. God backs that up. Shall be saved. Romans ten thirteen, for whosoever, that's anybody For whosoever shall call, the prayer of salvation, shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall, the guarantee word again, shall be saved. Friend, you're here tonight, you're not saved. There's only one reason why you're not saved. It's because you haven't asked. That's it. You walk out of here tonight. And you die in a car wreck on your way home, and you go to hell because you're not saved, you have nobody to blame but yourself. Because you could have asked, you could have called, God could have saved, but you didn't. It's just that simple. I'm not going to embarrass you. I won't embarrass you. I won't come back and yank you out of your pew But I'm wondering tonight if we have anybody here, a man, a woman, a young person, and would say, preacher, you know what? I'm not sure I'm saved. If I walk out of here tonight and I did die in that car wreck on my way home, I don't know if I go to heaven. I don't know if I go to hell, but I know this. I don't want to go to that place called hell. I want to go to heaven. And I worry about that at times. Would you also tonight remember me in prayer too? Would you just quietly slip your hand up, put it back down? Just slip it up. I won't embarrass you, but I'd like to pray for you. Anybody at all? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Anyone at all Father, tonight, I pray that every one of us would be able to look behind that door that you've opened up in the life of Daniel. And catch a glimpse of the fact that what you did for Daniel, you're also willing to do for us. Well, I I pray tonight that we have a host of people that when we walk out of here We would determine in our heart that we're going to win that battle against the flesh. And we're going to develop. A real and a vibrant prayer life that we're going to see what God wants to give us, what God can do for us. in this area called prayer. Help us to take it serious. I pray that we wouldn't have anybody here tonight that would be so hard, so callous, so far gone spiritually, that we really didn't care what God would have force in regards to prayer. Lord, give us a good imitation now Lord, give us an invitation where we're going to be serious about the decisions that we make. Which in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed, let's uh stand to our feet.