Uh bunch of movie folks were out in the desert making a movie and all of course all the locals come out and watch them shoot the scenes and everything going on and It's one Indian fellow standing there kind of in the background watching all that going and finally came up after several days he came up and said to one of the workers on the movie thing, said, rain tomorrow They said, all right, whatever. And lo and behold, they're getting set up, and lo and behold, it poured down rain. They said, well. So a couple days went by and uh All the locals are watching them and finally at the end of the day the Indian comes up and says, heavy storm, next two days. So lo and behold, next two days, heavy storm comes through. They couldn't do anything. I said, that's incredible. A couple days went by. Indians there, everybody's watching. He comes up after uh after the days that kind of went out and he says, Next week, no rain, hot, dry I said, okay. So they watched, and lo and behold, the whole next week, no rain, it was hot and dry, just exactly like he said. They said, that's incredible. Finally, the director said Whenever that you see that guy, he says, you tell him we'll hire him. And he can go around. We'll save a lot of money. We'll know what to do. We'll know what the weather is. It'll be perfect. So uh Two, three weeks went by, they didn't see him. Weather came through and different things. Never showed up. Finally they found him. And they said, Hey, uh, we want to hire you on, but where have you been? Uh uh we didn't get any weather reports from me. He said radio broke. So I like that one. You don't pay much, you don't get much. So no, I'm kidding. Uh Matthew chapter 6, verse number 9 We're going to read down through verse 13. Most the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preachers ever preached. The Lord Jesus Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mound. And um this is, I was reading a commentary about this earlier this week, and they said this is the greatest prayer ever prayed. Now that may or may not be, I don't know how you determine that But this is what we recognize as the Lord's Prayer, and we've been breaking this down. Verse number 9, Matthew chapter 6, it says this: After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now we've dissected this, and we're going to look tonight, the very last phrase of this prayer. I've called it prayer's doxology. Now I'm using that word to impress you with how big a words I can say. And so let's pray and we'll see what this is all about. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now or study of The Sermon on the Mount, particularly the prayer here that most of us are very familiar with as far as the words of it and memorizing it. But I pray, Lord, that you would teach us the principles behind this prayer And that our prayer lives would be more effective. We long for revival, we long to have a prayer life where we see very clearly results of the time we invest in prayer. I ask you you would bring us to a point where our prayers are not in vain, but they're effectual and fervent, and that they avail much So I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you'd speak our hearts from the youngest teen, youngest child, all the way through to the adults and senior citizens that we would be prayer, men and women of prayer, effective prayer. So please bless now, we ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. I think Jesus Above, perhaps in uh ways greater than anybody else, understood the necessity and the value of prayer in the Christian life. Jesus was a man of prayer, even as the Son of God. As God in the flesh, he understood the importance of prayer, and he drilled it into the hearts and minds of his disciples Two ways he impress he drilled into their hearts and minds the importance of prayer. One was by example. Jesus prayed, and the disciples saw him. They were there with him when he prayed In fact, one event he prayed late into the night, and the disciples approached him and they said, Teach us to pray. They saw how the Lord Jesus Christ prayed, their hearts were stirred, and they wanted to pray in an effective way as he did But not only did he teach them by example, but he also taught them to pray by education. And he spoke often in prayer Of course the Lord's uh the Sermon on the Mound here that we've been studying and we've been emphasizing this, this is not an evangelistic sermon This is not some big revival meeting sermon where he's trying to get lost people saved. This is a sermon to disciples. This is a sermon to people who are already saved. And have made a commitment in their life that they want to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. They want to live a life according to the principles that Jesus has established. They're disciples. And he's teaching the disciples how to pray. And this passage here, as we study, he addresses every aspect of prayer. He tells us what ought to be true in our prayers. I do not believe that Lord Jesus Christ gave what we call the Lord's Prayer. I don't believe He gave it to us for us to simply repeat verbatim, just word for word, say it over and over and over. So there's millions of people who quote this prayer, have no idea what they're talking about You know what they're saying when they're quoting this prayer. And so he's giving it to us, saying, this is a pattern for you. These are the principles that ought to be part of your prayer life Whether you're a 12-year-old kid or a 90-year-old lady or man or whatever, all points in between. When we come to our prayer time, we ought to incorporate these principles. Now we already notice that there's a time of worship in prayer. We pointed that out at the beginning. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. He's worshiping God. He's exalting God. He's recognizing God as his Father and the holiness of God and the position he holds. As we approach him. And then he pointed out there ought to be praise in our prayer. We talked about confession. Ought to be an important part of our prayer. If we regard iniquity in our heart, the Lord won't hear us. And so we need to acknowledge the sin that's reality in our lives and confess it, forsake it, and uh claim his forgiveness so that our prayers can be effective. Oh, we talked about submission. In our prayers, we ought to pray submissively. Jesus said, Not my will, but thy will be done. So there's a principle of submission. Then of course requests, which is what prayer is. And he makes three requests there we looked at. Give us this day our daily bread, forgive us our debts, and lead us not in temptation. So there's three requests that he gives out here setting the pattern for us. Now we come to the end of the prayer. And I thought this was interesting. I really enjoyed preparing this I think what the Lord Jesus Christ gives us at the end of verse 13 is he's telling us, are you listening? He's telling us how to end our prayers. What do you do when you're done praying? What do you say? What do you do? Most people say, Amen I think it's fun pray with new converts sometimes. They've never been praying, they've they've never been taught, they've never been around it. And that will pray and they'll pray and they'll say, um, they'll ask their request, Dear Lord, do this, that and the other, and um uh I'm done. And that's fine. But the Lord is teaching us here how to end our prayers. What is a doxology? Anyone want to take a chance? I call this prayers doxology. What is a doxology? Anyone know? If you have a graduation service or you have a special formal ceremony, many times they'll have a doxology. Down at Highland Park Baptist Church, they ended the Sunday morning services with a doxology. Doxology is simply a final statement. A lot of times it's a scripture passage or a little hymn. And it's the singing of the blessings. It kind of brings the whole thing together. It's a closing statement or a closing hymn giving praise to God. And so the Lord is finishing out his prayer here And he kind of presents this as a doxology. He's telling us, how do you end your prayer? When you're done praying, what do you say? What's your approach? And notice what he says here in verse 13, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. He says that's how you close your prayer out. Now, I don't believe, as I said, he's telling us you have to say those words at the end of your prayer. I think he's talking more about a frame of mind, more of an attitude that I have as I close my prayer out. And I see two things here That ought to be true when we finish up our prayer time, when we come to the end of our prayers. Two things ought to be true. Number one, there ought to be an acknowledgement When we're done praying, as we finish up our conversation with the Lord, we're about to get up, perhaps go about our day, our daily business, we need to come and end it with an acknowledgement, I believe, of three things. He closes his prayer, first of all, with a submission to God's authority. He acknowledges the fact that I am submissive to your authority. Look what he says here. For thine, I underscored the word thine there heavily. For thine is the kingdom Now, I'm not going to get into the theological aspects of the kingdom. There's kingdom of God, kingdom of heaven, different aspects, the millennial kingdom. I don't know discuss that. I don't think he's addressing that here. I think what he's simply saying is this: God is the one that's in charge. Thine is the kingdom, not mine. You are the authority, God. All these requests I made, all this prayer I just made, I'm ending up understanding in my mind, I have the frame of mind, God, you are the authority. This world is yours. My life is yours. My future is yours. I've made these requests. I've spent this time in prayer. And when it's all said and done, God, you are God. You are the authority. It's your kingdom, not my kingdom. I believe all of our interaction with God must be based upon the premise that God is in charge. That God is the authority. We live in a day and age. Now, maybe it's all, I'm sure it's always been true to some extent, but we live in a day and age where man is being exalted and God is being minimized. Man is being lifted up and God is being brought down. And what he's telling us in this prayer is we need to keep in mind when we approach God and we interact with God and we want to pray, the way God intends for us to pray. We need to have the frame of mind that we must be submissive to God's authority. God is in charge. It's his kingdom. This is not ours. This world is not my uh uh uh this world is not our own. Um what's the hymn? Um What is it? This world's not my home I've just passed through. That's not the one I wanted. But um But that's a good one Um but uh this this world's not ours. Uh this is ah this is what I was thinking of. This is my father's world I think that's what we need to do. When we come and pray, we bow before God, tell Him what we want. Make our requests. Ask Him. Ask great things. Open your mouth wide. God can fill it. Ask great things from God. But when it's all said and done, we've got to keep this in the back of our mind. Wait a minute. I'm not the one on the throne. God is. I'm not the one that has the final say. God does. I'm not the one that has the wisdom. God does. And so when we come to the end of our prayers, as we finish up, we brought this before the Lord, I think we just have to keep this in mind. Lord, listen, I'm not God, you are. And we come with this submission to God's authority. I must remove myself if I'm going to pray as God intends for me to pray. I must remove myself from the throne of my heart and place Christ on the throne of my heart. There's a little quote, a little short little statement I learned years ago when I was youth pastor we took our kids to camp. Camp of the wilds down in North Carolina, South Carolina, down there somewhere. And uh they had this little thing they kept saying all the time. It's like this only two choices on the shelf, serving God or serving self. I think that's what he's saying here. Listen, this prayer isn't about me. The Christian life isn't about me. These requests must not be about me. It's all about the Lord, your kingdom, thine. uh is the kingdom. And so, uh, finish out our prayer with Christ on the throne. Finish out our prayer with God in authority, not me. I mentioned this several times as we're studying prayer But I I hear you see it on TV sometimes. I was talking with somebody about some uh uh it was Billy. We were talking about TV preachers before the service And uh some of these guys on TV, you've got to watch out. They'll give you the idea and they'll actually say this. I think Kenneth Copeland's one of these guys will say something like this. You and I can command God That as a child of God, we're on equal footing with God, and we can tell God what to do. That is so far from Scripture, it's borderline blasphemous. We don't have any authority to tell God what to do. It's his kingdom. He's on the throne. He is God. Now we make our requests at his bidding. And we ask great things from God, and He does many times great and mighty things beyond anything we could ever ask or think. But the whole time we have the attitude: God is the authority, God is God. I am the created being. He is the creator. I am the one that needed saving. He is the savior. We have to be very, very careful. And our young people having drilled into their hearts and minds through the media and through television and music and education institutions that we are the are the throne of we are the masters of our fate we are the gods of our life we can decide what's right and wrong we can decide what is and what isn't we uh no we're not It's God's kingdom. And so we end up our prayer. Number one, well, there's an acknowledgement, first of all, of our submission to God's authority. But I notice a second acknowledgement here. For thine is the kingdom and the what? Power. I see there an acknowledgment that I am secure in God's omnipotence. I'm submissive to his authority. Thine is the kingdom, and thine is the power. Listen, our God has all power. And when we're done praying, we need to keep in mind that the God I just prayed to, He's my Father, but He is omnipotent. He is all powerful. That word power there, we actually get our English word dynamite from the word that's translated power here. It comes from the same word that we get our word dynamite. It's the same word used in Romans chapter 1, where it says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. The gospel is a powerful, powerful force that changes lives, that saves souls from hell, that cleanses from sin. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, Thine is the kingdom and the power. The God that you and I know is an all-powerful God. With him, nothing is impossible. I wonder how many times we would never say this, but I wonder how many times we get up off our knees and maybe we made a request or something. And again, we would never say this, but our frame of mind is such that ain't going to happen There's no way that person's ever getting saved. There's no way that situation is ever being changed. There's no way that marriage is ever being healed. There's no way that debt is ever getting paid. There's no way that problem is ever getting solved. There's no way that rebel is ever submitting to God. And we never say that, but we kind of have that frame of mind. Am I right or wrong? And what he's telling us here is when we finish out our prayers, our requests we bring to God, we must not allow our doubts to minimize the ability of God. His is the power. With God, nothing is impossible. There's not one person that God cannot save. There's not one life that God cannot change. There's not one problem that God cannot solve. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. God is able. God is able. Thine is the kingdom and the power. Power. With God, we must never give up hope. As long as our God is alive, there's hope. As long as our God is alive, we can see great things happen. We must never come away from our prayer time doubting God's ability. How many times did people appre approach Jesus and request something and he makes a statement like this? He'll make something like this, if thou believest thou can If you are confident, if you are sure that I am able to do what you're asking, trust me, it can happen. Now that's not suggesting that everything we ask from God, he's going to do. But we do understand this. that God can do the impossible. There's not a problem you and I have, there's not a situation you and I face, there's not a sin you and I may be struggling with that God cannot give victory, that God cannot meet that need. Because his is the power, the dynamite of God. And so we must always be secure in God's ability. God is able I love when folks get saved, new believers get saved, and sometimes they'll think, oh, I I might lose my salvation. Uh we were talking to somebody just recently and And we were saying, you know, you know, you're you're not this doesn't mean just because you get saved, doesn't mean you're not going to sin again. You know, 1 John, he that says he's without sin, it's a liar. But sin is a reality, part of life, even for believers. But we can come and say, listen, God is able and he can and will not just save us, but he can keep us saved. And we're secure in that. I don't have to go through the rest of my life once I trust Christ fearful as to whether I end up in hell or not. I'm safe and secure. There's no doubts about it. Thine is the kingdom and the power. The power. I'm here to say, I'm telling you tonight this one statement. Thine is the power. One statement tells us we can rely upon God. We can depend on God. We can trust God. He is able. And so he ends this prayer with an acknowledgement. An acknowledgement that we must be submissive to God's authority. It's his kingdom. He runs the show. He calls the shots. And I'm submissive to that. But it's also he is all powerful, and so I'm secure in his power. God is able to do whatever I need done. God is able to provide whatever I need provided. God is able to change whatever needs to be changed. He's all powerful. But then there's a third acknowledgement I see here. He says, Thine is the kingdom, and thine is the power, and thine is the what? Glory. I put it this way: I must be selfless in my ambition. I'm submissive to God's authority. I'm secure in his omnipotence. That means all power. And I'm selfless in my ambition. In other words, when I'm praying, who do I want to get the glory as a result of my prayer, according to this? God. My ambition in my prayers is not so that people think highly of me. Boy, what a great prayer warrior that guy is. Man, she sure knows how to pray. Now, praise God. If people think that and people see that, you know, that's fine. But I don't present my prayers so that people think I'm some great, powerful praying Christian. It's not me that gets the glory. I don't want God to, boy, if God would answer this prayer, everybody would be impressed. He says, you're missing the whole point. The reason we want that prayer to be answered is so that God is glorified. So that people walk away and not say, man, what a great prayer warrior this guy is, but people walk away and say this: what a great prayer answering God is. That God gets the glory. God gets exalted. We need to be very, very careful. Even good Christians, sometimes if we're not careful, we get caught up in wanting to be known as a good Christian. You know what Paul said about himself? I am the chief of Christians. No, he didn't say that. He didn't say, I am the chief of prayer warriors. No. He said, I'm the chief of what? Sinners. He's not me. It's not me. He said, when I'm weak, then I'm strong. So that God gets the glory. God gets the glory gets the glory. And so when we finish up our prayer time, we need to recognize I'm submissive. It's God's authority. It's his kingdom. I'm secure in his power. It's his power. But I'm selfless in my ambition. I don't want attention to come to me for this. It has to go to Christ. It has to go to Christ. Our prayers must never be designed so that we are highly thought of. So that we are exalted, so that we are glorified. It must always be so that Christ is exalted. So that Christ is glorified. I like, uh I was reading an article and I think I've used this before, but this is a well-documented event. F. D. Myers, one of my favorite preachers from years gone by. And uh he actually filled the pulpit uh at uh Metropolitan Tabernacle where Charles Spurgeon was pastor. After Spurgeon passed away, F. B. Meyer filled the pulpit for a while. He was traveling back and forth between America and England, and one time he was traveling along and he would speak on these big steamers and they would have services while they were traveling. And one day he spoke on prayer. And there was an atheist, a very outspoken, hardened atheist on the ship, and he says he went in to hear F. B. Meyer speak. And uh he was captivated, it's a powerful message on prayer, as I said. He was going to have another service later in the day. The atheist was very outspoken that he didn't believe in God and this was foolishness, but Somebody saw him going into the service. They said, What are you doing in here? He says, Oh, I just want to see what this babbler is going to say While he was walking to the service, he just happened, this atheist, just happened to have two oranges in his pocket. He's walking along the deck. There was a lady sitting on one of the deck chairs, sound asleep. Just locked down and she was sitting with her arms on the thing and her hands like this. Just snoring, sleeping away. And he saw her and he took the two oranges and he just quietly placed them in her hands. After the service he came out And lo and behold, the lady was there eating the oranges. And he says, ma'am, I see you got some oranges. She goes, oh, praise the Lord. God provided these oranges for me. He goes, what do you mean God provided these oranges for me? And he was going to tell her, God didn't provide them, I did. And she says, whatever his name was, she says, I was so seasick. And I had to sit down and rest. And before I dozed off, I prayed, Lord, if I just had an orange, it might settle my stomach and make me feel a little better. And she goes, I woke up and God didn't give me one, God gave me two. And they said the atheist says, you know, it's hard to argue about a about an an an answered prayer like that. You say, oh, it's impossible for God to provide an orange in the middle of an ocean on an ocean liner to a lady that has an upset stomach and maybe an orange would calm her stomach, but lo and behold, God did it You know why? Because he is the one with the power. And he can do that. And he can do that. And so there's an acknowledgement. When we finish out our prayer time. It's important that we finish out. Lord, you're the authority. It's your kingdom. It's not mine. Lord, you're the all-powerful one. These requests seem impossible, humanly speaking, but you are able. You are all powerful. I understand. I'm secure in that. And then it's uh, Lord, I'm uh I'm not doing this for my glory. I'm not doing this uh for uh my uh uh ambition. It's for your glory. Whatever you do, you get the glory. So he ends the prayer with an acknowledgement. I think it's important that we end our prayers with that frame of mind, not repeating these words necessarily, but understanding what they're saying. And having that attitude as we finish out our prayer. Tell you what, you end your prayer with that frame of mind, that puts a lot of potency in the prayers. But then he had the word at the end. There's an acknowledgement, and what's the very last word? Amen. The word amen is a fascinating study in the Bible. We say it all the time, we hear it all the time, but how many of us really think about what the Bible teaches? About Amen. Amen. The Lord taught us to end our prayers with Amen. Now, the word amen is not a punctuation. It's not the period at the end of a sentence. And Lord, I need this, and I'd like to have that. Lord, I confess this and Lord this. Amen. There's a little period at the end. I'm done talking. There's a whole lot more to it than that. Most of us use the word amen with little thought as to why we use it or what it means. However, there is a reason. The word amen, actually, there was not an English word, amen, previous to when they started translating the Hebrew over. The word amen is actually a Hebrew word. And when they translate into English, what they did was a transliteration of a Hebrew word. Now when you translate a word, when you translate a word, you have a word in one language. And you're going to translate it, let's say, Hebrew, and you're going to translate it into English. What you do is you have this word in Hebrew and you understand what it means. And then you search around and find an English word that means the same thing as that Hebrew word, and you translate, use that English word to translate it over. You follow what I'm saying? And you just use an established word in this language, translate this word into this word using established word. They didn't do that for the word amen. They transliterated it. In other words, they simply took that Hebrew word and gave it an English spelling. And it became a new English word. And as far as I understand it, my research, that's true in all the languages. We were down in the Dominican Republic and we're up in the mountains the first time we were down. I've heard it often since then, but the very first time we're way up in the mountains, the place is packed out, the people come in the back of a pickup truck. And uh there's no electricity after a certain hour. So they got these kerosene lanterns. I'm preaching. There's a little kerosene lantern up there by the pole that I'm preaching from. They got little wooden benches without backs. The place is jam-packed They are singing, you're blowing your eardrums out, singing so loud. And you recognize the hymns because of the tune, but they're all singing in Spanish. And I noticed before when I was when something was said, a lot of the people in the congregation, there's probably about 250, 300 people there, the other people in the congregation would say this, Amin, Amin And I got preaching, I'd make a statement, and the guy would translate it, brother uh Jerry uh Reese was my translator, and uh he would translate and the people would go, Amen. That's what are they saying? He's saying, Amen That's Spanish. Amen. Amin. And so the word amen is a transliteration from the Hebrew over into English. It's a new word. By the way, the word hallelujah is the same thing. It's a translate from the Hebrew word and they just gave it English language. So what does the word amen mean? It simply means this. It kind of has a variation of meanings. It simply means this. In its most basic form, it means to be sure. Or that is true. Uh so be it. It's a statement of affirmation, yes Make a statement, yes, I agree with that. That is true. I believe that. I support that. I affirm that. That's the idea behind it I want to show you. I've got a couple minutes. Let me show you a few verses. There's some pretty neat ways the word amen is used in the Bible. Go all the way back to the fifth book of the Old Testament, Deuteronomy. I can honestly say I've never preached on the word amen before. I've tried to coax amens out of congregations, but I've never Preach some minute. I got certain things you can say. Preacher, all independent fundamental Baptist preachers know this. Certain things you can say, people will say amen. King James Bible is the Word of God. See, it's instinct Just react. Amen. Jesus coming back again. And that's good. There's nothing wrong with that. But what in the world? Look at Deuteronomy chapter 27. And we're not going to be able to Go through this whole section. Verse 14, it starts. And you've got the children of Israel, and they sound like independent fundamental Baptists, especially downtown. I heard a preacher years ago say, down south, if you make a great statement, everybody comes unglued. Amen. They said, up north, if you make a great statement, they hold up signs. Amen. They don't say it, they're just quiet and stuff. Amen Look at this, Deuteronomy 27, look at verse 14. And the Levites shall speak. God through Moses is given instructions. And saying to all the men of Israel with a loud voice, all right, they're supposed to say to all the men of Israel, this loud voice, Cursed be the man that maketh any graven Or molten image, an abomination of the Lord, the work of the hands, transmen that putteth into a secret place, and all the people shall answer and say And then look at the next verse. Cursed be he that setteth light by his father and his mother, and all the people shall say. And you go down through here and all the way down to verse 26. And all the people say, Amen. Make a statement, Amen. Hold crowd, Amen, Amen, Amen. What is that all about? The whole idea here is this, is the people are hearing this statement, this instruction from God, and they are saying, Amen, and what they're doing is basically making a pledge of commitment. God has said that. Amen. So be it, it will be true in my life. So it's a strong statement It's almost like a vow in this context. We will do that. Amen. Um, 1 Chronicles 16, real quickly over there. Keep on going towards the back of your Bible. Get first First Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, 2nd Kings, 1 Chronicles, Chapter 16 I mean it's all through here. Amen. Amen. First Chronicles sixteen, verse thirty-six. David is giving this great prayer. And he says, verse 36, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel forever and ever. And all the people said, Amen. What's going on here? They're agreeing with David. They're agreeing with what he just said. Amen. We support that. We're behind that. Now here's where it gets interesting. And we won't, well, I won't give you the rest of these verses. But in John 3. 3, Jesus makes this statement. Verily, verily I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Here's where it's interesting. The word verily, verily If you look it up in your strong concordance, guess what that word is? Amen. It's the English word. For that translated there, in that case, they translated the word amen into the English word that already existed, Berylli. It simply means this. This is an emphatic truth. This is an undeniable truth. A person must be born again. And by the way, nobody ever gets to heaven that isn't born again. Verily, verily. Amen. Amen. This is an emphatic statement. It cannot be denied. It is absolutely inflexible. He must be born again. Alright, so what does that have to do with our prayers? Why do we end our prayers with an amen? I believe it has to do with the previous frame of mind. God, you are the authority. It's your kingdom. You are all powerful. And you get all the glory. And I finish out this interaction with my Creator. I finish out this conversation with my God, the only God of all the universe. And God, I affirm that that is what I believe, that what I this statement I just made is what I believe, and I am convinced is absolutely true. I believe he ends the prayer the same way he starts it, with a focus on God. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. And he finishes the prayer: for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. That is true. In other words, our prayers are not all about us. Our prayers are all about God. They're all about God. Daniel Webster. Anybody recognize the name Daniel Webster? Cool guy. 1854. 1852 Actually, it was October 24th. Daniel Webster, he's a politician, he was a statesman, tremendous Christian. He was dying. Sat home and he called his physician, Dr. Jeffries, was his name. He had did everything he possibly could for Daniel Webster. And at this point in his condition, he determined that Daniel Webster no longer needed a physician. What he needed was a Christian brother. So Jeffreys said, I'm going to stop being medical with Daniel Webster. He's on his deathbed. He's about to go into eternity. I'm going to be his Christian brother. He picked up an old worn-out hymn book that Webster had beside his bed, he used to sing from, and he began reading these words. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. He read every stanza, and when he got to the last, Webster had just regained enough strength, and he began reading along with him. And when he got to this point, this phrase, when this poor lispering, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave, then in a nobler, sweeter song. I'll sing thy power to save. I'll sing thy power to save. And he read it one more time. I'll sing thy power to save. They looked at each other, and Webster, as his life was leaving his body, his very last words were this. Amen, Amen, Amen. He gave up the ghost. You know what he was saying? He's saying it's all about God. It's all the Lord. He's the one that I'm going to say. And what a powerful thought it is that when we finish our prayers, rather than just spitting out a little period at the end of a sentence, Amen, no no, the Lord's saying, no, no, no, this is An acknowledgement of the power and authority of our God. And he gets all the glory for whatever happens in this prayer. Isn't that neat? That stirred my heart. And I believe we come to our prayer time with that approach, whether we're a young person, older person, and we recognize I am talking to God. And he is the one that this is all about. I believe it'll transform our prayer life. It'll humble us But it'll make it our prayers much more effective. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for this very familiar, in many ways, prayer pattern. But Lord, we I I know many times we really didn't give it a whole lot of thought. But I ask now, as we've studied this, that our prayers would be more effective. They would be more alive, more real, more more Clear in our minds what's taking place. And I'm asking for a revival of prayer in my heart and life, and in our church, and in our nation And we would pray humbly for your glory. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks would join me And say, Preacher, I really need revival in my prayer life. I need to take it seriously. I need to be earnest. I need to be disciplined. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray with me. I need revival in my prayer life. God bless you, hands all around. Now I think on a Wednesday night prayer meeting, great place to ask God to revive our prayer life Would be on that Wednesday night at old-fashioned alder. So uh Jennifer's at the piano, and maybe just tonight, a bunch of us would say, I'm gonna I'm gonna bow before God, ask him. To revive my prayer, lay Father, hear us and help us now we pray in Jesus name.