Where I want you to go, Old Testament, 2 Chronicles, I'll give you some time to get there. 2 Chronicles chapter 7. How many think I'm a long-winded guy? No, I'm I'm like Pastor Matt, so don't worry. It won't it won't be very long. Okay, I sent you to 2 Chronicles chapter 7. Hopefully you didn't go to 2 Corinthians. 2 Chronicles, are you there? Now I'm in trouble. I lost my glasses. I can't see. There we go. Uh this verse some of you have memorized, 2 Chronicles 7, 14. Dale, did you tell me you memorized that verse? I think Dell could could say it for us here. And incidentally, if I run out of wind or if I have some trouble up here, I want some of you to stand by and we're going to at least read through some of this in a little bit. Who does not get embarrassed to read out loud? Who can help me do a little reading here? Okay, so if I get stuck, I want some of you to help me with my reading. But before we read verse 14, are you there yet? 7 2 Chronicles 7. 14. Back in chapter 6, we're not going to read there, but back in chapter 6, Solomon dedicates the temple that he built for the Lord. And it's a big elaborate thing that they spend days and days feasting different things. But he has this prayer. Does anybody remember reading Solomon's prayer when he dedicated the temple? Remember reading that? It's a long prayer. Long prayer. And when he's finished praying, the the people seem to be in a very good they just seem happy, they seem thrilled about the new church and everything. Everything seems to be going really well at this point. But in his prayer, he kind of gives you the idea that he thinks the people are going to backslide and they're going to get away from God. And there's going to be problems ahead because he asked the Lord that if they do, if they backslide, if they rebel, uh would the Lord forgive them and uh bring them back like a shepherd, bring back the lost sheep. And here is what God says to that over here in verse 12. Are you with me in 2 Chronicles 7 and 12? And the Lord, what? Okay, you're there. And he appeared to Solomon by night and said to him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice. If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people, And there's the verse that you've heard, I'm sure you've heard this many, many times. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, pray, seek my face. Turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sin and will heal their land And you've heard many, many people teach this or preach this, that there is the formula for revival. And it was. It was God's formula for revival for those Israelite people. I do not think it's wrong for us to even say that's a formula for us today. If we Would pray and seek his face and turn from our wicked ways. He will hear from heaven, forgive their sin and heal our land too. Forgive our sin and heal our land. And nevertheless, these principles that are in this verse are throughout the New Testament. You can find every one of those principles in the New Testament. And some of you know by experience when you were away from God And it you didn't have to come to the altar, but some of us did. We came up here and we asked God to take us back. We may not have even known that we were secure in Christ because we are when we're saved. But sometimes when we get away from it, we feel lost. We feel that we've lost. I felt that I lost my salvation. I had not, but I felt like it. But I mean to tell you, I have been there. I have been very close to God at times in my life, and I've been far away from God at times in my life. But I'll tell you, if you will Do the principles in this verse. And it I recommend this altar. I love it here that so many of you come up to the altar altar often. You're not afraid of that altar, and I'm glad you're not, because it's good to get up there and come clear with God. Be open with him. Tell him what you've done. Ask him to forgive you. Get it right. And I don't I can't tell you the number of times I've done that. And it's also a good place to pray for your loved ones that you want to see saved Come up and ask God and do that. And I hope tonight Mark will give the an invitation that you'll come again. And I hope those of you that have been coming, keep coming. But we're going to go a little bit further on this, but we're going to move from this to 2 Chronicles chapter 20. And what we're looking at here in 2 Chronicles chapter 20, we're looking at some signs that would show us That at this point, at least the tribe of Judah, perhaps some from some of the other tribes, but not many, mostly the tribe of Judah. We're going to look to see if they are ready for a revival. And I believe they are. I think we're going to find verses here in chapter 20 that will show us how the people of Judah And this is at least, I'm guessing, but I'm saying at least a hundred years from the time that Solomon dedicated that temple, we're at least a hundred years away from that. And the people have got away from God, just like Solomon thought they would. And uh, but I think they're ready to come back. But let's look at chapter 20. This is the chapter that blessed me, and I hope it'll bless you. It came to pass after this also that the children of Moab and the children of Ammon And with him other besides the Ammonites came against Jehoshaphat to battle. Who is this Jehoshaphat guy? Who is he? He must be a fat guy. But he may be not, maybe I'm just making that up. But he is one of the kings down the line after Solomon, who was the king. Rehabam. After Rehoboam, I can't think of the other guy, but somewhere in there there was Asa. And this guy is the son of Asa. Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria. And behold, they be in Hazan Tamar, which is Angidi. Do I have any school teachers here? Anybody that teaches school? Good. First, I will not be pronouncing these names right. I can half see them, but I'm trying to pronounce them. I got Jehoshaphat pretty close. And Jehoshaphat feared and set himself to what? And proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah gathered themselves together to ask help of the Lord. Even out of all the cities of Judah, they came to seek the Lord And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court, and he said, Here's his prayer. It's not nearly as long as Solomon's. O Lord God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven, and rulest not thou over the kingdoms of the heathen? And in thine hand is there not power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee? What's the answer to all those questions? Yeah, he is all that and more. Art not thou our God who didst drive out the inhabitants of the land before us? And gave it to the seed of Abraham, thy friend, forever. And they dwelt therein and have built thee a sanctuary for thy name's sake. If it someone helped me there on that verse, if when Oh And now behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom thou wouldst not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt, but they turned from them and destroyed them not. Behold, I say, how they reward us He's being sarcastic there, to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou givest us to inherit O our God, wilt thou not judge them? For we have no might against this great company. They were way outnumbered. that cometh against us, neither know we what to do. But what Isn't this something that Jehosaphat, these many, many years ago, knew he was in trouble? He knew he couldn't win this battle. This battle was too much for him. But he knew someone that could help him. And he said, Our eyes are upon thee. On my refrigerator at home, Jane is put up there, looking unto Jesus. author and finisher of our faith. When we get in a situation like Jehoshaphat's in here, and maybe it's not a battle with people, but it's we get into battles. I've been in battles, and you're you might be one in a battle right now. You're having some sort of trouble. Be like Jehoshaphat. Go right to God. Put your eyes upon Him. He is the one that will help you. And whoever's reading for me, go on, please. Tomorrow go down against them, they come up by the cliff of Z Ye shall find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jerul. Ye shall not need to fight in this battle Set yourself, stand still. See the salvation of the Lord with you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Fear not, nor be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord is with you. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the Lord, worshiping the Lord, and the Levites and the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korites. Stood up to praise the Lord God of Israel with a loud voice on high. They rose up early in the morning and went forth in the wilderness. And that they went forth. Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem. Believe in the Lord, your God, so shall ye be established. Believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers unto the Lord that should praise the beauty of holiness as they went out before the army, and to say, Praise the Lord for his mercy endureth forever. And when they began to something, what did they begin to do? Begin to sing and to praise. The Lord sent ambushs against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, which were come against Judah, and they were smitten. For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against Mount Seir, and then after that, after they destroyed the this people group, Mount Seir, Then they destroyed each other. We'll skip down here a little bit. They act in a it's interesting in verse 24. When Judah When Judah came toward the watchtower in the wilderness, they looked into the multitude, and behold, there were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and how many escaped? Not a single of the enemy of Jehoshaphat and the Judah Judah people. God took care of them all. In the next few verses, It talks about the spoils of war, that they it took several days to gather all that up. But let's skip down to verse 27. Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them. To go again to Jerusalem with joy, for the Lord had made them to rejoice over their enemies. And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and trumpets. unto the house of the Lord, and the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries, when they had heard that the Lord fought against the enemies of Israel. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest round about. I read a few more verses and may not. But uh that chapter, and I don't think we're going to get all of it in here. That chapter was a real blessing to me. As I read that, I thought, my God, it's big enough, strong enough. Help me with my little battles and my problems. He can do it. And I think we have to be in the right Attitude, our heart has to be right. I think we have to we need to confess any known sin that we have when we're in battles like this. And And make sure that we're okay, because many times we are in the wrong, but in this case, Jehoshaphat and his people mostly were in the right, and God took care of the enemy. Now, is it possible for our country? Is it possible? Most people will tell you it's too late. Our country's just gone too far. But the Israelites had gone too far many a time, and God still brought them back. And they this is uh really like a little revival that they're having here, at least for a while Uh Chavasfat was not a perfect man. If you read the rest of the chapter, you'll find some of his flaws. Almost every one of these good kings, and there were some good ones, they almost all had flaws. But for us, is it possible that Mountain Lake Park Church could have a revival? Is it possible? I think it is, if every one of you that know the Lord truly, if you ask God, give revival here, And you keep on what you there's a lot of giving being done here at Mountain Lake. A lot of giving and a lot of working being done here at Mountain Lake. And I I can see it. I've only been here a little short while, but I know you all are hard workers and you give an awful lot. Please don't stop. Just keep on keeping on asking God to help us. And I'm getting pretty old, I'm not as old as Helen, but I know Helen and those her age. are looking for what God might do here yet. Ellen, weren't you here when the number was down to maybe a dozen or a l less maybe? And you've seen what God has done through those, like the last 25 years maybe, He can still do it. He can still do it. And I'm the all I'm saying is, I'm just encouraging all of you, you keep on praying, you keep on believing. Doing what you can and but expect God to do what He d did here. Great victory. And If we have revival, there is also a great rest. This is not our final rest, but it is really a refreshing when you when we have revival. I'm going to quit here pretty soon after I pray, but uh I want to encourage you To go to the altar as often as you feel God prompting you to go and pray about those things that God is prompting you to pray for. And don't hold back. It's one thing. Uh Helen, can we tell the people when you get to be our age, don't hold anything back and don't let God have his way with you. Let him have his way. Read just a little bit more. It says, Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was 35 years old when he began to reign. He reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem and his mother's name, Azuba, the daughter of I can't say that one. And he walked, and he walked in the way of Asa, his father. and departed not from it, during that which was right in the sight of the Lord. That would be a good epitaph for me. I was doing what was right in the sight of the Lord. Heavenly Father, I pray for Pastor Leatherman tonight. Help him with the preaching that he is planning to do tomorrow. And I pray you'd be in this word conference in a great way. And Lord, for us here tonight, if there's any sin that we know about in our lives, help us to turn from it, get away from it. Lord, heal our land. Pray for this church that we might see revival. Pastor Leatherman's prayed I'm sure many people here has prayed for revival here at Mountain Lake that we would see great work that you can do. Just ordinary people, the people that love you, Lord. I know there's people here that do that and want to serve you. Pray you'd have your way with us. We want to give you all the praise and all the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Oh stand uh heads bowed, eyes closed. We'll have a moment of invitation now.