Now God Himself and our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ direct our way unto you. That phrase praying exceedingly caught my attention, and I've used that for the title of the message, Let's Pray, and just a few thoughts, one from each verse, the season. evening uh and trust it'll be helpful to us. Father, bless our time in your word. Help me, Lord, to um be faithful and true to the truths presented here. I ask, Father, you'd fill me with your spirit. teacher tonight we pray and uh bless the teens downstairs and uh stir our hearts lord and and uh help us to grow in our faith in jesus name I can't get over as we go through these first three chapters of First Thessalonians, how that um uh Paul seems like he can't get over or he can't say enough about how grateful he is for this group of believers in Thessalonica, these whole three chapters. He's just been sort of bragging on them and explaining why he did what he did and just talking about them. And he's picking it up here. you get the idea that he wants them to know that they are very dear to his heart. And he continues on here. And I notice three things. I've taken these three verses And I think each of these has a thought that uh ties in altogether. Verse number nine, I notice first of all that he praises the Lord for the Thessalonian believers He praises the Lord for him. He says, What thanks can we render to God again for you? The only he he it's like Paul sees these believers, this church, it's growing. Numerically, no doubt, but if they're growing spiritually in their understanding of the Lord and their walk with God. And he's praising them for that. And he's praising God for that Now, this is what I want us to take away from this. The only proper response to the spiritual growth or victories of other believers is for us to praise God for that. In other words, if somebody else is having spiritual victory in their life, if somebody else is really growing, I ought to be I ought to determine that I am going to thank God for that and not become envious of that. Not become critical of that. I've been around long enough and cr as a Christian and in the ministry that sometimes you come across folks that if somebody else is growing and somebody else is getting stronger in their faith, I've been around some folks, they get very jealous of that. They feel threatened by that And in response, they become critical and become negative towards it. Remember, how did the Pharisees respond? When a publican or a harlot would get saved, what was the Pharisees' response? How would they respond to those things? It became very critical if you had a man healed. Rather than saying, wow, amazing power of God. This guy was blind from burden. Now he can see They would criticize Jesus for healing. Well, he did it on the Sabbath. Well, he didn't do it according to this. Well, he did that. If Jesus would go and uh have some publicans and sinners around him have a meal with a bunch of publicans and sinners And he'd share the gospel with them and teach them about the Lord rather than rejoicing in the fact that sinners are hearing the gospels. What did the Pharisees do? Yeah, they criticized. They said, look, he eats with sinners, he drinks with sinners. Uh what a what kind of ma uh son of God would do that? And so we have to be very, very careful about that mentality of jealousy, criticism, throwing accusations. You read the Pharisees, man, they're just constantly throwing accusations. at the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul doesn't act that way. Paul doesn't operate that way. Man, he sees this church as strong. They're growing. They're a model church. He praises them and praises them and praises them. And then he comes here again and praises them again, praises God, really, on their behalf. Prodigal son He goes off, he runs off, messes up. In the Bahogpan, we know the story. He comes to himself and uh he humbles himself before God and before his father. He comes back. His father accepts him back in What was the response of his older brother? Oh man. He goes, what is the deal? You're having a party for this guy and he wastes all that and I've been faithful Paul was the exact opposite of that. If you have uh you have your Bible there, keep your place here, but I want you to turn back, if you would, to the third epistle of John. First John, Second John, third John Now you can look at 3 John two different ways. Either it has 14 verses with no chapters, or it has 14 mini-chapters with no verses. Whichever way you look at it, look at verse 4. Notice what he says. John says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. He's talking to the church here. He's referring to them as his children. And he says, there's nothing that makes me happier, there's no greater joy in my life than to hear that the people I've wondered the Lord, the people I've ministered to, are growing in the Lord. Their faith is getting stronger. Their influence is uh uh for the gospel is uh is getting greater and greater. in the world makes me happier than that. Why don't we, like Paul, just determine if we hear of somebody having an answer to prayer, if we hear of God doing something, we hear of somebody growing in the Lord, we see the them growing in the Lord. Why don't we stop and say, hey, you know, I thank God for what he's doing in your life. Wouldn't that be an encouraging thing How encouraging was it to the Thessalonian believers when they get this letter from Paul and he says, I thank God for you guys. What's happening in your life and your church and and what the Lord's doing for you. And so the first thing I notice here is he praises the Lord for these things. believers, what's happening? Notice under that thought his praise here, notice the direction of his praise. Who is he thanking for their spiritual progress? Who is it? He's thanking God. Now he's not minimizing their involvement Their obedience to the Lord and their faith in God. He's not minimizing that, but he is recognizing the fact that God is the source of everything good in their life. He says, you know, you guys are growing, your faith, your ministry is great. Earlier he says you have an influence through the whole world. They've heard of your faith. But he recognized that it is God that is doing that in their life. So his direction of his praise is to the Lord. Notice the diligence of his praise He says there, let me get back to my verse here. He says in verse 9, for what thanks can we render to God again? He's been thanking God over and over and over and over for them. And now he says, I'm going to thank God again for you guys. It is just an ongoing, constant activity on Paul's part to rejoice in the spiritual growth of others. I tell you, you get a new believer, you get a young Christian, or you get someone that's just come back and getting right with God, one of the best things you can do to help them is just recognize their spiritual growth Just observe it. Express your gratitude to God for the fact that they made a good decision, or this, that, or the other And so um uh the diligence of his praise. Uh that was one of the things the two fellows, I've been mentioning them lately, I don't know why, but uh the two fellows that discipled me, Arden and Terry, uh Terry Wilcox Arden Muslim One thing they would do, everything step forward I made in my Christian life, man, it was a big deal to them. Oh wow, praise the Lord, that's fantastic. Oh wow, that is really something. And uh I'd helped in a in a they had a It was kinda like King's kids. It was Wednesday nights. It was something else. I forget what it was called. Boys Brigade. And um I helped one night. They'd asked if I'd help do something with the gains I did that. Oh brother Latherman, you this and you helped with that. That was great. Man, I felt like I was some kind of hero or something And they really had this down. And that's what Paul's doing. The direction of his praise is to God, the diligence of his praise, again. Notice the delight of his praise. He says He says, again for you all, for the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before God. That word joy means abundant gladness. I mean, Paul was happy when he saw and heard how they were serving the Lord, what they were doing for God. It made him happy. And this thought came to me. What makes us happy? is a good indicator of where our heart is. Some people, you ask them, well, what would make you the happiest person in the world? Boy, if I'd win the lottery. You know? Boy, I'd be happy then. Oh, what would make you the happiest person in the world? What would make you happy? Oh, you know, if I uh uh got this job or if I did that or this happened or I got a new dress and am I doing that I think it's me We might have a loose wire in here. But what I thought the thought that came to me is what makes me happy is an indicator of where my heart is. What's important to me? Paul said your spiritual growth brought great joy to my life. And so uh first thing I notice he praises the Lord for the thing Thessalonian believers. Second thing I notice in verse number 10, he prays exceedingly for the Thessalonian believers. Again, verse 10, night and day, praying exceedingly that we might see your face and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. That phrase, praying exceedingly, has this idea, overflowing. There's a phrase sometimes we'll use now. Something is over the top. You know, we're talking about, man, that's just over the top with that. Anyone have any idea what I'm talking about? I'm just trying to be hip and cool, you know, and use the modern phrases over the top. And uh that's what Paul's say He's saying our prayers for you have been over the top. They're overflowing. And as I was doing a little study on this and getting the background of the word and whatnot, it actually has this idea. Going beyond that which is reasonable. You know, it's almost like in Paul's mind there's a level of prayer that would be reasonable to pray for these people. And he's saying, you know, my prayers for you have been completely over the top. I've been praying for you beyond that which even I consider to be reasonable. Now I doubt there's very few of us, I'm not going to exclude everyone, but I doubt there's very few of us that have the prayer life that the Apostle Paul had. Would most of you agree with me that? What a tremendous man of prayer. And by Paul's standards, he says, my prayers for you have been beyond what would even be reasonable. reasonable by his standards. Paul had an intensity in his prayers, I think it's hard for us to even comprehend. You read through Paul's writings, and you find no half-hearted prayers on the part of Paul. In fact, I'll take it a step farther. You go through the Bible and you study the prayers of people that God used greatly that had powerful answers to prayers, and none of them had half-hearted prayer lives. They were intense. They were over the top by our standards. And that's what Paul says here. The prayers that have the greatest effects require the greatest intention. It is not the elegance, I put it this way, it's not the eloquence, elegance, eloquence. I got it in the last one, didn't I? Eloquence. It's not the eloquence. You know what I'm talking about, right? Good. It's not the eloquence of our prayers, but it is the energy of our prayers that makes the difference. Does anybody have any idea what in the world I'm talking about. Good. It's not how fancy I can get up and all these big words and how impressive and afterwards somebody says, wow, wasn't that an impressive prayer? That's not what turns God's hand. That's not what changes things. It is the prayer that is intense. It is the prayer that is with the whole heart, and the prayer that, God, I have to have this. And Paul loved these Thessalonian believers so much That when he prayed for them, even by his standards, the intensity of his prayers were just over the top. They consumed them And uh maybe, maybe that's an explanation of why this church was such a strong church Maybe the reason we're such weak Christians is maybe because our prayers aren't over the top. They're, what would be the opposite of over the top, under the bottom. Right? That would be the opposite. Um so uh sounds good. You can write that in your Bible. That's good Quote. Um The fact is I found how many folks how many folks here have been saved at least for a little bit of a length of time? I mean Several months at least of it. How many folks have sa found in your Christian life there are seasons when you seem to be closer to the Lord than other seasons? Anybody know and talk about sure. That's part of the Christian life, the ebb and flow Christian life Christian life, that's part of it. How many folks have found that when you're closer, there are no seasons when you seem to be closer to the Lord, your prayer life is much more effective, much more intense, much more consistent. How many folks found that to be true? Sure. Do you think maybe there's a cause and effect there? You think maybe there might be a relationship between Between the two? I've found that the closer I get to God, there's times in my life when I'm cl seem to be closer to the Lord than other times, I find that my prayer life is much more dynamic My prayer life is much more earnest, consistent, more more uh earnestness in my prayers, uh stronger faith in coming before God God. Now, I think it's a it's something that feeds on itself. As I pray earnestly and intensely, as Paul describes his prayers here, I'm drawn closer to God. What did the Lord say? Draw nigh to me, and I will what? Draw an eye to you. And so as I'm seeking the Lord, I'm praying exceedingly. I'm drawing closer to God. God gets closer to me, which prompts me to pray even stronger. And so Paul prayed exceedingly, prayed uh frequently, intensely. Two things he prayed for. Look at verse 10. See if you pick up the two things that I know. Noticed here in verse 10 that he prayed for. Notice he says, night and day, there's that intensity, uh, praying exceedingly over the top. Two things. One, that we might see your face. I put this down. He prayed that he could could see their face. He wanted to be with godly people. He wanted to be with the people that were living for God, serving God, had God's blessing on their life. That's who he was attracted to. Now, we pre we preach this this to the kids all the time, the young people all the time. Don't we? Uh, your friends, your friends are gonna make you what you are. Do we say that to the kids all the time? You know, that's just as true for a 40-year-old man as it is for a 14-year-old boy? That's just as true for a 51-year-old man as it is to a 15-year-old boy Or girl. The people I want to be with are a reflection of one of two things, either what I am or what I'm becoming. And Paul says, I want to be with you guys. We read about the church at Thessalonica. Now chapter 4, he's going to start dealing with some issues. They weren't perfect. But he wanted that was he he was saying you're my crowd. You're the folks I want to be around with. Loves God and and uh serving God has a powerful impact So he prayed intensely that he could see their face, but then second prayer request, two he's praying two things he's praying for. One that we might see your face, but second of all that he might perfect their faith Look what he says. That we might see your face and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. Now, what does he mean I'm going to perfect that which is. I want to, I'm praying that God, I'm praying intensely that I can see your face, and that when I see your face, I perfect your faith. Is Paul being arrogant here? Does he come and saying, oh, you need me to be a perfect Christian? If I'm there, you'll be a perfect Christian. That's not what he's saying at all. We need to understand what he means by that word perfect. The word perfect, when applied to man, without fail, never means sinless perfection. It always means living or operating at my full potential. I can't be anything more than what I am in that area. Then I'm operating at full potential. If I am running as fast as I can physically run, it is impossible for me to run faster than what I'm running. I am running perfectly in the sense of the word that's Here, at my complete potential. So Paul is saying, I'm praying, I'm praying, I'm praying that I can get with you guys and that I can help you be everything God intends for you to be. That your faith is as strong as it can humanly be, possibly be, humanly speaking. I want you to, I want to perfect your He wanted to help them reach the potential of their faith. Now, I think that suggests to you and I a top priority for us. We ought to strive to live our lives. We ought to strive to develop our faith to be as strong as it can possibly be. You know what this tells me, verse 10 tells me? We need others to accomplish that. He says, I want to get down there to help you do that. That tells me we need one another to help us grow in our faith. God has no Lone Rangers. You can't get out there and isolate yourself from God's people and think that I'm going to be the best Christian I can be. It's not designed that way. The Christian life is not that way. God has us. hardwired uh that we need one another. We need the fellowship, the interaction, the prayers, the encouragement of one another. So first thing he does, I notice verse nine, he prays in uh he praises the Lord for their believers. Second thing in verse ten, he prays exceedingly for the believers believers. And thirdly, in verse 11, I notice he recognizes God's providence in his return to the believers. Look at verse 11. Now, God Himself and our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ direct our way unto you. That word direct has this idea: to guide me to you. To make the path, in fact, it's translated some places in Scripture to make the path straight. He He's recognizing that if I'm ever going to get back to the believers there and test like if I'm ever going to be in their presence, if I'm going to see their faith and have any influence On their see their face and have any influence on their faith, God's the one that's going to have to work this out. God's the one that's going to have to direct me. It is according to God's will This is what I took away from it. Paul recognized the hand of God in the affairs of his life. You got your Bibles there. Turn with me. I want to go to two verses and then we're going to end. Come back to James. Chapter 4. I should say two passages. James chapter 4 and verse 13. We get a little phrase we use in Christian circles a lot, which I think a lot of people don't realize where it comes from. James chapter 4, verse 13. Everybody got it? Everybody find it? Look what it says. Go to now, ye that say tomorrow, uh today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get again Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. I love that phrase. You know he's saying, since you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow You never know. You know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little while, a little time, and then vanisheth away Look at this. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or do that. See what he's saying? He's saying it's the it's the providence of God that's going to determine. Listen, you can plan things out. Paul can say, listen, I'm going to come down there on this state or that, whatever, but in his mind he knows it's all according to the What's the old saying? If the Lord wills and the crick don't rise. You know, I don't know what the rising of the crick has to do with anything, but uh it is according to the will of God Now I don't think James is telling us that every time we make a statement what we're planning on doing, we have to tap that little phrase on there. I think what he is saying to us, we need to understand That we make our plans and we can lay things out, but we understand that a whole lot of things could take place. God could do a whole lot of things, and my plans may not, in the end, amount to a whole hill of bees. One other passage I want you to go to, if you come back to Proverbs chapter 16. I love Proverbs. I just this year I've especially enjoyed just reading them over and over and over and over. And look at Proverbs 16 and And verse number nine. Come on back there. I want you to see this so that if you don't have it marked in your Bible, this would be a good verse to underscore. Proverbs 16 and verse number 9. Did everybody get there? Proverbs sixteen, verse nine. That is not the verse I won. A man's heart. Oh yes it is. Look what it says. A man's heart deviseth his way. Right? What's he saying? He says a man's heart divides his way. What's he saying? Yeah, a man makes his plans. I'm going to do this. I've got it all laid out, and uh I've got this, that, and the other, and this here, and that there, and I've got it all laid out. A man's heart deviseth his way, but look at the last part. But the Lord hears that word. Directeth his steps. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, God is in control. I can plan things out and do all that, and there's nothing wrong with that. I think we ought to have a plan. We ought to have an approach to life and different things That's fine. But I understand that I am submissive to God and God's direction for my life may be different than what my plans are. I look back. I look back on my life, and many of you can do the same thing. I look back on my life, and I can see the hand of God in ways at the time I never saw it. Anybody can I get a witness? At the time I had uh to me it was a mess. To me I didn't and I thought I had this, that, and the other. Thirty years later I look back and say, you know, I can see the Lord was directing my way I can see God was opening this door, closing that door. Apostle Paul went through that earlier in the book of Acts. They were going to go to some place They were going to some other places and the Spirit of God forbade them. And I can imagine there were several days there were the same man what's you know what are we doing? What's going on? And that door is closed, that door is closed, that door is closed. Then he has the mass of the And the Lord was directing his steps, directing his steps. What we need to do is we need to walk every day, trusting God Yielded to the Lord, following his leadership, doesn't not suggesting it's wrong to lay out plans and have a vision for the future. That's fine But it's all if the Lord wills, as God leads me and directs me. And as God closes doors here and opens doors there, then we walk through them and we try trust them. And so Paul, these three little verses here, uh are tremendous verses in his his uh uh love for these believers in Thessalonica He just cannot thank God enough for what these Christians mean to him. And I've asked God to give me a greater love for my brothers and sisters in the Lord. Just appreciate what other Christians the influence they have had on me and what they mean to me as an individual. Paul said, I can't thank God. I praise God for you He prays exceedingly. Over the top, he just prays for them and prays for them and prays for them that their faith will grow, that they'll be everything God would intend for them to be. And uh I found, as I said, when I pray for others, I found that I grow in my faith. It's interesting. I finished up reading the book of Job just the other day. And um a couple days ago And at the end, there's an interesting verse there that's really caught my attention. And probably if Doc wasn't preaching Sunday, I probably would have preached on that, but he messed up my preaching schedule completely. But he makes a little statement there. I just want to make him feel welcome and know that we're glad he's here with us. Uh yeah. But there's a little verse there that says and I'm paraphrasing here, I don't have it memorized. But it says something to this effect that when Joe when Job prayed for his friends, God blessed him. When Job prayed for his friends, then God delivered him from all the horrible stuff that was going on. Paul says, I'm praying over the top for you guys. You know what I believe that did for Paul? I believed it helped him grow. I believe it brought God's blessing when he prayed for others. And then last of all, he recognizes God's providence. He just sees that God's hand is in everything. My life is in his hands. I make my plans, all that But I want God to lead me and direct me. I tell you, when it's all said and done, see if you don't agree with me on this. When it's all said and done, I'd far rather have God's will be done in my life than my will Can I get a witness on that? I stand before that judgment seat of Christ. I'll far rather say hear the Lord say, You know, you did exactly what I wanted you to do, rather than hear him say, you know, you got away with what you wanted. Uh No, I want the Lord to direct my steps. Lord to direct my steps. Father in heaven, please help us, Lord, to have faith in you. Help us to pray. Help us to praise. Lord, help us to see Your hand in our lives as we yield to you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I don't know how a simple little message like this, how the Spirit of God might apply it to your life. But maybe this evening you're here and you say, you know I really need God's dealt with my heart about this matter of prayer. Just really taking prayer seriously, not being so half-hearted about it, but really bringing my need And others to the Lord. Maybe this matter of praising God for other people and just thanking God for what they mean to us and being grateful. And then this other matter of just seeing God's hand in my life. That God is leading me and directing me. I'm just going to yield to him and let his will be done. Is there any like that tonight? Say, preacher, God has spoken to my heart in some of these areas, one or more of these areas. God bless you. Shoe, hand many hands all around. Something how God uses His word to challenge us and lead us and direct us. Father, bless our invitation and help us, Lord, to respond to your leadership in our lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.