Well we've been called different things. Uh I I remember one of the meetings that we had, uh it was one of our uh um meetings down in Virginia and the preacher that was preaching that night couldn't remember my name and uh he couldn't remember the name of the ministry and we were renamed and uh it was quite an evening so it's Beacon of Truth. So, but we're delighted to be here, and I honestly believe that uh your preacher shared uh his heart with you this evening when he said what he said. And uh we can say with uh a rousing amen that he does back beacon of truth and we're delighted to have him as part of our team and uh enjoy working with him and the input that he has in our ministry. And uh let me just go on record and say praise the Lord for this morning I told the preacher over lunch that uh that message probably would have been rejected in the majority of pulpits in the United States of America. And I'm not talking about the liberal persuasion. I'm talking about fundamental churches as well A verse that come to my mind, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove and rebuke with all long suffering, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine but will eat to themselves teachers having itching ears. You can be thankful for the preacher that you have, that he's fearless in the pulpit And he's not concerned about how you feel or what you think or what you'd like. He's concerned about one thing and that's preaching the whole counsel of God and pleasing his Lord and His Savior Jesus Christ. So I thank the Lord for that and uh rejoice that uh he's one of our dear friends and that we can be a part of this ministry here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let me just put in a plug for tomorrow We've got a big day tomorrow as we conclude the project for Mexico. They are anxiously awaiting the scriptures. Recently had a call from one of the missionaries down there and uh he wanted to know how the project was progressing. He said we are in great need of the scriptures And so we want to uh get them down there just as soon as possible so that they can be distributed to the people. Hundred and fifty thousand strong will be going down there In addition to 15,000 New Testaments, and we also have uh some tracts that we want to send as well and uh evangelizing that country. Then we start on uh Burma, the Burmese scriptures Uh we'll be doing a hundred and fifty thousand of the John Romans, and I'm really excited about the Russian uh tra uh tracks and the Russian booklets that we'll be doing And it will be exciting to come here next year, the Lord willing, and be able to put those scriptures together. So, preacher, thank you for sponsoring another scripture assembly. We thank the Lord that the ministry is growing. And uh churches are opening their doors. A few years ago when we started this aspect of the ministry, there was just a few churches. I think there was five the first year, fifteen the next We're looking at 30 this year and possibly forty-five next year. And we're also praying for more team members uh that it won't be just forty-five, that we'll be able to see maybe ninety, a hundred, two hundred uh assemblies going on each year getting the Word of God uh put together for countries that so desperately need the scriptures. So thank you, preacher, for sponsoring another assembly. Folks, we need you to come out tomorrow, 1 o'clock in the afternoon, and then again at 6 o'clock tomorrow evening. Likewise on Tuesday, if the Lord carries, he's coming. And if he comes, Chip will continue on and complete that project. All right. He loves me. All right. If you have your Bibles, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 1 John, chapter number 5. The book of 1 John, chapter number 5. I'll read a couple verses of Scripture, and then we'll bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart for tonight. In the book of 1 John, chapter number 5, verse number 14 And this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that He hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that what we have, the petitions that we desired of Him. This morning in Sunday school we went to the school of prayer. And tonight I want to continue on that subject of prayer, the importance of prayer. And I want to talk to you this evening about praying with confidence I believe when we bend our knee and we go to the Lord in prayer, we need to be confident that He's there. We need to be confident that He hears. And we need to be confident that he's able to do what we're asking him to do. So we want to talk a bit about confidence tonight in this matter of prayer. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for this service this evening. We thank you, Lord, for each song that has been sung, the special music, how it touched and blessed our hearts, how we thank you, Lord, for this entire day. and the Spirit of God and how He worked in our hearts and lives. And I pray as we open up the scriptures tonight, the Holy Spirit would lead us in everything that we do and say May it be said, Lord, to honor thee, to exalt thee, to please thee, and to do what you want to do in each of our hearts and lives. I pray that Jesus would be exalted And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here tonight without Christ, not sure of salvation, not confident about heaven, that you would save their souls For Jesus' sake. Now bless your children, encourage their hearts, and we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the great attributes of faith is assurance. We can have assurance in what we have faith in. The Bible says that we have to believe that He is and that He is the rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. And thank God when we come to Him in prayer and we lay our needs and our requests before Him in prayer We can have the confidence that He rewards those that diligently seek Him. Prayer is a means of communication with God Prayer is the privilege that He has given us to come boldly to the throne of grace that we might obtain mercy and grace to help us in our time of need. So I'm thankful that as Christians this evening we can have confidence. I think of the Apostle Paul in 2 Timothy 1 and in verse number 12 when he said, For I know whom I have believed. And I am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Paul was fully, absolutely, positively, unmistakably persuaded on the ability of God to do exactly what he said he would do. And I believe when we come to the Lord in prayer, that's the kind of confidence that we need. We need to be assured and confident and fully persuaded in our heart that He is able to do what He has promised to do. And to know something means to be fully persuaded about it This little book of 1 John is a book about knowing. That word occurs a number of times. We can know that we're saved. We can know that we're children of God. We can know that we're heaven-bound. We can know that and be fully persuaded and assured of that Not mistaken about that, not hoping about that, but absolutely, positively, unmistakably assured that heaven is our home. And that when we draw our last breath, we will awake in heaven. Now that ought to comfort you tonight. That ought to encourage you this evening. That ought to get your blesser going. And that ought to make your amen or Sound a little bit. And all God's people said, Amen. Thank the Lord for the assurance and the confidence, the persuasion that the Word of God gives to us. When you have confidence, you don't have to worry. You don't have to be filled with doubt. You don't have to be wringing your hands. You don't have to be confused and bewildered in your mind. You can have that absolute confidence and assurance, and you do not have to be gripped with fear and uncertain about the days that are ahead. Now, in this book of 1 John. And primarily in chapter number five, we're going to find five certainties that we are assured of. First of all, there's the certainty of eternal life. In verse number 13, the Bible says, These things have I written unto you, that is the Word of God. primarily this book of first John. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. When you're talking to somebody about their soul's destiny, and they say, I hope I'm going to heaven, red flags. Red flags. People that have truly been born again are fully, absolutely confident and fully persuaded that they are heaven-bound. And the Bible says these things have I written to you that you may be fully persuaded, that you may have absolute confidence That to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And so there's that certainty of eternal life. But then I also see in this fifth chapter there's the certainty of answered prayer. The verses that we read to you in verse number 14 and verse number 15. And notice what he says in verse 15. And if we know. That he hears us. Aren't you thankful for that this evening? That we can go and he hears us. There are requests that every one of us have something on our heart tonight that weighs heavy. And you can be assured that when you go to the Lord, He hears you. He hears you. He doesn't give deaf ear. Have you ever spoken to someone and you wondered, do they really hear what I'm saying? I mean they have that blank look, that absent look, that dismissed look. Uh those of you that have raised children You know you know a little bit about what I'm saying. Uh uh take out the garbage. It didn't register Go clean your room, it didn't register. Clean the table, do the dishes, it didn't register. Eat all your broccoli It didn't register. There's that blank look, that empty look, that distant look, that dismissed look that they give to you. The same thing is true when we come to the Lord in prayer We don't have that dismissed and empty and forlong look. He hears what we say. He is tuned to your heart to your needs, to your burden, he is tuned to that and is able to answer what's on your heart. So there's the assurance and certainty of answered prayer. You also find the certainty of victory over sin. Isn't that good news? We do not have to sin Just as sure as the preacher was preaching this morning on adultery and the fact that it begins in the heart, then we choose We choose. We can't point an accusing finger at somebody else. We choose to go that route. All sin happens that way. We choose to take that road. We choose to do that deed. And there is that certainty in Scripture that we do not have to sin. Verse number 18 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. Now, that verse has given a lot of people trouble. And there are those who think that they can arrive at that lofted position of sinless perfection. Sorry. Sorry. In this frail and weakened condition that we live in, we are prone to sin. We don't have to, but we are prone to that. And you get out of the presence of the Lord and away from the prayer closet and absent yourself from the Word of God, sin becomes easy But the Bible tells us in verse number 18, Whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. Not only do we have victory over sin. When the Bible talks about we do not sin, I believe it's true that God's people do not have a continual, habitual practice of sin. Could I have a witness on that one? Truly born-again, bloodbought believers do not have a continual, habitual practice. of sin. And we have victory over that wicked one, the devil. The Bible in Ephesians chapter 6 talks very eloquently about the armor of God and that we can quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. The evil one, Satan. Didn't say most of them. It said all of them. We can quench them. We can deny their presence in our life. And so there's the certainty of victory over sin. Now, a lost man can do nothing but sin. Would you agree with that? He enjoys his sin. He's bound by his sin. He's blind concerning his sin. And he enjoys the very practice. He's a slave to it. He's a hater of God. And he's under the dominion and power and control of the devil himself There's also that certainty in this chapter concerning our belonging to God. The Bible says in verse number 19, and we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in. Wickedness. We've been bought with a price. We're not our own. The sooner a Christian learns that important and valuable lesson the easier traveling down the road of righteousness becomes. We're not our own We're to follow his lead, his example, and his commands. The thing I want you to primarily notice tonight is the certainty of answer prayer and the confidence that we can have in prayer. Prayer is an important aspect of the Christian life. It's not something, as I said this morning, that is optional. It's a It's an absolute necessity in your life and in mine. We can't go it alone. We can't face the trials and the tribulations and the hardships of life without the help of the Lord. We're in devil territory, and there is a raging battle between the forces of good and the forces of evil. And we need the help of God in order to stand up against those fiery darts and the battle that is raging all around us. So prayer is important to every Christian If you want the blessing of God on your life, you better learn to pray. I I believe he's in the blessing business. The last thing our Savior said before he departed from this earth was he raised his hands and he blessed his people. God wants to bless you. I believe he wants to bless us more than we want his blessing. And prayer is the essential ingredient that opens up the store chest of heaven to bring blessing into your life. If you want sweet fellowship with the Lord, you'd better learn to pray. You better have a place of prayer. You better enter into that prayer closet on a regular and daily repeated privilege of prayer. If you want power from God, you better learn to pray Would you agree with me this evening that little prayer, little power? More prayer, more power. Much prayer, much power. We need the power of God. The disciples were told to wait into the upper room until they be endued With power. And they prayed for a hundred and twenty days before they were endued with that power Prayer is laying hold on God's promises. It's the opening of heaven's door and the shutting of the devil's tools Prayer is trusting God in the darkest hours of life and being able to lay the burden before Him. God is able tonight. God is able this evening You are standing at the very threshold and open door of a radio ministry, a radio station, a full-fledged radio station here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and folks flying in from Holland is not coincidental. It's the plan of God. It's the putting together of of what God wants to do and and uh there's a need of finances you ought to be praying daily uh for that twenty-three thousand that is still needed in order to complete the project and get things rolling. And what a tremendous, tremendous tool it would be for this community to have that Christian radio station. I know uh what the one you have now is able to do and what you'll be able to do in the future will add to that and be a blessing in this community. God is the one that is able to make a way when everything seems to be so impossible. I'm sure there are those scratching their heads, where are we going to find $35,000? The last time I looked. God never takes from his resources, but he blesses us in accordance to his resources. So the supply is never empty. Oh, I think I'll just step over here and say amen to that myself. If you're not going to help me and go along with me in this, I mean it really costs if I have to do the amen in two. God is able to make a way when things seem to be impossible and there does not seem to be a way. That's what prayer is able to do. It's prayer and touching and laying hold of the ability of God that is able to break the habits that bind us. I was thinking of Brother Green and his smoking of uh corn silk. Aren't you glad he met the Lord? And he took the corn silk away from his lips and I found that rather intriguing and inviting. I've been thinking about corn I remember when we were young, uh we had just down the alley from our home what we called a cigar tree. I don't know If you've ever seen one of those things or not, uh they they in in the uh uh spring of the year they grow these long green things that looked just like a cigar. And uh I heard it called a cigar tree one day. And I decided that uh I would uh go down the alley and I would get one of those things and I I had a uh box of matches and uh we didn't have a barn to go out behind like brother green had but uh we did get one of those things and uh lit it up Now, if you think corn silk is rough sailing, you ought to try one of those green critters off of a cigar tree. My my granddaddy smoked cigars, so I kind of had a insight as to how you were to do this. Nip the end off of one end, nip the end off of the other end, put it in your mouth, lit that thing, and If you've never sucked on one of those things, one of those off of a tree, that is, you better have a real good sucker. I mean it took a while for everything to get up there. But when the explosion occurred, it was quite an explosion. I just simply say that if you're bound by habits this evening, irregardless of what that habit might be, God is able to break those habits and set the captive free. I'm thankful this evening that God is able to save the hardest of sinners. The hardest of hearts. Paul said that he was the cheapest of sinners, and God saved him. Shot him down on that road to Damascus and appeared before him and made him tremble in his shoes and brought him to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's not a sinner that graces the face of this earth that God is not able to say that he will come to him. I believe this evening that God is able to calm the most troubled of seas and make smooth sailing for us. He's able to search out and hunt down That wayward son, that wayward daughter, and bring them back to the foot of the old rugged cross. Restore them to sweet fellowship and harmony at home. And to bring those relationships into harmony for his own honor and glory. It's through prayer that things like that happen. But there's some important imperatives that are absolutely essential if we're going to pray with assurance and confidence. There's several words that I want to share with you. The first word that I want you to write down is the word confession. If you want to pray with confidence, you're going to have to be a person that is well aware and uses the privilege of confession. The Bible tells us in 1 John chapter 3 And in verse number 21, beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God. Whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Now you know, you know, listen to me You know when your heart stands in condemnation to you. That's what will keep you up at night That'll give you restless days and troubled seas and a worried conscience when your heart stands in condemnation, when it condemns you. The wisest thing to do and the simple thing to do is confess that sin and forsake it and repent of it to the glory of God. I don't know why, but God delights to forgive his children. He finds pleasure in it. Which of us could stand and say, I've never experienced the kind and gracious and merciful forgiveness of the Lord We we've all stubbed our toes and we've all skinned our sins and we've all made unwise decisions and chosen a wrong road to travel And I'm thankful that the Holy Spirit is able to arrest us and get us our attention and bring conviction to our souls. And if we want the prayer line to remain open, confession becomes absolutely essential in your life. The Bible says, beloved, if our heart condemns us not Then have we confidence toward God when sin is under the blood. Oh, I feel a shout coming on right now When it's under the blood, when it's all taken care of by the blood, we have access to God and we have confidence in God that He hears us when we pray. Oh my, what a blessing What a thrill, what a joy. There must be a clean heart. The Lord's hand is not short, and his ears not heavy. It's our iniquities that hide his face. Psalmist said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord does not hear us. Confession Enables us and is an imperative in this matter of confident pray. Second word I'd have you write down is the word obedience Take your Bibles and go to the book of John, chapter 15. The Gospel of John chapter 15, verse number 7. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall Be done unto you. When the Bible talks about abiding, it's talking about staying close to. If you stay close to the Lord, if you stay close to me, Jesus is saying If you focus your attention on me and walk with me and stay close to me and my words abide in you, you shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. That's obedience. And if you'll notice there's a condition. If these things are true, If they are true, if you abide in me, if my words abide in you, then and only then will you ask in accordance to my will, and it shall be done unto you. I say to you this evening that it's commendable that you memorize Scripture here at Mountain Lake Independence. That's a wise thing to do. A wise thing to do That's allowing the Word of God to stay in your heart and abide in you and stay close to you and help you along life's journey. And when you have the word, then you have the basis of prayer. So obedience is an imperative to having confidence in prayer The third word that I'd have you write down is the word asking. There's confession, there's obedience And the third word is asking. In the book of 1 John, chapter 5, and in verse number 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask, you know, that's really what prayer is all about. It's asking It's asking. You're beseeching him, you're entreating him for something that is of necessity Prayer is asking, and that word asking there means to crave. It means to desire. It means to call upon him for. That's what asking is You have to ask. Have you ever been hesitant to ask somebody for something? I I remember when we were raising our children, we had five of them. They they were all boys but four, and there were many a request that they had. Many a request But you could always tell when there was a hesitancy and an uncertainty and perhaps even an element of fear to ask mom or to ask dad. For what they wanted. You could see that. There was fidgeting. There was a wringing of the hands. You could tell something was on their mind. Something was troubling them, something they wanted to say, something they wanted to talk to you about. And there was a hesitancy Do you realize this evening we oughtn't to have any hesitancy when it comes to talking to our Heavenly Father? You can be assured that when you go to his throne of grace, he wants to help You can be assured when you go to the throne of grace that he abounds in love toward you. You can be assured when you go to the throne of grace that he has the ability to do whatever you're asking. But you're going to have to ask. And I I I I know I I know the argument, but if he already knows, before I ask, why is it necessary for me to ask? Because he said so. That ought to settle it right there. Don't try to figure out why you ought to ask, just start doing the asking And you're never going to see the ability and the power of God work until you start asking. A perfect example. You've been praying about Kazakhstan. Missionaries to go to Kazakhstan, to plant churches, to reach those people. Things have already started to happen Uh two, definite third possible missionaries gone to a country that has no independent Baptist Church Scriptures are already being prepared and worked upon to go into that country to be a witness. A trip is being planned to go there. Money's being There are those who have already said, I'll go, I'll go, I'll be a witness there, I'll do whatever we can there. We'll go search out the land. I'm telling you, God is answering your prayers. But it starts with asking. I often wonder what we have forfeited in life because we have What we've gone without because we haven't asked. The Bible says in John sixteen and twenty-four, ask and he will give it to you. you. The Bible says in James chapter 4 and verse 2, you have not, because you ask not. The Bible says in John 14 and 14, ask. I will do it. So prayer is asking. So we have the word confession, we have the word obedience, we have the word asking. And then the third, fourth word that I would share with you tonight That is absolutely imperative when it comes to confident praying is the word submission. 1 John 5 and 14, if we ask anything according to his will I think I've told you this before. I kinda always have wanted a Corvette. Is this on the international If there's dealers listening to me tonight If you download this sermon, I I hope I get 80 hits. And they all fall within the realm of car dealers and manufacturers of Corvettes. I always wanted a Corvette. I just kind of thought that would be kind of neat. And uh I don't know how I'd pull my house with it, but uh it would be rather neat to have a course I've I've always thought that. Um I've even asked for it. And as you can see, I don't have one And there's good reason why I don't have one. It's because he, my heavenly father, has not seen fit to give me one. He knows for sure I couldn't afford one. You'd have to anybody listening? If you feel led and persuaded and nudged by the Lord and would like to make a donation to a good ministry. We'd take it. But you notice what he says here. If we ask Not based upon the desires, the wants, the wishes, the dreams, the aspirations of our own heart, but if we ask in accordance to his will Now there's some things that we know are absolutely, positively, unmistakably the will of God. You don't have to conclude that prayer by saying, if it be thy will, I guarantee you when it comes to thy will To Corvettes and Cadillacs and whatever else you dream about, you'd better tag on to that if it be thy will. I can't find a verse in Scripture where I'm on good praying authority asking God to give me a Corvette, if it be thy will. And if anyone's listening that feels it might be, have at it. There has to be submission in prayer We are to ask on the basis of what he has promised. That's why we need to be well familiar with the promises of God. If you've got a promise, you've got a good ground to stand upon. The Bible says it's his will, none perish. You got loved ones you want to see safe? You're on good praying ground. to claim the promise of God and not give up on that prayer, bombarding heaven with sincerity And submission, I know it's your will, Lord. Save my dad, save my mom, save my brother, save my sister, save my son, my daughter, save my cousins, save my grandparents, save my next door neighbor You're on good, solid, unmistakable ground that's not shaky when it comes to the salvation of souls. It is his will, his desire that they be saved. Not only do we ask on the basis of what he has promised, but we ask on the basis of what he deems best. What he deems best. I have a Dodge truck, not a Corvette. He deems that best for me. And I'm hoping it's at this God knows what's best for us. He knows what would hurt us. He knows some people could not have a home like we have. He'd lay out a church You'd go to the lake. You'd find your favorite fishing hole. You'd absent yourself from church. So God won't give you that If you get it, it's going to be on your own terms, not his. I'm thankful that we have our home that we can take with us and stay in and be at assembly meetings like this and not not add a an additional burden to the church. Our our desire is to get out the scriptures, not camp along the lakeside. We ask on the basis of what he deems best. Then I'd say thirdly, we ask on the basis of what Is consistent with his character. If you ask according to my will, God's not going to do something for us that would be against his character. Asking. There's three things about the will of God. Number one, you better desire it. Number two, you'd better discern it. And number three, you'd better do it. Can I run that by you one more time? The will of God. You'd better desire it. Have a hungering in your soul to know the will of God. Number two, you'd better discern it. You'd better be able to discern the will of God. And number three, you'd better do it when you discern it. The will of God. Now let me give you the last one. We have what's the first one? Confession Number two, obedience. Number three, asking. Number four, submission. Number five Believing and receiving. Take your Bibles and go to the book of Matthew, chapter 21, and in verse number 22. The book of Matthew 21 and in verse number 22. All and all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing Ye shall receive. Do you know there's three conditions to answer prayer like that? In Mark 11, in verse number 24, the Bible says, Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them. And you shall have them. The first thing that is absolutely essential for prayer to be answered is faith in God. Faith in God. Absolute confidence and trust and belief in God. He tells us that in verse number 22. And Jesus answering said unto them, Have faith in God When you have faith in God, you can say to that unmovable distraction and mountain that is in front of you, Be thou removed, and it can be cast into the sea. Now, a mountain is anything that stands in your way of doing the will of God. Anything that is an obstruction to keep you away from the blessing of God. When you have faith in God, come and say In God, you can say to that obstruction, to that mountain, to that obstacle that stands in your way, be thou removed. And you're believing God I think the second essential to answered prayer is expectation if you believe If you desire and you believe, the Bible says that when you pray, you will receive them and you shall have them. Verse number 24. And then I think thirdly, forgiveness. We'll never get our prayers answered if we have aught in our heart against somebody else. It's an obstruction. It's a hindrance. It stands in our way of getting through to God. If we can't forgive one another and be at harmony with each other, whether it be in the home, in the church house, the next door neighbor You're not going to get your prayers answered if there's an unforgiving spirit that has gripped your heart. So believing has a lot to do with Receiving. I'm thankful that there's blessings to receive tonight. A prayer invitation that has been extended for you and for me to come boldly to the throne of grace that we might have You you'd better you'd better believe that you might receive. You better You'd better come in submission and confession. You'd better come in obedience. You'd better come that way to his throne that he can pour out his richest profound profound blessings upon you and upon me. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed in prayer. We're gonna have a song of invitation in just a moment. And I don't know how your prayer life is, but my how important it is. to your Christian life.