Matthew chapter nine. I'm going to do something tonight that is extremely rare on two counts. I mean extremely rare. One is I'm not going to preach my planned message for tonight. I felt like the Lord directed a little different way, and that doesn't happen very often. uh maybe, you know, it maybe once or twice a year I might uh change what I was intending to preach. So that's rare, that thought. The other is this, and this is extremely rare I may have done this two or three times in the almost 31 years I've been here. I'm going to preach a message that I preached before. I hardly ever, ever do that. Like I said, maybe two, three times over all these years. But it was just on my heart, and if you'll forgive me, I am, during this time of year, I am consumed with missions. I mean, it's on my heart and mind getting the gospel out around the world and what our church can and should do in getting the gospel around the world. So I want to talk tonight about prayer and missions. Prayer and missions. And uh like I said, I think it was about twelve years ago I preached this, uh 10, 12 years ago, and so maybe in 10, 12 years I might preach it again. I don't know. Matthew chapter number nine, and if you would vote, notice verse number 36. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, it says, when he saw the multitudes He's looking out at these crowds of people unsaved. He saw the multitudes. He was moved with compassion on them. Because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep, having no shepherd. They have no direction in life, no purpose, just living for the here and now. Verse 37, then he said unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous. Would you agree with me as we look out around our world, the nations of our world, our cities here in our own country, would you agree with me the harvest is plenteous? And like I said this morning and Evan touched on it, I believe in at least in our region right here, there is a hunger for the Word of God that I've not seen in the years that I've been here. I really believe that. The harvest truly is plenteous. Now here's the thing, but the labors are few. Those going out into the harvest, those going to the fields, those going to the nations, the cities, towns. Then here's the Lord's solution to this lack of laborers. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labors into his harvest. Pray. Prayer and missions. Let's have a word of prayer and then I'll share my thoughts tonight. Father, we come to you this Sunday night before our big week. And I'm just asking that you would use these thoughts, these biblical thoughts, to stir us and challenge us and help us, to prepare our hearts and minds. And Lord, we look at our world and we're just in dismay at the spiritual state of our nation and so many countries with little or no witness. And we're asking that you would help us to have a part in meeting that need and making a difference. So I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, you know missions has been so huge in my life, in my mind, my heart. And I pray that you would Stir us this matter of prayer and missions. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One of my favorite authors, E. M. Bounds was a preacher during the Civil War. He wrote tremendous books on prayer, classics. He made this statement. He said, the greatest person that a person can know is the Son of God, Jesus Christ. Sometimes folks will like to drop names. Oh yeah, I know this famous person. I know that famous person. I'm telling you, the greatest person that anybody could ever know is the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, the greatest knowledge a person can have is knowledge of the will of God. The greatest book a person can study is the Word of God. The greatest cause a person can advance is the kingdom of God. And then he tacked this on. Then he made this. He said, but without earnest prayer at the throne of God All this knowledge is of little value. Prayer. Donna Rice, again, a powerful influence in my daddy's life, evangelists of years gone by. and the influence in my life, he made this statement. He said, all our failures are prayer failures. He said, little prayer Produces little power, little success. Much prayer produces much power, much success And no prayer produces no power and no success. The importance of prayer in the Christian light I think each year that goes by, I become more convinced that the greatest need in missions is not more money. Um and money is a factor, and we're gonna take promises, commitments to give financially to missions this year. But I don't think that's the greatest need. in our missions program. Uh I don't think it's more organization. In fact, there's probably more money being given to missions now than ever in the history of the church, financially, money-wise Numbers-wise. There's probably greater organization in our missions agencies than we've ever had before Um I don't think the great need in our missions is uh even manpower. Now we are hurting on missionaries The numbers are going down, the number of missionaries that are going around the world. I hate to say that. I hate to give the devil or even give that credit, acknowledgement, recognition, but the fact of the matter is Our missionary numbers are going down, not up. I think the greatest need isn't more money or better organization or even more manpower. I think the greatest need is more prayer. Earnest prayer I think if our prayers are what they ought to be, our finances will be what they ought to be. I think if our prayers are what to be, the organization will have the effectiveness that it ought to have, and the manpower will be there. Jesus said here in our text, he said, the harvest is great, but the laborers are few. And his solution to that problem wasn't raising more money. The harvest is great, the laborers are few. Fellows, we've got to raise more money. That's not what he said. He didn't say, fellows, we got to develop a greater method and organization to get the gospel out. He didn't say that. The harvest is great, the laborers are few. We need better training on missions and soul winning, better programs in our colleges. He didn't say that. He said the harvest is great, the labor is there. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of harvest. I think shame on us, and I'm including myself here. Shame on believers, churches like ours That pray so little for our missions program. I was, I got thinking this, I was looking over this earlier today, and when's the last time I spent just one hour Praying for our missionaries and for countries and needs around the world, people in cities, in Central Asia, cities of millions with no witness, no witness. Prayer, prayer. If we're not careful, our missions thinking we become materialistic in it. We think about the money we're given. And again, we're not discarding that. That is a necessary part. But if that's all, that's that if that's our starting point. is materialistic things, our programs, our efforts. I think we're in we've got to be careful. We don't let that happen. I open scripture and I look at what the Bible teaches about missions and it's all through scripture. Missions is all through scripture. Dr. Creed said to me one time, he says, fellows come to me and they said no matter what Uh Dr. Krieg was telling me this. He said preachers will say to him, no matter where you're at in the Bible, you're preaching on missions. He goes, uh how do you get missions out of the Bible? He says, because the Bible is full of missions It's all over in it. But I went up in the scriptures, I see that missions begins with God. It's God's idea. A church like ours committing ourselves to do everything we can to get the gospel around all the world, that's God's idea He's the one that instructed us. He's the one that designed that. It's God's idea. It begins with God and it's carried out by prayer. It's carried out by prayer. I think, and I said this before, and I'm kind of jumping around here a little bit, but I don't believe we ought to be haphazard when we make a commitment to missions. Would you agree with me? A person ought not to just haphazardly dedicate themselves to go to the mission field. That's a decision that needs to be prayed over and thought through. And given serious concern. Would you agree with me on that? Sure. Young couples say, oh, we're going to go to Russia. Well, have you prayed about that? Have you sought the Lord? Are you confident that's God's will? I think that you don't do that haphazardly. And equally, when we make a commitment next week to support missions, we shouldn't do it haphazardly. We ought to be praying. Lord, show me what you'd have me to do. What is my part? Lord, make it clear in my heart and mind what I should do. Maybe we ought to pray first of all, Lord, do you want me to go to the mission field? And determine that. Lord, should I go? I've had this approach for years, and I've said this before, but I assumed that God wanted me to go to the mission field until he convinced me otherwise. That's a good approach, Lord. I'm assuming you want me to go to the mission field. Now, if not, then you make it clear and you keep me here. But it ought to be prayed over. whether we should go or not, and then what we should give and how much we should give. More than any other aspect of our Christian life, missions, reaching the lost, is spiritual combat. I'm telling you right now, and I'm speaking from absolute experience, and some of you will agree with me on this, the devil will fight a soul-winning, missions-minded ministry and church more than anything else. I'm telling you right now, he is absolutely opposed to what this church is doing this coming week and throughout the year. I am telling you that. Spiritual missions is spiritual warfare on every level. And the devil will not fight anything more than a missions endeavor. And God will not bless anything more than he will a missions endeavor. And if the devil can get us off track on missions, then he's got us off track. Here's my thoughts. I got a couple minutes. Let me give them to you real quickly. Number one, it's in response to prayer that God calls missionaries. It's in response to prayer. How many people agree with me? We need more missionaries around the world. You agree with me? Sure. How many people agree with me we need more pastors to fill empty pulpits across our country? Good night. We see that firsthand. How many people agree with me we need more church planners, go in towns, cities, start churches I believe Morgantown could use some churches. I think Kaiser, in that area down there, there's a couple good ones. I think uh Cumberland there's a couple good ones. But goodness. It's in response to prayer that God raises people up for this. His instructions concerning the need for missions was pray. Not missions conferences, not college courses, and not even mission trips. And all those are vital. I love our missions conference. I thank God for mission Bible colleges that are training missionaries These mission trips we've gone on all these 30 years. We've been taking groups on mission trips. They've been powerful. Brian Schofield and I were talking this morning And he said the first mission trip he went on down to Puerto Rico, he says, I learned so much, and God used that to impact my life in such a powerful way. But above that, that wasn't the solution. The Lord said, pray. Before he sent out his 12 disciples, he spent the night in prayer. Acts chapter 13, it's where you have Paul and Barnabas are called of God to go out on this missionary journey. And if you study it very carefully, that church was praying before God called them to go. They were fasting and praying. The church doesn't call missionaries, and I know I'm being repetitious. I said this this morning in Sunday school. The church doesn't call missionaries. God calls missionaries, and the church sends them We send them out. God calls them. We can't, I can't appoint somebody, Brother Mark and Jackie, you're going to be missionaries to Mongolia. Doesn't work that way. I think they'd do great in Mongolia. They'd fit right in, probably. But that's God's prerogative. God calls. Couples and people to go to the mission field. Then he says, Alright, church, I'm calling these folks to I'm calling Paul and Sil uh Barnabas I'm calling them to go on this mission trip, and they're going to go start churches and preach in the regions beyond. Now, church, your job is to support them. You get them there. You send them out and get them there. In prayer, in prayer. Oh, by the way, the preacher doesn't call out missionaries. The preacher's job is to train them The church doesn't call out missionaries, it sends them. By the way, mama doesn't call missionaries either. I don't want anybody, I don't want to support a missionary. It's the only reason they're on the field is because mama sent them there And by the way, mamas ought to not to keep them off the mission field either. That's a danger. My little baby ain't going to Africa, I'll tell you that right now. Brother, you better take that up with God. If God calls your little baby to go to Africa, you better train them to go to Africa. So mamas don't call missionaries, they raise them up Every Christian parent ought to be raising their children to be a missionary somewhere. So prayer, it's in response to prayer that God calls missionaries. We lament the lack of missionaries going to the more foreign mission field and we blame society. We blame schools. Well, kids these days. I'm afraid it's not the kids. It's not the schools. It's not society. I wonder if it's our lack of prayer. The Lord said, the harvest is great, the labors are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labors. Praying, praying, praying. Number two. It's in response to prayer that God provides the material needs of missionaries. It's in prayer we pray that God will lay on our hearts what we give, and then that way the material needs of missionaries are met. But it's in response to prayer. Sometimes someone says, and I've thought this, you know, you just get goofy in your thinking, but I've thought this, boy, you know, if we just had about four or five millionaires in our church We could really do something for missions. Anybody ever think that way? Come on now. Man, if we just had a couple millionaires, if if Elon Musk would just get saved and join our church Man, we could do something for missions. I got news for you. We got somebody in our church that Elon Musk is a beggar compared to. That's God Almighty Himself. We've got God. Don't tell me God can't provide what needs to be provided to get the gospel all around the world. We just need to get a hold of him. We just need to get in tune with him and let him work through us. So, uh, Matthew chapter seven Verse seven he says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it'll be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh it'll be opened unto him. You know, we take that as a great prayer promise, and we come to God with that promise because we ask for a bigger house. And we want a nicer car. And Lord, you said if we asked, you would give. And we want a nicer, newer four-wheeler, and we want nicer clothes And I don't believe for one minute God gave these prayer promises so you and I can live high on the hog in luxury and eat filet mignon and shrimp and steak. I believe God gives prayer promises so that we can pray and get the resources we need to get the gospel around the world. A thousand years from now, every one of us are going to be in the presence of God. And what kind of food we ate, what kind of clothes we wore will be meaningless, but the souls that we were able to bring to Christ will last forever with us in heaven. And we forget that. And so it's through prayer that God provides for the material needs of missionaries. Number three. It's through prayer that spiritual strongholds that keep nations in darkness and close to the gospel are broken down. We don't have time. We could do just month series on some of this. But I think Daniel chapter 10 makes it clear that Satan has some of his devils. As princes as have strongholds over certain countries and certain cities My wife, my family, and I lived in Boulder, Colorado. If you've been in Boulder, Colorado, at the time we were there, it was the New Age Capital of the World. Headlines on the local newspaper, New Age Capital of the World, Boulder, Colorado. You come up from Denver, I think I can't remember the street the roads, I think it was 26, 36, the ro route. Came up out of Denver, you come up over this hill and you drop down, there's Boulder Valley in the city down in there. And at night we come up uh come up over that and there's been so many occasions when we came up over that hill uh my wife and I, boys in the back, we come up over that hill and look down on the city, coming down, we lived right down in the middle of it, you could just sense a spiritual evil. As you entered into that city. You could just feel it. And I know that sounds spooky and silly, but I'm telling you, you could sense the presence of evil as you entered into that city. Talk to Chuck Harding, he'll say the same thing about Washington, D. C. He says he's down there, you can sense the presence of evil. I believe Satan has strongholds in cities and entire nations that makes it so difficult to get the gospel into those countries. That makes it so difficult to get the Word of God into cities and areas because there's a spiritual stronghold there, a spiritual strong man. Study Daniel chapter 10. It's pretty clear there. So how do we break down these strongholds? Well, if we had enough money, I'm telling you, all the money in the world is not going to break down a spiritual stronghold. We can have the greatest organization in the world. It's not going to break down these spiritual strongholds. We can have the best training, the sharpest people you can possibly train. It's not going to break down spiritual strongholds. There's only one thing going to break down the devil's spiritual strongholds, and that is earnest, earnest, godly prayer. Except the man buy, Jesus put it this way, how can you enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods except you first bind that strong man? And prayer, through prayer, we can bind the strong men, the demonic influences that keep the gospel out through prayer We can break those down. Break those down. Devil has set up house and countries and communities all around this planet. And God's people are the ones that can break down those strong houses by prayer, by prayer, effectual, fervent prayers of righteous men and women. Number four, my last thought is this, and I'll end. It's prayer that attains the wisdom for the issues and situations missionaries face around the world. I'm telling you, these missionaries are injected into situations and circumstances that you and I know nothing about. They have to make decisions that have eternal consequences on a regular basis. As they deal with foreign countries, they deal with strange societies in some cases, called hard societies. And they need wisdom to know what decisions to make and where are they going to use the meager resources. I don't know, a missionary in the world that has more finances than they need. And they need wisdom when we able to use the resources they have and where to where to put it and how to use it and how to approach and how do I deal with this And that wisdom comes from the prayers of God's people. Is everybody with me tonight? James chapter 1, verse 5 says, if any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and abraid not, and it shall be given him. Wisdom. We need to pray for our missionaries that God gives them wisdom. They are under assault in ways, they are under spiritual attack in ways you and I will never dream. When I became pastor, when Kathy and I took the responsibility of pastor, uh as pastor here and the leadership, I tell you we entered a spiritual warfare we never dreamed of. And it's hard to explain, but I'm telling you, it is as real as this wooden pulpit I'm standing behind right now. And these missionaries out on the field in the front lines of attacking the gates of hell with the gospel They need our prayers. They need our prayers. They need wisdom. Dealing with governments and cultures. We need to pray earnestly. Pray earnestly. I'm asking this. That our missions conference this year be more than just a missions conference, it'd be a prayer conference. Just praying, praying, praying, praying, praying. It's a family, get together, extra prayer. Praying for the missions conference, praying for our will, our role in it. God raise up missionaries. God bless the missionaries. We have protect them, give them wisdom. Just pray for that. I'm going to ask you to pray two things, and I know I'm repetitious on it, so so humor me a little if you would. But number one, pray between now and next Sunday. Would you pray whether it's God's will for you to go to the mission field or not? You say, preacher, I'm older, I'm a uh that's all right, just pray. If it's not God's will, He'll make it clear. Well, we don't want to go against the will of God, right? So we ask God, make it, is it your will for me to go? And pray and ask the Lord sincerely, Lord, do you want me to go? And then number two, pray this, Lord, what do you want me to give? I'll support. I I said this last week, I think. These missionaries are giving 100%. It's total surrender, total commitment when they go. This couple going to Iceland. It's total commitment. They're going to spend Five, six months of the year in total darkness, day and night, 24-7, several months. They're committed to this. They're leaving their homes behind. Selling their houses, going. I believe that same level of commitment on the part of those going ought to be on the part of those supporting them. Lord, 100% I support them. Everything I possibly can, I want to support and get it there. And that's been my approach. So pray. Is it the Lord's will for you to go? Or, if not, then Lord, what is my role in giving? What level? Where do you want me at in giving to get missionaries to the field? Several years ago, I don't remember man how long this was, Robin Robin went on this trip up to uh James Bay in Canada. Was that fifteen years ago, maybe, ten? Twenty years ago. So 15 probably. 15 years ago, we took a trip up to James Bay. Dr. Gary Forney is with the Lord now. faithful missionary up in north uh the the Arctic Circle, just tremendous work. So we put together a group. We went up there, Sue D. Garden was in on that and a bunch. Yeah, Betty went, that's right. And uh we got up there, drove hours and hours and hours, got up on the James Bay. There was little there was little communities of Native Americans, Indians. up there. Not really Eskimos, but they would live in a town of six, eight, nine hundred. And then that was just a close committee. Then you would drive for like three, four hours through this tundra And there'd be another community beside the Big James Bay, and there'd be six, eight hundred people live there. And you drive another two, three hours, and here's another community. And they were each their own little community, isolated by two, three, four-hour drives. And we'd show up. We had boxes of our Romans booklets. And we'd show up and we'd just go through that town, start handing them out. They all spoke English. We got to one little town. It was called East Maine. In Quebec, Canada. It's right on the James Bay. I think there were 600 people lived there. They had their own little radio station. They had the council. The Indian Council runs it. When we got there, it was pouring down torrential rain. Do you remember this? I mean it was torrential rain. So we got a little they had a little diner type thing there. We went in. And we're just waiting for the rain to quit so we can start giving us out where they're talking this. Big old fella, Indian fella, comes over to us And he says, um, uh, what are y'all doing? Who are you? Where are you from? We say, oh, we're Americans, we're up here, and uh, we're giving out gospel literature. And he said, can I see it? And we said, sure. And Brother Forney got it out there and handed it to him and he got looking at it. And um I thought I had oh Roger Weaponanaiko. Wepananaiko. He was Indian. Big old guy. He came up and said, he looked at it and he says, how many of these do you have? And we said, we have thousands. We have a whole truckload, a trailer load out there. We've got plenty. He goes, I'm going to get on the radio. They ran their own little radio station. I'm going to tell the he was the lead he was head of the Indian Council that ran that place. He says, I'm going to tell the radio announcer that there's Americans coming by with the word of God and everybody needs to take one. And it started going out of the radio. So it quit raining and we went out and we'd just go door to door and we'd hand them out, just knock on the door, here you go, here's the word of God And every you can hear in the radio background, Americans are bringing the word of God to our community I'm telling you, it got stirred up. He wanted us to stay for a couple weeks. He wanted us to hold a revival meeting in their community center there, a week-long revival meeting, preach and tell people how to get saved. He said, Will you come on the radio station and tell people on the radio station how to be saved? And we only had one afternoon. That was all we had. We had no options. So we said, we can't do all those things. We'll do our best to get somebody to come back here. But we'll leave our literature with you. And he said, we will keep this and we will use this. He made this statement He goes, we have been praying that we want to be a Christian people. He said, We've been having Bible studies, brother. Porney asking me, so what are you using for your Bible studies? And they had different versions, a couple different things, but they had these guidepost magazines. Anybody familiar with that? I think it's a Catholic paper, actually Very very watered down at the best. And he said, We've been studying this. We said, Well, here, you use these booklets. This is straight from the Word of God. And we did everything we can to leave behind. I'll tell you, we left there brokenhearted, for a community so hungry. For somebody to come and teach them the gospel about the Lord Jesus Christ. I was able to communicate with Roger a little bit for the next year or so. We sent sermon uh our CDs, we would send them up there to them and they would play them on the radio and and stuff up there from our Sunday services. He wrote me one time, he says, uh we need Bibles And he says, I think we need the King James Bible. I said, well, we got some of them. And so we sent several cases of Bibles up to him. Lost touch with them over the years. Brother Forney worked hard to try and get a pilot that could fly in there and do Bible studies and preach. And I don't know how it ever came out, but I tell you, I came away from that with a broken heart. Of towns like that all around our country that need, are hungry for Christ. And we can do something We can pray and ask God to use us. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us as we go into our missions week. And I know, Lord, I'm making a big deal, but I think it is a big deal in heaven. And I pray you'd stir our hearts. We pray for those folks up in Canada. I don't know whatever came of them. We did what we could, we felt Pray for others around the world that you'd stir us and just show us what we can do, what difference we can make. And getting the gospel out. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many people will do this? You'll say, preacher, I'll commit the next few days. This next week, I'll pray. I'm going to pray extra I'm going to pray specific that God will bless this endeavor and God will lead and direct each one of us individually. Any like that? Can we get anybody preacher? I come in. I'm going to pray to that. God bless you And maybe we can finish out this Lord's day before we go into this week at an old altar and just say, Lord, lead us, direct us, make your will be perfectly clear in our hearts and minds. And help us to have faith that trust you and let you have your way. Father bless, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together