1 Samuel chapter 23, I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. We'll read down through verse 6. And of course we're studying the life of King David, and he is right in the middle here. If you remember the other week I said I I mentioned I I thought I saw a little turning point in the in the thinking of David, trying to get into his head and how he's dealing with King Saul, chasing him around trying to kill him He kind of, uh, I don't know how you see it, but I see it, he kind of panicked there for a while and uh was just kind of reacting to things. But he settled down in chapter 22 when he got into that cave of Adulum And kind of got alone there for a little bit and settled down a little bit. And it seems to be a a change in his thinking and his approach to his situation. And it comes out here, I think, in our text for tonight. Look at verse number one. Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keelah, and they rob the threshing floors. Therefore, David, now this is the first time that I can find we have record of David seeking the Lord directly in prayer himself. Therefore, David inquired of the Lord. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty good idea. Pretty good idea. Therefore David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And the Lord said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines and save Keilah. I don't know about you, but that questionnaire he says, shall I go and smite them? It sounds like a lot of confidence there, doesn't it? He doesn't say, shall I go and try? Shall I go and deal with these? In David's mind, I can I can deal with these guys And David's man to him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines? Then David inquired of the Lord yet again. And the Lord answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keelah, for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand. So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines and brought away their cattle and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah. And it came to pass when Abathar, the son of Ahimelech, fled to David to Kelah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand. I just titled it and I kind of see this in here. I called it Prayer and Faith. Prayer and Faith. He prayed and he acted in faith. So let's ask the Lord to teach us from this here tonight. Father in heaven. We bow before you again here with our Bibles open in front of us, this life of David that you've recorded so many thousand years ago, and yet here we are learning lessons from his life. So I ask that you would teach us. Teach us to pray. Teach us to trust you and to follow your leadership. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will again and as uh do over and over, present my body anew. That your Holy Spirit, the author of this book here, would teach us and apply to our lives the lessons that are taught here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I got thinking about David and the record of David in the Bible, and with the exception of Jacob We have uh one of the most detailed accounts of uh someone's life in the Bible. The only one other than than David that I can find in the Bible that is given more detail, it's referenced more than David is Jacob. Jacob is referenced, mentioned 2,948 times in the Bible. Jacob is referenced. David comes in behind that, and I don't have the figure. He's number two mentioned in the Bible. And so God has given us a pretty detailed record of David's life And I want to suggest to you there's a reason for that. Everything God does, He does for a reason. And I think there are principles. about faith that we can learn from the life of David. We can observe how many people learn how many people You're able to learn things a little better if you can see it played out in front of you rather than just explain to you. Anybody know? Did you ever get a job and they're trying to tell you what to do, how to do this, whatever, and you're kind of trying to take it in. But then they say, here, let me show you And then they go and do whatever. And they say, oh, yeah, okay, I see. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think that's what God's doing for us, and not just David throughout Scripture. He has he gives he gives us principles of faith, and then he records for us somebody's experience that so we can watch and see how that plays out And so there's principles of faith here we learn from David's life. What we've already seen, and I wish I could say it's behind him. But we're also going to, we also see in the life of David some problems that arise when we take things into our own hands. Now, as I mentioned, we already saw that a little bit here, and I uh uh I would like to say, well David's got that settled, but we're going to see that comes up again. And uh how many folks here in your Christian life you thought you had something taken care of, and lo and behold, it raises its ugly head again? Sure. It's part of Christian life. And we see it in David. It's a very real thing. And then we've been emphasizing this. We see how God prepares people for future service. I believe this whole section here, as I've been saying over and over again, is David's preparation. David's preparation for a phenomenal responsibility he's going to have. And so we're looking at David, we're studying his life, we see principles. of living by faith played out for us. We see problems, not living by faith, taking things in our own hands, and we see how God prepares people for service. Now the other thing I want to touch on and by way of introduction are these Philistines again. They keep showing up over and over and over again, these stinking Philistines. They were perpetual enemies of Israel I mean just over and over and over again. They were powerful enemies of Israel, perhaps one of Israel's most formidable foes. Israel had problems with the Philistines the whole time. They could not seem to extinguish these Philistines. They keep coming back again and again, again. And I pointed out early on in our study And we're we're seeing it, they are relentless. They are absolutely relentless. The Philistines' ability to be completely destroyed by Israel and then to regroup and rearm themselves and come back again is uh is a And there's a lot of spiritual uh allegory there maybe in how that um we can seem to have such good tremendous victory in our Christian life. There can be some sin, some area of unbelief, or some area we struggle with. And man, we think we've got that thing licked. We'll have revival meeting. We'll make decisions. We'll take action And then I've got that in place, and lo and behold, poom, it comes right back again. Anyone know what I'm talking about there? And so these Philistines. Now this is what I'm getting at, and I think you'll see how where I'm going with this maybe here in a little bit. The Philistines, because of their tenacity Because of how powerful they were and determined they were, they required constant vigilance on the part of Israel. Israel could not slack up Israel could not be negligent in their um in their dealing with uh the Philistines. They they had to stay aware at all times. Now who would the responsibility, whose shoulders would the responsibility fall on to make sure Israel is vigilant in their defense against the Philistines. Whose responsibility would that be? King Saul. It's the king's responsibility. First and foremost, one of his first and foremost responsibilities is to provide and lead in the defense of their country That was the responsibility of the king. He's the head of the military. Question, I'm wondering, has King Saul allowed his hatred for David To distract him from his responsibility as king in defending the nation. That's one of his top responsibilities So here we find the Philistines I I'm I'm just wondering, are the Philistines seeing they're not stupid? Um, I'm telling you, they got people infiltrating the the country. We you know, we're not giving every detail about everything that happens, and I'm telling you, the Philistines had people infiltrated that knew exactly what was going on. There's no doubt about it. They knew what King Saul was up to. They knew where he was at. They weren't stupid. And I'm wondering if the Philistines notice that King Saul is distracted and they take advantage of that. And we have what we see taking place here in chapter 23. Now I want to get right into my outline. I like to break down, I like to outline stuff and try and make it, put it in bite-sized sections. And I notice in verse number one, I notice there's a report that comes to King David. Or not King David, that comes to David. He's not king yet. Look at verse 1. Then they told David. saying, behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah and they rob the threshing floor. So this report comes to David. They told David. Now, I don't know about you, but there's a question comes to my mind when I read those first three, four words. They told, then they told David. What's the question comes to mind? Who told him? Well, yeah, that that's the question that comes to my mind. Um, but that's a good question. Well, here's my question. Why are they telling David, why aren't they telling the king? He's the one responsible. He's the king. He's the head of the military. Aha. I am getting the impression that the people of Israel have more confidence in this young man David than they do in the anointed king of their country Um I David obviously has not lost his credibil credibility with the people of Israel. They trust David. Now it's it's not and I'm Little bit, but I'm getting the impression that the people of Israel, at least the people, the citizens of this uh this city, Keilah They don't have a whole lot of confidence in the king. They're going to the one that they believe can help them. And I thought it was very, very interesting that they don't go to David But they go to uh they go to they don't go to the King Saul, they go to David. Um I put this down. David's loyalty and integrity, I believe. are speaking louder than Saul's slander and hatred. Saul's going around running David down. Saul's going around trying to recruit people to kill David But David is not responding in kind. David refuses to retaliate, and we're going to see that a little in the coming chapters very clearly He refuses to retaliate. He refuses to respond in kind. David simply does what's right. And the people trust him, and the people trust him. Now there's a lesson to be learned there, I believe. When someone gives us a hard time, when someone slanders us, and by the way, if you live for God at all, if you try and do right at all in this whole world, You're gonna end up running folks that are gonna try and slander you, they're gonna try and say things about you. I shortly after I got saved the meat pack implant, man, it it started right away. They're gonna try and discredit your faith, they're gonna try and discredit your testimony And there's a lesson to be learned here. Rather than retaliating, rather than trying to respond in kind, oh yeah, well, rather than doing any of that, I think the best thing to do is just do what's right Just answer not a word. That's what the Lord Jesus did. They slandered him. Just answer not a word and just go on and do right. And I'm telling you, integrity speaks louder than slander. And they can say what they want. You say, well, yeah, but if they're saying all this stuff, they're going to believe the sooner or later they're going to start believing King Saul. No, no, no, you just do right, just do right, just do right. And that will come through. So David refused to retaliate. He refuses to respond in kind. And Israel is trusting him. Now notice a few things here in this verse. Then they told David. It's interesting, they come to David, but look what they said. Behold, the Philistines Fight against Keilah. Now we're introduced to this little town called Keilah. It's actually not a little town. It's a pretty good significant city in Israel. The interesting thing about Keilah is this. I got looking up where it's located at. And it is in the r it's in the very area where David was at. He did not, in other words, he didn't have to go very far. To get to this city of Keilah. Now here's a question. How did David end up where he is? Come back to chapter 22. Something interesting here. And look at verse number 5. David was in the cave there at Adulum, and he settles down and these uh his family comes out. Remember, his family comes out and they're with him and he takes care of them, gets them over there with the king of Moab. Then this crew, this distressed and indebted and discontented crew shows up. I mean, this is a motley crew. 400 of them show up But then somebody else comes on the scene in verse 5. We looked at this a little bit. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hole. Depart and get thee to the land of Judah. God, through the prophet Gad, is directing David over into the area where Kelah is. In other words, it's not just coincidence that David is where he's at. I believe God had this all planned out, and God was directing him through the prophet. to get him over there. Now the city Kiva itself is a very heavily fortified city. It is it is a it is a uh uh a very, very fortified city. It was on generally it would be a very safe place. And I'm told, as I studied about this, the surrounding area have a city, very fortified. They're pretty uh pretty solid. And around they have the very rich fertile farmland. Very, very, uh, very, very productive in grains and those types of things. So this, Keilah, though it's heavily fortified, is a very lucrative target for the Philistines. They're coming in there, and did you notice what it says there? It's Um the Philistines fight against Keela and uh they're not so much interested in possessing the land uh the city, they're not so much interested in slaughtering the citizens. What are they after? Look at look at ver Lando verse one there. What are they after? They want to rob the threshing floors. Uh pretty clever tactic. Here's what they're doing. The Philistines are watching. It's harvest time apparently. They'll wait till all the grain, everything, the the citizens of Keilah, they harvest all the grain, they bring it in, they do all the work, they haul it into the city, they got the threshing floors probably outside the walls of the city. And they do all the threshing and the grain is just ready to take in and to be processed for their food, and then whoom, they show up and they take all the grain They let the Israelites do all the work. They let the Israelit do all the harvesting, all the threshing and all of that. Then they come in and haul it off. Pretty clever. By the way, it was very common That was a tactic not just by the Philistines, but do you remember back in Judges, remember a fellow by the name of Gideon? Anybody remember Gideon? And who were harassing the Israelites when Gideon was around? It was the Midianites. And they did the exact same thing. You can go back, I forget what chapter it is, 13, I think, maybe, and Judges chapter 6. And you can go back there and read it. And the Midianites did the very exact same thing. They would wait until thr harvest time and threshing, then they would just come in like a horde and overrun everybody, take all the crops, and they'd leave. Then the next time they come in again. And if you remember, what was Gideon doing? If anybody remembers, this is Bible trivia testing time. What was Gideon doing when the angel approached him? He was thrashing the the grain. He was doing it behind a wall. And I always wondered, everybody says that Gideon was a coward, that he was afraid. I don't think so. I think he was a pretty brave guy. He's out there threshing that grain. When the Midians are constantly harassing them, he's not cowering in a basement somewhere. He's out there trying to get something done. So nevertheless, it was a very clever tactic and a very common tactic. So yeah, this report comes to David The Philistines are robbing the threshing floors of Keilah. Now it gets interesting. Here's where we can start learning some lessons. I notice, second of all, David's response to this report. Look at verse 2. Therefore, David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? So David responds, I see two responses on David's part. Number one, I see David showing some concern. He cares about what's taken place here. Now that's implied in his response. I can see some people say This report comes, he's got his he's got these 400 guys, they're all in debt, they're all stressed out, they're all discontented, they're miserable lot He's got Saul trying to kill him with the entire army of Israel. He's he's uh he he he's uh running for his life, and I could hear somebody saying, you know I'm sorry for the folks there in Keelah, the Kila Heights or whatever they called them. I'm very sorry for them. That's tough. But you know, I've got a lot of my own problems to take care of. Anybody ever have that? Listen, I'm sorry for you. That's terrible news. But you know, I've got to take care of myself. I've got my hands full Um, I think it's interesting. He didn't say, listen, I've got my I've got enough of my own problems, I really can't take on someone else's problems. You know what it's the easiest time to be selfish? Anyone want to take a guess? What's the easiest time to be selfish? When I've got a ton of problems of my own, right? The easiest time to be stingy is when I've got lots of debts. Now I'm not suggesting we should be irresponsible. But sometimes we ensee somebody along, somebody struggling, somebody hurting, we look at our own problems, we say, you know, there's not much I can do for them It's easy to be selfish. It's easy to become unconcerned for others when I got a lot of my own problems. But what I believe David is showing us here, we're seeing some real, we're starting to see the heart of David that is after God's heart. We're starting to see some real compassion for others, even when his own problems are so overwhelming. We're told twice in the Bible that David is a man after God's own heart. And David is learning, and maybe it was always there all the time, but we're starting to see it, where his concern for others is greater than his concern for himself. What is the world's philosophy? Look out for what? Number one. Look out for number one. But David's not that way. David sees a real genuine need here, and he cares about it. And he's trying to see, is there something I can do to help others? Can you think of anyone else in the Bible when their problems were so overwhelming But yet they s they disregarded their problems and they helped someone else. Can you think of anybody like that? Alright, Apostle Paul, you could maybe come up there. You know what came to my mind when I was thinking about this? Joseph, there's a good one. I'll tell you what came to my mind was Jesus in the, as he's coming up to the Garden of Gethsemane And Peter, when the and the soldiers approached Jesus Christ, he was in the Garden of Semine, the soldiers approached Jesus Christ. And what did Peter do when those soldiers approached? Pulled his sword out and lobbed off the guy's ear. Now how in the world you end up cutting a guy's ear off? That's the big mystery of the Bible. We get to heaven. We're going to ask the Lord, how in the world did he do that? Missed his head somehow. Peter ends up slicing his ear off. How many people agree with me? Jesus had a few more problems than some guy trying to kill him, his ear getting cut off. He could have said, too bad. I'm about to suffer hell for all of mankind. But what did the Lord do? Yeah, he touched him and healed him. I'm telling you, that is a phenomenal act of compassion on the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only was he overwhelmed with his own problems, but this guy is a out now enemy of his. This guy may end up being one of those that are scourging him. Who knows? But what an act of compassion on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ. Where he overwhelmed. I mean remember he was just praying and sweating, as it were, great drops of blood. And now he touches this guy's ear and makes him well. I tell you, there's a phenomenal lesson here that even when our hearts are breaking and even when our needs are overwhelming and even when our problems, we don't even know the answers to our problems, we need to have the heart of God and still care about others. Still care about others. Um, you know, uh I'm I'm uh there's several people go through my mind and as I was preparing this and even now that I know over the years, I I'm thinking of one preacher in particular, if I said his name, some of y'all would know him, that uh his heart was absolutely broken. And he stood behind a pulpit and preached. And gave himself to others. He's with the Lord now. I thought about Dr. Lee Robertson, and he lost his daughter, Joy. And he comes back. And rather than letting that derail him and rather than saying, listen, you know, my heart's broken, he took that very heartache And he developed the Camp Joy, and thousands and tens and hundreds of thousands of kids went to camp for free. And uh I've been out that camp years ago many, many, many times. We used to take busloads of kids there. And uh all because he refused to let his own heartache and his own problems overwhelm his concern for others And I'm telling you, I'm looking, I'm reading here verse number two, that first phrase, and to me, I'm looking into the heart of David, and I see someone that has a genuine concern for others even when his own problems are overwhelming. In spite of his own problems, he's concerned for others. And I want to suggest to you that is greatness. I had the privilege for a few years, a number of years, to work side by side very, very closely with Brother Charles Holmesher, the founder and director of Bible Time. And I'm telling you, I saw that man times where he was sobbing, his heart was broken over some situations. And yet he would get up and he would give himself to those evangelists and he would prepare that thing and uh thousands, hundreds of thousands of kids getting saved around the world all these many, many years. To me, a characteristic of spiritual greatness, if you want to put it that way, a characteristic of spiritual greatness is a concern for others in spite of my own heartaches and my own problems. What a tremendous thing. And so David here, he doesn't just blow it off. He doesn't just say, well, listen, you know, I'm sorry. Uh I've got my own problems to take care of. I can't do this. The very first thing he does, he looks and responds and um and he's and he says, is there something I can do? So number one, David's response, number one, he shows concern And the second thing I notice here, he seeks God's will. And this is huge. He says, therefore, David inquired of the Lord. That word inquired there means exactly what you think it means. He asks God. God, should I go do something? Should I go confront these Philistines? God, what should I do? David, here's something interesting. David is learning not to react to circumstances. A little earlier he reacted. Remember when he got Goliath's sword, he goes over to Gath. No inquiring of the Lord, no stopping and thinking things through, he's just reacting. He's He's in maybe in panic mode. But now he's settling down and he's learning not to react. Here's a great, great lesson. He is learning to wait on God. He's learning to wait on God. He doesn't blow them off, and he doesn't just go rushing into it either. He learns to wait on God. I tell you, if you and I can learn to wait on God, we're going to be ahead of the game. in a tremendous way. David's beginning to display two characteristics of spiritual maturity. He's beginning to display, and let me put it this way, he's beginning to display spiritual leadership. Number one is concern for others, as we mentioned. I'm telling you, God can't, let me make this statement, God can't use a Christian of any in in any position that doesn't care about others. That doesn't have compassion. David is displaying a genuine compassion, a genuine concern for others, and that's somebody that God can use. That's somebody God can use. And the second thing he's displaying, and really in inquiring of the Lord, he's displaying submission to God. God, what do you want me to do What is your instructions? What should I do? I put this statement down. Spiritual begins with personal submission to the Lord. The world says, ah, a leader, he controls others. A leader, he runs others. That's not leadership. That's not leadership. Particularly Christian spiritual leadership begins with, my will is submitted to the Lord. Lord, what do you have me to do? What will you have me to do? That's spiritual leadership. In the home, in a classroom, in a church. Um, I don't know, I'm I'm I'm telling you right now, I don't live up to this. But I would want a pastor, if I was a church member, I would want a pastor who's submissive to the Lord. Amen or not And pray that your pastor does that. I try to. I would want a leader, somebody, I want a spiritual leader that's submissive to the Lord. That's where leadership begins. Not in my ability to run this thing or lord it over or anything like that, it's Lord, what would you have us to do? God, what will you lead us to do And David's beginning to display that. Um this is tremendous leadership on David's part. So first of all, I put this down to Ern. He seeks God's will. Here he gets clear instructions from God. Look again at verse 2. Therefore David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? What do you have me to do, Lord? Tell me. And the Lord said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines and save Keilah. Pretty clear instructions, huh? Uh not not too not too cloudy there. It's God told him uh to go and take care of them, defend this countr uh this city, uh defeat the Philistines Now here's where my inquisitive mind comes out. How did God tell him that? Ah. How in the world did God communicate to David that he was supposed to go and do this and uh and defeat the Philistines? My years of studying the Bible and my in-depth knowledge of the scriptures, my conclusion is, I don't know. I don't know how God told him that. We're not told. Now verse six, there might be some suggest that uh you know the son of the high priest showed up and he's got that ephod and That was uh we'll look at that in another study. Um that that was somehow God would communicate through that sometimes. But as I understand the chronology here, this guy doesn't show up till after it's over So my answer is I don't know, but I do know this. And this is important for you and I to understand in our day and age, God communicated with his people differently before the Bible was completed than he does after the Bible's completed. Sometimes in the old test before the Bible was complete, God would communicate to his people through dreams. Can you think of anybody That God communicated his word through dreams, anybody in the Bible. Joseph, someone else. Daniel And throughout there you see that. Sometimes God would appear in uh what's referred to as the angel of the Lord. I believe it's a preincarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he would communicate there through the angel of the Lord. Sometimes a voice coming from a burning bush. And so sometimes it was a prophet. God would send a prophet, and that prophet would say, Thus saith the Lord. But that's not how God does it today. God communicates his will to us differently now that we have the completed Word of God than He did before. So here's the question. How can I know what God's will? I want to take a little take this event here, and I just want to stop and try and Take a little rabbit trail here. How can we determine the will of God? How should I know whether I should move to this area here, take this job? How should I know what I should do and what I shouldn't do in different circumstances Let me give you some five suggestions on determining the will of God, knowing whether it's God's will for me to do something or not. Number one, I put this down, go to scriptures. Go to scriptures. The Bible gives us many, many very clear instructions in the scriptures. For instance, oh, the guys at work are having a beer party and rock and roll and Having a big time uh carrying on Saturday night. I need to pray and ask God if I should go to that. I'm telling you, I can go to the Bible, and the Bible tells me very clearly there's some things I shouldn't do. Right There's some things I should do. I wonder if I should I wonder if I should uh uh uh I wonder help me what's uh I wonder if I should um witness to this person or not. Should I uh uh uh share the gospel with people? Well the Bible already tells us go into all the world and preach the gospel Alright? So there's some things in Scripture really not difficult. What I'm trying to say is this. There's some things that are really not hard to determine what God's will is. The Bible very clearly tells us a lot of stuff that is very clearly God's will. And so that's one way. I go to scripture. How about I'm in a situation maybe similar to what David has here. There's no verse or anything in the Bible at this point, what he has, that says, go and kill the Philistines that are invading Keilah. So the second thing I want to need to consider what Scripture says, if it's not clear there, then, now you've got to be careful with this one, but the Holy Spirit's leading in my life. Sometimes the Holy Spirit, if it's something not clear in Scripture, but the Holy Spirit of God, if we're saved, Holy Spirit dwells within us, and the Holy Spirit impresses us Something we should do or not do. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Philippians talks about having the peace of God rule in your heart I just had a situation just in the last two weeks where I had to make a decision and I talked to the person and I said, you know, I really don't have peace about that. I just can't get that settled in my heart that that is what I should do. And um the Holy Spirit sometimes when we came here back in nineteen ninety-three and um on September uh nineteenth, nineteen ninety-three, we preached from the not that pulpit, it was the old one and a preach. There was a handful of folks scattered around here. Some of y'all were here. And I'm telling you, at the end of that day, I stayed over in that mission house, scared to death. That place was creepy. Um there's no phone in it. We didn't have cell phones. I was stuck there. But um uh I Dr. Williams let me in the office and I called my wife and I said, I don't know how this church is gonna vote But I said, I am absolutely confident. I know in my heart this is where God wants us. And I had been at about five or six others, had offers over in West Virginia, up in Pennsylvania, um different churches that had off asked me to come. We had candidated And there was no peace in my heart. I just had no leadership of the Holy Spirit. But when it came here, boom, I just knew it. I knew it. Now that's hard to explain. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You know just the Spirit of God. You just know that that's what I should do. Now you have to be very careful about that. I've heard over the years, I've heard people say stuff, well, the Holy Spirit led me to do something, and it was so contrary to Scripture, the Holy Spirit had nothing to do with that. So here's the caution I give about going by feelings. You have to watch out the mistaking feelings for the leadership of the Holy Spirit And boy, this is something to mark down. The Holy Spirit never leads contrary to his word. The Holy Spirit of God will never lead me to do something that contradicts the Word of God. And so you have to be very careful about that, but the Holy Spirit does. I've told the story and it's happened to me many, many times, many of you no doubt also. But I was driving down the the Shelby Street in Indianapolis, Indiana, youth pastor This guy walking along the street. And I as soon as I drove by, inside me, it was like the Holy Spirit was screaming, you need to stop, pull over, and witness to that guy. It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was. I'm there, oh, that's crazy. You know, you don't just stop and go up and talk to this guy. So I kept driving. The more I drove, the more miserable I felt. So I said, all right, Lord, I'll turn around. If he's still there, I'll pull over. So I turned around. Guess what? He was still there. Seriously. And so I argued with God. So finally I pulled over and went over And um talked to him for about an hour. He got in my car, he just got out of rehab, claimed to be saved, and uh took him to where he's going. But I know that was the Lord leading me. I knew that as sure as anything And so number one you go to scripture. And then uh if it's not Sure, then the Holy Spirit will lead and direct me. I have to be very careful about that. Let me give you a third suggestion in determining God's will. Getting godly counsel. Getting godly counsel. One, I go to scripture. Well, the Bible doesn't really address whether I should do this or not. I don't have any clear leadership in my heart and mind what I should do or not do Then go to somebody, a spiritual mature someone, someone that walks with God as a good testimony, and say, well, what do you think? Proverbs tells us that with counsel make decisions. And so get advice from somebody that's been around for a while, has some experience. I would advise, particularly with younger people, not get advice from your peers. They don't have any more experience or knowledge than what you do. And so I want to go to somebody that's been around for a while, that's been through some some things, that's made some decisions and knows the consequence of those decisions and get their input, see what they think. Now again, you have to be very careful. Just because someone advises me I should do something doesn't mean that's necessarily God's will. Again, an illustration there. When I shortly after I got saved, I went to a little Bible college in Philly, went one year, and I knew the Lord wanted me to go somewhere else. I prayed and Talk to people and um the Lord was directing me down to Tennessee Temple. I knew that. I was very confident that's where I should go. But I had some family members that did everything they could talk me out of going down there But I knew it was God's will. I knew it settled in my heart that that's where the Lord wanted me. And looking back, I'm confident I did the right thing. And so again, you have to be very careful with that. You have to consider that. Let me give you a fourth. Then go by circumstances. What are the circumstances here? And again, you have to be very careful with this. Just because the circumstances are favorable doesn't mean it's God's will. Let me illustrate. Let's suppose you need $100. And you pray and ask God, God, I need this hundred dollars, where shall I go to get it? And uh you you're working different things, and you're walking up to the hospital, and here's somebody's wallet laying on the sidewalk. And you open it up to see if there's a name in the wallet, and lo and behold, there's a hundred-dollar bill. Well, it's obviously God's will for me to have this hundred-dollar bill, right or wrong. Wrong, that'd be stealing. So you have to be careful with circumstances. How many people are saying, preacher, your advice isn't helping me at all? Every advice you give is But sometimes it is. There's somebody in the Bible that was in a very particular circumstance. It was very clear God's will. Anybody remember Esther? And Mordecai said to her, you are in this position, I'm putting my own words, you're in this position for such a time as this. The circumstances were very clearly this is God's will for her to do. So that's a factor. Let me give you a fifth one real quick. Common sense. Most of the time, God operates by what we would call common sense things. Now I used a very important word in that statement. Most of the time. Sometimes, again, you got to be careful. Sometimes God leads us to do something that doesn't make any sense at all. Doesn't make any sense at all. When God called Kathy and I, uh we we just got married. We got married in in February. In April we got a call to go to Indianapolis. I mean we didn't have a dime. We had a bed, we had a refrigerator, and we had a toaster. I think we might have had a dresser. That was all we had. And um the way we got our kitchen table was we were out knocking on doors, the two of us out knocking on doors stolen and we the guy answered the door, we witnessed to him, Mom say, say, come on in. We talked to him a little bit. He says, by the way, you guys need a kitchen table? We said, uh yeah, actually we do. Here you go. So then we went soul winning all the time, seeing if we get more stuff for our house. But it didn't make a bit of sense for us to go and take a position. We'd have nothing. But we knew it was God's will. But most of the time God operates uh uh uh by common sense things that just uh that's his usual method to operate by common sense. So I Helped you or not. But David here, whatever, however, God communicated him that it was his will to go and smite the Philistines and save Keilah. Now look at verse 3. We notice the reservation of David's men. Notice what they say. Look at verse 3. And David's men said unto him, now here's where common sense didn't work. Behold, we'd be afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines? They're saying, listen, We're scared to death in our own country. How in the world are we going to go fight these Philistines? They outgun us. They've got more men than we do. We've got a you've got Goliath's sword. That's basically it Seriously? You want us to go there? Now I got reading commentaries about these guys, and I'll tell you a bunch of the commentaries were pretty rough on these fellas. One of the commentaries said these guys were cowards. And they were trying to influence David and put fear in him. I don't think they were cowards. I think they were just being cautious. They're saying thinking this through. I can tell you what kind of people were in the previous chapter, second verse They were in distress, death in debt, they were discontented. These guys weren't sold Right. But I don't think they uh the w the one guy was saying he says these guys are cowards. I don't think they're cowards. I think they're look because these are gonna end up being David's mighty men These guys are going to be end up being his bodyguards later on. We're going to see this. So I don't think they were cowards. I think they're being cautious saying, David, wait a minute. We're out and we're we can't even handle Saul. How are we going to deal with these guys? Another commentary I read, they said these guys were rebels against God. They just didn't want to do what God said. I don't think that's the case. I don't think they were rebels and I don't think they were cowards. I think they're simply looking at the situation from a realistic standpoint These guys, the Philistines, the entire armies of Israel are struggling to defeat these guys. How in the world, 400 of us with no weapons, were outnumbered, we're outgunned. How are we going to do this? And so they have these reservations, but what I find interesting is in the verse number four What David's response is to their rever their reservation. David returns to prayer. Look at verse 4. Then David inquired of the Lord. What's the next two words? Yet again. Now again, my respect for David takes it up another notch. He doesn't just disregard their concerns. He doesn't blow them off. He could have said this. He could have said, listen, God told me. I don't care what you guys say. I don't care what you're concerned about. God told me we're doing this. But he doesn't say that. He listens to them. He considers their concerns. He considers their viewpoint on this, their assessment of the situation. So he doesn't just blow them off. He doesn't disregard their concerns. But on the other hand, he doesn't disregard what God clearly told him either. He doesn't say, well, God said, but if you guys aren't on board, then forget it. We're not doing this. No, he still respects their concerns and he respects God's instructions. So what's the natural thing to do? I'm going to come back and talk to God again about this. I'm going to come back and pray again. So David comes and he prays to the Lord again. I think there's two reasons David prayed the second time. How many people agree with me? He wouldn't have had to do that the second time. Any people agree with me on that? I don't think he would have had to. God made it very, very clear. Go! Smite him But he comes back again, and I think there's two reasons David prays the second time. One, he wants to be, I think he wants to be certain that he understood God correctly. Lord, Lord, am I understanding you? Should I go? Can you think of anybody else in the Bible that God gave them instructions and they were a little hesitant? And God very graciously allowed them to try and settle in their heart and mind. I mentioned them a little bit ago, Gideon. Remember Gideon? God said, go and smite the Midianites. And it's like, are you crazy, Lord? And uh and God and he says, all right, and Gideon put these fleeces out, remember? And just to make sure, I just want to be sure this is your will, God. Now God could have rebuked him and said, I told you to But God's very gracious. He's very, all right, I want to make sure Gideon has it settled in his heart and mind. This is exactly what he should do. And I think that's what's happening with David. The Lord is saying, listen, God's very gracious. David comes and prays again. I think one reason is because David wants to be sure, Lord. These guys are uncertain. Should I really do this? And I think there's a second reason, and I think this is important. He wants his men To be certain this is God's will. He needs them. And they need to be on board with him in determining God's will. And there's a great, great lesson there for that, and for families, for husbands and wives, for churches, is They have to be aboard. One of the things, when a fellow comes to Brother Dan DeLong or somebody like that, and they say, I believe God is calling me to the mission field. Anybody want to guess what the f one of the first questions they'll address them there is, is your wife on board? Does your wife share that burden? Does your wife share that vision? Does your wife, is she confident also that this is God's will? And that's an important part of that. One of the biggest struggles on the mission field is when husbands and wives get out of whack and they're not on board what God's will is for them. And a lot of times they'll come home and it won't work. And so David, in his spiritual development and the development of his leadership, I believe, is understanding Hey, these guys need to be as convinced it's God's will as I am. Their lives are at risk just as much as mine And so again, I see here he's earning their respect. He's earning their trust. He's developing them to come along. And as we said, we're going to see several chapters down the road, these guys are going to be his bodyguards. These are going to be the leaders in his military when he's king. And he's developing this, developing this, getting everybody on board. Uh number f uh verse four I notice and I'll have to end. God reaffirms his instructions. Look what it says. The Lord answered them and said, Arise, go down to Keilah. Now it's interesting. He tacks on another statement here For I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand. That's a very emphatic statement. He's making a clear promise here And so David acts on that. In verse 5, David and his men respond in faith. And it says there, so David and his men went to Kelah and fought with the Philistines. I put in the margin of my Bible an act of faith. They're outgunned, as I said, they're outmanned. Probably 100 to 1. This is the entire military of the Philistines. Here's David with a straggly group of guys But God gave him a promise. God gave him a promise. I will deliver them. And David is learning to act in faith and stepping out. He had the assurance of God's word. What faith is. Faith is taking God at His Word, and faith is acting on God's word. God said it, that settles it. I'm going to go forward. I read about a news reporter that was doing a report in April of 1988, somewhere in a in America. And uh he was uh there was a photographer was doing a report and a documentary type thing on these parachute paratroopers jumping out of airplanes And so they had it all set up where this photographer was going to jump with the other para the other parachutist guys. And he got so caught up in his report, and he got so caught up in the cameras he was, uh the pictures he was taking and everything going on They're filing out and they're jumping out, jumping out, jumping out. And it was his turn to jump and he was going to film them and he jumps out and he's falling and he's taking pictures and he reaches for his ripcord and he realized he forgot to put his parachute on He got so caught up in everything that the one thing he needed, he jumped without And they said the news report said they had the film of the can all the pictures he was filming, and then the the thing went crazy, the camera and the screen went crazy, and he fell to his death. Now the lesson there is don't jump out the plane without a parachute on. And what I'm saying with the spiritual application I'm trying to make here, David didn't jump into this battle without a promise from God. He knew that he was in the will of God and he stepped out and did that And I want to suggest to you, you and I need to get the promises of God and act on them and don't go without the promises of God. Amen. I hope this makes sense. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for David's example here and his confidence in your word and your promise to him and then the great victory you gave. Pray you'd help us, Lord, to live by faith. To take you at your word and allow you to lead us and direct us and help us to trust you in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher? I need my faith to grow. I need to be able to take God at His Word. Maybe you've got a situation I need the Lord's leadership and the Lord's direction in my life. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll trust God and let Him lead me, let Him direct me, and I can know what His will is. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need the Lord's clear leadership, the Lord's clear direction Now it may be found very clearly in God's word. It may need some counsel. It may need the leadership of the Holy Spirit. But when God instructs us and we know what His will is, we can step out in faith. Father, I pray you bless now invitation in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.