I want to begin reading in verse three. We preached on verse three, four, and five, uh coming up to this. My intention was to just say a word about verse 6, and I really wanted to get on to verse number 7, the end of all things. But I was looking over it today and uh kind of shifted gears a little bit And I want to look at I want to just spend this evening looking at verse number six as we make our way through First Peter. But let me begin reading verse three. For the time passed of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness and lusts and excessive wines Wine and revelings and banquetings and abominable idolatries. That's the way those that do the will of the Gentiles. That's where that lifestyle leads to that type of behavior. Verse 4, wherein they, those doing the will of Gentiles living this way, think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excessive riot They think it's strange that we don't live the way they do. We don't indulge in the things they indulge. They think we're weirdos. They think it's strange that you run not with them to the same excessive riot And then he goes on, and they speaking evil of you, say terrible things about you. Now he says verse 6. He says, for this cause. Now that little phrase there, as I'm going to point out in a bit, ties verse 6 to the previous context. For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh. But live according to God in the Spirit. He says, for this cause was the gospel preached to them that are dead Now, what in the world does he mean by that? I want to speak tonight on preaching to the dead. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us understand what's being said here. Father in heaven. Another Sunday is coming going, Lord, as we finish out the Lord's day. It's been a good day. Lord, uh, again, Lord, just bittersweet. Miss Doreen, but we sure rejoice that uh she knew you and where she is now, Lord. I pray you bless her family and friends. Ladies down there at the apartment that all miss her, us here. And Lord, as we look into this passage, I ask tonight, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher. Lord, if there's anything that I've put together here that is incorrect or ought not to be said, I pray you'd just help me miss over it and not say it. Lord, if there's something here I missed in my preparation, I pray you'd bring it to mind. Help me to point it out. But I ask, Lord, with all my heart, you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak to us and teach us tonight And it would not be me, but it would be you speaking your word through me to all of our hearts and lives. And then help us make good decisions, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As you know, and we have been emphasizing this, Peter in the book of 1 Peter is writing to believers who have been severely persecuted. We've talked about that at length, especially at the beginning of our series. They're persecuted for their faith. Not because they're thieves or scoundrels in any way. They're good people. They fear God. They love their neighbors. They're trying to live by the principles that Christ gave for his disciples, and they're persecuted for that very reason. In fact, we pick up as we work our way through the book, no doubt many of them had fellow believers, friends, maybe relatives, who were martyred for their faith. Who were literally had their lives taken because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that's hard for you and I to comprehend, right? That somebody would be killed because they're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. But nevertheless, that was the case then. And by the way, as we talked uh uh when were we talking about that? Um Oh, uh New Year's Eve, we showed that film, Obadiah uh Holmes, and uh uh people that are now in our day giving their lives. For the simple fact they're committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's the audience that Peter is writing to here. And as I mentioned in verse 3, 4, and 5 He's assuring them. He says, listen, you've lived long enough the way the world lives. And he describes the way the world lives there in verse 3. And he says, and he assures those believers that, he's saying, don't live that way anymore. He assures them that those who are abusing them, those who are reviling them, those who are speaking evil against them, and Persecuting them, they will one day have to answer to God for the behavior. That's what verse 4 is there in verse 5. It says, Thou shalt give an account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead And then verse 6, he mentions this gospel being preached to those who are dead. I've got three thoughts tonight. The first thought is this: I want us just to consider the context of this statement preaching to those who are dead. We have to consider the context. Let me, can I give you three principles of Bible study? Now maybe you want to jot these down. I think they're significant. I think they're important. Number one, whenever you study the Bible, I believe you ought to get the definition of the words being used. You're going to have a hard time understanding what's being said if you don't know what the words mean that are being said. Are you with you follow what I'm saying? So one of the first things you want to do is make sure I clearly understand what these words are. By the way, these are God's words, so it's important we have a correct understanding. I don't want to just assume I know what that means. I don't want to just go by, you know, just hearsay or slang what that word means. I want to know what it means. So I look up the definition of the words. The other principle, the second one, is I need to take that statement or that verse in context. The context could possibly change the meaning of the word. Sometimes words are used differently in different contexts. Everybody with me? Alright? Everybody doing okay? Alright? Everybody still awake? 90%? Very good. I'll take that. And so the context, you want to look what the context is. That's what we want to do here. Here's a statement that seems a strange statement, preaching to those who are dead. Huh. I want to make sure I know what those words are. I want to look at what the context is, which we'll do. The other thing you always want to do when you have a passage, you want to compare that passage with other passages that address the same subject. Is there other places in the Bible that talk about this type of day? And so what I want us to do tonight is in this point is consider the context. He says, for this cause. What cause? Because those who think you're weirdos for following Jesus, they think you're strange. Those that speak evil of you, because you're not doing the will of the Gentiles. For that, they're going to be judged. They're going to stand before God, give an account for their treatment of God's people. And for that cause, because of that reason The gospel is preached also to them that are dead. So that's the context. Now there's three possible interpretations that have been given for that phrase preaching to the dead. Now this I know here this wasn't never offered, but uh we this is obvious. He's not talking about going down to the funeral home and back into the morgue and all dead bodies there and preaching the dead bodies. How many people understand that? That's not what he's talking about. Go out to the cemetery, stand up on a tombstone, start preaching to all the dead people there. It's not what he's talking about. What in the world is he talking about? What does he mean? These people that think you're strange for being a disciple of Christ, these people that revile you and persecute you, they're going to answer to God, and for this cause the gospel is preached to those that are dead. What in the world is he talking about? Well, one possible interpretation is this. By dead, he means anybody who is unsaved, an unsaved person. Dead in sin. Somebody who is physically alive, but they're dead in sin. And by the way, unsaved people are spiritually dead. I'm going to show you a few verses here in just a moment. If I happen to be speaking to somebody and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you may be a church member, you may be very religious, you may be a moral person, you may be the mayor of an American city. But if you've never been saved, you've never been born again, you are spiritually dead. You may be alive physically, but down inside your heart and soul, there's an emptiness, there's a spiritual death there. that only Jesus Christ can give life to. That's why Jesus told Nicodemus, Nicodemus, ye must be what? Born again. You need spiritual life. You need to be born from above. You need that spiritual regeneration is the biblical term. And so preaching to the dead Maybe just preaching to unsaved people. And let me just give you the verses for sake of time. John 5, 24. Verily, verily, I say unto you. He that heareth my word and believeth in him that sent me hath everlasting life and is passed, listen to this, is passed from death. Unto what? Life. They were dead. They believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and they got life. They were alive physically, but spiritually they were dead. And when they believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, boom, they came alive spiritually. How many people here trusted Christ and God gave you spiritual life? Anybody know what I'm talking about? He told the woman at the well, it's a well springing up inside you. spiritual fulfillment, spiritual life, a connection with my God and Creator through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But without that I don't have Christ as my Savior. There's spiritual death there. So John 5 44, John 5. 24 is one passage. Another one we have, Ephesians 2. 1. Ye hath he quickened. who were dead in trespasses and sin. Word quicken means to make a line. So he says, before you were saved, before you trusted Christ Before you were made alive spiritually, you were dead in your trespasses and sins. So when Peter says here for this cause The gospel was preached unto them who were dead. Does he mean just preaching to unsaved people? I suggest to you that any time you witness to an unsaved person, you're preaching to the dead. They're preaching to spiritual dead people. So some suggest, well, he's talking about folks who are unsaved here, and they were preaching, but I don't think that's what he's talking about I don't think that's what he has in mind here. That's true, it's a biblical truth, but I don't think that's what Peter's saying here. Another uh suggested interpretation of this is that when by the dead He means all the people who have already died. And where they are, the place of the dead, wherever those dead people are, the gospel was preached to them there, where they're at. Since they died. The place of the dead. Um I was reading one commentator on this. I want to see what other guys said about this. I kind of came to my conclusion studying it. I want to see what others said. Maybe I was missing something. And one fairly respected commentator, I use them sometimes, but boy, I tell you, he rattled me a little bit. He says, what Peter's saying here is this. That the gospel was preached to people who have already died. And in the place that they are now, since they've died, the gospel was preached to them in order that they can have a second chance to be saved. I don't know about you, but I got a problem with that. I got a problem with that. In fact, let me explain to you what my problem is with that. First of all, Hebrews 9 verse 27 says, it is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. Judgment. Um, it's impossible for a person to be saved after they've died It's impossible. After death, judgment. That's it. There is no hope of salvation after death In Luke chapter 16, verse 26, you have the rich man that died, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. And he cried, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. And send Lazarus. May he dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I'm tormented in these flames. And Abraham responded back to the rich man in hell. And he said, in so many words, he says, nobody can come from here down to where you are. Listen, he said nobody can pass from hence, from where you are, up to where we are. He's saying it's impossible for a person once they're in hell to ever end up in heaven. It's impossible. It's impossible. Again, in Revelation chapter 20, I wish we had time. I got these all marked in my always going to turn to them. But um Revelation chapter 10, Josh down verse 10. Revelation chapter 20 and verse number 10, verse number 15, Revelation 21 and verse 8 talks about the lake of fire The devil and the death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. And whosoever was not found written in the book of light was cast in the lake of fire. And he says, the flame of their torment ascendeth forever and ever and ever and ever The only place, a person who is in hell, the only place they end up is the lake of fire. The only transition out of hell isn't to heaven. Isn't back to earth. It's out of hell into the lake of fire where the flame and smoke of their torment ascended up forever and ever and ever and ever Listen, God is a God of second chances, amen. How many people here got saved the first time you heard the gospel? Very few How many people heard the gospel many, many times, until finally got it settled, trusted Christ. Aren't you glad God gave you more than one chance to get saved? God is a God of second chances. But there's a line drawn. And when death comes, there's no more second chances. There's so more no more second chances. No one ever gets saved out of hell, but people sure do get saved from hell. Before they end up there. But that's the reason, by the way, that's the reason that Paul said in Corinthians, now's the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation. Don't you wait Don't you wait until tomorrow. Don't you wait until another day. Today is the only day that God guarantees we can be saved. Certainly no opportunity once we're lost. Say preach the gospel to the dead to the dead and go and give them a second chance. I'm sorry, I don't find that in the Bible anywhere And by the way, there's only two places a person can end up when they're after they die. It's either where? Heaven or hell Why in the world would you preach the gospel to people in heaven? It's unnecessary. Now we'll rehearse the gospel, we'll praise God for it, but it's not a necessary ingredient. It's already settled. So it's unnecessary to preach the gospel in heaven, and it's ineffective to preach the gospel in hell Preach the gospel in hell. And so I don't believe that he is saying that Christ or anybody went down to where the dead are and preached the gospel to them to give them a second chance. It doesn't fit the context. I don't think he's talking about preaching to unsaved people here at the gospel. It doesn't fit the context. There's a third option. If you haven't figured it out, this is the one I think is correct. If you look at the context, by dead, I think he means this: that in years going by, at some point, the gospel was preached to people who have since died. They're now dead. They're dead now. But the gospel was preached unto them. And as we'll see here as we go through the verse, they received it. They've accepted it. They're saved. They're now dead But they received the gospel. It was preached unto them who are now dead, and they received it. Their lives were changed. So that I believe that fits the context. Let's look at it again. For this cause. Giving uh the uh the these people persecuting you are going to give an account to God for this cause was the gospel preached to them that are now dead. It was preached before, they're now dead. Why that they might be judged according to men in the flesh. That leads me to my second point, which is this, the condemnation of the world. And by I don't mean condemnation on the world. I mean condemnation of the world on the believer. Look what I say here. I hope I'm not losing you. For this cause was the gospel preached to them that are that are dead. It was preached to them before. They received it. They're now dead. That they might, those who had received it, those that it was preached to, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, the world judged them. I think by implication, he's talking about martyrs I think he's talking about folks that believe believe the gospel, it's preached to them. They believed it. They're now dead. They were killed. They were martyred by men of the flesh. They were judged and condemned and executed by men of the flesh. My point here is this. OL judge means condemn or to reject men in the flesh as the unsaved world. I don't know if you figured this out yet, but this whole world hates believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said to say, this world will hate you. They hated me, they'll hate you. I don't know if you figured it out yet, but this world thinks disciples of Christ are weirdos. Anybody, you ever give out tracts and have somebody look at you like you're a weirdo? Yeah, they did that before I even got saved, but they do it even more so now. Uh they think I'm a weirdo. Uh uh I don't know if you figured it out yet, but this whole world speaks evil of those who are trying to live for God. Anybody here have a job somewhere, a bunch of a bunch of coworkers, you're a Christian, trying to do right, and man, there's old, they just run. Uh watch out for so-and-so. They're a Bible thumper. Uh, they're Jesus freak. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And boy, they like the they like that The world hates the disciples of Christ. The world thinks we're strange. They speak evil us. They judge and condemn us. And sometimes, even to the point where they take our lives. We saw that on New Year's Eve. We saw that film of Obadiah Holmes. I tell you, that stirred my heart. Man willing to give his life for the truth of Scripture. It's possible for a believer to love the world. Did you know that? Demos loved the world. Possible for believers to fall in love with the world, but I'll tell you this, this old world will never love a believer. It's not going to happen. We can love and imitate and mimic the world. We can dress like them and talk like them and enjoy all their pleasures, everything of the world. We can do that all we want. But don't you think for one minute that world's going to come and try and emulate us in any way. I've seen a lot of Christians try and appeal to the world and look like the world, act like the world, but I never one time saw the world try and be like a genuine, humble, godly, pure uh Christian. I never one time saw the world try and be like a Christian. It's all one way. It's all Christians falling in love with the world, fall in love with the world, fall in love with the world. It's never the world fall in love with God's people. Never that way. So he says, you're going to face the judgment of those people, the gospel was preached unto them. They received it. The world judged them, condemned them, rejected them. Many cases took their life. They're now dead. But you're going to face the condemnation world. And I am with this. The last thought is this: consider the comfort of the Lord. And then he says this, and might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. I like this thought. This world can abuse the believer's body. This world can torture and Cuss out and condemn and cast away and kill the believer's body. But this old world can never touch our soul. This world can never do anything to touch our spiritual life. They can burn our forefathers at the state. They can drop guillotine and chop off the heads of our Baptist forefathers. They can stretch them on the rack. They can drown them in the rivers all they want, but they cannot touch their soul. Today they're comforted living with the Lord. It's cute this afternoon we came in and I came into the Doreen's apartment and Kathy and Shirley were sitting there on their little sofa and uh Melissa was there I guess and sheriff's department couple of deputies were there and they were doing their thing. I walked in And I said, Shirley, I'm so sorry, and went over and gave her a hug. And I mean, with the biggest beam on her face, Shirley said this, she's in heaven. I said, she sure is during, or Shirley, she sure is. This whole world can reject us And condemn us? Hey, who knows in America we may someday see believers' lives taken. I hope not. But I know around the world it's happening. I tell you what, they can take our physical life, but they can't touch our spiritual life. We have eternal life, a home in heaven. What a wonderful thought. But you take your Bible term with me. I want to end with this. Acts chapter 7. We have an historical account, I believe, of exactly what Peter's talking about here. Acts chapter seven, if you would come with me to verse fifty-four, the end of the chapter there. This is an account of Stephen. He preached this powerful message to the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders, and they became absolutely enraged. In fact, verse 51, he got a little tactful. Verse 51, he said, Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. That's pretty much putting it the way it is. And pick up with me if you would, verse 54. He rehearsed their history. Then he made that statement, verse 54. When they heard these things. They were cut to the heart. What do you think that means they were cut to the heart? Anybody want to take a guess? Yeah, they were convicted. I put in the margin of my Bible. Conviction. Stephen just rehearsed their history of rebelling against God, rebelling against God, and man, they're under conviction. How many people know what conviction is? And the Holy Spirit just gets you, cuts you to the heart. And rather than humbling themselves and repenting and turning to Christ, says when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they what gnashed on him with their teeth. I mean they're in a rage. But he, Stephen, being full of the Holy Ghost, look at this. Looked up steadfastly unto heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus Standing on the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God. And then they cried out with loud voice and stopped their ears and ran upon him with one accord and cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul, later Paul, get saved, and they stoned Stephen. calling upon God. Stephen was calling upon God, saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. He kneeled down with with a loud void with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he said this, he fell asleep. What's it mean he fell asleep? He died. The gospel was preached to Stephen. He heard it and believed it. And he lived for God, and he was a powerful message for God. And the men of the world, those living in the will of the Gentiles, turned on him and reviled him and spoke evil of him to the point where they killed him. Though he was judged by men of the flesh, he was received by God Almighty into the presence of the Lord. I think that's what Peter's talking about. By the way, and I'll end with this, did you notice something there in verse number 55. He looks up steadfastly into heaven and saw the glory of God. And look at that next statement. Jesus, what position was Jesus in? Standing on the right hand of God. And then he states it in verse 56: Behold, I see the heavens open. And the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God. We had time, we'd go to Hebrews. And Hebrews tells us that Jesus is seated at the right hand of God, his works accomplished There's no more work to be done for our salvation. He seated at the hand of God. But Stephen says, I see him standing at the right hand of God. We try to reconcile that. Hebrews says he's seated, even salt's standing. You know what I think? His Leatherman opinion. I think Jesus up there in heaven. He sees one of his children being reviled and judged of men and rejected and being martyred. Stephen looks up to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus looks down. This is just me. I think Jesus stands up. Welcome. You come on. The Bible says Psalms precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Now that may not be real theological there. I don't know. I think it sure captures our Lord's intention. One of his own gives their life for him. He welcomes them home, stands, and welcomes up. Here's my challenge. Let's be faithful unto death. Faithful unto death. How many folks here ever heard the gospel? Anybody here? Anybody here received the gospel? You received it? How about let's live for God? Let's live for God. If the Lord doesn't come back, maybe today he will, but if he doesn't, we go through the gate of death. Let's be faithful even unto end. Amen. Alright, let's start that. Let's this week live for the Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask you to take these thoughts such as they are. I pray you'd stir our hearts to love you and that our commitment and our faith in you would take real root this year. Become firm and like a tree planted by the rivers of water, unmovable, that you could use us to be a clear, distinct, effective witness. In an old sinful world. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, God's stirring my heart? I don't know what God's doing, but He's doing something in my heart, and I want to be sensitive I want to go forward. I want to grow as God leads me. Any like that? Uplifted hand, young and old, God bless you. That's my hands raised. I want to be faithful to the Lord. I want my Christianity to have some depth. some substance to it, and it stands mocking of the world, the rejection of the world Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James play in the air