Acts chapter five. Verse number forty-two is our memory verse. I know we quoted a little bit ago at the beginning of the service, and um Lord will, and we're working on memorizing this And um Brother Evan read it a few moments ago, but I would like for us, if you would, let's read it together in unison. Just verse 42. Acts chapter 5, just verse 42. If you have it there, let's read it. Ready? And daily in the temple and in every house they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. I'm entitled The Message Preaching Without Ceasing. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts this hour. Father, we come to you this morning and so grateful for your blessings on us I thank you for our church and how you blessed us as a body. And our so many in the church would say you've been awfully good to us Talking to some folks before said, God's been good, and we thank you for that, Lord, your grace and the mercy you show us. And we're asking now, I'm asking now, as I try to preach your word on this particular passage. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I pray it would not just be me running my mouth. God, I pray it would be your Spirit taking your word through my lips. and apply to every one of our hearts, our lives, our homes, that we can be the church and be the people that you intend for us to be. And so please make your presence known here now. Help us to be aware of the fact that you are here, that you are speaking, that you have a will. And I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think a lot of us are familiar with the Gallup company. Gallup, they do polls on a lot of different things. They're somewhat of experts on it. They've been doing it for many, many, many years. A lot of their polls have to do with Christianity in America. And uh they have quite a science they've developed in polling people. I read an article this past week where in 2020 the Gallup organization did a survey of Americans concerning their church attendance and their church membership in particular. They polled Americans about whether they were members of a church or not. And in 2020, six years ago, they found that for the first time in the history of our country, Less than 50% Americans were members of churches of any stripe at all. First time in the history. Throughout our church's or throughout our nation's history, for the most part, the majority of Americans were at least members of a church. And according to the Gallup Organization in this poll, that is no longer the case. Church members are a minority, are a minority. Um I've witnessed this first hand. I try every week to get out and knock on doors and uh talk to people about the Lord and uh try and share Christ with folks And I've found in the last several years, as I'm out in the week, knocking on doors, usually I'll take a street and just go down the street, house to house And I found and anymore, and I always ask this question, do you have a church you attend anywhere? And I'm finding more and more and more the answer to that question that I ask here in Garrett County in our area I'm finding the answer is no, we really don't. We really don't. My next question, when they say that, I ask, have you ever gone as a child? Did you attend church anywhere? Were you a member anywhere Often they'll say, well, yeah, we went here, we went there, and they'll name somewhere. But I'm finding more and more, particularly younger people, are saying, you know, I never, I never was a part of a church. That's a sad state of affairs for our country. The church today, based on what my experience has been and what this poll says, and there's others uh other information out there concerning it, but we can say that the church in America is declining. It is on a decline, it's dwindling. Now there are some exceptions Thank God there are some churches that are very strong that are growing and are having a powerful influence on their community and the world. And so there are exceptions to it, and it seems like in the last year or so there's been a little increase in the interest in Christianity and increase in the things of God But when we come to the New Testament, and that's where we're at this morning, we come and look at the New Testament church, and the New Testament church was exploding. It was not in decline. It was in a powerful, powerful growth If you would, look with me at chapter number two and look at verse number four, just real quick, and keep your Bibles handy. We're going to jump around the book of Acts a little bit this morning. Chapter 2 and verse number 4, of course, we have, I'm sorry, verse 41, we have the Pentecost. The Holy Spirit came down upon Peter and the believers. He preached a powerful message in the power of the Holy Ghost. It's a very simple message, but the power of God was all over it. Look at verse number 41. It says, Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. Look at this. And the same day There were added unto them about what? Three thousand souls. One sermon preached in the power of the Holy Ghost. 3,000 people not only believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, but they follow the Lord in baptism. How many people would agree that would be an amazing day? We have 3,000 people baptized in one day I mean this is this is miraculous. This is explosive on the scene Come with me if you would to chapter number four and learn us with me verse number four Now there's a few weeks have gone by, perhaps, some time has passed. They're preaching again. Look at verse 4, chapter 4. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed. And the number of the men was about how many? So we've gone from 3,000 to what? 5,000. Can you imagine in a couple weeks' time our church had 3,000 saved? A couple three weeks later, we've got 5,000 people We'd have to, Brother Mark needs to start building more buildings, I tell you, if we're doing that. Come with me, if you would, to chapter number five. A little time goes by, not much. Verse number 14 It says, and believers were the more added unto the Lord. Now look at that. What's that next word? Multitudes, both of men and women. They quit counting. They don't give a figure here. They said multitudes. Come with me, if you would, to chapter 6 and verse number 1. And in those days, when the number of the disciples was added, no, what's it say? Multiplied. There arose a murmuring among the Grecians. They had a little glitch there, a little fuss going on. They got it solved, taken care of. But what I thought, what I found interesting is now it's multiplying The church isn't being added to, it's multiplying. Would you agree with me? This sounds like explosive growth. This thing is on fire. This church is alive. They are having a profound impact. On their city, their community, their world. And people are responding. Come with me, if you would, to chapter number nine. A few pages, chapter number nine, Acts. And notice verse number 31, if you would. Acts 9 and verse 31. Apostle Paul gets saved, an enemy of the church, persecuting, killing Christians. He gets saved. His life is transformed. And verse number 31, notice what it says. Then had the churches rest throughout all Judea and Galatia Galilee and Samaria, and were edified. Their primary enemy is converted. Now look what happens. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost were what? Multiply. So you go 3,000, 5,000, and then there's multitudes, and then that's being multiplied. And then chapter 9, that's being multiplied again. I see a difference between the New Testament Church and the Church of twenty twenty-six. A glaring difference. They're alive. The power of God is upon them. Souls are being saved. Lives are being transformed. Powerful enemies are being converted. Drunkards are becoming sober, prostitutes are pure. Lives are being changed in miraculous, profound ways. On large scale I see a difference between the New Testament church and the church of 2026. Now there are exceptions, thank God, for churches scattered around that are on fire, doing a job. God's power on them. Thank God for it. Now the interesting thing is the New Testament church has did not have some things that our church in our day do have The New Testament church did not have wealth. In fact, Peter made a statement early on. He says, silver and gold have I none. They were broke. They didn't have budgets. They didn't have big budgets. They took offerings. They tried to help each other. They supported missionaries. They didn't have wealth. New Testament Church. Oh, by the way, the church today has wealth. I want to suggest to you, even in our independent fundamental Baptist movement, we've got more wealth today than perhaps ever in the history of our movement. Money's there. You say, preacher, we got projects going on. I got good news. We've got the money for it. The bad news is it's in your pocket. And so Well, that's the subject of another sermon someday. They didn't have money. Our church today has things the New Testament church did not have. They didn't have training. They didn't have any Bible colleges. They didn't have seminaries. They didn't have online uh uh courses you could take. They didn't even have books. They had scrolls, handwritten scrolls and whatnot, but not printed like we have, libraries like we have. So the New Test we the our church has some things there the New Testament church didn't have. They didn't have highly organized programs. They didn't have master clubs, they didn't have teens alive, they didn't have buses to run, they didn't have King's Kids or Super Seniors or Naomi fellowships or fingerprints or programs like that. I didn't have any of that. No organized programs. It was just a body of believers So our churches in our day have some things the New Testament church did not have. Facilities. They didn't have facilities. They're meeting in homes. You read Paul's, these thank you people that met in the home of Stephanus and different people. They're meeting in homes. They're meeting outside in the court of the temple. They didn't have, like I said, buses. They didn't have sound systems. They didn't even have gospel tracts There's no way they didn't have any printed literature like that. Nothing. So we had a lot of things the New Testament Church did not have. But that New Testament church has some things, I'm afraid, a lot of our churches are missing. I put a few down, and this is not my message. But some things they did have that many of our churches in our day do not have. One, they had the power of the Holy Ghost. If you would look with me at chapter 4 where we started here. Look back at verse number 31. Come back to chapter 4. And again, we're going to jump around throughout the book of Acts. But chapter 4 and verse 31, let's back up to verse 29. They're facing persecution, which by the way is something else that the church then had that we really know little of. It says they're praying, the church as a body is praying. They say, Now, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. By stretching out forth thy hand to heal, that signs and wonders may be done by the name of the holy child Jesus Christ. Now look at verse 31. Here's my point. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost How many of them were filled? All of them. Every person, part of that church, was filled with the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost of God. And they spake the word of God with boldness. Verse 32, and the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. They were unselfish. They helped each other. And they had the power of the Holy Spirit. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 33. And with great power. Gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. They had the power of the Holy Ghost. Now the fact the fact of the matter is every person that's saved has the indwelling Holy Spirit. How many folks this morning? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. That being true, I know something about you. God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit, indwells your body right now. Where you are right now, you have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in you. Now the question is, are we filled with the Holy Spirit? Does He control us? Is He empowering us to live for Him and be a witness for Him? That New Testament church They had the power of God upon them. They had the power of the Holy Spirit. I believe. I believe. And it's very, very important for myself as pastor and for all of us as part of this church, all of us as believers, we ought to seek the Holy Spirit's filling and the Holy Spirit's power in our life. Every one of us, Sunday school teachers, teenagers, uh uh junior age, primary, senior citizens, all We ought to seek to have the power of God on us, the power of the Holy Spirit. The Christian life is not something you and I can work up. It's a miraculous, supernatural life that we receive through the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Holy Spirit. Here's my question. As I was studying this and putting these thoughts together this week, I wondered. If the Holy Spirit of God was removed from the average church in the United States today, suppose the Holy Spirit was just taken away, his presence was gone Would there be any noticeable difference in the church? Would anybody be even aware of it I want to suggest to you, and I'm trying I don't want to be critical. Good night. We got our church. I got a hands full here. But I'd venture to say, probably your average church, if the Holy Spirit was removed, you'd never notice it Sing the Psalms, go through the motions, preach a sermon. No presence of God there, no power of God there, no souls saved, no lives changed Nothing supernatural happening at all. Just a church service. I wonder if the Holy Spirit was removed from your average Christian home. Your average Christian marriage, if the Holy Spirit was removed, would there be any difference? Would the uh would uh uh uh fighting Fussing, carnality, worldliness, would there be any difference if the Holy Spirit was removed? I see a difference between your average church in 2026 and the New Testament. I see. And you read this all through the book of Acts. I took a blue highlighter and I highlighted every time the Spirit of God is referenced in the book of Acts. You should see my Bible. Blue, blue, blue, blue, blue, blue, blue. The Holy Spirit was upon that church upon those believers. Can I say something as your pastor? I want the power of the Holy Spirit upon Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I don't want us just do what we can do. I don't want it just what we can produce. I want what God can do. So a difference between the church in 2026 and the New Testament church, they had the power of the Holy Ghost. I noticed something else different. I noticed they had a total dedication to Jesus Christ. I mean total dedication to Jesus Christ. Look with me at chapter 5. Look with me at verse 41. Now they're being persecuted. They're being threatened and beaten because of their walk with God, because of their love for the Lord Jesus. And this verse, verse 41 of chapter 5, has always been significant to me. It always stood out. Every time I read it, I am challenged by it. Look what it says. And they, the believers, departed from the presence of the council. Those are the ones threatening them. If you keep preaching Jesus, keep living for God, we're going to jail, we're going to beat you. They departed from the presence of the council. Look at this, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. You know what your average Christian and I I I you know I I I was probably speaking for myself, you know what your average Christian would do if we got drugged into City Hall, the Sheriff's Department down here in Oakland They threatened us, Brother Lemon, and you you folks keep you keep preaching the gospel, you keep giving out those tracks, you keep living for God, you keep doing what you're doing, we're gonna throw you in prison, we're gonna beat the daylights out of you, we're gonna break your leg. You keep doing that, we're gonna rough you up. You know what your average Christian would do? We'd call COA. We'll shoe you. You're not getting away. You're not going to do this to us. Now thank God in America we have a recourse that we can we have freedom. Amen. You follow what I'm saying? But I notice a difference. Those New Testament believers, they loved Jesus so much that to suffer shame for his name brought joy to their heart and life. They rejoice that we're counted worthy to suffer shame for the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? There's a little difference here between the two churches. I was we came in 1993. We showed up on a Thursday, unpacked Friday, and I preached Sunday. Monday I went out knocking on doors. I just want to go out and introduce myself. I went every day uh for a long time on every day and um I was over in Loch Lynn and uh I was not gonna I can still take it to the house. This is thirty some years later. And I'm not going down there and knocking over the side, hi. You know, I'm I'm this young kid, I had hair. I wasn't as good looking man as now, but I had hair Knocked the door and this woman come to the door. I said, hi, I'm Pastor Letterman. I'm the new pastor down at the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I had some old tracks that were fade I found in one of the closets because we didn't have time to order new ones And uh I gave her a little gospel. I said, I'd love to have you come out and visit our church. I just want to introduce myself. And uh I said, you know, do you know, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? And I mean to tell you She tore into me a tirade. I mean, uh it would make a sailor blush. She lay it up one side down the other. And um I'm telling, I'm just being honest with you. In my heart and mind, it swelled up. Oh dear. I know none of you would ever do anything like that at all, but I'm telling you, my flesh got worked up. I said, well God bless you. I turned and walked out and I was hot. I thought, man, I'm the new preacher. I moved my family here and uh And man, I got to the end of her walkway, got out to the sidewalk of the road, I got to the end of her walkway, and God's Holy Spirit convicted me And he says, you ought to rejoice. And that you're able to have the opportunity to suffer shame For the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said in the Sermon Amount, Blessed are ye when men speak evil of you and curse you and revile you. Love them, pray for them, do good to them And I learned a lesson early on. It's an honor to love the Lord Jesus. And it's an honor to serve Him and be reproached for the name of Jesus Christ. The New Testament church loved Jesus. They loved him. They were devoted to him. And if people mocked him and threatened him, if they killed him, Hey, I love Jesus. He's worth it. He's worth dying for. He's worth being cursed out for. I see a difference. That New Testament church had unwavering faith in God. In Acts chapter 12 and verse 6, if you would come over there with me and notice Acts 12 and verse number 6, Peter is in prison. James has been killed for his faith by Herod, and uh James is next in line. Herod saw that the Jews were happy that he killed James. Verse 2, he killed James, the brother of John. Look at verse 3. And because he saw it please the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also So Herod kills James, who was the pastor there at the church, and killed him. And all the Jews were, yay! Herod's the greatest, he killed the Christians, yippee! And Herod says, oh well, they like that. Go get Peter. Let's kill him too. They'll like it even more. So he goes get Peter And uh it comes down there, and uh he apprehended him, put him in prison, verse four, and delivered him to four quatrions of soldiers and uh keep uh to keep him intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people. He's going to kill him. And Peter therefore was kept in prison But prayer was made without ceasing to the church of God. Now here's what I'm getting at. Look at this. Now Peter's in prison. He's going to be killed. Probably going to chop his head off, is probably what the plan was Look at verse 6. And when Herod would have brought him forth to kill him, the same night, the night before, he's going to be killed for his faith, Peter was what? Sleeping. Between two soldiers, he's bound with two chains. And the keepers before the door are kept a prison. Now I don't know about you. If I'm in prison and I got chains on me and there's soldiers around and my head's going to be chopped off in just a few hours, I don't know how well I would be sleeping in that situation Peter's sound asleep. In fact, look at the next verse. This tells you how deeply how sound asleep he was. And behold, verse 7: the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in a prison. So now he's going to be killed in a few hours. He's got chains on him, he's got soldiers all around him, and he's asleep Now, this angel shows up and this light comes up. I don't know if I'd be sound asleep. Look what the angel has to do. And he smote Peter on the side. And raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off his hands, and the angel gets him out of there. But the point I'm trying to make is this: Peter had such faith in God. That the plan was to kill him the next day. He's in this horrific situation, and he is so asleep that the light doesn't wake him. The angel has to go and smite him. The angel's like, smack! And he doesn't know if he's having a vision or what time. Do you ever get up and not know where you're at? What and Peter's like, whoa, what in the world? You say, how in the world could he possibly have that frame of mind? I'll tell you how. At the end of the Gospel of John, Jesus had a conversation with Peter, and he told Peter that Peter wasn't going to die until he was old. And Peter wasn't old yet. And he didn't know how it was going to play out. And he didn't know how this was all going to work out. But he knew they weren't beheading him that he wasn't dying the next day. God was going to take care of him because he promised him that he would live until he was old. You know what that's called? Faith. Jesus said it, and that settled, isn't it? And he had peace of mind, peace of mind, peace of mind. How our churches today we worry and fret. Oh, we do this and do that. And we got all these promises in this book. We got all these promises. That New Testament church had faith in God. Our churches today, we look at everything else. We run to everything else. Rather than simply taking God at His Word. Are you with me? Just take God at His Word. Let's just believe God. Another thing about that New Testament church, they were fearless in proclaiming the gospel. They were fearless. Come back to chapter 4 again. And verse number 18. I like this section here. They're being threatened for preaching the gospel, preaching the word of God. They're being threatened. It says, and they called them the counsel, the authorities, called them the believers, and commanded them not to speak at all or teach in the name of Jesus Christ. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's great commission. Jesus' great commission is go into all the world and preach the gospel. Satan's great commission is don't Preach the gospel. Don't preach in the name of Jesus. How they respond to that But Peter and John answered and said of them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye, you decide whether we should obey you or obey God But we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Fearless in the face of opposition. Verse 31 of John chapter 4. We read this a bit ago. When they prayed, the place was shaken, where they're all assembled together. This is in the face of blanket opposition, in the face of powerful threats. They were filled with the Holy Ghost. Look at this. And they spake the word of God with what? Boldness. Boldness. They were facing persecution like the American church has never faced. And they were fearless. They went out and preached the gospel and preached the gospel and preached the name of Jesus. I see a difference between the New Testament church and the Old Testament and the New Testament church and the church of our day and age. Now there are exceptions, thank God for it. I love our church, I thank God for it. I don't know about you. I would like to have a little bit of what that New Testament church had. I would like to see a little bit. I would like to experience a little bit. Of what that New Testament church experienced. Acts chapter 5 and verse 42, I think, is a good snapshot. Of what the New Testament church was all about. That one verse, we're memorizing it this month. I think that's a good snapshot of what that New Testament church. Look at, and daily in the temple and in every house They cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. That's what they did. That's what they were all about. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Our theme for 2026 is we preach Christ and Him crucified. That's what the New Testament church preached. I noticed the topic of their preaching was Jesus Christ. It's what they did. That's what they were all about. Preaching Christ. Preaching Christ. In Acts chapter 5, verse 5, Philip has the Ethiopian eunuch, and I'm not going to be able to turn to all these references. I want to. Verse 35, Philip meets this Ethiopian on his way back down out of Jerusalem. And the Bible says he preached to him Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 9 and verse 20, Paul's a newly converted. He's just changed, transformed, renewed. He's saved. His life has changed. And in verse 20 of chapter 9, it says, Paul, this new convert, is preaching Jesus. In Acts chapter 11, verse 19, 20, and 21, the men in the church are being persecuted, not the apostles, not the pastors, the people of the church are going everywhere preaching Jesus Christ. The whole congregation, everybody, is out there preaching Christ, preaching Christ, preaching Christ. Acts 17, verse 1 through 3, Paul, years later, he's still preaching Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. All through the book of Acts, you look, pay attention. All through the book of Acts, that New Testament church, they're preaching Jesus, they're preaching Jesus. They're preaching Jesus. They're preaching Jesus. The church is not about man worship. It's about the worship and the proclamation of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the church is. That's what they did. The topic of their preaching was Jesus Christ. They didn't preach politics, and I think there's a place to address political issues. There's a place for that, but that wasn't their message. They didn't plea they didn't preach self-help. How to be how to be more financially stable, how to have a better marriage, how to think How to have a better self-esteem. They didn't do any of that. Now, the Bible, uh, hey, by the way, Jesus will help you have a better marriage. Jesus will help you have be better off financially Jesus, I help you have a more correct view of yourself and have a little bit more confidence, not self-confidence, Christ's confidence, but have a little more stability in your life and a little more direction and fulfillment and purpose. Jesus will help with all of that. But that wasn't their subject. Their subject was Jesus himself. Jesus himself. The topic of their preaching was Jesus Christ. They didn't preach about Jesus, they preached Jesus. Not merely as a they didn't just preach them just as a historical figure or a doctrinal fact. They preach Christ, a living Christ. I believe preaching, at least from my perspective and behind the pulpit, but in any scenario, in any situation where Christ is being proclaimed It is not just giving information about Jesus, and that is necessary, but that's not what they're doing, not just giving information about Jesus. What they are doing is presenting Jesus to establish a personal relationship with a living Savior. Not just giving information. I have a goal and a purpose in my preaching. I try very hard to give some information. People learn something, maybe about the Word of God, about God I didn't know before. Or I've forgotten. I learned something. But it has to be much more than just giving information out. When Jesus Christ is preached, it's not just academic It is a spiritual work of the Holy Spirit where people believe in Christ and they're introduced to Him and a relationship is established between an individual and our God and Savior, Jesus Christ. That's what they were doing. They preached Christ. Not about Christ, they preached Christ. They were establishing relationships. It's possible to know about Jesus and not know Jesus. It's possible to try and follow Jesus but yet not know him in a personal way. Preaching about Jesus, and that's fine, and it's necessary to an extent, is proclaiming information Preaching his deity. Jesus is God. Preaching his sinlessness. He was without sin. Holy. Jesus was. Preaching his power over storms and over sickness and over devils. The power of Jesus Christ. Preaching about that. Preaching about Jesus is giving information about the wisdom of Jesus Christ and His love for us. Preaching about Jesus Christ is preaching about his crucifixion, how he died in our place, was buried. Preaching about his resurrection, giving information out. And that's fine, and that's necessary. I'm not saying we shouldn't do that. But it's possible to have all that information and still not know Jesus Christ as personal Savior. It's possible to have all that information and die and end up in hell If I don't have a personal relationship with him. I'm not saved by information, I'm saved by a relationship with a living Savior. Paul said, I know whom I have believed and am persuaded. The devil's the devil himself knows that Jesus is God The devil himself has that information that Jesus is pure and sinless, that Jesus rose from the dead, that he died for the atonement of all mankind. The devil knows all of that. And the devil's still the devil. And you can have all that information, but if you don't have a personal relationship, you're still a sinner. You're still unsaved. You're still without God. Let me ask this question. Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Do you know Him in a way? Are you walking with Him? Jesus said, I am the vine, you are the branches. Abide in me. That means walk with God. Know Him as your Savior. Have a relationship. So they didn't preach about Jesus. The subject of their topic was preaching Christ in a personal way. In the New Testament church, people knew Jesus Christ in a personal way. They had a personal relationship. We want the same thing here. Mount Lake, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we want everybody not just know about Jesus, we want everybody to know Jesus To know him. We want our church kids, the kids growing up in Christian homes, homes where the Bible's read and the Lord is honored. We want them not just to know about the Lord Jesus Christ, we want to know Him personally themselves. There's a danger in a Christian home for a child to grow up and know all the facts and give all the answers. But never know Jesus Christ personally themselves. Nobody gets to heaven on the coattails of a Christian daddy. Nobody gets to heaven hanging on the skirt of a Christian mama. They get to heaven because they trust Jesus Christ personally themselves. You with me? We want our church kids to have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. We want our bus kids to have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. We don't want them just to know about Jesus. We want them to know Jesus. We want our mothers and fathers, we want our seniors, our teenagers, our neighbors, our families, our friends, our co-workers. We want our government, we want our mayors and our council members and our representatives, our centers, we want them all not just know about Jesus Christ, we want them to know Jesus. They preached Christ. The topic was Jesus Christ, not facts, Jesus Himself. The topic, the persistence in their preaching Notice what it says there. And daily in the temple, in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. Daily means every day of the week. How many people didn't know that? Daily means every day of the week. Every day. Sunday, Sunday school teacher taught Jesus. People preached Jesus. The buses ran, they preached Jesus. They had King's kids, they preached Jesus One soul winning, teen soul winning the preaching is Sunday. Well, that's over with. Now it's Monday. We'll pick it up next Sunday. Nope. And Monday, they're telling people about Jesus. You need to know Jesus. Let me introduce Jesus to you. He'll save your soul. He'll change your life. He'll give you peace. You know, joy you've never known. You have a home in heaven, you escape hell, you have confidence. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Daily. And then it says that uh they ceased not. I got I did a study on that. You know what cease not means? It means they didn't stop. I'm telling you, you're learning great stuff this morning. And it stopped. They just kept at it and kept at it and kept at it and kept at it and kept at it. They didn't stop. They did not allow circumstances to stop them. The council said, Don't you preach in the name of Jesus anymore. I'm running out of time. But if you look at that in chapter 4, they didn't say stop preaching. They didn't mind them preaching. They said, just don't preach Jesus. Just don't preach Jesus. They did not allow their mood or frame of mind to stop them Paul said in Philippians, he said, some people preach Christ out of sincere motives, other peach people preach Christ and they're mocking me and they're They're uh trying to add afflictions to me. And they're preaching. He says, hey, whether they're trying honoring the Lord or they're trying to make fun of me, at least Jesus' word is getting out about Jesus. People are learning about Jesus Didn't matter what their frame of mind was. Andy, see here I was how many years ago was that Andy? I knocked on their door. Twenty-seven years ago. I had hair then And I went to visit a fella that kn lived next door. It was a Thursday night. It was just a couple people came out visiting, so that I was kind of bummed about that. It was pouring down rain. That bummed me out And uh it was winter, so it was already dark. And so we paired up and I was by myself. So before we even went out, I was grouchy. I know it's hard to believe, but it's true So I thought, alright, so I had told somebody I would visit this one certain person, so I went, visited them, knocked the door and invited him in, and I mean I got chewed out. I got cussed out terribly. It's pouring rain, it's cold, I'm by myself. I came out of there I was like, uh I'm just gonna go to McDonald's for an hour. Everybody thinks I'm out visiting, I'll just eat a Big Mac. I'll go home And so I got out to the car and the house next door, the light was on. It was dark, rainy, and the light was on. And Yeah, some of y'all know what I mean by this. The Spirit of God spoke to my heart that I needed to go knock on that door. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Spirit of God. It's like I ain't doing it. So I got in the car and the Holy Spirit was like, you need to go. God's working me over. I said, I don't want to. You're going to. All right. So knocked on the door and uh Andy came to the door and knocked over. On Pastor Letterman from Baptist Church, you don't want to get saved, do you Now Andy's here, so I gotta say this. It didn't go exactly that way, but that was my attitude. Yeah, we do. What? And in their living room went through the gospel and Andy and Vicky bowed their head and trusted Christ as Savior. You know what? We ought to preach Jesus even when we don't feel like it So, well, I got a bad attitude. Well, they preach Jesus anyway. Paul and Silas are in prison, midnight, beaten. They're singing praises. Prisoner and the not the game warden. The warden of the prison guard gets gets saved They just preached Jesus all the time, all the time. Whether circumstances didn't stop them, their bad attitude didn't stop them, they didn't allow crowds or lack thereof to stop them The crowds were big, they preached Jesus. If the crowds were small, they preached Jesus. They were persecuted, they preached Jesus. When they were being praised, they preached Jesus. Well a couple times the heathen would come and worship them, thought they were some sort of gods come down. They said, we ain't gods, you need a Jesus Other times they're being thrown in prison. They just kept pre telling people about Jesus, pointing people to Jesus. When people received them, they preached Christ. When people rejected them, they preached Christ. When it was safe to preach Christ, they did. When it was dangerous to preach Christ, they did. If they were preaching to individuals or great congregations, they just preached Jesus. If it's in the prison or it's in the palace, they're preaching Jesus Just keep on preaching Christ. They just kept on preaching Christ, kept preaching Christ, kept preaching Christ. So what do you all do out there at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? We preach Jesus. Just preach Jesus. All the time, all the time. You got on the website, the radio, it's just going out all the time. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. The most needed message in our world is Jesus Christ. We can't quit. We can't quit preaching Christ. Tell you, I just Miss Ed Davis, Carolyn's here, God bless her, four days before he goes to heaven. He's sharing with the hospice nurse. Do you know Jesus, your Savior? You know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? I tell you, that's the way to go out of here. Pointing people to Jesus. Point people to Jesus. The participants were they. That was all of them. Notice it says they and daily in the temple and every house. They cease not to teach and preach. That's the apostles, that's the church deacons, it's the choir members, the Sunday school teachers, the bus workers, the nursery workers, the church members, every rank and file church member was out telling people about Jesus. Everybody! How many people think the preacher ought to tell people about Jesus? Amen. My hands are raised. How many people think the deacons ought to tell people about Jesus? Amen. How many people think the Sunday school teachers ought to tell people? Teenagers Little kids, big kids, short kids, skinny kids, not skinny kids Everybody. And in the last volume with this, the places they preached. Daily and in the temple in every house. The temple was where the people came to them. They would assemble at the temple and they preach Jesus. Equivalent, maybe a correlation with that would be when folks come to church. Folks come to church, they ought to hear about Jesus. I'll be honest with you, I have no idea what other churches do. Some of these churches I have no idea. I've heard stories, people go to church, they never hear the name of Jesus one time. God have mercy on that version of Christianity. So when they assembled together, it was all about Jesus Christ. And then every house, you know what that means? They went out to where the people were. Some of it was the people came to them and they told them that they brought them to Jesus, introduced them to Jesus. Then in other times, they were going out to where the people were. Telling people about Jesus. Telling people about Jesus Christ. Some churches put out a sign. Visitors welcome. That's fine. That's great. I'm not against it. But brother, that's you need to get out to where the visitors are We need to get out to where the people are. Tell them about Jesus. Tell them about Jesus. When I first came, and every now and then I'll run into it a little bit. I first came I get out like I said for probably the first three years every day I went out just knocking on doors trying to get everybody introduced myself and trying to introduce them to Jesus I had so many people would say something like this, and again, I I'm not making judgment on anybody, but this is what they say to me They say, Pastor Leatherman, I'd introduce, we talked, they said, wow, our church should be doing this I wish our preacher got out, talked to people and told others. I'm not better than anybody else, I'll tell you that. But I look in my Bible and I see a New Testament church that went out to where people were and told them about Jesus Christ. And just sit around waiting for somebody to come to me. They went out to them where the crowds were. Anybody recognize the name D. L. Moody? Maybe we recognize that great evangelists years going by. You ought to be familiar with Dion Muddy, amazing man of God. Millions saved under his ministry. Just uneducated, just a simple fella that had the power of God on him. He made a vow to God. I was reading this some time ago. He made a vow to God that every single day he would tell someone about Jesus. He'd talk to somebody about the Lord Jesus Christ. Made that vow, solemn vow to God. Every single day I will approach and enter uh uh um uh talk to somebody about the Lord Jesus Christ One night in his biography, he'd gone through the day, and it was bedtime, he'd gotten bed. It's just dozing off. Do you ever do this? You're just dozing off and all of a sudden realized or remembered something. Anybody like, that's weird He said he was just dozing off also he realized I never I didn't talk to anybody about Jesus today. And it bothered him. He got up and got some clothes on. It was Chicago in the wintertime. He went out, it was blowing snow. And said, he said he was walking up and down the streets there in Chicago in the city. He found a fellow who was leaning against a light post. And he walked up to him and said, Sir, do you know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior? And the guy went off on him. Told him to mind his own business. What's he doing out here in this weather at this time of night? Leave me alone. And just laid into him. The old Moody said, okay, and he went home, went to bed. He fulfilled his vow. That fellow went to one of the leaders in the church. A day or so later found one of the leaders in the church and he said, You need to confront that Moody fellow. He said he is doing more harm to your cause than ten men are doing good. And he needs to back off and cool it. The church leader came to D. Al Moody and said, You're doing more harm than good. You need to back off. You need to slow down and chill out. Now I ain't used those terms, but that's what he said. He said, Well, I appreciate your concern. And he just kept on doing what he was doing. Three months later It's late in the evening. The El Moody's winding down for the day, getting ready to retire. And knock on the door, he went, and here it was the guy that was leaning on the light post. Deo Moody, he said, Can I come in? Deo Moody said, Come on in. They sat down. He says, I came to apologize to you. The way I treated you, what I said, I was wrong He said, since that night when you approached me late in the evening in a snowstorm, I have not slept one peaceful night. He said, I have been miserable. And I need Jesus as my Savior. And Dio Moody led the fellow to Christ. Isn't that something? You know what? That's what the New Testament church did. They just preach Jesus. Just preach Jesus. Just preach. Preach it in our lives, how we live, with our lips. Just praise Jesus. Father, help us to follow this New Testament example. We want your power. We want your presence here and God we want you to use us to bring other people to Christ in tracked month and throughout the year We pray you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But I need God's power on me. I need God to fill me with His Spirit So I can live the way I should live and be a witness that I should be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Let me put it this way. I wonder how many of our church folk will begin today, start seeking the power of the Holy Spirit Start seeking the filling of the Holy Spirit. Any like that? He says, ask, and I'll give you the Holy Spirit. I'll give you the power of the Holy Spirit. If we ask, if we want it bad enough. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, there's some area in my Christian life that isn't what it ought to be, and I know that. There's some adjustments that need to be made so that I can be that witness I should be Is there any like that? Maybe something's crept in. We got a little lax in Samaria. Maybe our Bible reading, our walk with God, our church faithfulness is made. Is there any say preacher of Samaria is neither? God bless you I wonder how many say, preacher, I know someone in particular that's not saved and I want to I'd like to see them come to Christ. Their mind their picture, their face is in my mind right now, their name is on my mind. I'm thinking of them right now And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I can be a witness to see them saved. Any like that? God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I know about Jesus, but I can't say I have any kind of relationship with him. It's just a name. Don't even think about it much. But this morning the Spirit of God has touched your heart. You say, preacher, I need to be saved. I need to get that settled. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I need to know for sure I've trusted Christ. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. I know it went a little long this morning, but I pray And you would help us respond to what your word teaches in Jesus' name