Last two days to myself and I can guarantee it was better all four of those times than it probably will be tonight. But I'm gonna do my best. So as always bear with me. The title of my message tonight is Preacher's Pow. Creatures pal. Now that might um might seem odd, maybe you don't know where I'm going with that. Um but a little later on in the the And this I'll let you know where I'm going with that. I will give you a hint though. It's um can anybody read that? Anybody have twenty twenty It's a little it's a little white badge. It has a picture of a church on it, and in the black letters it says preacher's pal under it. This is a master club badge. But the kids can earn. That's where I got come up with the title. And it just seems like over the last well since the first Sunday pastor was out with Brother James preaching Sunday school. It just seems like it's kind of developed um this this thought in my uh in my mind. And even with Brian's lesson on Sunday morning, I got some I got some info out of that one And uh Brother James and then Pastor Grant on Saturday night. I must admit Saturday night I wasn't sure exactly where he was going with that. But uh I liked where it ended up. That was uh that was a it was a special service And uh, you know, I don't know what I I don't know what prompted prompted that, but um I I I guess the Lord must have let him. But it was a it was definitely a an interesting service, but I thought it was a great service. Um and all that was encouraging, I think. It was encouraging to me. Uh anyway Trying to see what time it is. Um I told Pastor since we started Master Clubs, since they don't get out till 8 30, that that gave him more time to preach. But I guess that only applies to kids who people who have kids in master clubs. Yeah, I stuff you don't care. So I'll try to I'll try to move along. Uh if you want to turn in your Bibles, uh you can get there. It'll be a little while, but Acts 4, 31 through 37 is where we'll end up. Who comes to your mind when you we talk about uh encouragement? Anybody? Talk to me tonight. Okay If you turn to X, you probably figure it out. Anybody? Encouragement? Who was a great encourager in the Bell? Brian talked about this on Sunday. A little bit, I think. Barnabas. Barnabas. One of my favorite messages that uh I can't what's I can't even think of names tonight. Hmm. Who who is the the evangelist just passed away? He's here all the time. I can't think of his name. Dr. Barrens preached a message. I dug it up. It was back in 2012. Preached a message on encouragement. It was an excellent message. It stuck with me all uh for you know three or four years now. It was a great message. I think dig that thing up. That was a good one. It'll be better than this one. But uh anyway, Sunday, Sunday morning last not last, but the one before that. Brother James started out his uh his lesson. I don't know if anyone remembers, but he's he was talking about a preacher and a pastor. And uh there's there's a difference between those two. Um and he was talking about our pastor and what a blessing he was and that we have a pastor here, and I really believe that, and I'm gonna try to emphasize that. Um You know, there's nothing wrong with a preacher. I think God calls preachers, such as evangelists. They mainly go out and they preach. And uh and that's good. And pastors preach, but not all preachers pastor, if that makes sense to you. Um I've heard I've heard some very great preachers that that were not good pastors and we came out of a church and that's what Brother James alluded to. There are churches that they don't have a pastor. They have a preacher, they go there He goes there Sunday morning, usually a lot of times it's just Sunday morning he preaches and that's it. Next Sunday morning he comes in and preaches again. The I came out of a church like that. Um, when it came time for a business meeting, he sat in the back pew. May open in prayer. That was it. Had no say in the church at all. He was a preacher. He came in and he preached I use that term lately. Um but he wasn't a pastor. Um pastor does more than just preach. Um a pastor is uh the Bible read uh uh talks about a pastor as being a shepherd, a shepherd of the flock. And uh give me some examples of what a shepherd does. Talk to me tonight, please. Leads his flock. That's that's one. I only have three, but maybe you'll come up with more. Guides. Right. Right. I I came up with one um if I can read what I wrote in here. Uh he leads them and and he makes sure they have the right nutrition, right? There's a lot of and I was thinking it just thus something way up from there, there's a lot of junk food out there these days. A lot of so-called pastors and and preachers are given out. And uh And I was thinking I'm on a diet, so I hate talking about food. But it look that junk food looks good, don't it? Man. When I come by slopeside in the morning I wanna stop, but I don't Um it looks good, it tastes good, it smells good, but it's it's usually not good. But a shepherd leads and guides and takes care of his sheep. Um and I put one down here, a a real characteristic of a good pastor, I think, is they're willing to to do whatever it takes. Um Pastor uh he was in New Zealand. Oh he's in New Zealand, right? My father-in-law had uh hip replacement this morning And he told Jackie, so I'm so sorry I'm not there. If he would have been here, he would have been at the hospital at five o'clock this morning. I have no doubt about that. And and I've seen him I I was trying to think, I think it was Mrs. when Mrs. Hartman passed away I think it was during the Wild or not the Wild Game then or the Men's Mountain Getaway. And you know, when those types of things happens, he doesn't say, Well, I'm on the getaway, I can't be there You know, he's drops everything and and's there. And uh I think a good uh a a good pastor is willing to set aside any any plans, basically die to self. Um but anyways when Pastor asked me to fill in uh a while ago, uh I began to to pray about about it and think about what I wanted to talk about. And um There had been a message. I listened to a lot of the messages from the Sword Conference this year. I don't know if not if you haven't listened to some of those, you ought to get them. They were really good. uh Morris Belcher who's gonna do our uh Wild Game Dinner preached a great message on uh about uh Being an empty vessel. He used the story of the empty water pots. Have to empty yourself. Trying to think of the one one guy he preached a message on hell that was just Absolutely uh it was wonderful. Um you know, and I was thinking of this this weekend this week during I think one of Pastor Grant's messages. I know I'm getting off topic, but You know, he was he was asking why why do we run why do we run buses? And why do we go out on visitation? And why do we get our hearts broke over these kids? And why why do we do what we do? And it's because there's a hell. You know, if there wasn't a hell it'd be he preached a wonderful message. Anyway, there was another guy, uh his name's George Ridell. Has anyone ever heard George Riddell preach before? Alright. That was the first time I think I'd ever heard him preach. But uh a lot of these messages I stuck on my phone right away and I've listened to him quite a few times. He preached the message. Um he called it entitled It Cut Down the Tree. It's about as unique as Preacher's Pow I think uh cut down the tree. I'm I'm not I'm not a big history buff, but uh it he was talking let me see if I can remember. If anyone knows history. General uh Robert E. Lee. They said that he was at a home of a prominent a person in the in the day and it was right after the war and and and he was there and she took him out by this huge tree And uh she said, she was talking to the general and she says, look at this tree. She said, it's ruined. It's just been riddled with gunfire and artillery fire. It's just totally dis destroyed. And they said that according to the story, they say that he looked, he just stood there for a little while and looked at her and he said, he said, Madam, cut down the tree and forget it. And that was his advice. Anyway, he was talking to pastors in that message. You ever heard that story? Yeah, I don't know if I got it right. I probably might not have got it totally right, but that's the gist He was talking to pastors at the Sword Conference, not only pastors, but mostly people in leadership positions in the churches. Whether they're on staff or or not. Um and he was preaching talking to them about um forgiving. It's actually talking about bitterness and how uh if if a pastor especially will allow bitterness to take root in in the in their lives that it often will destroy a pastor. Um and he was he's encouraging them along the lines of what causes that in the church. and and how to deal with that. The the big thing the the main way was to forgive and forget. I don't have so much of a tr trouble forgiving, I have trouble forgetting um so often that the it's it's difficult for me um and I guess it depends on the severity of it. And he had a really interesting quote in there. I don't even know if I'd probably butcher it. Something to the effects of um We'll forgive people, we just want don't want the people we forgive to forget that we forgave them. If that makes sense. That was kind of interesting. And that's true. That's true. But I'm getting off topic again. But he talked about bitterness and was encouraging pastors along that line. I'm not going to preach his message. Um my my purpose tonight is to encourage us, mainly to encourage our pastor. Um and with that comes um you know everyone. We want to encourage each other. But to be an encouragement to our pastor. Unless I forget to say it, I'll try to say it again. Encouraging someone has to go beyond just thinking it, and this kind of went really well with Sunday night Um, you know, you have to it doesn't do any good whether you appreciate your pastor or someone or not if you don't tell 'em. You know, we we have to tell them Hopefully I'll say it again. So uh again what I want to talk about is encouraging our pastor. And when I say pastor, so often we forget the wives, right, Sandy? Yeah, we do. Yeah. Um but Pastor, Pastor's wife, um, because she's a big part. And uh or we have an assistant pastor in his wife who as far as I know are in the process of having their first child tonight. I think he shut his phone off because I heard nothing since twelve fifty five today. Um but for those of you who don't know her water broke around twelve o'clock So I guess and I haven't heard anything since. And I texted him during handshake time and haven't heard anything back. So um but again what what caught my attention in this message uh was he gave some statistics at the beginning of the message and that that deal with pastors. Now whether all these are I don't know how accurate all these are, um I I some of them I kinda I hope aren't true of our pastor and pastors, but um the reality is that that there's a good chance that they are. Does anyone here remember uh the name Greg Baker? Pastor always asked if you remember names. Anyone remember the name Greg Baker? Okay. For those of you who don't remember Greg Baker, he was a pastor up north, I can't remember where, Bible college and uh in Canada. And uh he's a wonderful, wonderful pastor. I s I have some of his messages on CD. He was here for, if I'm not mistaken, the Sword Conference, I assume. I'm not positive about that. And it wasn't a couple months later that that he committed suicide I I say that because we have no idea sometimes. People I'm people are very good at hiding what's going on in their lives, aren't they? Are we good at that? I mean we're good at hiding what's going on in our lives. And I have no idea what caused that. May not be anything I talk about here tonight. The fact that we we don't know what caused that. But I'm saying that we don't know. We don't have any clue what what's where where someone is maybe at their breaking point. We just don't know. Let me read these statistics. And then I'm going to tell you which ones I know are true about our pastor and which ones I don't know are true about our pastor. Alright. 90% of pastors report working between 55 and 75 hours per week. 80% of pastors believe that the ministry has negatively affected their families. 90% of pastors feel they are inadequately trained to meet the ministry demands. 80% feel unqualified and discouraged. 90% say that the ministry is entirely different than they thought it would be when they entered the ministry. 50% feel unable to meet the demands of the job. 70% constantly fight depression Seventy percent say they have a lower self-image now than when they entered the ministry. This one caught my attention, more so than the others. 70% say they do not have someone they consider a close friend. Forty percent report a serious conflict with a church member at least once a month. 50%, this one also caught my attention. 50% of pastors feel so discouraged that they would leave the ministry but have no other way to make a living. 70% of pastors feel grossly underpaid. 50% of pastors starting will not last five years, and only one in ten pastors will retire as a pastor. Now again, I don't know how accurate those statistics are. So let's go back through them. I'll tell you what I know and what I don't know. Pastor probably works more than 75 hours a week, would be my guess. I don't know if it's negatively affected his family. I don't know that. I don't know I don't think he's inadequately trained, but I he may feel that. I don't know. I don't know if he feels unqualified and discouraged, but I would say without a doubt that I've thought about this before. Being a pastor has to be very discouraging a lot of the time. And just think about that and why it would be. Mostly because I'll talk about that in a minute. Because me enough. Anyway. So I don't know. I would say definitely. Is it different than when he he entered the ministry than he thought it would be? I have no idea. Uh does he feel unable to meet the job commands? I don't know. Does he constantly fight depression? I don't know. I wouldn't say constantly, but I would say probably some. To some extent. Uh does he have a lower self-image now? I have no idea. Does he have someone he considers a close friend? I hope so, but I don't know. Um does he re does he have serious conflicts with church members? I'm sure. I don't know if it's um serious and once a month or not, but All pastors deal with that, obviously. Does he feel so discouraged that he would leave the ministry if he could? I don't think so, but I don't know. Um does he feel grossly underpaid? Not unless he's lying to the deacons and trustees. Uh he's been here more than five years. I can say that. He's been a pastor more than five years. And will he retire as a pastor? I have no idea No idea. But there's a lot of unknowns there, you know. And uh that's what I'm saying, you know that just goes to we have no idea sometimes what's going on. That one about the close personal f the close friend. That kind of that that kind of Hit me, you know, do I is Pastor should be my close friend. He should consider me a close friend. But am I am I a c I don't know. I don't know. Alright, one page down It's three pages, by the way. Actually two and a half. Actually the last page is really easy. So we're doing good. So why is this? Someone give me some examples of why maybe some of these statistics would be. I already gave you one of them a little minute ago, but anybody give me an idea of why pastors might struggle with these in these areas? Right. I put the flock. For the for the purpose of being a shepherd, I put the flock. He has to deal with us, right? The biggest one I could come up with, I could only come up with two. I'm sure there's lots of reasons. Um and the message that that uh Pastor Addell preached, he gave a lot of different scenarios that that could cause uh those types of things. And uh I will say right off the bat, everyone deals with you know a certain extent of these things. Just in our daily lives and in our daily jobs and those types of things, which comes to encouraging each other. But I don't want to talk too much about that tonight. I I I thought of Satan. Um me and a guy at work was talking this week about um uh a church down the road that's growing by leaps and bounds. Anyway, I made a comment to him that I don't and Pastor says this very often, I don't think people people don't understand what who God is and what God really is. I think Pastor does a pretty good job of explaining to us um how holy God really is, even though I think still think I don't really fully understand it. And I think we underestimate the power of Satan um very often too. But anyone preaching and teaching the word um faithfully Uh week after week. Y y y you have to assume that that the devil's on him constantly. I I would think that. Just like he's on our buses and you know the radio ministry and anything that's that's that he's gonna fight it. So I I can't help but think that that has to be a huge factor in in and the the maybe the reasons Uh there. Alright, Acts four thirty-one through thirty-seven. Everyone there? I want to talk a little bit about Barnabas. Four thirty s where do I say? Acts four thirty-one three thirty-seven Alright, so what's going on in this chapter? It's the first persecution is what my chapter is labeled in the Bible. Uh 431 through thirty-seven. All right. And when they had prayed the place was shaken where they were assembled together. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own But they had they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. Neither was there any among them that lacked, for as many As were possessors of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the pieces of the things that were sold. And laid them down at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made unto every man according. as he had need. And Joseph, who was by the apost and who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son of consolation, a Levite. and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it, and brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet. Let's pray. And uh we'll keep going. Father, thank you for uh a beautiful day, Lord, that you gave to us. Lord, I thank you for uh the opportunity to be here tonight. And Lord, we do ask that you bless our pastor and and uh keep him safe, and Miss Kathy is there away, Lord, and we just ask you to You'd use him in a great way down there. Lord, uh and we just ask your blessing upon this uh message tonight, Lord. And And uh I pray that it might be a help and uh a blessing to uh to those that are here, Lord. That we can glean something from it. And uh we just ask these uh things in Jesus' name. Amen All right. So, um I I I would assume that most people have heard Barnabas. uh uh referred to as uh an encourager. Um the the apostles must have thought so because they changed his name to the the son of consolation. Um But I he was a great encourager. We get that from uh from verse 36. Uh one thing we know for sure um if in verse from verse 37 is that he was uh charitable and he was very generous Um with what he had. Um we see there that he so it doesn't say that he sold everything. He ha or he sold everything he had, but it says having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. Maybe that's all he had. I don't know. But uh it definitely was something that was was dear to him and uh and this g it goes to uh Sorry, I messed up in my my notes. Oh um that Barnabas knew where his inheritance was. It wasn't in that land. It was It was in uh in heaven and in the work of the Lord. And uh he gave he gave it uh freely. Um so he was generous, charitable, he was an encouragement to those around him. Um I need to make my rating bigger or get glasses one of the two. Or maybe I need to color code it. Maybe I need to color code it. Pastor Grant. Um but he was cheerful. I he's a cheerful guy, I would say. Uh and I'm not gonna I don't we don't have time to really look at all this these different things. Um but he was active in comforting and encouraging the Lord's people. Um I kind of look I don't know if was was Paul Barnabas' pastor? Eh, for my purpose of my sermon, let's say he was. Let's say um that that that that uh he was. Um let's flip over to Acts nine. We see Barnabas again here. Acts nine twenty-seven. We haven't even talked about Paul yet, have we? Just foreign of us. Acts nine verse twenty-seven Let's go back to twenty or let's start there in twenty-six. This is uh the conversion of Saul uh chapter nine, and we get to uh Verse 26, and Paul's visiting Jerusalem here. It says, And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he has saved to join himself to the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple. But b but Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and declared unto him how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. Um Do you think Barnabas was was an encouragement to Paul here? Do you think that was an encouragement to him? The first thing I thought of was uh discipleship in in the church. Um you know w uh A a new convert comes in and uh maybe they have maybe they're maybe they're rough a little rough around the edges. We usually are when we get saved for the most part. I know I was a little bit. Um But uh you know we take a new convert and and they come in and and we what do we do? We we take them, we disciple them, we teach them. Try to help them to grow and and and learn. And that's that's what uh Barnabas is doing here with Paul. Um I I don't know would if uh If you'd heard about Paul, what what we know about Paul, would you be a little worried if he was coming to town? You think maybe he had some ulterior motives? You think maybe he was a good actor? uh you know, putting on a big a big show. Uh pretending maybe pretending he got saved and was coming and really he'd get a big crowd together, wouldn't he? He could round up a whole bunch of 'em at once. I'd be a little I'd be a little worried about him. I'll come into town. But Barnabas, what what's Barnabas do? He takes Paul, Saul. Forgive me for saying Paul. Even though my caption there says Paul visits Jerusalem and it says I'm when Saul. Uh but he takes him and he encourages him and helps him along and and and tells the apostles, look, this this guy's he's he's for real, he's legit. And uh that played I I think a huge part in in Paul's life. Oh, you know, we we talk about the prison ministry and and people in prison and you know sometimes we don't think that that their they can their lives can be changed. uh the way they drastically are so often. And uh I I I was thinking about this and uh I I do this a lot. And may maybe it's just maybe it's the story of getting the moat out or the out of my eye before I'm you know able to do it to someone else. But I look always you always we always look down on on people so much for for certain things. I'll give you a for instance. Let's just say drunk driving. I I look at when I look in the paper now and I see maybe it's someone I went to school with or maybe it's someone I have a clue who they are And I see they were caught for drunk driving and I say, Man, that's terrible You know, and I I'm all over it and you know And and maybe, you know, maybe they were in an accident, maybe someone maybe they killed a small child or something, and we think that's terrible. And then I thought I was thinking this week, I was thinking, you know, uh when I was back in high school, uh I was that guy out driving around. I w I was that same guy. The only the only difference was was from the great b by the grace of God I never hit anybody. I never wrecked. I never got stopped. Although there was multiple opportunities that that could have happened to me. And I'm s and you know and I look at 'em like, you know, and I hope I'm not m I'm making sense here, you know, how bad and it is bad. It is bad, don't get me wrong, but I was that person It's like the the story of uh when who confronted David with his son. Uh same thing, you know Uh who confronted David with his Nathan, thank you. Nathan. Nathan. Um but it's the same thing, you know, people God has amazing power to change lives. And and that's another sermon I guess. Um but uh Did Paul and and uh Barnabas have troubles? Did they get they got along all the time, didn't they? Nope. They had their troubles, right? They had a big problem with some guy named Mark, John Mark. Um and they split over that. Um they they had their problems. Um but they were together for fourteen years if my uh uh memory if my uh checking here is correct. Fourteen years that they were you know together and uh I can't help but wonder what Paul's life would have been like had it not been for Barnabas. Um But I I do know that he was a great help and a great encouragement. Brian helped me out one Sunday with some other people that helped Paul Um I wrote them down. One anybody remember who helped? I'll quiz. Anybody remember see I got the answer because I I it It's kinda cheating. But anybody remember who helped Paul? Or uh yeah, who helped Paul? Other than Barnabas? Apaphroditus. Okay. There was two tent makers, um woman first and then a man. Priscilla and Aquila? Timothy? I read them down the back of some paper somewhere on Sunday. I was studying my message while Brian was pre teaching. Uh Barnabas, Timothy, Silas, uh Paphroditus, uh all these people helped Paul. And you know, what what would the what would his life have been like? If it wasn't for people the God's people were helping and encouraging it. Who knows? I don't know. Well. Maybe maybe he would have fell into one of these categories, one of these statistics. I don't know. He was a pretty strong guy, but who knows? Who knows? Uh so how did I come up with the where did I come up with the preacher pal? This is where it it ties in. This is the Preacher Pow badge. Obviously I'm big on big on badges now. These are really nice badges, by the way. Uh when I was a when I was a kid one of my most uh uh precious things, I'm weird, uh when I took Hunter Sacy, they gave you a little they think they still get a little badges about that badge or hunter safety badge. That thing was a I just love that badge. Um I don't know why. But uh I just I just like badges. These are really cool badges. The kids get to earn there's hundreds of badges that the kids can earn down One of them is the Preacher PAL badge. In the first grade, the kids get the opportunity to earn that badge. And I think it's an a really important badge for kids. Um I'd like to challenge, if I forget to say this later, I'd like to challenge us to try to work try to earn the Preacher POW badge. Um maybe not in the same things that they're doing to earn it, because I don't know if you want to make a video. um saying what what what you like about the pastor or not. You might you might enjoy it. I don't know. But uh uh anyway I th uh I er I was talking to Dad tonight. Dad he he always wants to know what I'm gonna talk about and all my verses and stuff and I don't know if he thinks I have a great memory or what. He's like what are your verses? I was like, I don't know Dad, I can't remember What's your outline? I said, it's on paper. I don't know. So I brought it up with me tonight and I was sitting there talking to him and I said I said, let me ask you I said When I was a kid, um my pastor was well for here was Pastor John, but I remember very little of Pastor John. But my pastor was my Uncle Dana. And even at that age, even him being my uncle and my pastor at the same time, you know, I was young, I know, but I felt like I didn't really have access to uh to the pastor. Um I don't know why. Maybe it was because he was he was close. Uh we were related. But um I don't know if if young kids look at look at a pastor as as someone up there and they're kinda you know they're kind of off limits to the kids. Um anybody else? Dad said, yeah, I can kinda see that. And to me when I was when I was young I I just you know I d I didn't feel like Like I like I had access uh to the pastor. And I don't know if kids feel that way. I will say that a good qualification of a pastor would be that the kids in the church don't feel that way about their pastor. And I don't think they do here. But uh why was I saying that? Anyway. Um anyway, the preacher pal badge. I'll just get back on topic. Oh they earn the badge. Here's how they earn the badge. They come to club, obviously. That doesn't help them earn the badge, but they have to be there. Uh they're faithful to church. So not only do they have to come into club, they have to come to church. Uh they have they get to write the pastor a a note. They are going to make a video or short story of uh or a video of short stories and memories of the pastor. So obviously the pastor has to be involved in the kids' lives a little bit for them to be able to do this. They memorize scripture that they quote to the pastor. They write things they like about the pastor. I told Austin this the other day, and he just started laughing. I don't know what that means. But uh right things they laid about the pastor and there's other things that they do and they they can earn the preacher pal badge Um not only is not only is this good for the kids, um, but I think uh Ab Thomas, if anyone knows Ab Thomas is He's the one that started all all of this, master clubs and everything. I think he probably had a good idea that not only would it help the kids, but it it would probably help the pastor too. Um and be an encouragement to to the pastor. Um Yeah. Um and and some this is something else that I was thinking of. Sometimes this is me. Maybe I maybe I'm just weird. But sometimes uh I think we forget how special our pastor is. And maybe you maybe you're in a church. Of course you're not, you're in this church. But maybe you're in a church or you understand what I'm talking about when uh When you don't have a pastor like that, maybe he is just a preacher. But we forget how how special our pastor is and how hard they work and and all of that. And a couple A couple of things that I I thought of. Um you know, what happens when you get a new car? What happens when what happens when you get a new car? Yeah, show it off. I washed my truck a lot when it was new. I took care of it, kept it clean, yelled at the kids for getting on the seats. Still yell at the kids. Yell at them for stuffing their candy wrappers in a hole under the seats. You know, putting chocolate bars in between the seats. This has happened recently. Stuff like that. So but you take care of it, you wash it. Uh what about a new house? You get a new house. Man, when I moved in my house that thing was awesome. Now it's just a house, you know. I you get kinda tired. Tired of it just becomes common, kind of. Uh what about when we get married? This isn't a family conference. Ever get old a little bit, maybe? I don't know. Well, my wife's not in here. But it does. Right. Um that's why we have family conferences. Right? Um I I gotta keep where I'm at here I'm sorry. Um but things get old and you know when I came to church here for the first time, i yeah, I was here like probably ten times before I even heard pastor preach. I just came up to sword conferences and and revivals and stuff like that. And and the first time I got to hear a pastor preach, I was like, wow, this is you know, this is great. Uh you know, it's a great church. Uh Everything, you know, we do all this this great stuff. We have track month and we do uh we go on mission trips and And start naming off all the stuff. I could name them off before, but I can't. I'm not there now. Uh you know, we go out on visitation. I came the biggest reason I left we left the church we were at was because there was nothing there. Th there was no evangelism whatsoever. Um we tried to start a visitation program and just no it it just it wasn't there, it wasn't gonna work. But you know all this stuff is new and exciting and you know you're on board with everything and then slowly after Six. You guys came here in six. We came here just after you guys. Eight or nine years. Stuff starts to get old. Nothing's changed. Pastor hasn't changed. He's still preaching the same stuff he is preaching. Probably getting better at it. We're still doing the same things. Probably they're getting better the way we do them and everything. But It's not it's not faster that's changing, you know, I'm I'm changing. And uh and we tend to go that way. And then then what do we start going? Instead of looking at the positive things that that go on in the church, we start to pull out all the negative stuff. Right? Well, he did this and that and And you know, and and it it happens. It it just it just happens. Um and I think all this, you know, all this are some of the reasons for those statistics. That's why, you know, the the things that have to be dealt with. And I I it can't take time tonight to talk about how to deal with all those things But uh you know those are a a bunch of messages there. I came up with about twenty different messages from doing this one tonight that I can do from now on. But uh we do we start to look at the negatives and I'm gonna keep moving. Uh and as I said, this can't be said of all pastors, but I think our pastors for real. I really do. Um I've come to that conclusion that it's he's not fake. He's not putting this on. I I think it's real. Um I'm pretty sure of that. Um And this goes, I mentioned it earlier, but people and leaders, just people in leadership positions, pastors and people in leadership positions in a church can be uh very discouraged, lonely, depressed, and often nobody know nobody knows about that kind of stuff. And uh You know, we see that in these statistics, if they are as accurate as they are, as they say they are. I just want to say we need to encourage uh our pastor, I think. We really need to encourage him and his wife and uh not only not only our pastor, but what what what happened Sunday night I think was was encouraging to me. uh personally and I think for for everyone that was here it would have been and those are the kind of things that we need to do. Uh encourage each other, do things for each other. Everyone everyone likes to be encouraged. I I don't care who you if you don't, there's something wrong with you. Um I made a mistake one time. I was trying to be encouraging to the pastor. I don't know if anyone remembers. It was He's been here twenty-one years. I think it was nineteen years. He was here nineteen years. And I thought, well this is great. Brian Fox is in here. It's friend day. Let's have testimonies about Pastor's name. Well I should have used the word popcorn testimonies as pastor did. If anyone remembers that, it went on and on and on and on and on and on. And A pastor made the comment, he said, he said, don't don't get me wrong. He said, I like everything you said, but I don't like it And you know, because you know that's difficult to be to sit there and you know if for a humble, if you're humble and uh But you know, those we we just need to encourage, be an encouragement. Um even though he makes fun of the deacons and the ushers and the sound guys a lot. I have to write that in there. We still need to to make sure we we encourage him, make sure we tell him that we love him and appreciate him and are thankful for him and don't let it get old. Like I I know it gets it g it's got old to me somewhat. And we gotta we gotta it it takes work. Alright, I'm almost done. The only thing I want to do now is I want you guys to come up with some ideas. I have a list. If you don't get them, I'll tell you what mine are. Some ways that we can be an encouragement to our pastor. Anybody, shout 'em out. What are some ways we can be an encouragement? Mom and Dad got almost all of 'em. Tonight. That's the first one. Right. That's number one. Well actually it's I wrote in number one, so that was my first one, was be in church. That's an encouragement. Okay. Give me some answers. What? Ah, two messages. Well, just that I don't have to have the line. Got it. Little Gurdon little Gurdum should arrive between twelve and three AM Little Gerdom. Between twelve and No Text in Church, that's a good one. I almost told the teachers and workers the other day, if you have a problem downstairs, text me. You're not in church, I'm in church, so it's alright to text me. Alright, no texting in church. I didn't have that one. No, that's a good one. Turn your cell phone off. That'd be a good one too. I didn't have that one either. Alright. Yeah. Yeah. Stu reminds me of that every day. I'm here. I can see things that squirrel here. Yeah. And you always make a comment about any other tools you might figure, but There's a big one, maybe the biggest one, I think, that we can do. Maybe not here, but pray? Who said pray? Yes, pray for our pastor. Not only pray for him, but tell him you're praying for him. Anyone else? Yeah. How about outside of the church? What can we do? Okay. What are we taking? Alright, I'll just give you my list. I had all night. I had a week two weeks to think about this. You guys only have two five seconds. Number one, I wrote this in. If we have a problem with the pastor or with something in the church, deal with it right away. In other words, if you have if you have and I I I uh mainly because I probably need to do this on occasion. Um I put don't allow it to make us bitter Because the same thing happens to us. We said that earlier. If something something's going on and and we're getting bitter about it, it's just going to infect everyone else. And it's going to infect him uh ultimately. Uh but deal with it. You know, go talk to him about it Um, you know, get get things hand handle things before it becomes a big issue. Um I don't know. I thought of that. Be in church, pray for our pastor. Uh I put invite over for dinner. He's on a diet too, so I don't know. But you still invite him over for dinner. Uh take out to eat. Could do that. Write a note of encouragement. I think that was there. Just be aware of birthdays, anniversaries, stuff like that Um do something special for Pastor Appreciation Month. Us deacons and trustees messed that one up. That's October by the way. October is Pastor Appreciation Month. This one I have to work on Um dad got this one. Say amen. I say a I say a lot if I says something I'll say amen. And Becky. And the only person here it's Austin if he's listening. It's you know, pastors he shouldn't have to fish for amens. He really should. But I'm I'm uncomfortable with that. I don't know. I always like maybe because my dad did dad say amen much in church when we were little? I don't remember him saying it. Maybe it's because he didn't. I don't know But he told me to say amen. But that's an encoura that'd be an encouragement, uh I think. It encourages me when I'm up here, even if you fake it and A couple uh sing loud, not only will that encourage the pastor, that'll encourage the song leader if you sing loud. Uh these two are kind of funny, but I I thought of them so I I put sit up front and park in the back. Would be two. Sit up front, work in the back. Uh that's it. Um There's more messages. Maybe he's here already. Uh James James, uh Brother James back here in the sound room. He he mentioned something when we started master clubs. He said, I don't expect my kids to do anything that I'm not willing to do myself In other words, he was saying, if the kids have to earn a badge, I'm gonna earn it with them. If they have to read the book of Proverbs this month, I'm gonna read it with them. I'm gonna I don't know if he's doing it or not. But uh awesome. Uh but he that he made that comment. You know, he if if he's doing that, he's gonna do it with him. And uh I want to encourage you to try to earn the preacher pal badge. Um Encourage our pastors, encourage each other. That's a big thing. We could all use some encouragement from time to time. Things will things will be like No, I I I want to say I think our church uh is probably well beyond that b above average. in in these areas. I I really do. And from what other pastors and evangelists come in and tell us, uh unless they're lying, you know I I don't know. I I mean I I think I really think and I don't see our I don't see our pastor in these statistics. At least I don't want to see him in the these statistics. Um but I I know that if we are an encouragement um That it might help in some of those areas. I'm done. Let's pray. Uh Catherine skipped it