Lose his own soul. It's a good song and uh good truth there and good testimony. Appreciate that, Brother Chester. I want to read my text and then I'm gonna make a statement that ties right in with what Brother Chester sang about here in a minute. Matthew chapter seven. It's hard to believe it has been about, I know it's been at least two years. That we've been uh working through uh the Sermon on the Mount started out as a little series on Beatitudes. Remember that? Back in eighteen forty-two, we started that there And uh a little sermon, uh little series on the Beatitudes, and that went so well and blessed my heart that I said, well, let's just do the whole sermon on the mount. And so we started this adventure and I don't know about you, but I have this has been a tremendous blessing to me and uh to study this sermon. What an ama it is without a doubt the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher to ever preach And actually quite a few of the messages that we did on these Wednesdays, I've been able to use in other places as I preached out And God used them in some tremendous ways. Down in New Zealand, I've used several of these when I was preaching down there, and uh God blessed them greatly. And so what a tremendous study this has been. We actually finished looking at the sermon itself And I want to look at the last two verses of Matthew chapter 7 and the response of the people, how the people reacted. When Jesus was done this sermon, of course, they're his disciples, and he's discipling them. He's teaching them what a disciple is. And look at verse twenty-eight of Matthew chapter seven. Now I was a little rough shaped Sunday and got deteriorated Sunday night. I spent all day Monday in bed, just about all day Monday in bed And I thought I was over it. I haven't coughed. I haven't had nothing in my throat till I got up here, started leading singing. Now it's all doing again. I think I'm allergic to a microphone or something. I don't know. So we'll see how this goes. Verse number 28. Sermon's done. He's finished preaching it. Now here's the people's reaction. And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these sayings. Look at this. that the people were astonished at his doctrine. Why? For he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes So I put it this way, I just entitled this way, An Astonishing Sermon. These people are astonished at what Jesus just said and how he said it. So let's pray. Father, I ask you bless our study now with these last few verses, and we bring this couple year-long study together. And I pray that the truths presented here, Lord, would have had a lasting impact on our spiritual lives, our walk with you. Lord, I trust that perhaps I'm a little bit better disciple as a result of this study than I was before. I pray that would be true for all of us. And so we need your help, and Lord, I need you to speak through me. So I yield myself to you, present my body anew, as we do every service, and I ask you to fill me and speak through me, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think like what Chester was saying, and I want to begin the the our thought here tonight with this, the most important issue in life, the most important issue in my life would be my understanding of Jesus Christ. Understanding who he is, understanding his person and his power and the significance of who he is To me personally. That's the most important thing in my life. Uh the most in the the greatest education a person can get is not in mathematics, is not in in economics and these things that the world uh esteems so highly and there's nothing wrong with that. We need that to some extent But the greatest education is an education about the person Jesus Christ. To know Jesus Christ. So we come to that point in our life where we're standing in a kitchen with our family around not having any guarantees humanly that we're going to be with him ever again is what I think you were trying to say, Brother Chester, to know that Jesus Christ is my Savior, that I know who he is. I have a clear understanding of who he is and I have a relationship with him. That is the greatest thing, most important thing in life. Not everybody Has a correct understanding of Jesus Christ. We know that, right? Everybody talks about Jesus. It's kind of interesting. We're in a society now. where in a lot of places you can take his name in vain, uh, in very vile ways in name, but you can't pray in his name. And so the the uh not everybody has a clear and accurate understanding of who Jesus is and and what power and authority he really has as our creator. Take your Bible, if you would, before we get here, come back to chapter 16 of Matthew. And we see this clearly illustrated way back early in our Lord's ministry. Now we're two thousand plus years removed from this. But even as he was introducing himself, as he was there physically in their presence and they're hearing them hearing his voice with their ears. There still was not clear in people's mind who Jesus was and what he was. Matthew chapter 16, look at verse number 13. I'm going to read kind of an extended portion here. It says this Matthew 16, 13. When Jesus came unto the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, now these are the disciples. Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? So what does that sound like he's doing? Sounds like he's taking a poll. Right? Tercy Little Poles. Who do you think Jesus is And he goes, yeah, all right, I want you to feel this. Who are the people out there? He's kind of taking a poll. Now, is he doing this for his information? No, he wants to teach the disciples something. So he's saying, who do people say that they am? Look who they said that they were. And they said, well, I'm putting this in my words, some of the people are saying you're John the Baptist. Now, what does that tell us about the people's perception of Jesus? Right, they didn't understand who he was. They didn't understand who John the Baptist was. I this is one thing I thought of. John the Baptist was a very forceful preacher, right? I mean he just preached it straight up. So there must have been something about Jesus preaching that made them think of John the Baptist. So I would guess there was something about the style of John the Baptist preaching, perhaps Jesus had a little bit of that, and thus they heard Jesus preaching and say, hey, this reminds me of John the Baptist. I think it's John the Baptist come back to life or whatever Then others said what? Some said Elias, Elijah. Others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. So they didn't know. They didn't really clearly understand who Jesus was, what he was about. And then he makes this important question and he says to his disciples, and this is the whole point of his questioning here. Whom say ye that I am? And what'd they say? Peter, of course, answered and says, Thou art the what? Christ of the Son of the Living God. Peter got it right The disciples knew. So my point is this, not everybody understands exactly who Jesus is. And he goes down, he elaborates on that in verse 18, and I say unto thee that thou art Peter, upon this rock, I will build my church, the gates of hell shall not uh prevail against it. So not everybody understood exactly who Jesus Christ was Uh there was people even in his day that came up short of understanding who Jesus was. So I'm saying all this. to to build a uh uh lay a foundation for our thoughts at the at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. John chapter eight verse twenty-four, the Lord says And uh we won't take time to turn there. But the Lord says something to this effect. He says, your understanding of me determines your relationship with God. Your understanding of who I am and your relationship with me determines your destiny. It says they're about dying in your sins. If you don't believe that I am who I said I am, you're going to die in your sins. So knowing Jesus Christ, understanding who he is, understanding his person, understanding his power, and then having an accurate relationship based upon that understanding. is vitally important, vitally important. Now, come back to Matthew chapter 7. I said all that for a reason. We get to here in verse 28 and 29, and these two verses are important. Did you notice the chapter does not end with verse number 27 with the uh is it the foolish man um uh Verse 27, the rain descent and great was the fall of it. He doesn't end with that. There's two more verses here to bring this whole thing to a conclusion. So these two verses aren't just filling space. How many people are aware of that? There's no verses in the Bible just to fill space. They're not just there for useless information. Oh, this is how the people responded. No. These are given by inspiration of God, and they're very, very profitable for us. And so we look at this and we see that these statements here at the end of the Sermon on the Mount are extremely important. I got three thoughts from these two verses. Number one, I want us to notice the dynamic effect That the sermon had upon these people. Now, if something is dynamic, what does that mean? If it's dynamic, this dynamic effect, powerful effect. It had a tremendous effect on them. Profound is another word that kind of came along with the word dynamic. So when Jesus finishes his statement there, and great was the fall of it. Boom! This whole sermon, these people are powerfully affected by it. It's like the preacher's done preaching, he says amen, and the whole church is in shock. In fact, I got looking up that word astonished. It's used 13 times various ways. It's used 13 times in the Bible. and it is used to describe people's reaction over every time it's used. Every time that word astonished or a variation of it is used, it is used every time In response to something Jesus does or something he says, He had a profound effect upon the people that saw him and the people that heard him. It is an extremely strong term. I was looking up one of my um uh Greek uh words. I don't know Greek. Uh I knew one. He had a little s shop back home. But um but I had the I got these books. I had a professor in Bible college my first year at in Philadelphia, Philadelphia College of the Bible. Professor said there is enough good studies out there to know what the language original languages said. You don't have to take the original language. I said, praise the Lord, he's my favorite professor my whole time in Bible college. And I got looking up this word and I found out, according to these guys, it is a is a very strong term in the Greek that it comes from, and it means this. I love this definition of it It means this. It means to be knocked out. These people are astonished. They are knocked out. It means to be put into shock It's a strong word. One of the definitions, and I think this was from Strong's concordance and his d d dictionary in the back of the the strong coordinates, it had this idea to be knocked completely over. I thought this was this is the after reading all these, I thought these people are had their socks knocked off of them is kind of the idea. To be knocked off your feet. Anybody anybody ever make this statement saying you couldn't have hit me up broadside with a you couldn't have hit me upside of the head with a two by four and I'd been more shocked. Anybody hear something along those lines That's the idea of this word. These people are absolutely dumbfounded. They're stunned by what the Lord Jesus Christ said. By what he said and the way he said it shook these people to the core. They were rattled Remember back some time ago, and this is one of the sermons I used in other places quite a bit when the Lord said, Ye are the salt of the earth, back in chapter 5. Remember that And he says, Ye're the light of the world. And I pointed out at the po at the time that that was a saying used only for very influential people. And I believe part of their astonishment was when Jesus said to just common believers, just everyday folks like you and I are trying to be disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, he says, we are the salt of the earth. Man, that shook them. And when he's all said and done, all these things he said, they are absolutely rattled, they are shaken. I'm suggesting to you that only the presence and power of God can shape people the way these people were affected by this sermon. This was God speaking to them. And God speaking with the authority that He has. And it absolutely affected these people tremendously. So I see this phrase, the very first statement, it says Came to pass when he had ended these sayings, the very first statement is, the people were astonished. They're absolutely I I don't know how you picture this in your mind, but I see Jesus has this great crowd of disciples and he's preached this sermon they're glued to him probably you could hear a pin drop They're glued to him and he finishes. He says, and it fell. And uh what's his last statement there of the sermon? And it great was the fall of it And I just see the whole place in absolute silence. They're just staring. They are in shock. They've been rattled. So the first thing I see is this dynamic effect that this sermon had upon the uh his disciples. Then second of all, I notice The doctrine that this sermon contained, the doctrine it contained. Look at verse 28 again. Look at the last part. The people were astonished, look at this, at his doctrine. Now, what does the term doctrine mean? Teaching. Very simple word. Now we use it in our lingo today in church. We use it to our our what you might call other denominations might call their creed. Our doctrinal statement. But the word itself, as it's used in Scripture, basically means simply the teaching. Jesus had been teaching them what it means to be a disciple. And they're astounded by this. They're astonished at this. They're knocked off their feet. Their socks are knocked off when they're done hearing him preach. And teach this. And what he said had this profound effect on him. For the first time in perhaps their lives. These people had heard somebody tell them that their relationship with God was more than just a bunch of religious rules. They had been taught from a child that you keep these rules. That's all it was to it. Remember back earlier, I think it was still in chapter 5 Where he said, Except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees, you will no wise enter the kingdom of God. Anybody remember us talking about that? Then he goes down through there. He says, If uh you've heard it said, Thou shalt not kill He says, but I say unto you, you shouldn't hate someone in your heart. Then he says, uh You have heard it said, what was the other a couple of the others? And he's talking to him and says, listen, a relationship with God, a disciple is somebody doesn't just keep a list of rules. They have an internal relationship with God. These people never heard that before. This was a whole new concept of of of uh of uh religion Um perhaps for the first time in their life they had heard something more than just superficial scriptural facts In college, college students, Bible college students were somewhat notorious for this, but argue over the most minute meaningless little aspects of of Bible verses. Am I right or wrong? And you'd have some little thing, part of Scripture, how many toes were on the great great uh image that Nebuchadnezzar saw and what was the significance of the dirt under the toenails on that big image. And they'd argue all this meaningless stuff Uh the Pharisees and the scribes would get in huge arguments as to how many angels could fit on the head of a pin. I mean, they got knocked down, drag out fights over this stuff. And this is what the people grew up with. This was this mentality that they grew up with. And finally, Jesus saying, listen, there's a whole lot more to the Word of God than just the letter. There's a spirit behind all of this. There's a purpose behind all of this. And they are being challenged in ways they had never been challenged before. They're being presented now with the the fact that the word of God has an impact on my heart. Not just on what how I look. Everything to the Pharisees was how they looked, how they looked, how they looked. They sought, Jesus said they sought the praise of men rather than the praise of God. And if we're not careful, if we as you and I as disciples, even as Bible believers, Our image can become more important to us than our integrity. Hmm? And we don't like to admit that. But as long as people think I'm honest, Might not be j really actually be that honest, but as long as people think I am, it's fine. As long as people think I'm this, as long as I appear to be that, as long as I look like this. And the Lord's saying, wait a minute A genuine disciple is far more than just appearance. It has to do with integrity. Far more than just image. And they're being challenged with this. They'd never heard this before. All they had heard from the scribes and Pharisees was these external, this fussing over this little detail, that little detail. They were now being presented with God's word upon our character That God's word should not just change how we look outwardly, but it should change what we are inwardly, what I am as a person. And they're being challenged now with having an internal relationship with God more than just simple external conformity, some rules. And even within our independent Baptists, if we're not careful, now listen, I'm not saying we shouldn't have any rules. The Bible gives us rules But if all our Christianity is, is just a series of rules, then we're coming way, way short of what genuine biblical Christianity is. It is faith in God, it is a walk with God, it is a heart relationship. It's interesting. I went back through the sermon looking how many times he uses the term heart, heart, heart, in the spirit. in the spirit, as a man thinketh. He talks about him thinking, thinking, thinking, loving our enemies. All these have things had to do with what I am, my character, who I am as a person, what I am as a person. By the way, every one of these, all the way come down through here, his doctrine was basically this. It was about him. Did you catch that when we went through here? Everything he taught and said somehow came back to himself. Now, in a sermon, only Jesus Christ can do that. If I would stand behind that pulpit and every truth I made and every point given somehow came back and related to me as Dennis Leatherman, that would be a failure of a sermon. Jesus Christ is the only person in all of history, or ever will be the only person, that can preach a sermon all about himself. Because he is the word. Everything here pointed to him. Let me show you what I mean here. Take your uh go back to chapter five. And look at verse number chapter 5 and verse number 11. Early on in this sermon, here he's talking about being persecuted, being reviled. Now think about this. Think about if some other preacher would say this. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. What's the last three words? For my sake, how many people would be bothered if if I preached that and I said spoke of me personally my sake, how many people that would bother you? If I said if you're being persecuted because you're a follower of Dennis Leatherman Blessed you, you know, God will bless you if you're persecuted for my sake. I'd have a problem with that, wouldn't you, if I heard a preacher saying that? But Jesus says that, and he can say it legitimately Look at verse 17. He says Think not that I am come to destroy the law or prophet or the prophets. I came not to destroy, but to fulfill. Look down verse number twenty. He says, For I say unto you, verse twenty-two, but I say unto you, verse twenty-eight, but I say unto you, verse thirty-two, but I say unto you, but Verse 34, but I say unto you, verse 39, but I say unto you, verse forty-four, I say unto you, wow. Look at chapter seven, verse twenty-one. This one is profound. Now, think about this. The people are sitting there, they've heard Pharisees, they've heard scribes their whole lives. Now they hear Jesus, and he's making a statement like this. Look at verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out many uh cast out devils and I name done many wonderful works, then will I profess unto them, I never knew you depart from me. What's he setting himself up here as? He's God, he's the judge Now, these people here is Jesus, they're following them. How many people would say that's pretty astounding to hear somebody claiming to be the one determining whether people go to heaven or hell? I mean this is they're astonished at this. This is shaking them a little bit. They're seeing in this sermon, they are seeing an aspect of Jesus Christ that I don't believe they saw before They're beginning to see him as much more than just a prophet, much more than just a messiah even. They're seeing him as God in the flesh. And he's presenting himself at this. And it has a profound effect on him. Verse number chapter 7, verse number 24. Think about this. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, oh, he's going to be very successful in life Basically what he says. The other one here's my sayings and doesn't do them, well he's gonna his his house is gonna fall How many people would be a little bit bothered if you went to hear a preacher and he says, listen, if you do everything I say, you're going to be a great success. If you don't do what I say, you're going to be a failure. Anybody, would that bother you? Bother me. But Jesus can say that. Because all of scriptural doctrine is about Jesus Christ. All that Bible is about Jesus Christ. Spurgeon made a statement, something along these lines. He says, find your he was talking to preachers, he had a little book, Lectures to My Students. And I believe it was in there, and he made this statement. He says, get your text that you're going to preach on, study it out, get the context, study it out, and then make a beeline to Jesus Christ. And the whole point was this: every part of Scripture points to Christ, points to Christ, points to Christ. So Jesus, in the Sermon on the Mound, is pointing to Himself. He's going beyond just the spiritual teaching and the moral teaching. He's bringing them to see him, to trust him, to yield to him, to have faith in him. Scribes never could do that. They'd put this superficial religion out there. They'd all squabble over little things As long as you kept these external laws, everything was fine. Jesus says, no, no, no, no. The whole Christian life is about your relationship to me. Your relationship to me. And everything comes out from that. And uh so he's making a profound statement. His doctrine here is uh is uh had a shocking effect on them. So we got the the dynamic effect of this term and these people are astonished And uh it's the doctrine he gave. He's putting himself up here as the judge, as God, as the very word. And then thirdly, and last of all, in verse number 29, I think it that brings us to the delivery of the sermon. Look at verse 29. Chapter 7. He says, uh the people were astonished at his doctrine. Then verse 29 explains that a little bit, for he taught them as one having what? Authority. Now my thinking, and my faulty limited thinking, my thinking was that's where the it should end. For he taught them as one having authority, period But doesn't end there. He adds a statement on. What does he say? Not as the scribes. He's contrasting something here. And it's for a purpose. And so this great authority that the Lord Jesus Christ has, the word authority there has used various ways, but this is basically what I got from it as it's used here, as one having the final say. There's nothing else more to be said. There's no argument to be given. There's no debate about it. He spoke with someone with authority. When he said it, that settles it Anybody ever hear that little that little saying, God said it, I believe it, that settles it. Anybody ever see that? See little bumper stickers? And I'm not on a campaign against it. But I would modify that It should be this. God said it, that settles it, whether I believe it or not. And that's how he spoke. And that one he that's how he preached. He said, you've heard other people say, I'm saying to you, this is the way it is. Boom. That's God speaking. That's the final word. And we can argue and debate and go on about all we want. When God speaks, that settles it. That settles it. And so uh when we understand that the one preaching the sermon was the only begotten son of God, that has a profound effect. It's hard to separate, we tell this to teachers and Sunday school teachers particularly, myself included, it's difficult to separate the message from the messenger. Right? The teacher needs to live what they're teaching to some extent. However, is it possible for God's word to have effect on someone if it's taught by somebody who's hypocritical? Sure, God's word can still have an effect. We've got a booklet back there, testimony of a preacher in Indianapolis, was unsaved. He's preaching the word of God. The guy's lost the goose, and he's preaching the word of God, people get saved. So God will honor his word in spite of the messenger. But the messenger is important. And as Chester said, I thought of this when Chester got up and said, listen to the words, don't listen to me. He was separating, and I'm not saying in a bad way, he was kind of separating himself from the words. Don't pay attention to that, and not to me And that's good. And that's my prayer when I preach. However, who is doing the teaching is significant on how we view the message. There's some great preachers that use Dr. Heiles and Dr. Robertson stuff and they would preach and I'd hear them make a statement of people, hey man, that's really profound, that's tremendous. And I think I said that same thing to my youth group And uh nobody thought it was that great. Why? Because of the person saying it makes it more significant. Right? You follow what I'm saying? So Chester's up here and he sings a tremendous song and he says, listen to the words. Don't pay attention to me, pay attention to the words. And we do that, and that's right Let me ask you this. How many people would have had been maybe even more impacted if it was Jesus Christ standing here singing that song? How many people would say, whoa Right? Right? And so Jesus is speaking with authority. It's not just what he's saying, it's the person saying it that is having a profound impact. on people's lives. And so we're going to take it a whole lot more seriously. So this is a case where the messenger is as important as the message. I see it this way. I see the people sitting there. They're hearing Jesus say things that maybe they'd never heard before, at least not from that perspective. He says your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. What? How can that even be possible? Well, you've got to be internal You're the salt of the earth. You're the light of the world. What are you talking about? I'm just a husbandman. I'm just a worker. No, no, no. You're a child of God. You have profound influence. And so they're hearing all this, and as this sermon is going on, they're seeing in Jesus Christ more and more and more the Son of God. And it is affecting them tremendously. And so his authority that he's speaking with, then he tacks on that little statement, not as the scribes Now I wonder why in the world would he say that? Well, I think there's several reasons. One, that's probably who they ever heard teach was the scribes. They went to the synagogues, the scribes taught. They went to special uh feasts and different things. The scribes would teach. So here is this guy show up, this guy, quote unquote. He is no education. They've already fussed about that. His father was a carpenter, quote unquote, father. Who is he? Where does he have learning? And here he's saying things that are so profound and have such an effect on them, whereas the scribes that they've heard their whole lives were just was just superficial and no real profound effect on them. And so they're rattled by this. The scribes taught a lot of facts. Now, this is, I don't know, this challenged me. The scribes taught a lot of facts about Scripture. The scribes told a lot of facts about God, but they did not know the God of the Scriptures And the point in our Sunday school classes, the point in our children's church ministries, the point from the pulpit, uh, the point from our special music and everything we do ought to be Far more than just giving a presentation and giving out facts and just putting on a show. It has to be pointing people to Jesus Christ. Everything about it needs to point people to Jesus Christ. And when he spoke, he spoke with authority, and they began to see who he was. They began to understand who this quote-unquote man is. And it had a tremendous effect. The scribes didn't do that. The scribes didn't do that. The scribes would focus about how much they knew about scriptures. I mean, they could get up and quote from memory Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. They had the first five books of the Bible memorized down pat. Wow, they're amazing. Jesus says, listen, you need to do more than just memorize it. It needs to be a truth in your heart that brings you to know God and have a relationship with God. They missed the whole point on how uh on how to know God, the God of the Scriptures. They were proud, they were contentious, they were quarrelsome. And the Bible warns of this. I got a whole slew of verses here that uh, well, let's look at a couple of them and we'll finish up. We've got a minute or so. Turn over to 1 Timothy. This is Paul writing to a young preacher. And I thought this ties right in. We finished up on one of the greatest sermons, if not the greatest sermon ever preached. Now Paul's writing to a young preacher boy. And he warns them about what the scribes and the Pharisees were all about. He warns them about that. 1 Timothy 1. And maybe uh I'm preaching at myself here a little bit, but first Timothy chapter one and verse number three. And we're going to look through Timothy here a little bit. First Timothy one chapter three. And I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went to Macedonia. Look at this. That thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Alright? Jesus taught doctrine. They were astonished by it. And neither give heed, look at this, to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith, so do You know, I I got looking at it says not as the scribes, and I got thinking about how the scribes were. I looked at this passage and I thought, I think that's what Paul's warning Timothy Teach the doctrine, but don't get quarreling and fussing over all these little things. Come over to chapter 6 of the same book. And look at verse number 3. Chapter 6, verse 3. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, all right, there's your doctrine. Even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine, which is according to godliness, if any man teaches other than that, look at verse 4. He is proud, knowing nothing. But doting about, look at this, questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy and strife, and railings, and evil surmising Per vie first disputings of men of corrupt minds, destitute of truth, supposing that gain is godliness from such withdrawal. That's exactly what the scribes would do They fuss and fight over the most minute, meaningless things. 2 Timothy, come over to chapter 2, just real quick. Indulge me here a little bit. And look at verse 15. We're familiar with this verse. Study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman that meaneth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Notice the purpose of studying the scriptures, so that I can be a workman that's not ashamed. But verse 16, but shun profane and vain babblings. They will increase unto more ungodliness. Come down to verse 22. Flee useful luts, but follow righteousness, faith, peace, flood. Verse 23, but foolish and unlearned questions avoid Knowing that they do gender strike. So he goes through, we go to Titus, he says the same thing over and over and over. The scribes fail to see They failed to see God's concern about the heart's condition. They failed to see God's concern about the desires of our heart, the attitude of our heart, our frame of mind. All they had was this external, outward stuff. And when Jesus is done, they see Jesus in a whole new light. This man is a man of authority. This man has the authority of God And what he says goes so far beyond anything we've ever heard before. Everything about this sermon was completely different than any message they had ever heard before. And everything about this man, Jesus, was completely different than any man they had heard before. And the impact of this sermon on the immediate audience was profound. They were shaken. They saw Jesus as they never saw him before. And I'm suggesting you that is the power of the Word of God. Jesus says, I am the Word. I'm the Word. And when the when God's Word is viewed from a spiritual perspective, this is God revealing himself to me. It has a profound, profound effect. How many folks here If you weren't feeling well, this past week I wasn't 100%. Suppose I'm down at goodwill I'm rooting around Goodwill looking for a suit, you know, or something. And some guy comes up to me and he says, uh, and I'm hacking away. And he walks up and says, You don't you don't sound like you feel good. I said, No, I don't I don't feel too good. He goes, Hey, I got some pills here. You take these pills, buddy. They'll make you feel better How many people would be a little suspicious of taking that guy's pills? Yeah. Why? Why would you be suspicious of them? You don't know them, right? You don't know anything about them, you know nothing about them. How about you don't feel good, you go down and um you go to your doctor's office? The doctor says, boy, Brother Lemon, you don't look like you're feeling too good. No, I've been a little rough. Here, take these pills. You take these, you'll feel a whole lot better. How many people would take those pills? What if they were the exact same pills? What would what's the difference? Ah You know that doctor has some authority behind him that what he is saying has authority. That was what I was looking for We trust him. We know who he is. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people out there saying, do this, don't do that, here, this, that, and the other. We don't know anything about him. But what I'm trying to say is this, when Jesus tells us to do something, we can have full confidence that's the right thing to do. And that is the impact this sermon had on these people. And so we come to the Word of God. For those of us that are involved in teaching the Word of God and sharing the Word of God, let's try and make sure our lives line up to it as best as we can. But let's use the Word of God to point people to Jesus. I tell you what I uh I appreciate, but I don't really like it, if that makes sense. When I preach a sermon and people come out and they say, Pastor, that was a good sermon, I appreciate that. But I want I really don't want to have a good sermon. What I want is people be drawn to Christ. That should be my motive. Drawn to Christ, drawn to Christ, drawn to Christ. I heard I read somewhere just recently they said, better than hearing, boy, what a beautiful, what a great sermon. When people walk out, they should be saying, what a great Savior. And that's what this was all about. People saw Jesus in this. They saw Jesus. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that this Sermon on the Mount has had a profound impact on our lives, that we would take very seriously the instruction you gave us on how to pray and how to respond to people that are unkind, the attitudes we should have in this life and all these areas you've covered. Lord help us to take it very, very seriously because it's coming from you. and authority that you have to tell us this. And I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, with I wonder if any of us would say, preacher Uh I'm fin uh my my spiritual walk with God. Maybe outwardly everything looks good. Outwardly it's it's uh it looks fine, like the scribes. But you say inwardly, my personal walk with God is not what it ought to be. And I need to come to Christ and I need to walk with Christ. Is there anything like that? Preach or pray with me. My personal walk with God, and that's probably true for all of us if we were honest, that that inward walk isn't what it ought to be. And God will help us. That's what this whole sermon's about. So someone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm concerned about that. Being religious won't save us. Being Baptist won't save us. Only Jesus can save us. Is there any like that? Any like that? Now, Father, bless us now. Bless the invitation. I pray that we would see you in your word and we would trust it and obey it and apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together.