It's very humbling to come back and see the the little children and the teenagers and all their children. If you want to see the Bibles, I'll put these, I'll show you here and I'll put them back on the back. Uh this is the Bibles that we've given out in Ephesians. And uh the interesting thing about these is that uh uh this was they were printed in Belarus part of old Russia, on a printing press that used to print communist propaganda literature The man who run the press was a Christian man even then, and he would slip back in at night and print Christian literature. Now he owns the press And he prints Bibles for us for distributing in in different places in the world. And he does it at a at a phenomenally low price. When you see the quality of this Bible, uh, we get these for just a little over two dollars apiece. And just unbelievable. And it's the only way we could have taken uh and then the the little ones we get a New Testament and they're and it's just as high quality And uh so these are these are the uh Bibles we've been giving. These Bibles will last. They'll stay in families, they go into the homes and villages, and uh and for Ephesian now the The population is only about 875,000. 220,000 of those are school-aged children. And a fourth of the population has heard the gospel and received a copy of God's Word. You know, there's no way that that's not going to have a powerful, powerful impact on that country for the future And it's just been a privilege to be a part of that. But I could never have have been a part of that if you weren't standing behind us helping and supporting and praying and uh and and and making it possible for for us to be in ministry. But with you if you would please open your Bible to Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10 Luke is a tremendous chapter, and I I encourage you to To read and study this chapter. In this chapter, I believe you'll find the four most important things. that every Christian ought to be involved in. The first I want to speak about tonight, and that is the hardest field. Then you'll find that Jesus spoke about the importance of them understanding their own salvation. The fact that he said, Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. And I believe it rejoices the Lord's heart every time that we grasp a little more of the Word of God and what we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh, you know, I remember asking old men, when I was a young man, uh, about the Word of God, did they ever exhaust it, did they ever find out everything that was there? I never met an old man yet, and I've talked to him up to ninety-five years old, that wasn't still excited about the wonders they were finding in the Word of God. It's it's a beautiful thing to to delve into the depths of it You'll find there the story of the Good Samaritan. And basically the Good Samaritan uh he starts out justifying himself, asking, who is my neighbor? And Jesus turns that thing completely on the head. uh on his head and he asked him at the end of it, uh, who was a neighbor unto the man who was in trouble? And and you know that's that's the the the the normal Christian life is not making excuses It's going out of your way to reach people and touch people's lives and let Christ be seen in you. And then Mary and Martha and Mary does that thing that's so so important to sit at Jesus' feet If you miss that, you miss one of the wonders and the blessings and the strength-giving moments of the Christian life. But I want you to look at the first part of this, and we'll read just a portion of it, and then we'll come back to it as we go through it this evening. The title of the message is simply Preparation for the Harvest Field. And the context of it, Jesus is called the 70 to go along with the other disciples to prepare the way for him. And he instructs them, and in his instruction to them, I believe are some valuable, valuable lessons for you and I to try to get a handle on. Let's begin reading, and you follow along as I read in verse chapter 10, verse 1. After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place whether he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers into his harvest Go your ways. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. And then go down to verse 17. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing shall by any means hurt you. Notwithstanding in this, rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and he said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and thou hast revealed them unto babes Even so, Father, for all for it it seemed good in thy sight. Let's pray at that point, please. Father, we pray that you'd bless us now as we think on your word. We pray, Father, that uh we might rejoice over the the scriptures that have been put together this week. Lord the the the the the church body coming together and and those who uh had time and opportunity And help Lord pitched in. And we we know that that uh uh in a few weeks or months, these very scriptures that we handle, that we put together, uh they're gonna be out in the uh the regions of Kenya. Lord, they're going to be touching hearts and lives. Young people and old people will be picking up a a a little portion of God's Word, a beautiful copy of the of the of the book of John in their own language. and discover the God that loves them and the God who sent his only son to die for them. Father, we thank you for the opportunity we had this Saturday to pass out tracts Lord, I thank you for the opportunity we had there at the at the market area. Many, many tracts passed out there and and a lot of people uh witnessed to and spoken to Father, we pray that uh you might do a work in other people's hearts that uh that came through and and that uh God a witness, Lord, I pray that that seed would fall on good ground But Father, we thank you most of all that we've been able to gather today, this beautiful Lord's Day. And Lord, we've been able to worship already together. And Lord, we assemble now. We ask you, Lord, to feed us from your word. Bless your word that it might strengthen our heart and our soul and our spirit. And Father, I pray that we might be challenged to follow you better than we ever have in the past before we leave tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now, when we look at this portion of Scripture, understand that uh Jesus has called his disciples to be fishers of men And now he's preparing them. He's training these men to go and do that very task of being fishers of men. Now you get a little insight into the Lord Jesus Christ, uh of his his work ethic. Uh uh He sends out Six teams. Twelve disciples, two by two, sixteens, that are going into the towns and villages, telling them simply, Jesus is coming. And he is going into the villages and they cannot keep ahead of him. Six teams can't keep ahead of him. And they he calls these 70 others and he divides them up two by two. Now there's there's th there are thirty-five teams And the six, forty-one teams of men going into the towns and villages ahead of Jesus, say, He's coming, Messiah is here, he's coming, he's coming to your village. And they could barely keep ahead of him. It's no wonder that John later writes in his epistle. He said, if we were to try to write down everything that Jesus did and said, he said the books of the world couldn't even hold it. You see, we thought John was exaggerating, but he wasn't. This is the man Jesus. But he prepares these disciples as he sends them out two by two before him. And he instructs them about the harvest. And I want to give, just point out some of the highlights as we have time this evening. First of all, notice verse 2. He says, therefore he said unto them, the harvest truly is great. Now, we need more than anything a motivation to be a soul winner. You see, all it really takes is a willing heart. And the Bible says that God's always, His eyes go back and forth through the earth. He's searching for that perfect heart, that willing heart. You know, the Word of God is all about man exercising his will to first of all accept Christ, but then to serve Christ and to be a witness. And if you're willing, God will enable you. He'll give you those opportunities. He'll strengthen you. And listen, it may take some preparation to learn, to present the gospel, but it's not hard. But we need to know that this is the greatest calling on earth. There's no higher calling. And God doesn't just pick and choose one or two. Listen, every believer is called to be a witness. Now God does feed to God picks men to be missionaries and pastors and teachers. But listen Someone said, Well, you have the gift of evangelism. Folks, there is no gift of evangelism. That's right. Check it out. If there's a gift of an evangelist, But he says, all of us are to go into the world and preach the gospel, without exception. And here he says, first of all, consider the high value of this harvest. This harvest is not a harvest of corn or grain or barley. It's not a harvest of peas or some kind of vegetable. This harvest that the Bible is talking about is a harvest of souls. A something that that that's within every person that God values highly Let me say this and I'll get to all the ladies on my side. Okay? God created man, didn't he? And he he was a magnificent preacher, the first one But you know, even Adam and all of his magnificence, you know, God breathed into his nostrils and became a living soul, something very, very valuable. But then a few days later he looked at Adam and said, surely I can do a better job than that. So he made woman. Right, ladies? Amen. Here he speaks of the quality. You know, that person that you met yesterday has a soul that's going to be somewhere in eternity. And we need to always keep that before us. It's called being soul conscious. In another place, he talks about the harvest. He says, Fruit is plenteous. And folks, it's more plenteous today than it's ever been. We are quickly approaching 7 billion people on planet Earth. By the way, I don't know if you heard the news this morning though, but earlier this morning I just caught the news. It was happening in the world. Things haven't changed in Washington. Surprise, surprise. But there was a there was a scientific there was a science uh article in the news this morning. Now there may not be anything to it, but but the but the uh the title of the article was Ghost in Space And one of our probes, our satellites, has photographed a very large white cloud forming in space. Maybe the Lord's coming back. I'm wa I'm gonna keep watching to see if that cloud keeps getting bigger and bigger and closer and closer. But John also said the harvest is white. It's passing away. We're losing it. We need to understand that that that souls are so valuable. I have a little tract that I use. It's a it's a It's a it's a optical illusion really. Um I use it with young people and you hold one get next to the other and and one looks bigger than the other and you switch them and and then They look I I'll show some of the kids afterwards. If you ask me about it, I might show it and give it to you. But the point is that the eyes will fool you. But I talked to the young people and said, you know, but your eyes will fool you, but they're still very valuable. Nobody in the right mind would sell their eyes. But you know what God said about your eyes? God said that these valuable eyes that you wouldn't sell for a million dollars, he said they're only the window of your soul. And it doesn't take a mathematic genius to to figure out that that a whole house is worth a lot more than a few windows. And you don't want to lose your soul. And God has called us to go into the harvest to reach the souls of men. But notice verse 3. He says, Go your ways. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. First of all, we saw the high value of the harvest, but now we see that there's hazards in the harvest. And God sends us out. He doesn't hold back. He says, you'll be like lambs among wolves. Say, well that doesn't sound very nice. You know any any any pastor, preacher, or soul winner that says they they don't have that tinge of fear When they approach someone about spiritual things, it's just simply not being honest. But I I I'll tell you something. That that thing that that that big lump in your throat and in your chest, that fear that keeps you quiet, keeps that track in your pocket when you know you ought to give it to someone Do you know that once you start speaking, once you extend that track, do you know that fear goes completely away? They say, Well, well there's some pretty rough people out there. Yes, there are. I had one Saturday. He was quite nasty and you know uh looking down his nose and thought he was intellectually superior, and uh as soon as I brought up something that that uh Um you know, he couldn't answer. He got in the huff and left. I want him to stay longer. I would love to have had a few more comments with him. But yeah, I've had some nasty people. But remember, yes, we're lambs, and they're wolves. But I know the shepherd. Amen. And his rod and his staff they comfort me. You know that staff that rod that uh uh that shepherd carried, it wasn't for beating up on the sheep. It was for beating up on the wolves. Man, him crack a wool sign of the head and send him send him sailing. That shepherd would stand firmly between the lambs and the wolves and the bears and the lions and roar bravely, uh beat them off, give his life defending them And in 40 plus years of ministry, I've seen the Lord rescue us time after time after time. We've had whole gangs come after us in Scotland and have God shut that thing down and hold them at one point that we could even witness to them. By the way, that was a a gang of Catholic boys. And they they did get I don't know if any of them got saved, but they were so impressed with their witness that the little little leader that that was leading that crowd of boys, he told me, he said, he said, I run the gangs here, uh, and and from now on you can come and go as you please and nobody will bother you. And that was one of the worstest, worst parts of Glasgow And you know he kept his word. We never had any more problem at all. I've been in the market and people get really, really angry sometimes, but God would just Gives you the right thing to say at the right time. Listen, lambs among wolves, but we know the shepherd, and don't let people intimidate you. You know, well, I'm an atheist, you know. Oh, oh my goodness, you're an atheist. What am I going to do now? Listen, why should someone, listen, he really believes That his birth was a fluke, his life is a farce, and when he dies, he's going to be fertilizer. That's a brilliant person, isn't it? It don't intimidate me a bit To have that kind of philosophy. You know, I tell them that. I say, you know, you know, if I if I believe that, you know, I'd probably go ahead and just blow my brains out and become fertilizer. Nothing to live for. That little girl you saw in the picture, one of those girls that we dwelt where we worked at the church in Winter Obbins, and we actually had six teenagers out. In the market, witnessing to people. But the little girl on the one side that uh uh I think she was fifteen years old, she had a man that that that got really smart Mouth with her. And he said, I want you to know I don't believe there's a God. I'm an atheist. And I love it. I've used it since then. But this little 16-year-old girl, she looked at that man and said, You know You might not believe in trains, but if you stand between the tracks, it won't make a bit of difference to the train. I thought, hey, that's good. That's really good Listen, don't let people like that. You know, somebody says, uh, well, I believe in evolution, and they think, well, they're so superior intellectually to you But that person believes that nothing made everything. Now that's stupid. That's not logical. You know, that it takes a uh you know uh This design through the universe. The question that made that man walk off and he wouldn't give me an answer. I asked him, I said, Well, do you understand anything about anything about DNA? He said, I know much more about DNA than you'll ever know. I said, well good, maybe you can help me a bit. I've got a question for you. He said uh I said now uh uh according to evolution, uh you know, a soup, you know, a primordial soup became uh uh frogs and lizards, you know, fish, frogs, lizards, and then uh and then the lizards and dinosaurs became birds. He said, yes that's right. By the way he told me that's been proven in a in a test tube. I said, wow, a dinosaur in a test tube. Never seen one of those. But I asked him I said uh Tim it is. To make a scale into a feather, will it take a loss of information? Or an addition of a lot of information. He knew the answer. That's why he got mad. And just stomped off. He knows that to make a scale into a feather, listen, you've got to add volumes and volumes and volumes of information to make one little feather. But evolution is mutation, losing information. Don't let an evolutionist intimidate you. There's design in the air we breathe, in the atmosphere we have. Everything God made, He made it three and one and one and three. Everything is either matter, uh, space, matter, or or time. And every one of those divides into three. And it divides three and three and three and three. I bet I get on that or I won't get to the next page on this message. How much faith does it require to believe that there's a God? A designer God. None. Folks, it doesn't take any faith whatsoever to believe that there's a God. All you need is eyes that can see and a brain that works. You can figure it out. Now if you want something from him, then yeah, you're gonna have to have faith. Because he said You can only approach him by faith. It's impossible to please him without faith. And God is to be found by those who dulely believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. But just look around. You'll discover there's a God. I love it when people say, well, well, I don't believe there's a God because I just could not believe in anything that has no beginning and no end. Until I ask you the question, Well, where did God come from? Hey, don't let that worry you. And here's a way to answer that, by the way. When someone says, I I could never I'd ask, I said I confirm it. I said, now you're telling me that you could never believe in something that has no beginning and no end. And I love to have fun with it. They'll say, no, I don't. And I'll say, yes you do. And they'll say, no, I don't. And I say, oh yes you do. As long as they want to play that game, I'll play it. Oh yes you do. And then I'll ask him, you believe in space? You tell me that you believe that that the way out there somewhere there's a little flagpole with a little flag flying on it that says Space Begins Here and Eon light years across the universe there's a little brick wall that has a sign on it that says Space Ends Here Now I don't know about you, but I'm a really inquisitive person. I want to know what's on the other side of the wall. And they'll say, oh no, no, no, space is infinite. And I why is there such a leap of faith for you to believe you already believe in an infinite space? It's no leap of faith to believe that there's a God who's infinite who made that infinite space. I tell him, I say, you're already halfway there. It only takes just another step. Don't let them intimidate you. Look at verse 9. Let me move on. Look at verse 9. And said, and heal the sick that they're therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. Here's the hope of the harvest. When you're willing to witness to someone, when you're willing to to give a tract that has the word of God that tells how to get to heaven. And by the way, always remember that although a lot of churches and denominations, they all have their rules of how to get to heaven, none of them made heaven. God made heaven. He gets to make the rules. So they better find out what he says about it. And that's all I offer to do, to show them, maybe for the for the one time in their life what God said they need to do to get to heaven. But notice he says, the kingdom of God has come near. Do you know what a privilege that you and I, through a simple witness, can bring the kingdom of God near to a lost soul. So how how how near? Well Romans 10, 8 says that And about witnessing, about drawing that net. Verse 8 says, He said, the word of faith is nigh thee. That means very, very near. It's in your mouth and it's in your heart. In other words, how far away is God when you witness to someone? He's as far away as a whisper. Amen. Or just a little a little s a little spark of faith to believe and trust God. And you bring the kingdom of God near In fact, you'll find that statement again in verse 11. In verse 9, people are accepting it. Jesus is the coming, the Messiah is on the way, and they've brought the kingdom of God near. In verse 11, they're saying, no, get out of here. Don't even Do you think you stay in our town? But even those who reject, you bring the kingdom of God close for them. And we have to answer, if we do that, they have to answer what they do with it. But our job is to bring that kingdom close to them. What an exciting privilege we have. Look at verse 10 and 11. Let me move on now. But whatsoever city you enter into, they receive you not. Go your way into the streets of Same. And say, Even the very dust of your city which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you. Here's the helmet for salvation You see, trying to be a witness, you say, Well, I I've tried to do that. I've given out traction and and I've not seen listen, it can be a very discouraging thing. I'll be the first one to tell you that I was heartbroken. I would love to have seen someone saved yesterday in the market while we were there, witnessing all day We had some really good witnesses, but the lady wouldn't let us have people sit at the table where we could open a Bible. And although we had good witnesses, we didn't see anyone actually except Christ as Savior. And that that breaks my heart Because I love to see people saved. And the fact is that anyone can come to Christ, but the reality is few do. In Acts chapter 17, Paul has a great opportunity there in he's come to Athens and he's waiting on the team and he begins to talk about Jesus and the resurrection. And he sparks the interest of the people there. And they ask him to come up to Arafacas and he has a great audience and he preaches about God and about Christ. And you know the same thing happened with Paul that happens with anyone who witnesses today. Some mocked, some got angry, some said Not right now. We'll hear more later. That's that's the one that breaks my heart most. But it says, a few clung to him. And then it names one man and one woman. You see, that's what going into the harvest field is all about. It's not about having mass campaigns. If a man gets called to that and does that, wonderful. But for most of us, it's just like talking to one person. And it's not a presentation, it's a conversation that we need to have with people. But the helmet, how can we not get discouraged? Listen. Keep this philosophy. I heard a man give me this, and he's a soul winner, and I it's my philosophy now. And here it is: simple. Some will, some won't. So what? Someone's not heard yet. Someone ought to tell. And I want to be that someone. You know, that'd be a good philosophy you'd have. It's wonderful that you don't have to save anyone. You don't have to get anyone under conviction. All you and I have to do is tell the story. And if we sing that song, believe that it's number 531 in your songbook, I love to tell the story. Don't you dare sing that if you don't love to tell the story. Because that'd be a lie. But it's a wonderful thing to tell the story. Verse 12 and 14 and 15, he has these phrases. That day he says the judgment. And then verse 15, they talk about bringing them down to hell. You see, here are the horrors of the harvest. The fact is that when people miss Christ, There's a judgment coming. And they're not going to go to purgatory and get a second chance. They're not going to have some church intervene for them or some saint. There's only two options when you go out of this life. It's either heaven or hell. And you don't get to heaven by being good. There are no good people there. They're only forgiving people. And you gotta know Christ. to be forgiven. And the fact is that that here uh the the the horror is that that all has sinned And use the law, please. You may know this, your pastor may have taught you this. Have you used the law? Listen, you can witness to anyone very easily By using the law. Just ask them, you know, if they say whatever they are, if they say they're a Muslim, that's all right. They're an atheist, that's all right, you know, whatever. Ask them if it's made them a good person. Can I give you the good person test? You know what? Have you ever told a lie? Use the law. Listen, tell them what Jesus said about hell. You know he said eight times more about hell in the four gospels than he did about heaven. Because he knew it was real. And there's horrors to it. And people who die without Christ fall into a priceless hell. You know, that that's that's one of the things that just absolutely rips my heart out. That people, especially people who, you know, they think, you know, this life is so hard, it's so difficult. I've got to have some relief. You know, I just want rest. And they end their life. Expecting rest. And then never rest again to all eternity. That rips my heart out. We can make a difference. Say, well, who do I talk? Talk to lost people. Jesus said, I came to seek and save those who are lost. How do you know? Give them the lost person test. There's something else I do in the market. I love this. You know, if you want to determine whether someone is lost, ask them these three questions. Where'd you come from? Now if if they if they you know they get this from the goo to the zoo to you theory, you know, they don't know where they came from. Ask them why they are here. What's the purpose of their life? And then ask them where they're going. Where will they spend eternity? Folks, if they can answer those three questions, they are lost and need to find a savior. Then the holiness of the harvest. Verse 16. He says in verse 16, He that heareth you, heareth me. You know, when you tell the gospel, you become the voice of Christ, speaking words of life into a spiritually dead soul. And Jesus said, it's sowing seed. And if it finds good ground, it's going to bring forth life. And you and I have that opportunity to speak words of life. We have a great message. Love to tell it. We have a great power that's been imparted to us, the boldness that the Holy Spirit gives when we're in His when we release ourselves to Him. It's boldness we ought to use it. We have a great Savior and Lord and coming King. We ought to declare him. And then the last point, the happiness of the harvest. First of all, the people who receive Christ. You know, to me it's such a joy to see the pastor you've seen it, the down, you know the And then they receive Christ and all of a sudden the eyes light up, the face lifts. And I've had over and over people say The burden is gone. I had one lady say I feel so light I could float. I said, well float But you know there's great joy for the one who's doing the witnessing. You know that that's if you miss out on leading a soul to Christ, you have missed one of the most wonderful things about being a believer. There's such joy. But look at this, look at this verse. You have something uniquely happened here that, as far as I know, doesn't happen anywhere else in the Gospels Look at verse 21. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit. Now, the Bible tells us three times that Jesus wept. He wept at Lazarus' tomb, he wept over the city of Jerusalem, and he wept over the nation of Israel. I think all three occasions about what sin was doing. But this is the one time it says that Jesus had a big smile on his face, and he was happy, and he was joyful, and he rejoiced in spirit. We read in our Bible that even today that the one sinner that repents, there's joy in the presence of the angels. It doesn't tell us exactly who that is, but the one who's in the presence of the angels is the Lord Jesus. You see, he still rejoices. So there's joy for the one being saved, there's joy for the one leading to Christ, there's joy in the heart of Jesus over the one who's received that payment that He made at Calvary. But then the Bible says there's joy forever It's called a crown of rejoicing as we rejoice together with those that we've prayed for, that we've witnessed to, that we've given so that a missionary might go the places we can't go. You see, God knows He keeps all the records. And when we get there, those people will be your crown of rejoicing. Amen. I don't know about you, but I I wanna have a I wanna have a full basket. Amen. I want to meet. And I tell I tell especially young men and when I La two weeks ago, two Saturdays ago, I got to lead two young men to the Lord, both seventeen years old, Martin and Miguel. Two buddies that came in listened. God got a hold of their heart. And they prayed the sweetest prayer and asked Jesus to forgive their sin and save them. Be the king of their life and help them live for him. And I told those boys before they left the tent, I said, Boys, I hope I'll get to see you again, but I may not. But I'll see you in heaven someday. I want you to tell me about the adventure that you had living for God and serving Jesus. And I want to meet all the people that you touch for Christ. Crowns of rejoicing. Let's get a lot of. Thank you for supporting us. Thank you for letting us be a missionary. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you bless us now as we think about the harvest. Lord, I pray these things might encourage us. That although we we seem very small and and and we're humbled by some of the people we meet, But Father, we may be the lambs, but we know the shepherd. We've got a wonderful message. It'll change their life. It'll bring the kingdom of God so near that when they touch it, it becomes theirs. Just by repentance and faith, accepting Christ. Lord, I pray that we might, every one of us Be more soul-conscious. Make sure we have a track in our pocket. Be willing to speak up for Christ. Invite people that they might be under the sound of the gospel here and meet them when they come. Lord, there's so much we can do in the harvest. But Lord, most of all, motivate our heart, our heart to be involved in the harvest. In Jesus' name. Amen. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I really need to be a better soul winner? That's my desire in my heart. It's to be more bold, more confident, more effective, and sharing the gospel with unsaved people. And God stirred your heart tonight. How many by the uplifted hands? Say preacher, that's me. Pray with me. Sure that is. That's all of us. We want to f we're that way. How about tonight? Let's do more than just raise our hand. Let's do more and just say, yeah, that's what I want. Let's get on our knees and say, God help me. God help me. Give me that boldness. Give me that burden to step out and actually act upon what I know is true in my heart. And God will help us. The book of Acts they pray and pray. God grant us boldness. God give us boldness. Help us to speak the word like we ought to. And when we ask God to do that, God is very eager to enable us As we step out and trust them. Father, bless our invitation now. You know our hearts. God, you know what our needs are. And we're looking to you, Lord, to stir us and use us to bring folks to Christ. Christ in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jefferson's just gonna play a few verses of invitation. How about it tonight? Do you really want the Lord to use you? Do we really want God to work through us and see people saved? Well let's take it so let's say God I'm I'm looking to you God I'm trusting you asking you to give me that boldness God give me that confidence courage, concern, just to step out and speak a word and hand a tract out. Initiate that conversation about salvation, about a heaven and hell. God will help us. But we just gotta be willing. We just gotta be well. We just gotta want him to. Being so conscious, every person we meet, heaven or hell, heaven or hell Oh, I think it's a good thing. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for this uh excellent challenge. God, our hearts have been stirred. And I pray in the next six, seven days, Lord, that you would just give us Eyes for souls, dear Lord, and give us that extra little confidence, that's a little uh boldness we need to strike up the conversation, to hand the gospel track And Lord, maybe by next week this time, there'll be some more souls going into the kingdom. Bless Brother Mickey and his wife. Keep them safe as they travel on the roads. God give them power and uh open the doors, Lord, in the coming years we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. Well, that's a great message.