I will turn back to Second Chronicles. There was a um A blonde gal was in a now I'm allowed to tell blon jokes because my wife is blonde. I don't know how that gives me permission, but I always say I can tell blind jokes and West Virginia jokes because my wife is a blonde from West Virginia. And uh sh actually she tells me more of them than anyone else. She comes up with them. I think they're testimonies from her life's experiences, I'm not sure. No pork chops today, huh? Anyway, there's this blonde. She's in a political science class. Good to see Steve there. God bless you, Steve. Coming in late. But anyway. Uh she's in this political science class and they're discussing the qualifications to be president of the United States And of course, one of the qualifications is uh that the candidate must be a natural born citizen of at least 35 years of age. Well this blonde just gets all worked up about it and starts going on about how f unfair that is. And uh it just goes on, it goes back and forth, and um her The opinion was that this requirement of being a natural-born citizen, 35 years of age, would prevent a lot of very capable people from becoming president. Well, she's just gone on, everybody's sitting there, listen to her. Finally, she wraps up her whole argument with this What makes a natural-born citizen any more qualified to lead this country than one born by C-section? And um so didn't know that Anyway, second chronicles chapter twelve. Second Chronicles chapter twelve. Notice again verse number fourteen. Speaking of Rehoboam, verse fourteen says, And he did evil because he prepared not his heart to seek the Lord I read in the margin of my Bible. I was reading through this the other week in my devotions. I read in the margin of my Bible, the reason we do evil. I kinda wish I would have used that for the title of our message this morning. He did evil because The reason he did evil was that he prepared not his heart to seek the Lord. And so I've entitled the message Preparing My Heart to Seek the Lord. Let's pray. And I'll share some thoughts with you this morning. Father. We bow before you this morning with very grateful hearts for your love for us, your blessings on us. Lord, you provide so abundantly for us here in our land. We rejoice in that. We don't want to take it for granted. We're grateful for the freedoms we have to assemble like this and bring our Bibles and publicly serve and worship you as we see fit. We're grateful for our country. We pray now, Lord, as we've opened your word to this portion of Scripture, we ask, Lord, that you'd speak our hearts from this event in the life of this King. Lord, I yield myself to you, my will to you. I present my body anew. Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit indwelling me would now fill me, that you would be our preacher this hour. And that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. Help us to be better people. Help us to be stronger in our faith To know you and understand your will for our lives in a greater way when we leave the service this morning. I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. So you go through the books of Kings and Chronicles. You find that often God summarizes the entire life of a particular individual, and that's the kings in particular. But God will summarize that king's life with a very brief statement. God will very concisely, very in just a few words, he'll summarize that individual's influence on his world, what his influence on his world was like And I'll summarize it this way. Something like this. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord. It's always said at the end of their life, and it's always given as God's summary. Of what their influence was. The overall influence of that man's life was evil. Or, often, particularly with the kings of Judah. It would be something like this. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. And God will summarize that king. With the conclusion that the overall influence of his life was what God intended for it to be. It does not mean And we'll notice this here in a few minutes. It does not mean that that one that God says he did evil in the side, Lord, doesn't mean he never did anything good. It doesn't mean he never, that there wasn't some portions of his life that were a positive influence that were lived and served in obedience to God. But the overall influence of it, when it's all said and done, when it's all added up, the bottom line was his influence was either evil or good When God said of one that his he did that which was right to say the Lord doesn't mean that he never did things wrong and never failed in some ways, but the overall influence of it. In 2 Chronicles Chapter ten, eleven, and twelve. We have a very concise biography And it's actually beautiful. My wife was uh the other day talking and she's been reading through the same where the same portion of scripture I am in our daily reading. And she said how what a enjoy how enjoyable it's been reading through this portion of Scripture, these men's lives, and things they did, and what God says about them, prayers they prayed, and statements they make, and In chapters 10, 11, and 12 of 7 Chronicles, you have a very beautiful biography of this fellow by the name of Rehoboam. He was a very significant king. Now let me just take a moment and tell you a little bit about him. Grahoboam's father was Solomon. It suggested, in some of the research I did on this man's life, it was suggested that he may have been Solomon's only son. There's various reasons Bible scholars suggest that. Personally, I kind of have a hard time believing he was Solomon's only son. Solomon had 700 wives, 300 concubines. It's hard to believe he only had one son out of all of that. But you never know. So he's he's the son of Solomon. Of course we know Solomon to have been a great man Of course, the Bible says there's only one man that walked the earth that was wiser than Solomon, and that was the Lord Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, Solomon blew it In the end of his life, because of the fact he had so many wives and concubines, and they drew his heart away from the Lord. Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, his mother's name was Naimah. James read a portion of scripture here referencing his mother, and we're told that she was not a Jew. She was an Ammonite. She was not raised, she, his mother, was not raised with the teachings of God's Word She wasn't raised to know Jehovah. She was raised most likely in a very pagan home. Worship false gods. Sometimes they would worship many gods. Very violent religion. So that's his father and his mother. He was 41 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 17 years. Rehoboam was, in my mind, without a doubt, one of the most important kings to rule God's people Israel. Now you say, oh, what about King Saul? He was the first one. And King Saul was important, very significant. And by important, I mean significant in his influence. King David, of course, I would say was Israel's greatest king in many ways King Solomon was a great king. Under King Solomon, the kingdom prospered tremendously. But I say Rehoboam, Solomon's son, was, again, in my mind The, if not the, one of the most important kings Israel ever had, because under Rehoboam's reign Under his leadership, or maybe I should say the lack of leadership, because of decisions that Rehabom made. The kingdom was affected in such a way that it never got over it. Decisions that Rehoboam made, and again, his leadership, or I think more the lack of leadership. The nation of Israel was divided and remained divided for the rest of their existence up to current times. You had, as a result of Rehaboam's influence, you had the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom, tragically divided for the rest of their existence in Scripture. Now Those of us, if you've been around here very long, or if you study the Bible, you've been involved in Bible teaching churches for any length of time, you understand That though Israel was divided from the reign of Rehoboam on until the taken captive, there's a day coming. When Israel will be re-established in the land, and Jesus Christ will come back, and they will rule as a united, complete kingdom in the land of Israel for 1,000 years. We understand that to be true. You say, well, they're already there. What they're there now, and that's miraculous, but that is not what's going to happen. What God has in store for the nation of Israel are its greatest days ever. And so we come back to Rehab. Very important king. Not necessarily a great king, but very significant. In that his decisions affected a lot of people for a long time. And let me just throw this out: you don't have to be a great person To influence people in very powerful ways. There are some people who are not great But their actions have affected a lot of people for many, many years. You follow what I'm saying? And so just because he was significant does not mean he was great. in the sense of good. In fact, we come to verse 14 as we used for our text this morning and we find God's summary of Rehab. And God says this. And he did evil. That's God's summary of his life. Now he influenced an entire nation in a tragic way. Because of his decisions he made. And really, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, and really, because of his self-centeredness. He hurt a lot of people for a very long time. And God says the summary of this man's life. When it's all said and done, when you total up all his actions, when you total up his influence, this man did evil in the sight of the Lord There's only, really, there's only two options in life. Either doing right or doing evil. Each of us someday are going to face God's judgment. And at the judgment of God Our lives, whether we're Christians or unsaved, are going to be evaluated by God God is going to examine our lives, the deeds we've done, and God will make a judgment whether they were good or evil. Now, I know perhaps what some of you are thinking. You're thinking, Brother Leatherman, a person doesn't go to heaven because of the things they do. And I say immediately, Amen. We're not saved by our works. It is by grace that we are saved through faith. That not of ourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, or we'd end up boasting, right? Now, with that in mind, to have my sins forgiven, to have God give me a new life, replace the old life with a new life Have my sins forgiven and someday end up in heaven. That is an act on God completely of His grace. I simply receive it by faith. Now once I make that decision to trust Christ, do not think that let me ask this. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Now, if that being true, and I take your word for it, do not think for one moment that because God has forgiven my sins, Do not think for one moment that because I am a saved child of God, that somehow I have escaped God's scrutiny, God's judgment of my life. Because the Bible is very clear. There is a judgment even for believers And that judgment is called the judgment seat of Christ. Now, do I have your attention? This is a very important statement I'm going to make here. The judgment seat of Christ for believers is not Is not to determine whether they go to heaven or hell. That determination was made the moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. For me, it was May 7, 1979, 1030 on a Monday night. I trusted Christ. Whether I was going to heaven or hell or not, was established, settled at that point. From that point on, uh my sins are forgiven. My home is in heaven, and the Bible proves. Deals with it as if I'm already there. But the judgment seat of Christ is to determine my My works, or to put in the context of our message, my influence as a Christian. Now that conclusion is going to be is going to be one of two conclusions. Once I was saved, my actions, my behavior, my decisions as a Christian, the influence I had on my world and people around me. Is going to be summarized in that either I did that which was right As a believer and had a positive influence for the cause of Christ and others, or I did that which was evil. And I had a negative influence for the gospel. I had a negative testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ, and I influenced people in a negative way. It's going to be one of those two ways. The New Testament terminology for that was One judgment may be: my works are wood, hay, and stubble. Or my works may be gold, silver, precious stone. Is everybody with me? So as a believer, before we enter the gates of heaven, well At some point, after the rapture, actually, uh, we're going to face the judgment seat of Christ, and our lives will be summarized by Christ. We'll be judged. Jesus said every word, every idle word is going to be held accountable for. Um our behavior. Our obedience to the Lord, all that's going to be factored in. Not to determine whether we go to heaven or hell, but determine what our influence was and what rewards we get or do not get. Now, what if I'm talking to somebody this morning that's unsaved? You've never trusted Christ as Savior. And let's suppose tragically that you die in that condition You die unsaved. Which, by the way, is the worst thing that could possibly happen to anybody. To die in our sins, to die without having our sins forgiven. The Bible teaches that an unsaved person, if they die as an unsaved person, they go immediately to hell. Eventually, after all the prophetic events are fulfilled, millennial reign is over, the heaven and earth are burned up, and then there's what's called the Great White Throne judgment. At the great white throne judgment, all the unsaved dead, to use Revelation's terminology, are brought back from hell. Their bodies are regathered. And they stand before Jesus Christ one at a time and are judged out of the books, the Bible says. The book of life being one of them. Their name is not in the book of life, which it obviously isn't, or they wouldn't be in that situation. They're cast in the lake of fire, but there's also another book that they are judged from, the unsaved at the great white throne. And that book, Revelation tells us, is the book of their works. And the Bible says the unsaved are judged for their works. And what I believe, and this isn't the message, but what I believe that's teaching, and many other Bible scholars agree with me. And by the way, if a Bible scholar agrees with mates, they're usually right. But um That works is The influence they had, even as an unsafe person, what their influence was will determine the degree of judgment That they face in the lake of fire. And the Bible's very clear. There are degrees of judgment. It's all gonna be horror But there are some that will die and spend eternity in a lake of fire in greater torments than others Now even the best part of this is worse beyond our imagination. It's horrible beyond our imagination But there are degrees. And those degrees of suffering in eternal lake of fire are determined By the influence of that unsafe person. Now you're here this morning to say, Well, I'm unsaved, so I'm gonna be the best unsaved person I can be, so I don't suffer too bad. You're a fool What you need to do is get saved. In fact, the very fact that you know you need to be saved. The very fact that you know that Christ died for you and suffered for you and offers you eternal life, the very fact that you know that and reject it places you in greater jeopardy. As far as the lake of fire is concerned, than those who have never heard. So, my conclusion to that is if you're here this morning, you're not saved, you need to get saved. Today, you need to get your sins forgiven. You need to have that matter settled. It is not something to play with. So well I'm a church member. Doesn't matter. Say, well, uh uh uh you know people people know me. It doesn't matter. Do you know your sins are forgiven? That's the most important thing So, we boil it all down. We're all going to be judged, and it's going to come to the conclusion: either we did right or we did wrong, and uh that's all factored in. By the way, God's judgment is always accurate. Amen. And God's judgment is always final. There's no appeals, etc. Now, we look at Rehoboam here. We come back to our text. Studied his life a little bit. You know what I find? God says that he did evil. But I study his life and I find that Ray of Bohem was really not a very immoral man. I don't read anywhere that he committed adultery or murder. See anywhere that he embezzled anything. He doesn't seem to be a very immoral man. In fact, Grahboam does not seem to be very idolatrous. Now there is a portion here where he forsook the law of the Lord in Israel and he messed up some areas here. But the thing I'm trying to say here is he had a number of good points. He wasn't like someone like Ahab Now, I don't know how familiar you are with Old Testament kings, but I don't like Ahab. In fact, every time I say his name, I feel obligated to say, I don't like the God. He was a sissy. He was wicked. He was an ungodly man in every sense of the word. I'm thinking of some Contemporary people that I would like to re compare them to, but for sake of propriety, I won't do that But Raboam was not like Ahab. How many people here agree with me you don't like Ahab? Raise your hand. That's half the crowd. The other half like him, apparently. I don't know But Rehoboam wasn't like Ahab. Rehoboam wasn't like Manasseh, who actually the Bible says did worse than Ahab. I like Ahab, but I really don't like Manasseh. He had a number, Ray of Bohm had a number of good points. But when God was done summarizing his life, God said he did evil. The overall influence of his life was negative as far as the things of the Lord were concerned Now, let's look at verse 14. I want to briefly analyze this, and you would be impressed if you knew how far along in my notes I actually am at this point. Look at verse 14. Let's break this thing down a little bit. Look what God says. And he did evil. That word did, I got studying acts. Interesting word. You know words mean things When God uses a word, there's something he means by that word. There's something he's trying to communicate. There's a idea, a truth that he wants us to grasp. So God says he did Evil. So I got looking up the word did, the word it was translated from, how it's used in other contexts, and tried to get an idea. What does he mean he did evil? Well, it means that he produced evil influences. Rehaboam's life, the result of his actions and decisions. Produced evil effects on other people. I got thinking about that. I wonder what my actions produce in the lives of others. The things I say to people, what does that produce in their mind? In their heart? What view of God Does the words I say produce in other people's minds? He did evil, he produced evil. The actions that I Commit the deeds that I do. What does that produce in the hearts and minds of evil? What does that make them think of me as a person? How does that how does that influence their understanding of God and the gospel and the things of the Lord? He says he did evil. It means he produced evil. He practiced, in fact, one translation of the word that we get the word did here, it means he celebrated evil It wasn't just that he inadvertently did something that hurt other people. He celebrated it. Man, if he said something and it hurt someone, he was glad. If he did something and it affected somebody in a negative way, man, he celebrated that. Yes. I don't read that he committed adultery or robbed any banks or did anything that we would call immoral. But brother, he had a bad influence on other people. He left a sour taste in people's minds. He did evil. He practiced it. He produced it. He celebrated it. Then that word evil, I said, well, what does he mean by evil? It means wickedness. And this is basically the definition I got from the word evil, and I've been referring to it in my definition of the word did, but it's this: things that hurt others emotionally and spiritually. So God's summary of Rahab's life was that he produced hurt and spiritual damage. Emotional damage in the lives of others. The overall summary, not meaning everything he did produced that, but the overall summary of his life was that he did evil. Now, I said, okay, that's interesting. But then God goes on and explains why this happened. The reason he was this way. And he says, because he prepared not his heart. Word prepared. It's very fascinating to me. It means to establish. It means to secure or arrange his heart. He prepared, he didn't, his heart wasn't established. It wasn't secured. It wasn't in place. There was something that he did not have settled in his heart. And what was that? He prepared not his heart to what? Seek the Lord. The word seek means to is translated other places, worship, to submit to, to desire after So here's the here's the picture. Are you still with me? Everybody with me? Ray Bowl, God says The overall summary of his life, he influenced people, he heard them. Overall, he did not help the cause of Jehovah, he heard it. He did not advance the kingdom of Israel, he heard it His actions, his decisions, his words affected people in a native way. Overall, generally, that was true. Now here's why. Because, and I put it my own definition, because he did not establish a foundation in his heart to desire, worship, and submit to the Lord. In other words, he did not settle in his heart. I am going to submit to God. My life, my mind, my words, my actions are all, I'm settling it, I'm laying a foundation in my heart that I am determined that my life Will bring be a life of worship of God, be a life of service to God. My life will be lived for the glory of Jehovah and for the good of Jehovah's cause. He never settled that in his heart. Oh, it was there sometimes. And you read through, and there was times he humbled himself and God dealt with him. Oh, yeah, okay, I'll do right. Then there were other times where he was doing his own thing Then there was some times he'd do it the way the Bible said, then there was other times he's doing it the way he wanted to. There was no foundation laid. There was nothing settled. There was no there was no consistency there. It was unprepared ground, his heart Now, why was this so? I said, how why wouldn't he say why why would he be this way? And so I studied his life and I came to some conclusions. And I end with these Number one, his character was flawed. His character was flawed. Now, it's interesting. We made reference to his mother. What was her name? Naba. She was an Ammonite. She was not a godly woman. She was an ungodly woman. She did not know Jehovah. She was raised in a society, and no doubt in a home, where she was taught that she was number one. Everybody looks out for themselves. It's me, mine, and that's it. And if you have to manipulate others to get your way, you do that. If you have to intimidate others to get your way, you do that. But it's all about me. And he was raised under the influence of that type of thinking. That's what his mother was like. But it doesn't say that he did evil because his mother was ungodly. Now let me say this: every child ought to have a godly mother. Every mother ought to determine that she's not going to be selfish, she's not going to live for self, she's going to live for Christ, she wants to raise her children up to know the Lord, know the Word of God, and live lives of humble, gracious obedience to the Lord. Red Eboam didn't have that, but that is not why he did evil in the sight of the Lord. That's not the reason given. His father, Solomon, was a great man, but you know he blew it bad in the end. At the end of Solomon's life, he's worshiping false gods. He completely abandons the Lord and the things of God. Solomon! But that's not why Rehab did evil. Doesn't make any reference at all to his parents And regardless, now here's my application, regardless of how you or I may or may not have been raised, that is no excuse for our disobedience to God now. I am so tired of hearing people say, well, when I was this, and I was mistreated then, and this was done to me then, and that was done to me then. Listen. Is there a God in heaven or not? Do we answer to God for ourselves or not? Let's quit blaming everyone else and start taking personal responsibility for our own actions. God doesn't say, well, he did wrong because his mama was that or his daddy was that. I may be talking to people now. You've been excusing unchristian actions because something your daddy did or something your mama did. And that is not going to fly before God. God's not going to buy it. So it wasn't his parents' fault. That his life was this way, despite of our upbringing, a person can still turn out right for God. But his character was flowed. And his character was flowed for several reasons. One, he sought man's counsel rather than God's. We don't have time to go there, but in 2 Chronicles 10, verse 6 through 8. He becomes king and he st he seeks counsel. And that's a good thing. You ought to seek counsel. And so he seeks counsel. He goes to the old man that served under his daddy's reign, and he went to the young man who he grew up with. And the Bible says he forsook the counsel of the old man. And he took the counsel of the young man. Now, humanly speaking, that's stupid. These men had been around These men had served under his daddy. They saw what worked and what didn't work, and they had something to contribute. to Rayobohm's decisions he made. But he didn't take that advice. He took the advice of the young men who knew nothing more about it than he did. They didn't have any more experience than he had. They didn't have any more education than he had. They had no more brains or any experience to go on than he had. He wasn't gaining anything by asking these guys. So humanly speaking, it was stupid. Those of us, we ought to listen to older folks. Don't listen to what they have to say. That doesn't mean that everything they tell us is right or best thing to do, but we ought at least listen to it. Amen. They know a little bit more about it. It's amazing when I was growing up how dumb my dad was when I was 18 years old. He was the stupidest person I knew in the whole world. Now I'm 49. My dad's a genius. Man, you know what I'm finding I'm doing? I'm giving the advice he gave me. Made sense So Rehabam was dumb in two ways. One, he listened to the young guys who had no more to offer than what he already had, and forsook the advice of the old guys. But here's where his real failure was. He listened to the counsel of man and not to God. Not one place do you find him praying to God and asking God what he should do. And I'll tell you right now, old or young, God has more, better advice than old any man does, regardless of their age. And we are going to blow it. Listen, as a church and as individuals, we are going to blow it. If we trust the advice of man over top of the advice of God, we need to do what God says. Regardless of what man now listen what they have to say. Great. God said this, I'm doing what God says. As pastor, and I'm sure you you would understand this, but as pastor, I get people giving me advice all the time. I mean other pastors, other people. Letters, call, talk, go to meetings, give advice all the time, advice all the time. I determined years ago, I'll listen to what they have to say, usually depending on who it is. I'll listen to what they have to say. But when it comes down to it, we're going to do what God says. We're going to go to the Word of God. Now people may like it or not like it. People may think that's great. They may think it's terrible. But to be honest with you, when I as pastor stand before the judgment seat of Christ I'm not going to give an account for what somebody else said. I'm going to give an account for what I whether I did what God said or not. What's true for me as pastor is true for you as an individual So his character was false in that he sought man's counsel rather than God's counsel. No word of prayer And they ended up following the most foolish counsel of all. And somebody as I was preparing this, somebody had suggested that when man rejects or ignores God's counsel, he usually ends up taking the stupidest counsel that's available. So his character was flawed in that he sought man's counsel rather than God's. His character was flawed also in that he only had a superficial respect for the things of God. His daddy was solemn. So in his growing up years, he was taught to respect the men of God. But it never got down in his heart. And I have a list of verses here. We could go and I could show you them and compare them back and forth. And what ends up happening is this. He tries to follow the words of the men of God Without submitting to the God of the men of God. In other words, he puts on a superficial show of religion. He's king. Man of God comes up and says you ought to do this. Oh, for sake of reputation? People what think of him? Okay. And he'll submit and he'll do what that guy says But as soon as he's gone and the situation changes, then he's over here doing his thing again. And so he would put on this show. He would put on this facade of really respecting these men of God and really putting on a show and boys He had the right words and he'd go through the right actions, and brother he carried he did all the outward right when they were around, but when it came down to it, he was going to do what he wanted to do. Didn't matter what God or anyone else said I've been around a lot of churches in the last 30 years as a Christian. I'm afraid America, I can't speak for other countries, but I'm afraid America, we got a lot of Christians that are facade Christians. Oh, we can put the show on. And we'll be friendly and you know we'll smile and say the right words and carry our big old King James Bible and we'll sit there and sing the hymns and then we get out and we do our own thing. Right or wrong What's preached, what's taught, what God speaks to our hearts about is not carried outside the walls of the church into our homes. It's simply left there. It's just a facade of respect for the things of God so that people think nicely of us, then we go do our own thing. And that is a flaw of character. That is not being real That is not being a genuine disciple of Jesus Christ. Now I know what some folks think. They'll say, okay, I'll just be hateful all the time then. I know I've been working with folks, you know, I know how it works. Alright, well then I'll just be a heathen all the time. You're missing the point. The point is get right with God and be real about it. And by the way When I'm when my c when I'm for real and I'm trying to be for real, th things go a whole lot better. I'm a whole lot happier when you're at a whack and you're just trying to put on a show. Can I get a witness? Now I know none of y'all ever been out of whack with the Lord. I know that. But I have. Long time ago, I remember once. But his character was flawed in this. He wasn't real. He didn't seek the Lord. He wasn't real. He attempted to follow the Word of God without submitting to the God of the Word. The New Testament explanation of this is having a form of godliness But denying the what? The power thereof, denying the reality of it. It's nothing real, it's just a facade. I was we lived in Boulder, Colorado for three years and I would go up into Wyoming and preach uh a number of times up in Montana, Nebraska. We'd kind of preach around there different places and when you're driving through Wy Wyoming, some of you may have seen these certain interstates you go on, you look off and you'll just go for hours and there's nothing but these rolling hills of nothing. Antelope and cantaloupe and various things and Uh and then all of a sudden you'll come and there'll be this little ravine or something, and you'll be a town. And it'll look like an old western town. movies years ago, you know? And uh and you look at it and say, wow, if you pull off and drive down there, this one guy Kevin and I did one time, we pulled down, we were traveling doing a rally, and we I said let's go check that town out. So we got off went over. You know what the whole thing was It wasn't a town at all. It was just fronts. It was just wood there. There was nothing behind it. You look at the front, it looked like a building. You walk around the back, there's just two by fours propping the thing up. You know what it was? It was an old movie set. They'd filmed a movie there, some western thing. Rather than building the whole building, they just put a facade up. And boy, it looked real It looked like the real deal, but it wasn't. That's what Rayoboam was. He could put on a show. Well he did what needed to be done to make him look like he was something, but he wasn't nothing. You want nothing. What's your Christianity? Is it real? Or is it a show? Just a facade, make people think. Do you have a personal walk with God? Do you have a relationship with the Lord? Is it working in your life? Are you seeing prayers answered? Is God directing you, convicting you? The second problem he had, preparing not his heart to seek the Lord, his convictions were lacking. Conviction is a predetermined set of values and principles based upon the Word of God that govern our actions. His convictions were lacking in his view of marriage. Again, I could give you a number of verses. Guess what Rahabohm ended up doing in marriage? Same thing his daddy did In fact, the Bible says he loved many wives. And he started adding wives. He followed in his daddy's moral failure, his major failure. He failed in his marriage. The very first institute that God established before man ever fell, God established the marriage. One man, one woman. We live in a society today where marriage is attacked, marriage is distorted. And I hate to say it, we've got leaders in our country who are absolutely perverting what marriage is Now wherever you're at in your marriage, and I understand we live in a society and we and a lot of us have things in the past. Wherever you're at in your marriage, this would be my advice to you. Wherever you're at now, determine from here on out it's going to be the way God wants it to be. Amen. Can't go back and change things of the past. We understand that, God understands that. But just say, I'm going to commit myself. I'm going to have some convictions. Bible-based principles and values about this matter of marriage that is going to govern my actions and decisions that I make as a married man or a married woman. Convictions. His convictions concerning marriage were lacking. His convictions concerning his view of himself. He became successful for the most part, prosperous, and he became proud. How many times have I seen it Somebody, everything, their world is falling apart. Financially, it's just falling apart. And they come and they find Christ. And they trust Christ and they start incorporating into their lives biblical principles, biblical values. And guess what? Things start working. They're handling their money in a biblic by biblical values and suddenly they're doing a little bit better. Bills are being paid, they're not under the gun like they were, they're doing things the way the Bible says. Now that their marriage starts healing because they're doing what the Bible says and they start having a little uh confidence in their life and a little bit of um uh satisfaction and fulfillment And then they start getting proud. Boy, look look at the house I have now. Look at this, look what I have done. And completely forget that was the Lord that did it all. If it wasn't for Christ, we would be nowhere. He became proud. And the other area his character was his convictions were lacking were in his consistency. And I made reference to this. He would go back and forth, back and forth. Right with God, uh, wrong with God. Right with God, wrong with God. Faithful, unfaithful. Doing what God says, not doing what God says. Living for Jehovah, living for the world. Living for the Lord, living for self. There was no consistency there. One of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is to be consistent. Because if we're not consistent, we will not be able to please the Lord. If we're not consistent, consistently faithful, consistently humble, consistently obedient to the Lord, We're gonna have a very negative influence on our world. Someday, every one of us sitting here right now, you're looking at me, I'm looking at you. Every one of us individuals, someday, it's the word of God. We're going to stand before Jesus Christ personally, one-on-one, literally. And he's gonna make a judgment. Is my life evil? Did it affect the cause of Christ in a negative way? Wood, hay, stubble? Produces nothing? Or am I going to do that which is right in the eyes of the Lord? We must never forget that. So fellow got saved about the same time I did. He got baptized right around the same time I did back home. He lived just down the road from me. I lived with my dad. We had like a townhouse, my dad and I. And he just lived about a half a block down. He lived with an older lady. He got saved from very similar background as mine. I hope you understand what I'm trying to illustrate here. We go to church together, we kind of became buddies just because we had so much in common. And we got together Friday nights. We'd steam clams every Friday night. And uh we do a Bible study, and we kind of made a pact that we were going to help each other live for Christ, and we're gonna Turn out to be something for God. God directed me, led me down to go to Bible college. And I would come home and we weren't able to spend time together as much. And I noticed something. Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I hope you hope you understand what I'm trying to convey here. When I would go off to Bible college, Ted would go back into the world. Misschirch. Bible. Then I'd come home for Thanksgiving break or whatever. Suddenly, boom. He's back in church. We're doing the Bible study steaming clams again. Doing all that. Then a week or two later I'd have to go back and shh, he's out. And I noticed there was an inconsistent There back and forth, back and forth, until finally I come home one time and he's nowhere around. Last I talked to anybody back home, they hadn't seen or heard from him in years and years and years. Isn't that sad? Listen, we need to establish some convictions. We need to have some character about us. Say, I'm going to be for real. I'm going to be faithful. This is what the Bible says, that's where I'm going to stand. I want my life to count for Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Father, bless us, Lord. Help us, Lord, as a church, to be faithful, whether it's popular or not. Help us, Lord, to stick to your word, whether anyone else does or not. Help us, Lord, as individuals, to establish some character and