Exodus chapter, uh actually I want to read uh from ver chapter number six. Pastor Matt started in chapter five, verse twenty, and we're going to look at this section here this morning. But I want to pick up in verse number 6 of chapter 6, Exodus 6 and verse 6. Let me come back to verse 5. It's God speaking to Moses. He says, I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage. And I have remembered my covenant. God heard their groaning. Have you ever groaned? Just your heart's so broken, so heavy. Just groan. God heard their groaning. And then he says this in verse 6. Wherefore, say unto the children of Israel, God is telling Moses, tell the children of Israel, say this to them. I am the Lord. I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage. And I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgment. And I will take you to me for a people. And I will be to you a God. And ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will bring you into the land concerning the which I did swear to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and Jacob, and I will give it you for a heritage. I am the Lord. I will, I will, I will, I will. When God says he will do something, you mark it down, God's going to do it. So I want to speak this morning on pressing on in faith. Pressing on in faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we come to you on this last Sunday of the month. And Lord, you've been awfully good to us, and we thank you and praise you most of all for salvation. That we can know our sins are forgiven, that when that day comes, we cross over into eternity. That we have assurance here and now that we can that we'll be in your presence. We have eternal life. We thank you for making that possible. And now, Lord, as we look at this event in the life of Israel as they were slaves there in Egypt God, I pray that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, would open our eyes and help us to see how this applies to us in our day. And the situation we find ourselves, the circumstances we find ourselves, help us. Holy Spirit, please teach us this morning how to press on and just trust you. I yield my will to you and my mind. God, I ask you to guard my thoughts. Don't let me say anything I ought not to say. And the Holy Spirit of God, I ask that you would guide my thoughts, that I would say exactly what needs to be said, that would help us. I yield my body to you. I present anew, pray you'd fill my body with your spirit, and that you would speak through me. That it wouldn't be me speaking, but Lord, I pray it would be you through me to our hearts. And so help us to be open. Help us to be obedient to how you deal with our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One of my, if not my, favorite president, I believe, was uh President Ronald Reagan. I liked him. Told a story I heard years ago. He told a story about when he was a small boy. Now we're going back a ways in history. When he was a small boy, he needed shoes. He said his mother took him down to the local cobbler. How many people know what a cobbler is? I like peach cobbler, my favorite, and uh, but actually the cobbler we're talking about, you don't eat. It is a shoemaker. And uh his mother took him as a small boy down to the local cobbler. They didn't have Walmart, of course, and those types of things. So they would they were going to make him, the cobbler was going to make him a pair of shoes Now when he got there, the question was presented to the president, of course now he's a child in this event, what kind of shoe does he want? And uh Cobbler offered him two, gave him two options And I don't remember exactly what the types of shoes were. It was something along the lines. One was a shoe you would tie, and the other would be a slip-on. And uh like a a loafer or something like that. So he said, which would you like for me to make for you? This kind here, the tie, or this other here where you just slip on. Ronald Reagan said as a young boy he couldn't decide. He didn't know if he wanted this one or that one. We went back and back and they pressed him and pressed him and he wouldn't make a decision. He kept saying, I don't know. I don't know which shoe I want. So that finally mother was frustrated and said, all right, we'll just leave Week later, the cobbler contacted them. He said, I have your son's shoes ready for him. They went down there to see what he came up with, and because Ronald Reagan couldn't make a decision on which shoe to get. The cobbler made one pair of each. And he walked away with shoes that didn't match because he could not decide one way or another. Life is made up of decisions. I am today, and you are who and what you are today, largely as a result of the decisions we made In days gone by. Now we don't can we can't control everything that comes into our lives. In fact, most of what comes in our lives we have little control over. But one thing we do control, and that is how we decide to respond to the things that come into our life Life is made up of decisions. Of course, some are more important than others. Some have more lasting consequences than others. I found the older we get, the older I get, the greater the consequences are of the decisions I make. When a little four or five or six-year-old child makes a stupid decision, chances are it's not going to affect them the rest of their life. Now, of course, that's always a possibility But most likely a small child makes a decision, makes a dumb decision or whatever. They learn from it and they get over it and they go on. But the older you get, the older we get, we get into our teenage years. Into our 20s and 30s and that part of our life, and we begin making decisions that you know sometimes don't get over. And you've got to live with the rest of your life. I think that's one of the reasons our youth ministries are so important as we try to help our young people make decisions that will benefit them the rest of their life and not be a burden, a heartache through the rest of their life. So we invest a lot of time and money and effort into helping our young people from small up through the teen years. Pastor Matt working with uh the teenagers, going to camp. These types, we're trying to help them because decisions have consequences. And sometimes those decisions cannot be undone. And I have to live with the consequences of it the rest of my life And so decisions. Some, as I said, some are more important than others. For instance, when you get to a certain point, I can make a decision. Am I going to go on with my education or not? And there's not a right or wrong decision there. Each person has to seek the Lord and seek the Lord's leadership about whether they uh go on to uh uh uh graduate work or whatever And they have to make that decision. But I know this, what decision they make, it's going to affect the rest of their life. Right? I went off to Bible college. I got saved at age 19, went off to Bible college age 20. A year later, I'm in Bible college. I tell you, it affected the direction of my life. It affected the rest of my life. I am today because of a decision I made as a 20-year-old new believer. And so what I'm trying to say is decisions, many of them are very, very important. What vocation I'm going to go into my life Whether I'm going to give myself to ministry and let the Lord use me to impact this world for the gospel or go into the work world and God use me in that area there to be a witness in the work world. Those decisions have consequences. They affect our lives. What I'm going to do. Who we marry, would you agree? That's a important decision. That ought to never be taken lightly. I try to advise our young people. I have all my years in ministry. Man, before you take those vows, you seek the Lord, you be sure this is God's will. I don't believe, this is my personal opinion, for whatever it's worth, I don't believe marrying somebody just because I love them is good enough. Possible for me to love somebody that is not God's will for me to marry. And so love is not enough. Now I ought to love the one. We ought to love the one we marry, right? But I ought to be sure yeah it helps a lot. But I ought to be sure it's God's will for this person to be my spouse. Now are you with me this morning? Everybody with me? All right, certain percentage. Now here's my opinion. I'm just giving you my opinion. I think it's better to remain unmarried than to marry outside the will of God. I really do. And um I tell you it's better than to marry the wrong person. Now be careful saying amen here, you married folk, but uh to marry the To marry the wrong person, it's better to not marry at all than to be in a bad situation. So the point I'm trying to make is this. Life is made up of decisions, and they are incredibly important. I don't know what tomorrow holds. I don't know what next week, next month, next year, next decade holds. God does And so to me it seems like I would be wise to seek the Lord. If I'm going to make a decision that's going to affect me next week, next month, next year, next decade, it would be wise for me to consult the one Who knows what the consequences of that decision are going to be? Amen or not? It's called wisdom. Seeking the Lord. And so decisions are important. Decisions are important. The most important decision a person can make, and there's no doubt about this. Most important decision in life isn't marriage as important as that is. Education, occupation, vocation, as important as they are The most important decision a person makes in life is whether they are going to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior or they're going to reject Him. That's a choice we have to make. To trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior or to reject Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Decisions have consequences, and that is one decision, that is one decision that has eternal consequences. Jesus said in John chapter 14, verse 6, he said, I am the way, the truth, and the light. Now listen to this next statement. No man cometh unto the Father. That's God. That's our Creator. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. The only way to eternal life, the only way to forgiveness of sins by God is through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not through the church. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot forgive anybody's sins. We cannot get a person to heaven. Only Jesus Christ can do that. And so I uh I'm faced with a decision. Am I going to accept what Jesus Christ did for me on the cross when he died for my sins, was buried? I appreciate the ladies Singing me that song, a phrase in that song just struck my heart. I was sitting here. It just pierced my heart. It says um he's hanging on the cross. I'm not quoting this exactly right, but hanging on the cross, with my sins on his shoulders. He's dying for my sins. The things I've done, he's being judged by God for my sins. Died, was buried, rose again. Now I may I have to make a decision. Am I going to accept what he did for me And trust Him as my personal Savior and find forgiveness of sins, be accepted by God, have a new life here on earth, and then be able to spend forever with God in heaven because of what Christ and I receive that or I can say no. I can reject it. It's a decision I make, one way or the other, one way or the other. Well, sometimes I've had people over the years, I've had people I've talked to them about the Lord, I try to every week talk to people about their salvation, get out and knock on doors in various places And I've had people say to me, preacher, I don't want to reject Jesus as my Savior. I'm just not ready to accept Him right now. You know what they're doing? They're rejecting them. Well, just not yet. Or sometimes people just ignore it. I'll try and talk to them about the Lord, how to be saved, press upon them the importance of trusting Christ, get their sins free, and go to heaven and not to hell. And they'll just say, oh, I'm not interested. What they're doing, they're rejecting. They're rejecting. You say, preacher, I'm not rejecting Jesus. I'm just not ready just yet. One of these days That's a rejection. Now I'm not going to do this, but suppose I would offer to Evan a $100 bill. I'm not going to do that. But um Suppose I would offer to him a $100 bill. Let's just pretend that's a $100 bill. And he says, preacher, uh, Van, thanks. I'd like to have it, but not just yet Now two things. One, that's a dumb decision. And number two, by saying not just yet, what's he doing? He's rejecting that gift No, no, not yet. Someday, but not yet. A person is offered, is explained from the How they can trust Christ as Savior. I can have all my sins forgiven. I can be accepted by God. Be assured of uh of going to heaven and be assured I'm never ever going to go to hell. Have that all settled. It's offered to me. And I say, no, not just yet. Laura I'm not I'm not refusing it, Laura. I just no, no, no. Two things about that. One, that's a pretty dumb decision. Say no to eternal life. And number two, it's a rejection. It's a rejection. Decisions are important. Once I make that decision to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I say, yes, Lord, I believe you died for me. You were judged for my sins in my place. You're buried, rose again. I believe it. I trust you. I accept what you've done for me by faith. I accept it. Once I do that Then God begins a process in my life. At that moment, He begins a process in my life which I'm calling faith development. He begins developing my faith, my trust in him, and he begins doing things in my life and and uh uh uh introducing me, instructing me in things in my life that will make my faith in him stronger. And help me in all the areas of my life as my faith grows and gets stronger. It begins a lifelong process, developing my faith, strengthening my faith, refining my faith in Christ. Now, how does he do that? Oh, I think studying Scripture, and particularly the book of Acts, I see one of the first steps, once I trust Christ as Savior, one of the first steps to develop my faith. is to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Now, some circles the idea of baptism gets played down, some circles it's completely ignored. When I got saved, I got saved at home. It wasn't a direct ministry of any particular church. It was my daddy's witness, my daddy's testimony, that on May 7th, I knelt by my bed, calling the Lord to be my Savior. God save me, change my life. Nobody said a word to me about baptism. I mean, I was going to church, they started a little discipleship thing with me, teaching me things. Nobody said a word about baptism to me. And I didn't know. I mean I didn't even know the books of the Bible, let alone anything about baptism. I mean, I knew of it. One day I was in my up in uh my my bedroom, I was in the attic. They let me out every now and then, but most of the time. And something was unsettled in my heart and soul. Anybody know what it w know what I mean by that, unsettled? Something's just unsettled there. And I began praying, God, what is this? I'm a new Christian. Everything's so new to me. God, what is something's not right. Something's unsettled. And so I did what really not a good thing to do, but I didn't know. So I just flopped open my Bible. Just read the first verse I saw. Now I don't advise that, but I did it in ignorance. And the very first verse I read was about John the Baptist baptizing people. Spirit of God said you need to be baptized. So I went to church, approached him, I said, hey, I should be baptized, right? I said, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. What is baptism? I believe baptism is the first step for a new believer. Once I trust Christ the Savior. Now, let me be clear: baptism doesn't save anybody. Any more than wearing a wedding band makes you a married person. All that wedding band does is identifies me as a married man. Doesn't make me married. I don't have Even if I could take it off, I would still be married. You can be married, not have a wedding band. You can wear a wedding band, not be married, it doesn't make you married. It's just identification. That's what baptism is. But As a new believer, once I trust Christ as Savior, I take that step of a baptism. It is a step of obedience by faith in God. God says I should do this to identify as a believer. And I say, yes, Lord, I trust you. I'm going to follow you in this matter of baptism. And what it does, it gives a testimony that I've been saved, but also it strengthens my faith in trusting God, doing what he instructs me to do as a new believer. You follow me? And then it's a whole process. It's a lifelong process. I trust Christ, I follow baptism, and then I start reading my Bible and studying, letting God speak to my heart. I learn to start to pray. I pour my heart out to God, I tell God what's on my heart, what my needs are, what my desires are, confess my sin, I talk to God, I read the Bible I'd get faithful into the church. The church is designed by God For believers to exhort one another. That means to build up, to strengthen the faith one another. Every Christian needs to assemble with the people of God in the local church. I do not apologize for that. I preach that. That is Bible. Because I cannot develop my faith. I cannot grow. I cannot refine my faith without the influence and the fellowship of God's people around me. That's why he says in Hebrews, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. As the matter of summoning some people do that. But so much the more as the day approaches. Our faith needs to be strong. And then being careful what I allow in my life. So all these things, I make this decision to trust Christ The Holy Spirit moves in me. I follow him in baptism. I begin to develop the discipline of letting God speak to me in his word on a daily basis. I pray, I'm faithful to God's people, the church. I be careful. What I allow influence me. Sometimes God sends trials, senses difficulties, and And uh uh sometimes delays, things don't go the way I want, sometimes there's disappointments, that's not what I anticipated. And God allows all of these things so that we learn to trust Him. So our faith gets stronger in him. I think there's two things God wants from his field. How many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You may have been saved a week, you may have been saved. 15 years or more. There's two things God wants from His people. Number one, He wants us to love Him with all our heart. He loves us. And he wants us to love him back. And number two, he wants us to trust him, to have faith in him. I think those are the two things above all else that God wants from us. I want my people. I love my people so much. And I just want them to love me back. Am I right or wrong? If you love someone, you want them to love you back, right? That we get that from God. He is loved. And then he wants us to trust him. And here's what I found: the more I learned to trust God. The more I fall in love with him. It's hard to love someone you don't trust, right or wrong. I learned to trust God. It's not hard to love them. It's not hard to love them. And that is what God is trying to do for Israel here. I took that long route To come around. And God is testing and trying Israel so they will learn to trust Him and to love Him. Israel, in our text here, Israel is experiencing faith development as a nation Now Moses, bless his heart, I'm studying this. Everybody still with me? Everybody doing all right? Amen Moses, my heart goes out to him. He's got two challenges on his hand. Now the context here is Israel's been in uh Egypt for 400 years. The last several hundred years they ended up being slaves. I mean literally slaves. They have no rights, they have no property, they have no nothing. All they do is work for Pharaoh building his bricks and his stuff. They have no rights. Literal, whatever you picture of what a slave is, that's what Israel is. And they're crying out to God in their bondage and in their poverty and their heartache. God help us, God help us. And God hears their cry. He says it there. And he says, I'll deliver you. I will bring you out of Egypt. I have a land. I promised it to your forefathers. I will bring you to this promised land. And I hear your cries, I will get you out of there. So he raises up Moses. Moses goes before Pharaoh. He says, let my people go. Pharaoh says, no. I ain't doing it. In so many words. I think that's in the Hebrew. I ain't doing it, something like that. But Moses re Pharaoh refuses to do what God says he should do. So Moses got this Pharaoh, on one hand, that is not doing what God is telling him to do. Moses has to deal with that. Then on the other hand, he's got Israel and God Moses isn't letting them out. So that's not playing out exactly the way Israel anticipated this playing out. I don't know what they thought. But apparently they thought when Moses goes into before Pharaoh, who is a godless, heartless, cold-blooded authoritarian. And Moses says, God said, let my people go. I guess Israel had in their mind Moses going to say, oh, okay, sure, go right ahead. Just leave. And Moses and Pharaoh didn't do that. So now Moses has this whole nation of Israel. They're mad Because it isn't playing out the way they thought it would, and he's got Pharaoh who's mad, because Moses is telling him to let the people go. I feel bad. He must have been a pastor. He's got people on both ends. And so he's trying to deal with the. And the interesting thing is, I was studying this, the interesting thing is I noticed Israel is responding to the Word of God the same way. Pharaoh was. God told Pharaoh, let my people go. He said, No. God told Israel, I'm going to get you out of here. And they said, You're not doing it. Neither of them accepted God at his word. Sometimes Christians, sometimes we as Christians behave ours, have the same mentality as the unsaved world. Sometimes we function as if God's word isn't true. We just ignore it. We just disregard it. If God doesn't do things the way I think He should, then we say, oh well And God's not fair. God isn't right. And so he's dealing with both of these, Pharaoh and Moses. I have two observations. I only got a few minutes. That was my most of my message. I want to try and apply it in two thoughts. Number one I notice Israel's impatient complaint. In verse 20 through 23, it says they met with Moses, the people of Israel. Stood in the way, they came from, and they said unto them, The Lord look upon you and judge. This is Israel talking to Moses, because they had think it out. Because you have made our Savior to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to slay us. And then Moses goes to God and says, God, what are you doing? I told him to let the people go, and he's treating them worse. My question was, why didn't they get upset with Pharaoh? Why'd they get mad at Moses? Sometimes, and I'm not I'm not talking myself, I'm not complaining here at all. I thank God for our church and the people. But sometimes God tells us something and Rather than getting, and the world gives a hard time, rather than getting upset with uh the devil, we get mad at the preacher because of what he said. And so they get mad at Moses. They get made a God when it's Pharaoh is the one doing it. So why didn't they get mad at the Egyptians? They turn on Moses And they get impatient. They get all upset. Why? Because things were not going the way they anticipated. There was no immediate evidence that God was doing anything Now, what is impatience? What does it mean to be impatient? It means, I came up with some definitions, it means to be displeased because of delay. Anybody here ever go to Walmart and get impatient? No. Now they had the self checkout I think um I think you know when you go through and you get the little receipt, it's a an a it's a an account of all the things you bought and how many people know what a receipt is? They ought to call that a biography. Biography, what you bought. And if you go through the self-checkout, it ought to be an autobiography, right? I thought that was funnier than that, but um And so you get there and this line is all lined up there all the lines are lined up they got 45 checkouts and three cashiers They're all lined up And then this line gets shorter, so what do you do? You go over in that line. Then it gets hung up, then the line you were in goes faster. So you jump over here. Then the third line is fast. So you yeah, and you end up spending longer there than what if you just stayed in the line, right? You you with me, everybody? I'm preaching reality here And you start getting frustrated. Do you ever go through the ten item line? You're standing the person in front of you has twelve items. You're counting them. That makes me mad. We get impatient. Because things don't play out on my time frame, because things don't go the way I thought they should or wanted them to It's displeasure caused by delay. It's displeasure in my heart and soul because things are disrupted. I didn't want to have to deal with this I didn't want to have to go through this detour. Impatience is rooted in self-will. It's rooted in a lack of faith in God. It's a desire to be in control. I want to decide how this plays out. I want to decide the time frame on what God is going to do and how He's going to answer my prayers. I want to decide that Impatience is the opposite of faith. Faith says, God, I don't understand. This is the way I would like it, but Lord, I trust you. Anybody get impatient driving down the highway? Huh? Maybe there's a detour, maybe there's something. Did you ever think, now think here, hear me out. Did you ever think that maybe that delay That person poking in front of you, maybe God is protecting you from something that would have happened if you'd have been able to get your way? Rather than getting upset and saying, oh, this is uh uh they're in my way, real rage. Rather than doing that, why don't we bow our head and say, Thank you, Lord, I don't know what you're protecting me from. But I trust you and I thank you for working in my life. Are you with me? Impatience, Israel God, impatience They thought they were going to go to Pharaoh, let my people go. And man, we'd be marching out of Israel the next day, out of Egypt the next day. And it didn't work out that way, and they got all upset Because it wasn't on their time frame, it wasn't on their way. There are dangers to impatience. Destroys my trusting God. Now, maybe I'm being a little over-harsh on this, but it destroys my trust in God. I know better than God when this prayer should be answered and how God should do this. It produces bad decisions. If we had time, we could look at King Saul, an impatient man in so many ways. He was supposed to meet with uh uh uh uh Samuel the prophet and they were going to offer sacrifices. Uh they were going to go to battle and they were gonna offer sacrifices, and and uh Samuel the prophet got delayed And rather than wait on God, and rather than do right, King Saul made the decision, all right, I'll offer the sacrifices myself if the prophet isn't here And the Bible is very, very clear. That king, the king, was not to touch those sacrifices. That was sacred for the man of God. The prophet and the priest. And because of impatience, King Saul said, Well, I'll just do it myself. You know what happened? It cost them the kingdom. I said, I'll take the kingdom away from you. How many times we miss the blessings of God because we become impatient and don't wait on God? We take things in our own hands. I'm telling you, I've been I've been knowing the Lord 46 years now. And there's more times than I care to admit where I took things in my own hands and I've regretted it every single time. And I have never regretted waiting on God and letting God do what God does best. And just be still and know that He is God. Let Him be God. So there's dangers to impatience. It can cost us. We can make foolish decisions when we get impatient and we get irritated and frustrated. It damages relationships. We get impatient. We snap at people. We get an attitude. And if we're not careful, it takes root down in our heart and we become bitter. Rather than just being patient and wait on God, there are real dangers to impatience. We become harsh, we say unkind things, we treat people in unkind ways When we become impatient. Sometimes we accuse God. It derails my faith. God wasn't working on Israel's time frame. He wasn't doing it the way they thought it should do it. And they got angry. And they're miserable and they're bitter. They miss God's blessings and walk around with a hard face and snapping, and I don't want and When they could have had the joy of the Lord, they could have had the presence of God. If they'd have just waited on God, just trusted Him. The impatience of Israel, over and over and over, we're told in Scripture, over and over and over, we're told to wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Romans 12, 12. Be patient in tribulation. Isaiah 40, verse 31. Wait on the Lord. He'll renew your strength. Just trust him, let him work it out. Maybe there's I'm here, I'm talking to you. The joy of the Lord's gone from your life Because God isn't doing things the way you think he should. Maybe I'm talking to some folks, maybe online, you're at home listening, driving down the road. The joy of the Lord is gone from your life because it's not working on your time frame. Shallow faith produces impatience, and God wants us to learn to trust Him. God wants us to learn to wait on him, let him have his way, follow his instructions, trust him And it leads me to my second and last thought is this God's infallible covenant. And chapter 6, verse 1 through 8, we read here: how God steps in. And he reminds them, first of all, he reminds them who he is. Look at verse 1. He says, Then the Lord said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do unto Pharaoh. With a strong hand shall he let them go. With a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land. God says, oh yeah, I'm gonna do. You just it's gonna happen. Look at verse 2. God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord. I appeared unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob by the name of God Almighty. But by my name Jehovah was I not known him. You know what he's telling him? He said, I want to remind you who I am. I am God. You are not. Trust me. Trust me. He reminds them of who he is. In verse 3, he says, I'm God Almighty. That is the God of infinite power. I think you and I fail to realize how powerful our God is. He is infinite in his power. There is nothing that God cannot do. With man things are impossible, but with God, nothing is impossible. God Almighty. God Almighty. You say, preacher, I don't see God doing this. I don't I I've been waiting I've been praying for this for years and years and it isn't my this isn't going my way and that isn't the way I think it should. And he says, Stop. I want to remind you who I am. I'm God Almighty. Jehovah. The word Jehovah means the self-existing one. I want to remind you, we God does not need us. But we sure enough need Him. And so He says: listen, that's who I am. I'm God. I remind myself, I have to remind myself over and over and over, Isaiah 55, 8 and 9. We don't have time to turn there. He says, my thoughts are not your thoughts. My ways are not your ways. As the heaven is higher than the earth, so are my thoughts than your way than your thoughts. My ways are higher than your ways. God's ways are greater than mine. What I need to do is shut my mouth and trust him to work it out. To work it out. To work it out. God says he reminds them of who he is. He rehearses what he has promised. Look at verse 3. I appeared unto Abraham. I promised them. I have established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan. I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel. I've remembered my covenant. A covenant is a binding, solemn agreement. And God says, I made a covenant with you, I will keep it. And then he rehearses to them of what he will do. Six times in verse 6, 7, and 8, he says, I will. I am the Lord, I will bring you out, I will rid you out of their bondage, I will redeem you with a stretch of arm. I will take you for me a people. I will be to you a God I will bring you unto the land. I will give it to you for an heritage. I am the Lord. God reassures them of what he will do. Six times, I will. My daddy's had a profound influence in my life. I am a Christian today, humanly speaking, because of my daddy. his witness. He had in the kitchen I went he lived in Telford, Pennsylvania for a long time. Little apartment, just a half a house there. When I went home, I'd stay there with him. And in the kitchen he had a picture hanging on the wall, this little framed poem. I'll never forget that poem. I learned it, I put it, I have it in my Bible. Every Bible I get I go through Bibles about once every five years. Every one I put it in the front of my Bible. When things go wrong, as they sometimes will, and the road you're traveling seems all uphill. When the funds are low and the debts are high and you want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learn, and many a fella turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow, you may succeed with another blow. And he comes down, there's several verses. The last one says, success is failure turned inside out. The silver tent in the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It may be near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when your heart is hit. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. And God was saying to Israel, I've got this. I'm God There's nothing I can't do. I've promised you I will get you out of here. Trust me. Wait on me. Let me do what I do. And don't you quit. You keep trusting me. You keep trusting me. What I'm saying this morning, what I got from this, as I read this and studied it, what I got from this is you and I need to just keep right on praying. You've got something or someone you've been praying for for years and years and years and years and years, and I say to you, you press on in faith and you keep on praying. Don't quit. Uh keep on uh I put this down, keep peering into God's Word. You say, Preacher, I've read this Bible, and I didn't s I don't see God doing anything. I've read this Bible, these promises, and I haven't seen it yet You just keep on reading it. You keep on believing it. You keep on trusting it. God is God. He is not done yet. Keep praying, keep peering into the Bible. I put this down, keep praising God. Say preacher, I just don't I don't I don't see God do anything. That's what Israel was. We don't see him, we're not getting out of here Just keep on praising God. Keep on praising God. Ask God to put a song in your heart. I'm talking to some Christians. You've lost the joy of the Lord. You've lost it. I'm here to tell you God is still God. And He's still in control, and I can still have joy in my heart and life, even though it may not be going the way I think it should be. God is right on time, and I can still praise him. God is so good. God is so good. God is so good. He's so good to me. Here's what we do. We let the devil blind us. To the goodness of God, because we don't think things should be going this way. You follow me? I'm here to tell you, just press on in faith. Just keep trusting them. Keep trusting them Keep persistently doing right. I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He said, do right till the stars fall. Do right till the stars fall. Keep plugged into the church. I'll tell you, I think we have a good church here. We're not the only one. There's a lot of good churches around the world. I thank God for them. But I'm here to tell you, this church will do as much or more to help us have faith in God than anything the world out there has to offer. The church is designed to help us. Keep praising God. Francis Ridley Havergale put it this way: a waiting soul, be still. Be strong. Though he carry, trust and wait. Doubt not, he will not wait too long. Fear not, he will not come too late. Don't quit. Amen? I say to our church this morning, July, the last Sunday of July, I say, let's just keep on trusting God. Let's keep on doing right. Let's keep on praying. Let's keep on witnessing. Let's keep on getting together and singing praises to our God. And I tell you, I have absolute confidence God's going to come through. Every single time. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask. Help us, Lord, to not give up. Help us, Lord, not to get Bitter and patient just to wait on you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, and probably what I'm going to ask, if we were honest, probably all of us would say this. And I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I find myself so impatient. I want things my way when I want it. And maybe you'd say with me, I need to learn to just trust God. Let Him have His way and just follow His instructions and trust Him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I need that I tell you, God can help us if we'll just ask Him and trust Him. Maybe you've been praying for a situation or somebody a long time. I know I have. I have two prayers that I am begging God day and morning and night, asking God to do I say, how many would say, preacher, I got that, and I'm not going to quit? I'm just going to decide today. I'm going to keep on praying. I'm going to keep on praying. Any like that? Uplifted hand. I'm just going to keep on praying. Don't you quit. Don't you quit Keep doing right. If there's someone here this morning, or maybe online, you say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. I don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me get that settled in my heart and life, that I could know that God has forgiven my sins. I could have that assurance in my heart. That our home is heaven and not hell. And you'd like for me to pray for you. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray with me. That God would help me get that settled. Any at all? Just slip your hand up. We'll pray. God will help you. How about it? Any at all? Father, I pray you'd bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James