Philippians chapter 3, verse number, I'm going to read verse 13. Then when we get to verse number 14, I'd like for us to read this together in unison. Now that means you folks at home there also You uh read this verse together long. Verse number 14. Now I'll just give you a heads up. Verse 14 is our memory verse for the month of February. So we're going to be memorizing Philippians 3, verse 14. So I'm going to read 13. When we get to 14, you join in with me, and we'll read that together in unison. Ready? Verse 13 says this: Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. Now altogether, verse 14. Ready? Here we go I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Paul said, I press towards that mark. I want to speak this morning on pressing on. It's our theme for this year. Pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. Let's pray And ask the Lord to uh speak our hearts this morning. Father, I thank you, Lord, for the folks that have hazard life and limp to come out and be in church this morning. I pray, Lord, that uh You would uh just meet with us. I pray your presence would be here. Lord, you said if two or three gather in your name, gather together in your name, you'd be with us. be there also. So we're asking your presence to be manifest in our service this morning. And then for folks at home, I pray they would sense your spirit moving in their hearts and speaking to them through your word. I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and with all my heart I plead, Lord, fill me with your spirit, use this message, use these truths. to encourage and to transform lives that we can be more like Christ and we can have a significant witness and influence for the gospel in this old simple world. Again, fill me, Lord, and speak and preach through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. I don't know about you. I hope you can. I can go back in my mind to the very moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. How many folks remember that very clearly in your mind? You remember that moment when you trusted Christ. What a significant time in life that was. What a significant event. When we accept the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior. Now, there are some very, very significant transactions take place The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, whether it's a small child down in children's church, or maybe I've had senior citizens in nursing homes. At the end of the life, just um in some cases, just few days before they go out in eternity, I've had folks trust Christ as Savior. Now whether it's a small child or an elderly person The moment we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, there are some very, very significant transactions that take place. For instance That very moment for me it was May 7, 1979, 10. 30 at night. I bowed by my bed and I called out to the Lord as a 19-year-old boy. And that split second that I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, God, that very moment, God accepted me into his presence. Up until that point, I was separated from God. I was a sinner. I was in my sins. And I could not enter the presence of a holy God But the moment I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, my sins were all forgiven. As far as God was concerned, they were completely forgiven, and I'm fully accepted by God. I tell you, it is a wonderful thing. To know in my heart and mind that God accepts me. Works and all. What I am, and God accepts me in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. The moment I get saved, that takes place. I'm accepted by God, no longer without God, no longer without hope in the world, no longer separated from my Creator. Now, because of what Jesus Christ did, I accept Him And God accepts me. God uh accepts me into his presence. God accepts me into his family. I'm now part of the family of God. The moment a person gets saved, Jesus told Nicodemus, you must be born again. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ, we're spiritually born into the family of God. What an amazing thing. Now think with me on this. What an amazing thing it is to say, to be able to say, with certainty, I am a child of God God is my Father. What an amazing thing that is, the creator of heaven and earth, the holy, all-powerful God He's my heavenly Father. I'm born into His family. So God accepts me into His presence. God accepts me into His family the moment I trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And by the way, He accepts me completely and fully. Uh just fully accepted. I'm one of the family. I'm I'm accepted by God. So that's one transaction that takes place. I go from being an outcast, I go from being Outside the family of God, trust Christ, that second I'm instantly accepted by God. Another event takes place. Now, this is just amazing to me And that is this: the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God takes up residence in my body. Now think about that. Uh for my in my case, there on my knees by my bed, uh late at night up in the attic, we made it into a bedroom, and uh I called on the Lord Jesus that Split second, the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy God, the Holy Spirit of God moved into my body and dwelt me. And uh it's true for every person that's trusted Christ Savior. The God that spoke this world and universe into existence dwells within our bodies in the person of the Holy Spirit. How many people agree with me? That's an amazing thought. In my body, in this chest, right here, the Holy Spirit God is now dwelling. That happens the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior. Now I'm not saying this to be critical. I just want to be uh just wanted to be clear and and have people understand. There are folks, I believe good folks, and many no doubt know the Lord is Savior. And on a Sunday morning like this, some will be at the altar praying, God, give me your Holy Spirit. God give me your Holy Spirit. A Christian never has to ask God. To give them the Holy Spirit, they already have it. They already have it, already indwelling. And we could preach a week of sermons on that And so now the issue with a believer isn't me getting the Holy Spirit. The issue is the Holy Spirit getting more of me. And yielding myself over to him. So the moment a person saved, the Holy Spirit of God indwells my body. The Holy Spirit of God seals My salvation seals my eternal destiny for the rest of eternity. It is settled. My salvation is not dependent upon me living a certain lifestyle. The security of my salvation is dependent upon God Himself sealing me, keeping me, and securing me by His almighty power. And so the Holy Spirit of God indwells me and secures my salvation and secures my standing with God. It cannot be lost. And then another transaction that takes place I want to mention is this, the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior. We are given, there is within me, created, within me a new nature, oh, entire new nature. Um now I gotta keep you guys alert here. Snow has gotten on your brains. You guys need to stick with me here. How many folks here? Your life is different after you got saved than it was before you got saved. Anyone like that? Now it may not be as dramatic as some people, but uh there's a difference takes place. Uh let me ask this. I I'm gonna try and keep you all involved, and you guys at home also, you get involved here Think about this with me. How many folks, before you got saved, the Bible wasn't too much of a deal to you? After you got saved, that Bible became a precious book. Yeah, that's the way it was for me. I never thought anything is uh uh God changes our values. God changes there's there's created within us a new nature With new desires, new priorities, new principles we live by, new values, a whole different perspective on myself and the world and God. And God brought about, brings about this change within us and this new nature. So when a person trusts Christ as Savior, there are a series of events Series of, I'm calling them, transactions take place. I'm outside the family of God. I'm separated from God. I trust Christ I'm accepted by God. I'm part of the family of God. Before salvation, I'm on my own. No Holy Spirit. Without God in this world I accept Christ as Savior, boom, the Holy Spirit indwelling me. The Holy Spirit's presence is with me. The Holy Spirit secures me and keeps me. Uh before I'm saved, I just got this old sinful nature. That's all there is to it. Just an empty uh uh sinful wretch. I accept Christ as Savior, boom, there's a whole new nature created within me with holy desires and new purposes and new values And so it's an amazing thing to be saved. Now let me say this to crowd here, folks online, listening in, or however you may be hearing this message. Let me say this, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I cannot say strongly enough that is the most important issue in your life. Whether making money, whether you get a vaccine, whatever you do, all these big issues out there that people are so worried about, I'm telling you, if a person has not been saved by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the most important issue in life. You need to be saved. The Bible says today, now is the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation. And so I urge you with all my heart: turn from your sin, come to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior, and God will uh give you a new life, give you eternal life, and uh do amazing things for you. So This new nature that's created within us when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, that becomes a basis for a whole new life that I live. That becomes the foundation of this Christian, what I'm going to call Christian lifestyle that God intends for me to live. This acceptance by God. is the basis, is the foundation of a new life of the Christian life. Spiritual growth, everybody with me? Everybody alright? Spiritual growth requires a solid foundation. An unsaved person can't grow spiritually. How many people understand that? Can't grow spiritually if I'm not saved. I don't have any life. Spiritual progress, making progress and development in my Christian life, it requires having this Solid foundation of salvation and assurance and security. That has to be in place if I'm going to grow as a Christian If I'm going to progress in my Christian life, if I'm going to be this new person that God intends for me, if this transformation is going to take place in my life that the Bible talks about, I must have that foundation. Now I said all that to say this. If you would notice with me, in verse 13, chapter 3 of Philippians, verse 13, notice the Bible says, brethren, now this is Paul speaking, the Apostle Paul He says, I count not myself to have apprehended. I count not myself to have apprehended. Now, what is it he's talking about about apprehending there? Now, some folks would like to suggest that Paul was unsure of his salvation. He said, I've not reached the assurance of my salvation. I've not reached uh the uh uh uh the the uh security of my salvation. I still pressing on to try and get salvation and earn that salvation. Listen, that is not what the Apostle Paul is preaching. There's a lot of Christian quote unquote denominations out there A lot of Christian quote-unquote preachers out preaching that you've got to live it or you don't have salvation or you've got to earn salvation or works. I'm telling you, that is not Bible preaching That is not Bible salvation. And other denominations may teach that, other, but God forbid that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would ever suggest That we can earn our salvation or that we work towards our salvation. Salvation is a free gift of God that I receive by faith by putting by trusting the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. So they're wrong. If they're saying uh they're trying to suggest that Paul did not have assurance of his salvation, that Paul was not secure in his salvation, he was trying to work for it, that was they're wrong. In fact, Paul clearly stated numerous times that his salvation was a settled matter. It was secure. Come back to chapter number one with me. Now keep your place here. Come back to Philippians chapter one and verse six Um every uh when I moved out uh out of the house and um went down to Chattanooga, Tennessee to go to Bible college My daddy started writing me a letter every single week. I've mentioned this many times over the years, and I kind of miss it to be honest with you, but he would write me every single week without fail for decades My daddy wrote me a letter, just a little something, usually just said, not much going on here, just want you to know I'm thinking about you, and he'll tell me a little something maybe happening or ask me And then he would sign his name, and he would at the bottom, without fail, he'd put Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. Look at verse 6 with me. Being confident. How many people agree with me? That sounds like it's a settled thing. Being confident. There's no questions about this. being confident of this very thing, that he, the Lord, which hath begun a good work in you, look at this, will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Listen, we can be confident in our salvation. We can be confident in the assurance of our salvation. God saved us. God's going to keep us. He'll carry that thing through. You can put it down this way: it's in his hands. Now, I don't know about you. There's a whole lot more peace in my heart and mind knowing that my eternal destiny is in the hands of the Lord and not in my hands. Amen. I'd be nervous if my eternal destiny was in the hands of some Catholic priest. I'd be nervous. I'd be anxious if I lay my head down on the pillow at night if my eternal destiny was in the hands of Pastor Leatherman. Or any other human being. But he says, being confident of this, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it in the day of Christ. Jesus turned it with me to 2 Timothy. This is a great one. 2 Timothy And uh chapter number one, 2 Timothy chapter 1, verse number 12. Now, um you know how I you know how I feel about marking by verses in your Bible. And uh I'm telling you, 2 Timothy 1, verse 12 is a is a markable verse. That's a good Bible verse marker verse. Look at verse 12. For the things which for the which cause I also suffer these things. Look at this Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, why would you not be ashamed? For I, what's the next word I know whom I have believed and am what? Persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. That doesn't sound like a hope so salvation to me. That doesn't sound like a think-so, maybe, hopefully I'll make it salvation to me. That sounds like a no-so salvation to me. I don't know what you think. That's what it sounds like to me. He says, I know, and by the way Notice the wording here very carefully. I know whom I have believed. Paul's salvation was in a person, was in the Lord Jesus Christ. I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him. Now look at that verse very carefully. Who does it sound like is in control of Paul's destiny? Whose hands is his destiny in? It's in the Lord's. I know whom I believe. He is able to keep me unto that day. He says I'm putting I put my eternal destiny. I put my salvation, my acceptance by God is in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll tell you, I'll say it again. I feel a whole lot more secure knowing Jesus it ha uh is is the is a is keeping my salvation and not me. Amen. Man, what a wonderful thing. Jesus mark this down. Would you write this down? Jesus never fails Jesus never fails. If my faith is in Christ, if my salvation is in Christ, I can be secure because Jesus never fails. That'd be a good reminder every single day. Jesus never fails. And so Paul is not, come back to Philippians here, chapter 3. Paul is not suggesting here that he is unsure of his salvation. He is not suggesting that he is working and oh I need to attain that acceptance by God. I need to No, no, no, that's not what he's talking about at all. In fact, if you study this whole passage, Pastor Matt read a little bit ago, if you study this whole passage, all Paul is saying, this is simply uh he's simply saying here That he is not yet everything that God intends for him to be. I'm not yet attained. I'm not at that point. In fact, earlier he mentions the resurrection. I think this is what he's saying. He's saying, listen. At this point in my life, at this point in my spiritual life, I have not yet reached that point of what I'm going to be. after the resurrection. Now think with me a little bit. I know some folks aren't used to thinking on Sunday mornings, but think with me a little bit What will we be like spiritually after our resurrection from the dead? That's at the rapture. What will we be like spiritually? What one word would you use to describe our spiritual condition after the resurrection? Perfect. Perfect. Sinless. We have a glorified body. The old nature's gone. We are absolutely perfectly everything God intends for us to be. Boy, what a day that will be. Like the girl saying. So Paul is simply saying this. I've not yet reached that point. I've not yet attained that. I've not apprehended that for which I've apprehended God's intention for me. is to one day be as perfectly like the Lord Jesus Christ. To be perfectly like the Lord Jesus Christ. I've not yet attained that. By the way, that's not going to happen until we're resurrected. And we're not, that's not going to happen until after the rapture, when we're perfectly like Christ, we'll be like him. So Paul isn't suggesting that he's working towards his salvation. That he's trying to attain this acceptance by God. No, no, no. That was all an accepted fact the moment he trusted Christ as Savior. But here you have one of the greatest Christians in all of history In all of church history, one of the greatest Christians, and he says, I'm not attained yet. I'm not all that I ought to be. I would be the first to step up beside Apostle Paul and say, I've not attained yet either. I am not all that I ought to be. I don't know about you. This is so encouraging to me that the greatest, perhaps the greatest Christian in all church history says, you know, I've not reached it yet. Just an ordinary Christian in a lot of ways, just like every one of us. We're not there. I haven't apprehended. That word apprehended means gotten a grasp of I'm not totally reached that. I'm not at that point where we will be after the resurrection. Paul's saying, I'm not perfect, but then you come down to verse 13. He says, I'm not perfect, but I'm pressing on. I've not reached that point yet. I'm not apprehended yet. But brother, I am pressing towards that mark. I am pushing forward. They can throw me in jail. They I can be a shipwreck in a storm. I can be left for dead. They can stone me. They can reject me. They can curse me. They can try and lock me down. But I'm pressing on. I'm not quitting. I'm pushing forward until I'm everything that God wants me to be. I don't know about you. That stirs my heart. Pressing on, pressing on, pressing on. You say, preacher, it's hard to be a Christian in this day and age. Yeah, uh try it back in the Middle Ages when they throw you in prison if you're caught with the Bible Yeah, preacher, it's tough. Oh, it's so hard. Yeah, but Paul said, yep, yeah, but I'm not there yet. I'm pressing on. I'm pushing forward. I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. Still praying as I'm onward bound. Lord, lead me on to higher ground. That's what Paul's saying. He's saying I'm not quitting, I'm not giving up, I'm not sitting back, I'm pushing on, I'm not everything I ought to be. I'm not everything that God would intend for me to be That phrase there, if you would, notice with me in verse number 14, he says, press, uh, I'm pressing, I press toward That phrase has this idea to push yourself forward. The picture I get in my mind is this would be a very appropriate illustration. I just thought of it. Suppose somebody gets stuck in a snowstorm and they get stuck and you say, oh great preacher, you just cursed us, jinxed us all. Now we're going to get stuck on a hill. Uh suppose somebody gets stuck and uh you're back there and you're trying to push them out. Uh anybody here ever try to push a car out of the snow out of a ditch or something? You're pushing that thing, it's throwing snow and mud up all over you You're pushing that thing. And then somebody, some smart aleck, comes up behind you, and they get behind you and they're pushing you while you're trying to push that car. Oh, that works just fine But that's the idea of that word pressing toward. It's the idea of pushing myself. It's getting behind myself It's like, uh, I don't feel like, yeah, uh, I'm gonna press toward, I'm gonna push myself forward on that. One of the definitions, I was looking this up how it's used. It it had this idea in one of the definitions to drop the shoulder. How many football players know what I'm talking about? You drop that shoulder. Boy, they get that ball in. You drop that shoulder and you just push forward. You go right into that line. Down in New Zealand, I got in on Lewis Howe's Sunday school class yesterday. He had a little computer um uh hook up there and I could sit in there and saw everybody. And uh down in New Zealand they have this saying it uh uh along these lines. They say uh uh they went they went up the gut. You just went right up the gut. And the whole idea that is, is there's the difficulty. There's this, they play rugby down there. What a girl's sport. They don't know what real football is. But um uh they they and they get that and they'll go up the gut. What they mean is they drop the shoulder and they just run into the crowd and get the daylight beat out of them, and they just push forward through that That's what Paul says. I'm pressing on. I'm pressing on. They shut the churches down. Yeah, but I'm pressing on. Oh, the snow's up to your knees. Yeah, but I'm pressing on. They're gonna throw us in jail if we preach the Bible. Yeah, but we're pressing on. Paul said, I press towards the mark. I drop my shoulder and I go right up the gut. I should have named this sermon up the gut. That would have got people's attention. Rather than conforming to this old sinful world, Paul said, I'm pressing on to be more like Christ. Rather than sitting back and letting this world dictate to me what kind of person I'm going to be, rather than Hollywood and the wicked move uh music industry telling me what kind my values ought to be and tell me what my uh lifestyle ought to be and tell me uh rather this whole world Tell him Paul said, Nope, I'm not conforming to this world, I'm not surrendering to their values, I'm not following their leadership, I am pressing on to be what God wants me to be Stick to the old book. Here's the problem. When we conform to the world, then we become anonymous. Think about it If I'm just like the rest of the world, then we just blend in. You know what the problem with a lot of churches is? They're just blending in with the world. There's no lighthouse, there's no beacon, there's no salt. Paul says, I'm not conforming to this world. I'm not following the world's values. I'm not conforming to the world's priorities and their principles. I'm pressing on. I'm dropping the shoulder and I'm going forward. You say, yeah, the whole world's against you. Well then if the whole world is against this book and uh and being like Christ, then we're against the whole world And so Paul said, I'm pressing on, I'm pressing on. Pressing on the upward way. We must press on to higher ground. We must press on to spiritual growth. He said, I don't know what it'll be like when we come out of this pandemic. I don't know either, but we got to decide right now. We're just going to press on. We're just going to go forward. You say, yeah, preacher, what if uh what if the country turns against Christianity? Then we drop our shoulders and we go up the gut We just press on. We go forward. You say, how do we do that? I'm glad you asked. Let me give you a few ways we can press on. How to press on. Number one, would you write this down? We have to have purpose. We have to have purpose. Come back here to Philippians with me. Paul had a purpose in his life. Paul had purpose. Look with me at verse number 10. That I may what? know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings. Well, you know, I've been praying the last several months, maybe years so, I've been praying in my heart, I've been praying, Lord, that I want to know you. I want to know you like I've never known you before. I want to understand you and have a relationship with you like I've never had before. And I pray, Lord, I want to know the the power of your resurrection. I'd like to have the power that raised up Christ from the dead. I'd like to have that power in my life. Have victory over sin and be able to influence our world with uh with the gospel. Have that power. You know, I caught myself, I haven't prayed that third uh purpose that Paul had there and the fellowship of his what Sufferings. How many people anybody here pray, Lord help me to suffer today? No, that's not that's not high on our desire list. But Paul said, I want to know him. I want to know everything about Christ. I want to know what he's like. I want to know what it's like to have the presence and power of God in my life, even when I'm suffering for the Lord. What a purpose! Paul had a purpose in life. Look with me at verse 13. Brethren, I cannot myself apprehend it, but this one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. I tell you, it's hard to press on if you don't know where you're going. Huh? Paul said, I got a purpose in life. It's to be like Christ. It's to know him, have his power in my life, to be a witness for him, even to the point of suffering. My life has meaning, my life has purpose. It's hard to press on if you don't know where you're going. It's hard to press on if you don't know what your purpose in life is. Let me ask you a question: What's the purpose for your life? Can you answer that? Do you have an answer in your heart and mind? Why did God give you life? Why did God create you? Why did He put you here at this time, in this place? We have purpose. Paul understood that. He got a hold of that. He says, My life does have a purpose. My life does have meaning. I'm going to press on towards to fulfill that purpose. Anyone recognize the name Yogi Berra? Great baseball player, he was a coach and manager. That guy's one of the most quotable people. You know, that guy was pretty witty And he made this statement. I came across this statement he made. He said, if you don't know where you're going, you'll likely end up someplace else. If you don't know where you're going, you'll likely end up someplace else. You know what? If I don't know the purpose for my life, if I don't understand the reason for my life. Chances are I'll get to the end of my life and I'll never have accomplished that purpose. I'll never have fulfilled that purpose Wouldn't it be awful? Wouldn't it be awful to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and God says, I gave you a purpose? I created you for a reason And you just squandered it and lived it off and wasted it away on the temporal things of this world, and you never did what I created you to do. You never fulfilled the purpose of your life. Tell you, before I was saved, my life had no purpose. It was to get as much fun, much pleasure out of that moment that I possibly could, and that was the extent of it When I got up off my knees on that Monday night, God did something in my heart, and I realized, man, there is a whole lot more to life than just eat, drink, and be merry. God gave me a purpose and you have a purpose. And every believer, every child of God has a God-given, divine, eternal purpose for our life. Until we figure that out, until we get a hold of that, it's hard to press forward. It's going to be hard to stand up In a world that's opposed to our faith, in a world that persecutes us for being followers of Jesus Christ, if we don't even understand what our meaning and purpose in life is. Paul had a purpose and he was able to press on. You know what your purpose in life is as a Christian. Any Christian who is unclear or confused About God's purpose in life, in their life, they're going to struggle with sin. I'm telling you, you're going to struggle with sin. If I don't have a purpose, I'm a sitting duck. If I don't see, if my life has no focus, no direction, every little sin that comes along is going to be enticing. I've found that folks that have victory over sin are folks that are driven by a God-given purpose, a holy meaning in life. And they drive themselves, they press on to fulfill that and carry out God's will. I found that folks that are confused or unclear about God's purpose in their life are going to struggle with sin. They're going to lack joy and enthusiasm. in their Christian life. They're going to uh it's hard it's hard to get excited about something you don't know what is But boy, you get a hold, man, God gave me a purpose. God has a reason for my life. God has something for me to live for. Get excited about that So a person that's confused or unsure about God's purpose in life, they're vulnerable to sin. Often they'll lack joy and enthusiasm. Their life will be empty without fulfillment. They'll bear little fruit. But brother, every now and then you come across a Christian who knows who they are as a child of God, and they know what their purpose in life is, and they know what God has called them to do. And brother, there's a drive there, there's an enthusiasm there, there is a termination there, their shoulder is down, and they're pushing forward. Because they know what God's called them to do. Let me ask you a question. What's God's purpose for your life? What's God's reason for your life? You have something you're pressing towards, you're something you're locked on to, something your shoulder has dropped, and I'm going to carry this out, I'm going to carry this ball for the Lord Number one, you have to have a purpose in life. When I do understand God has a plan and a purpose for my life, and that in general, that would be to be like Christ Well, I don't know what my purpose in life is. Well, one of the things is to be like the Lord Jesus Christ, study the Lord Jesus Christ in every circumstance, in every situation, in every scenario I'm going to follow the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to yield myself to God, and I want them to see Christ in me. I tell you, that stirs my heart in Acts. The Bible says the Pharisees saw Peter and John, and they took note of them that they had been with Jesus. And the spiritual, moral odor of Jesus lingered in their testimony. The people saw Christ in them. And so one of the purposes in life is very basic, is to be like the Lord Jesus Christ, to reach the world with the gospel. I tell you, my heart's stirred on this. I'm convicted. I tell you, we uh we as Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and you and I as believers We need to drop our shoulders with the gospel and just press forward in this old sinful, dark, unbelieving world and just determine we're going to get the message of Christ. to every single person we possibly can. That is our purpose. That is our mandate. That is our commission. And we're going to press on. And get the gospel to everybody we possibly can. Brother, you get a church that catches that vision, understands that purpose, and brother, they will be pushing hard towards that. So, to be like Christ, to get the gospel into all the world, to glorify God, whether you therefore eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all what? To the glory of God. And just a purpose in life. Get up in the morning today. My mandate, my primary objective is to everything I do bring glory to my God. Bring glory to my Savior. Point people's attention and adoration to what a great God I am. What a wonderful thing it would be when we leave someone and they say, boy, what a great God He serves Our influence on people wouldn't be to say, oh, what a great Christian he is. No, no, no. What a great God he serves. That's bringing glory to God. So Paul had a purpose in life. He had meaning. He understood that God had something for him. And so through thick and thin, on mountaintops and in valleys. In success and in failure, in joys and in heartache. I press on. I press on. I press on. I have a purpose, a God-given purpose. Years ago, I came to the conclusion we weren't here long, and I'm just using this for an illustration, but we weren't here long, and I came to the conclusion that the reason God gave me life The reason God created me in my mother's womb back in 1960. Reason God gave me life. It was because he had a church in Western Maryland that needed a weak, sorry, pretty ignorant pastor that he could use to build that church and see people saved. And I'm convinced to this day, last night before I went to bed, I thought, my purpose and meaning in life, God's created me to pass this church. Now, just as much as God's given me a purpose, he's given you a purpose. It might be to be a good, godly Christian mechanic that's a testimony for God and gives God the glory in everything he does and just determined that every wrench, that every uh Wrench, uh, that I turn, every knuckle I bust, I'm gonna do it for God's glory and to be er as much like Jesus as I possibly can. And you fill in the blank, whatever occupation, whatever God's called you to do, you need to understand there's a meaning and a purpose for your life. And when we get a hold of that, we can press on. Amen? This is better preaching, I think, than your amen. And I'm getting stirred up here. Number two, I put this down. If we're going to press on, number one, we have to have a purpose. Number two, we must have passion Passion. I don't know how you feel. I think our Baptist churches could use a little bit more passion. I mean just fired up, stirred up about the things of God. Passion. Look with me if you would at verse 12. Not as though I had already attained, nor were already perfect. He said, I'm not there yet. Good heavens. I'm not perfect. I'm not all I'm gonna be after the resurrection. But look what he says. But I what are the next two words? Talk to me. Oh come on, say it with passion. Follow after That word, I got looking up that phrase, follow after, and I and oh by the way, come down to verse 14. Second word, I press toward the mark. I circled that phrase follow after in verse 12 and the word press in verse 14, and I drew a line between the two. You know why I did that? They come from the same word. I follow after. I press toward. And I got looking that up, how it's used, other places in the Bible, and the word it comes from. And I found out it means this: to overextend myself. To overextend myself. And the pitcher that came to my mind, the word pitcher I came to my mind, is a fellow that's running a race, maybe a 50-yard dash You won't believe this, but I used to run in track, and if I did it now, it wouldn't be a 50-yard dash, it'd be a five-yard heart attack But uh my picture I got is uh a fifty uh like a guy's running and he the the gun goes off the starting gun and man he takes off And as he gets to that finish line, as he sees that uh um ribbon across the track where he has to cross it first, He starts leaning forward. Did you ever see those guys do that? And I mean they are, and you're almost falling on their face. Their feet are just working to keep up with them, and they're pushing forward. That's what Paul says You know what that tells me? He wasn't indifferent about his Christian life. He wasn't apathetic. He goes, brother, I'm giving it all I got. I'm passionate about this. This is the most important thing in the world to me. Paul put everything he had into being the Christian that God saved him to be. He says, I push forward, brother. I'm giving it everything. I am overextending myself. Somebody says, you need to slow down a little bit. You need to relax. You're getting carried away with this Christianity stuff. You're too excited about this Christianity. You're an extremist. I'll tell you what's extreme. The Son of God taking all the sins of the whole world down on a cross from me, being buried, and rose again. That's a little extreme And I can be passionate about what Christ has done for me in serving and living for Him. Listen to what the prophet Samuel told the children of Israel back in 1 Samuel 12, verse 20. Listen to what he said to them. Samuel was one of the greatest prophets of God there ever was, in my opinion. Listen to what he told the nation of Israel. Now, the nation of Israel are messed up. They're getting caught up in all kinds of wickedness And he says this to them: turn not aside from following the Lord, pressing on, turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. That was his challenge to the people of God. I'm telling you, we're going to press on. We just got to decide I'm going to serve God with all my heart. With all my heart and soul, I'm giving it to God. If I'm teaching a Sunday school lesson, I'm teaching it with everything I got. You say, preacher, I only got four seven-year-olds. Let them have it. Give them the word of God. Give them uh I have tried for years. And I'm not trying to don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say here But I have tried for years. You can ask other people. Whether we had five people here or we had uh 275 people here, I preached with I preached my whole heart out. I've tried to give it everything I have. And I think that ought to be our whole Christian lives. Whether we're witnessing the one little kid or 75 people at a reunion, we ought to give it everything we got Give it all we have. I press forward. I overextend myself. With all your heart, serve the Lord. And last of all, let me give you this one. We must We must pinpoint ourselves. Now I'll explain what I mean. Number one, I need to understand God has a purpose for my life. It's hard to go somewhere if you don't know where it is But I gotta understand there is a place. God does have a plan. God has a purpose for my life, to be like Christ, to reach the world, to glorify God. And then specifically for my life, He has a plan and purpose And I just press on in that. And then I put some passion behind that. If nothing else, some of us need to kneel at an old altar and say, God, put a fire in my soul for the Lord Jesus Christ. Some passion. And then last of all, I put this. We need to pinpoint ourselves. This is what I mean. Look at verse 13. And uh circle uh I circled in my Bible, I highlighted in my Bible one little phrase. Brethren, I count not myself to apprehend it, but this, what's the next two words? One thing. Paul had it pinpointed down. There's one thing I'm after. There's one thing I'm focused on. There's one thing I'm living for. I can fulfill that purpose for which God has given me. Paul's life was very singular. Paul's life was very focused. I sat under Dr. Lee Robertson for years, as though he had a significant influence in my life down at Highland Park Baptist Church. I've read a couple of his biographies and I've read every book of his sermons there's ever been made. Many of them I've uh I've uh read many times. Anybody here ever hear Dr. Lee Robertson preach? Anybody here ever Actually y'all have because I preached his sermons, uh, my version of them over the years. And so uh and and I was reading biography and uh A couple years ago, a new biography came out on I read that thing, and afterward I thought this. Dr. Lee Robertson, in my life, has been the most focused person on the gospel I've ever known Focus. Everything was about the Lord Jesus Christ and getting the gospel out. Are we opposed to abortion? Yes, absolutely. But our focus is the gospel. Are we opposed to distorting what the family is and perverting marriage and the home and the family and what God's created to speak? Yeah, we're against all of that. But our focus is what? The gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. I believe the gospel solved these other problems better than anything else man can come up with. Paul said, this one thing I do, this one thing I do. Can I give you a little suggestion? We're going to be able to press on and stay forward if we pinpoint exactly what it is we're living for. Rather than 25 different things. Rather than 95 different things, I got one thing I'm focused on. There's an old saying, if you chase two rabbits, they'll both escape. You're not going to catch two rabbits. And we've got Christians and we got churches tracing, chasing not two rabbits, but 15, 20 different rabbits What we need to do is get one thing down. What are we about? What's that one thing? What do we exist for? What's our purpose? Well, one thing. Pinpoint it down Winston Churchill, one of my favorite people in history, he said this. Now he was a little rough around the edges, but he he had some great statements. He said this You will never reach your destination if you stop and throw dogs, if you stop and throw stones at every dog that barks Let me say it again. You'll never reach your destination if you stop and throw stones at every dog barking at you. What's he saying? Don't get distracted. Stay focused on what you're going. Listen, you live for God, you're going to have some dogs barking at you. Oh my word, I just violated Peter's new New thing. People for the ethical treatment of animals came out with a statement this week. You should not use animal names to describe people. Like say somebody's a snake, that will offend that speciesism, and it will offend the snakes. Listen, I'm all for offending snakes. But you try and live for God, and you just set you just you you find God's purpose for your life. You nail na you nail that down. Understand that God has a purpose for your life And you get passionate about that, and you pinpoint yourself on that, I'm telling you right now, there's going to be old dogs in this world barking at you. We've had dogs barking at this church for 27 years I've had dogs barking at me. I've been bit by six dogs, literally, since I've been pastor here. We stop try and fuss with every dog that barks with us, we're never going to accomplish our will. We need to pinpoint down exactly what it is we're living for. Let me ask you a question. If you had to write in one statement, what are you living for? What are you focused on in life? What is the thing that that is the center focus pinpoint of the purpose and drive and meaning for your life? What would you write down? Money. Fun? Pleasures? Or is it Christ and the glory of God? Tell you, the Bible says we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ someday. And we stand before that judgment seat of Christ, we're going to be judged for our works of what sort they are And the Bible says some of what we lived for, some of what we committed ourselves, some of what we invested so much time and effort in is going to be wood, hay, and stubble. And it'll be burned up. It'll be meaningless. And it'll be of no value for all eternity. But he says, some folks. They stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Their life, how they live, is going to be gold, silver, precious stones. Something of value and meaning that lasts for all eternity. I enjoy hunting, of course, and fishing, and a lot of guys, it's a hobby of mine. I'm not very good, but I enjoy it. I saw we were watching a video one time years ago. The boys were still home and this fellow is a big great hunter. And he had a trophy room and it's almost the size of this auditorium probably And man, he just had hundreds, I think he had 175 trophy boon and crocket deer hanging there. Boys and I were talking, and we came to this conclusion. As fun as that is, as wonderful, what an accomplishment. But when you die and you go out in eternity, 175 dead deer heads is what I've invested my life in. Kind of changes perspective a little bit, doesn't it? What am I living for? What's my purpose? Andrew Carnegie was an unbelievably wealthy man back in the previous century, early 1900s, I think. And he was a bit of an oddball and very difficult, as I understand, I was reading about him. He was very difficult to get along with. This one account I read of Andrew Carnegie was that um he was so wealthy he had his own private passenger train car, own private car on the train, on the passenger train. That was his. Nobody else was allowed in it. When he was going to travel, he got in there, nobody else. He had one butler. That butler was the only one to be in there, and he was only allowed to speak if Andrew addressed him or anything. He was good in there He would get a book and he'd have a cigar and he would he want to be by himself. Well this account, this one account I was reading, he got in as he normally did, got on his uh his own privately owned train car And he sat down, he got his book out, and he lit his cigarette up or his cigar up, and uh he had his drinks there, and the butler came in and said, Mr. Carnegie, excuse me Uh and he interrupted him. He says, I told you, he says, I didn't ask you to come in here. Don't talk to me. So the guy stepped out. A little bit later came back. He said, Mr. Carnegie, I'm sorry, but you're going to have to get off of this trade, off this car. And he says, I didn't ask your opinion. I'm not getting off this car. Get out of here. So the butler very respectfully stepped out. A few minutes went by. He came back in. He said, Mr. Carnegie, I hate to tell you this But uh I hate to say this, I'm sorry, but you need to get off of this car. And he says it's not on fire, everything's fine. Why do I need to get off this car? He says, because it's not hooked up to the train He was just sitting there. He wasn't going to go anywhere. I've read that and I thought, that reminds me of some Christians I know. Oh, they're sitting in church. They're going through their life. They ain't going nowhere as far as God's concern. Just sitting there. Making no progress. Paul said, I'm going to press on. I'm going to drop my shoulder. I know what God's created me to do. I know what my purpose in life is. One day there's going to be a resurrection. I'm going to be perfect. I'm going to stand before God. And until that point, I'm going up to God. And I I'm gonna I'm gonna do it with all my heart. I'm gonna overextend myself. People say uh back when I was y young in the ministry, folks, this was going around Well, it's better to uh uh I don't want to burn out. I don't want to burn out. You do too much, you work too hard, you get too excited, you're gonna burn out. I'll tell you right now, I'd rather burn out than rust out I don't uh Paul said, I'm not uh I'm I'm burning out. It's all everything, everything in I'm pinpointed. I got one thing I do. That's to know the power of God, to know Christ and His will fulfilled in my life. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us in 2021 with all the chaos and the darkness in this world and the sinfulness in this world. I pray you'd help us drop our shoulders as believers. And press on. And go after that which you've called us and the purpose for which you've given us our lives. And I pray that our church and us as individuals would make a difference In this old sinful world. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But maybe you'd say, this morning, I need to take seriously the purpose for which God has given me my life. I need to sort that out and get that the focus. Maybe some need to kneel at an old altar and say, Lord, put some fire in my soul for the Lord. Put some passion in my heart for the gospel and living for the Lord and being that witness. And then maybe some need to narrow it down. We're chasing every little rabbit that comes along. We need just focus on what God intends for us to do. Whatever that case may be, God spoke to your heart. I hope you'll do business with the Lord. And folks at home, God dealt with your heart. I hope you find a place, an old sofa. Make that thing, an altar, kitchen chair Just say, Lord, I want to live for you. I want to press on. I want to overextend myself for the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.