A little sneaky look he's got on his face when he leaves singing. Huh? It's like he knows something you don't. I'm not kinda he looks out there and Yeah, I know something you don't know, Ed. You know, he's looking right at you. When he looks at me, I get nervous. All right. Well hey, it's good to be here and as as I've always said, it's always be good be good to be in the mountains back uh once again. And uh Uh I trust as we get around the Word of God it'll be even better. All right. Take your Bible and turn with me to the book of uh first Timothy chapter one. First Timothy chapter one We're going to look at verse eighteen. First Timothy chapter one, verse eighteen. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare. holding faith and a good conscience, which uh some having put away concerning faith have uh made shipwreck, of whom uh Uh Hymenaeus and Alexander whom I have delivered unto Satan, they may learn not to blaspheme Heavenly Father, we pray now as we as we get into the Word of God that you'll uh help us, you'll teach us, you'll fill us, you'll use us, open our hearts, help us to glean those things which will benefit our Christian life in the uh days ahead. Uh Lord I believe we're living in in uh the last days and we know that uh in the last days things are gonna get worse and worse. And I'm take that to mean that that the spiritual battles are going to get uh tougher. And so I pray, Lord, that uh you'll use perhaps this message to encourage uh hearts tonight. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. I have to get my hearing aid just tuned just right here so I don't hear myself so much. Uh back in in uh 1912, uh on April the 10th The Titanic left her berth at uh at the harbor of uh s uh Southampton, England. Of course this was a maiden voyage, and it's supposed to be a ship that could never be sunk. They touted that and and portrayed it as the unsinkable uh ship. And she carried 2,228 passengers and crew. Most of the passengers are paid lots of money to thousands of dollars to to just ride on this luxury liner. Four days into the the voids though, they they uh had uh severe ice warnings then in the area that they were going to transverse, they were heading towards uh New York. And uh instead of heeding those warnings they decided just to charge on ahead. And when they did, uh of course we know the the end result of it. They hit an iceberg and within just a short time uh it had uh filled up with water and sunk and took with them about fifteen hundred people and uh uh the question of course they they was a long time trying to figure out why it was that this unsinkable ship sunk. And they've uh they've narrowed it down to about eight different things. It wasn't simple at all. But it was just a lot of and most of it could have been avoided. That's the tragic part of it. Some of it was just done because of pride. Uh well, you know, we're in this unsinkable ship. Well, what's an iceberg going to do to us? And uh it was just d different uh choices that were made that were just not smart choices Do you know in this verse here that in these verses we just read, the Apostle Paul points out two individuals, Hymenaeus and Alexander, whose life had become a shipwreck And it was a result of mistakes that they made. The reality is this, that anyone can become ship shipwrecked. Any one of us. It doesn't uh take uh too long a memory to go back a few years and remember the names Jim Jim Baker And uh swaggered. And there's some independent Baptists, by the way, you could name in there, but I'm not going to. But the point is this that the reality is that that we're all susceptible. There's none of us that can can really uh say, well, you know, I'm so spiritual, you know, that I'm gonna uh I yeah you know I'm unsinkable. Not so, not so. And that's that's mainly what I want to talk about tonight. Is is perhaps some things that'll keep uh the uh at least make us aware uh of our vulnerabilities and maybe give us some ideas of what we can do to to prevent a shipwreck in our life because it's tragic when it happens. I've I thought when when the the Jim Baker and the J Jimmy Swaggard thing went down, I I I thought how horrible uh it's bad enough for for them, them personally. But I wasn't thinking about them. I was thinking about the people that had been following them and what it what it does to an individual to have that happen. I remember when I first got saved that that happened to me. I mean I was a uh young Christian and I had my eyes on a particular preacher uh that was just really good that I followed and and listened to his preaching and all that and and uh he fell uh with uh uh on the moral issue and uh I remember what it did to me. It m you know it really dis it scared me for one thing. Uh I thought, good night, if he could fall You know, maybe that was a good thing because it may be more uh you know uh more guarded I should say. But it's devastating to you. It's discouraging when you see somebody that you have high respect for and and that you expect to be above that type thing to to fall flat on their face. There's uh there's several things I guess we could we could talk about. Uh the reasons for the for the shipwreck. I noticed uh in the verse there, uh in the middle part of the verse it says, holding faith And a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck And then he names this uh Hymenaeus and uh Alexander, having put away uh their faith, having put away pertained faith. Putting away their faith means just to simply push away, uh push away truth and and accept error. Uh there's not a whole lot said about these two guys in the scriptures, uh, except uh let's see uh one in one place it talks about uh Uh one had one of them had been causing problems within the church and had had begun to uh you know to backbite and that type thing. The other one was starting to teach false uh false doctrine And uh th that was one of the uh two of the areas that uh these two guys is mentioned here in the scriptures But the point is that that uh all of us are susceptible, all of us have have the weaknesses, uh, and the sin which does so easily beset us. Did you never notice that so easily beset us Uh it's it's uh I don't know what uh well Uh all right, instead of instead of getting into that I guess I better move on to another one. Whenever I start drying out, I have to get a swig of water. Alright? So you'll just have to put up with it. If you get thirsty, why if you get real thirsty, there's a glass up here. Alright? You can come up and get you a glass. But I've noticed here lately in my later years that that I just dry out. I don't know why, but I does anybody else have that problem? I'll give you a shot every once in a while. Uh another thing I noticed is that my my glasses don't fit me anymore Get them up there where I can see 'em. There it is. Oh yes, there they are. That's awful when you get getting old, I don't like it. I don't like it a bit. No fun at all But that's the way it is, and I guess we have to put up with it. But anyway, I wants to I want us to just just think about h here's uh uh we fall away when we allow sin to to go unchallenged in our lives Whenever uh you know it's it's amazing how just little things creep in. Uh whether we're whether it's the television that we uh we allow in our living room, the stuff that that is uh being pushed on that Uh how we we no longer uh I know that if I didn't have a uh one of these uh T V guardians on my TV, there's probably nothing I could watch on TV because of the language on it. I've never heard such garbage in my life. And we don't even get cable. We're we're just I just get it out of the air off an antenna, which just gives you a limited number of uh of programs. And uh some of those that are like K E T and of course they're just uh documentaries and things like that. But it what we allow into into our into our homes is a is uh you know When you open the door on the TV and and allow all that garbage in there, if it's not filtered out, you're being s uh you're being How can I say? You're being constantly attacked by the garbage that the world wants out. The enemies that we have The world, the flesh, the devil, all of them are are working against us to try to drag us and shipwreck us. That's that's the whole idea is it caused shipwreck in our life. We fall away when we seek to to rationalize our sinfulness or our backslidings. And I've noticed that's that's the way a lot of Christians are. We have a tendency to if we can if we can excuse it some way, we can rationalize it. Yes, but you don't know You know, if we were to start making up uh uh excuses for doing the things that we do instead of taking, thus saith the Lord, and just going with that, uh it leads us in that direction We also we will begin to allow ourselves uh loopholes here and there, and before you know it, we're totally gone. That's that's another area. We just uh allow these it's it's Understand that backsliding is is not something you just do overnight. It's not something where you just make your Well I think I'm just gonna destroy my testimony and uh just jump away from the faith. You know, people don't do that. People who are saved do not uh just one day go from from white to black It's from white to gray, darker gray, darker gray, darker gray until it's black. It's uh we know the scenario of the the frog in the water and uh we can go into that because we've all heard that a thousand times. Uh He put a frog in cold water and then begin to heat the water and the the rascal will stay there until he's finally uh fried frog legs, you know. Sometimes tragedy comes to the great ships when they they go when something happens to the rudder, uh the direction they're going. Sometimes it's it's when they're uh when they are uh set adrift I know there in in uh in Louisville here, I think it was last year or year before last. One of those big barges. I don't know whether you've ever seen the barges on the uh on the Mississippi River Uh but I'm gonna ch or the Ohio in that case the Ohio River. But those barges are humongous. I mean they're not just like a little ship. I mean these things are huge and they're loaded down usually with coal or something like that And when one of those things breaks loose, it usually really causes a disaster. And one of them h hit a bridge uh somewhere on the Ohio River and actually almost brought the bridge down because of of its size and everything So going adrift is is one of those things. Uh being overloaded, uh loss of momentum, uh torn sails. I mean you could you could use analogies to cover each one of these, I suppose, but But the truth of the matter is we just we just need to be careful of the things that we allow in our life that don't start pulling us slowly away from uh what we know to be true and and honest and uh and godly. The results of the spiritual uh shipwrecks. Well In this particular case, the Apostle Paul says that they were turned over to Satan. And there's another place over in the Corinthians where he talks about uh how that one of the church members there was turned over to Satan And what does that do anyway, turning one over to Satan? Well, number one, it takes him out from under the umbrella and safety net of the church. We don't holy you know you don't hear a lot about that, but I really believe that that the local church is is just like an umbrella that uh prevents some of the garbage from hitting us It's just a it's a place of security, a place of safety we can come to. It's like a refuge, just like uh the Lord Jesus is is a a refuge. Uh you know, God is our refuge, a very present help in time of trouble and Uh so uh I see the church with that that same umbrella of safety that we can uh run into and there we're protected. We're protected by those who love us, uh who pray for us, who who care about us. And uh when when the apostle Paul says he turns them over to Satan, he turns them over to Satan, he says, Okay, yeah, I mean you don't you don't like what's going on in here. I'll put you outside the church and if you want to call it excommunication or something of that nature, uh it's a place where Satan can get to them. And uh uh it's like the Apostle Paul is pulling away all the safety net from around him in order for Satan to get to him. And what's he doing? Well, the purpose of it is is to teach him humility And to teach 'em uh the right from wrong, the direction they're going is wrong. And uh don't uh you know uh I suppose uh Don't don't get the impression that we can just continue on without any repercussions at all. Because there is repercussions uh from uh uh getting uh away from the Lord. There's uh Hebrews chapter 12 there in in the chastisement area. He chastens those whom he loves And I know these are you know, these are verses we've we all know and the principles and and the the teaching uh is pretty much, you know, we've all heard it before. But somewhere another, some of these guys heard it before and it didn't make any difference. And they still moved away. We need to be constantly reminded. of the things that are good and the things that are bad. It's it's good for us to to remember that there's a chastisement that takes place according to Hebrews twelve. There is a possible death sentence to those who continue on. in their in their sin. Uh there is called the sin and the death that uh John talks about in First John. There's the loss of testimony, the loss of uh influence, the loss of usefulness This was the thing the Apostle Paul was scared to death of, was this thing of being a castaway. My, he thought the the worst thing could happen to him was when he had preached to others That he himself would fall victim to what he had preached against and be put on the shelf. Not talking about getting lost, talking about taken out of that area where he could serve God. And that's it's a shame that a shame we don't think about those things before they uh they cause us the problems. Not counting the loss of rewards. Judgment seat of Christ is going to be a place where this stuff is going to be brought to bear on us. And I don't know about you, but I don't look forward to that at all Now the question is, is your present condition uh a such that uh that would bring honors to the Lord? Or is your present condition the direction you're going, or are you heading for an iceberg? There you're gonna be uh shipwreck if you continue going that direction. Then there's the remedy Look in verse eighteen and the first part of verse nineteen, where it says Let me get up here where I can read it. It says, uh this charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to those prophecies which went before on thee. that thou by them mightest war a good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck Holding faith and a good conscience. So there's first of all is the uh is the uh it it has to do with fulfilling. Notice that it's kind of an unusual way of putting it. But he said, according to the prophecies which went before thee, he's talking to Timothy And the prophecies that went before him are just simply where uh somebody said, you know, that Timothy is going to be a great preacher someday. That was something that was put out there. And it gave him an incentive to keep on going because there are people who are looking forward to you completing your race. We have that great cloud of witnesses that's watching us, but there's also all these who who have looked at our lives and and uh particularly other Christians when when they got saved. Uh when an individual gets saved, you you put a a potential on them. You put uh uh what you expect out of them And it's uh and it's worded to hear as a as a prophecy of an individual. And he said, I want you to follow after those those prophecies, those things that were said about you. You're gonna you know you're gonna hold forth the truth, you're gonna preach the gospel, and you're gonna be a great pastor, and you're gonna love the Lord and you're gonna continue in his faith. Uh he said, I want you to follow after him. So another place is where the Apostle Paul mentions follow me as I follow Christ. And so the following, first of all. It consists in following the spiritual, the remedy I'm talking about of spiritual shipwrecks. And it has to do with obeying and listening to and carrying out the orders of the apostle. It consists of fulfilling, that's the prophecies And then do you know you and I have prophecies about us also? In the scriptures, it talks about we are more than conquerors through Christ who saved us. That's a prophecy about you and I. We're more than conquerors. And so we should we should reach towards those those prophecies and and uh attempt to carry through with those to glorify the God uh glorify the Lord. We've been told that we can constantly walk in victory. It says our faith is in the uh since our faith is in the Lord, and that's our key. We can have victory in Christ. In 1 John chapter chapter 4, it says this is the victory. Even our faith is the victory that gives us the victory. So we have we have uh uh the prophecies that are made of us to continue on, to be faithful and to be victorious. And then there's uh uh c uh it consists of of fighting the good fight. In eighteen B it says uh uh that thou by them mightest war a good warfare. I suppose uh most of us have woke up to the fact that what we're in is is not a playground, but a battleground. Isn't that pretty much it? And I find that out more as as we go on, as I watch other people's lives and the battles that uh that we that each of us go through. And each of us have different battles. But they all boil down to the same thing. We're in a warfare, not physical, but spiritual. And so we have to use the spiritual warfare. And so the book of Ephesians gives us the the armor of God, the helmet of salvation and so forth that we're all familiar with. And we're to use spiritual weapons. Do you know that probably every every battle we fight in this in this life, if we would boil it down to the very uh bottom line, it's going to be a spiritual warfare It's going to have to do with something spiritual that we have to deal with. And if we get that right, then we win the warfare up here. So I don't care if it's you're having problems with your boss or you know, i it can be any one of a thousand things, but it's all going to come back to this this thing of the spiritual warfare. I noticed uh uh People who are not saved when you're talking to folks who've never trusted Christ. And they're they're going through terrible things. that uh and they're fighting these battles in the f the uh physical level and they they don't realize that that Satan is behind all this uh the adversity that they're going through and the problems that they're facing And they don't realize there's someone who is pulling for them, pulling for them to get saved, pulling for them to to live for God, pulling for them to have a a good life. And uh I think of uh people that I know that that right now are living a a a life of bitterness and uh having problems with their with their heart, they're having physical problems, they're having mental problems And I believe it all stems from probably from from the bitter spirit that they that is rooted in their life now because of some wrong that somebody did 'em some time back, you know, fifty years ago And they're still fighting that thing inside physically instead of, you know, dealing with it on a spiritual plane. But then without Christ there's no dealing with it on a spiritual plane, and that's what most of them don't understand. And so they keep keep fighting and keep working uh to no avail. The uh Timothy is charged to to hold faith. Uh this word means uh to to lay hold or to to own or possess it. Paul is telling Timothy to stand uh stand in for the truth and to defend the faith at all costs and keep the doctrine of the church free from from error and from and absolutely pure at all times. You know, uh I look at uh a lot of churches that have fallen flat on their face when it comes to doctrine and uh sticking with what the Word of God has to say. And it all starts, usually it starts with uh watering down the Word of God. And the way they do that, in order to ex say this is, you know, I preach the Bible, is they change the Bible. And when they once they change to another Bible, then they can pretty well teach what they want to because it's not as black and white as what the Soul King James Bible is. And that's usually where it starts. So when you get someone who who changes the Bible, you can mark it down that somewhere down the line it's going to eliminate a lot of other things, just like they always go that way. The the thing that amazes me is the uh how strong this church has stayed through the years. When it started back in in uh what sixty Sixty-two, I think, or sixty-three, I can't remember. Sixty two. Thanks, Harry. And uh and today it stands for the for the same thing that stood for back then. That's be commended and it's and The commendation goes to those who were in in position of leadership throughout all that time. I look at uh my home church down in Campbellsville, started in 69. There's another church that started on the Word of God and it's just uh has just stuck by the stuff. Just stayed right there. King James just straight all the way down, good standards, uh, and so forth It but you know we're getting few and far between. Not as many of us as there used to be. I remember the f the uh fi uh Bible fellowship, uh preachers fellowship that I went to way back in the sixties. That I I'm not comfortable in that fellowship anymore because it's m many of 'em have taken on the other Bibles. Uh they've taken on uh taken on the uh tambourines and the you know the drums and that other stuff I'll never forget I was up in uh Indiana. I preached a meeting up there and uh I had a had a week off. And the preacher, uh one of the the pastors up there uh had a church about uh twenty miles from where I was staying. I was staying he had a little cabin for hunting and I was gonna hunt that week that I was off And uh and brother than go to his church, which was a good piece off, I decided just to go to a a local Baptist church that uh at one time was a leader in the in the fellowship And uh you know, was just straight down the line. And uh I went to the uh services that morning. Everybody was so nice. Nice big church. I mean probably holding uh probably about a thousand people or something like that. It's a nice good sized church. And uh so I walked in and uh sat down and and I don't think there was one person spoke to me through the whole thing. And uh so I sat down sorta in the back, like all us Baptists do. And uh I sat down back there and and I it allowed me to watch what was going on. And pretty soon, well here comes the choir in in new robes. Nothing wrong with that. See, you know. Yeah, I know it s kind of smacks a formalism, but that that's that's not all right, you know, it it it makes everybody wear the same and all that. So that wasn't really a problem. And I noticed them talked to everybody as they went down the the aisle, they'd speak to people and so forth. And uh and then they they got up in their uh in the loft and then that's when I noticed it. There was a big drum set sitting right behind the pulpit. And I hadn't noticed that there wasn't any uh any lights on the platform. Then I noticed, man the lights came on. Pff. Spotlights. And then there was someone got up to lead the singing and when he started leading the singing they started There's just something about that just doesn't go with me, all right. I didn't feel comfortable in that. I waited for a little while and then he flip put the screen up. and did the song service from the screen. And I noticed that the there wasn't any mention about the blood in those those hymns. And I was talking about an independent Bible-believing Baptist And now this is altogether different from what I remember. The last time I was in it, it'd been a few years, but I mean the last time I was in it, it was straight as an arrow. But then the pastor was straight as an error. Now this pastor, he had a little different slant on things. And he wasn't dressed with a tie and outfit. He was sort of dressed as casual. Turtleneck? They're cool. I don't mind turtleneck. But uh you know I'd just like to see a pastor in a batai, don't you? There's just something I think there ought to be some respect there D there was just different things. Uh and I finally I just said, Lord, I I'm just not I just got up and walked out and that was it. I had my own church I guess in the car going going back. But it just tells me that that nobody is exempt from this thing of being shipwrecked. And it can and it can start with just an individual that can pass it on and and uh if if the whole church you know begins thinking that way. then uh the church becomes shipwrecked. So it's important that we as individuals uh keep from this thing that I'm calling shipwreck uh by every day because it happens it happens uh so it's so sneaky Backsliding is so sneaky, it just slides in easily. You start, you know, you start allowing little sins that that uh you never allowed before and then it it gets bigger and bigger and it's it's like a wedge you know being driven in that separates between you and your God That's what Isaiah 59 says. Your sins is separated between you and your God, and your iniquities hid his face from you that he would not will not hear your voice. So we fall away and we allow sin to go unchallenged, and then we fall away and we seek to rationalize our sinfulness and backsliding. And we will begin to uh to allow ourselves loopholes here and there And before you know it, then we're totally lost. And uh and I need to cut this off. But it seemed like I had one more thing that I wanted to say Well there's probably a lot of things I want to say, but I'm not not gonna get to that. Uh In the last part of this verse in nineteen, it says this Holding faith and a good conscience. I want to just m uh a couple minutes here on this conscience thing because I sometimes we We feel like if if y your conscious why why do we have a conscience? Now here's what some people think a conscience is. Many feel that the conscience is given to us to teach us the difference between Right and wrong. You know that sounds right, doesn't it? Well it kind of sounds right, but it's wrong. Now here's the let me let me read you. The conscience is given to us so that when so when we know uh what uh so that we when we know what is right and what is wrong It insists that we do the right and avoid the wrong. But it is the Word of God that teaches us what is right and what is wrong. Conscience and and I like this illustration. How many know what a gyroscope is? Okay, for those of you who who don't know, uh they have gyroscopes in uh well they have them in planes, they have them in the rockets What a gyroscope is. Have you ever seen one of these little things that that's uh it's a little like a little top and you pfft like that and you can bend it like that and set it right on the tip of your finger here And it can be angled like that and stay right there, just spinning. It's like that. Anybody ever seen those? Know what I'm talking about? Some of well I wish everybody knew what I was talking about. It's Uh what it does uh it uh it it spins at such a rate that to change its attitude be is real difficult. So you can take this gyro little gyroscope, these little toys, and you can it's like a top and it just spins real fast And uh you can set it right like on the end of your thumb and it'll just spin here like that at an angle and you think well it ought to just drop off there, but it won't let it because of of the spin. Your conscience is like a gyroscope If your conscience is pointed wrong and spinning, it'll stay right there and it it it it'll resist any change of attitude. So you can't always rely on just your conscience unless it is guided by the Word of God. Once the uh the Word of God sets up your conscience as a right and wrong rule Then it set at the right attitude, then it it resists going off to the wrong direction But if you uh if you just totally rely on your conscious what feels and and people will tell you, well it just felt like it felt all right. I don't know how many girls I've Here's an unsaved guy and a saved girl and she wants to marry this unsaved guy and you can quote all the scriptures you want to and she says, Yes, but I love him and it can't be wrong if I love him, I if I feel like it, you know, it's good and You know, it's it has to do with it has to do with this, you know uh Where is our authority? And our authority is in the Word of God. So the authority is the basis. The gyroscope is like our our conscience is like the gyroscope. Once the the Word of God has said it at the right angle. then you can trust it. But it ought always your feelings ought to always be weighed against the Word of God because you can't trust your feelings at all. Well, I just thought I'd throw that out as a very last thought. I trust that uh perhaps something has been said that uh might be a help to us. Just realize that we're in this warfare. Realize that uh Uh Jesus coming back soon and he's we're gonna have to give an account of everything that we've done. And so we need to keep looking for him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the opportunity we've had, a few minutes around the Word of God. And Lord, help us uh help us to to be as concerned as the Apostle Paul was about being a castaway. Lord, we don't want to be a a shipwreck or a castaway. We we want to serve you. We want to be able to stay with the Apostle Paul at the end of life. That we fought a good fight, we kept the faith. And uh help us, Lord, be faithful in that in Christ's name. Amen