Chapter four, you notice he was dealing with some uh some ugly issues. Verse number one you notice there, there was warring and fighting among the believers. Look, he's not talking about wars and fightings out there in the world. Look what he says. From whence come wars and fightings, what? among you. And he's writing to believers. We know that from earlier in the book. And so there was Christians who were at each other. There was Christians who were uh ge uh not getting along and warring and fighting to that point. And so he dealt with that. That's an ugly issue. Nobody enjoys that. And then he dealt with selfishness that was the root cause of this war and fighting. In uh the second part of verse one, then chapter uh verse two and verse three, uh there's selfishness. He refers to their lust three times in there, belief, and that is their selfish, their desire. I want, me, mine. And so he deals with that. Selfishness is ugly. You agree with me on that? That's an ugly thing. Nobody enjoys being with a selfish person. And so he dealt with that. War and fighting Nasty, nobody likes that. Selfishness, uh, that's nasty. Then in verse number uh four, he deals with worldliness. Christians who are worldly. And uh he comes down strong on that. He uses some very strong language for Christians who love the world and adopt the values of the world and the principles of the world and uh are more influenced by the world than they are by the things of God and the the Holy Spirit of God and the Word of God. In fact he refers to it as spiritual adultery That's an ugly term. That's an ugly thing. And uh he deals with that. Then verse 5, he turns the tide a little bit, and he talks about the jealousy of the Holy Spirit The spirit within you lusteth to envy. And we preached on that. And uh the conflict that is there in the heart and soul of every child of God, the desire of the Holy Spirit to control and lead and fill and use us. And then they desire the old sinful nature to be in charge and that conflict going on. Now we get to verse number five. And it's like he suddenly stops, James, of course, under the inspiration of God, and he suddenly stops in the midst of this nastiness he's dealing with. And he touches on the grace of God. Look at verse five uh verse um uh six with me, I'm sorry. Uh but he give but He's talking about all this yucky stuff, then he says, but he, God, giveth more grace I am glad that in the ugliness of living in a sinful world with a sinful nature, I'm glad in the midst of all of that, we have a God that gives us more grace. Isn't that a wonderful thing? He's dealing with all of this and they're struggling and obviously they're not where they need to be spiritually and they're not handling things according to the word of God, according to the Spirit of God. And uh and he deals that he says, but hold it, hold it, stop. I want to remind you, God gives us more grace. I thought of Romans chapter 5, verse 20, where the Bible says this, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. In spite of how overwhelming these issues were, they were dealing with, he says, God giveth more grace. I want to remind every one of us here tonight, regardless of what the issues are you're dealing with, how overwhelming they may be. You say Preacher, I feel like I'm in over my head. I I don't know where to turn. I can't sleep at night. This thing has me messed up. I'm here to tell you, regardless of how overwhelming it is, God gives more grace Regardless of how how overwhelming my failure may be, God gives more grace. Sometimes folks say, Preacher, I failed so bad. I don't think I can ever get on my feet again. I don't think I can ever be what God wants me to be again. I don't think I can ever do anything that pleases God again. I'm here to tell you, God gives more grace I put it this down. It is impossible for sin to overcome the grace of God You and I cannot sin so much that God's grace cannot help us and cleanse us from that sin. I don't know about you. That makes me glad. Y'all look grouchy or something tonight, I don't know. But uh praise the Lord. Uh God gives more grace. It's impossible for stress. to overcome God's grace. Now let's look at that phrase there just briefly. But he giveth more grace. I looked up that word giveth, and I got studying how it's used in the Bible. I found something I think is pretty neat. That word giveth has the idea to freely give. It's not giving reluctantly. We are a little grandbaby here visiting and uh we'll give her a little toy or a little something and I notice she's one year old. I notice she she does something like that. She'll have a little toy there or she had a uh she had a um a strawberry this afternoon and you come up and she'll reach out and give it hand it to you and you think how sweet she's so generous she's so and trying to and just about the time you reach for it it's And uh or you get or you happen to get a hold of the thing and it's like and she's pulling it back. Uh uh God doesn't that's not what this is talking about here. This isn't giving reluctantly. Did you ever feel like you should give something to somebody. You really didn't want to, but you felt kind of obligated. I need to. Anybody can I get a witness you ever been in that situation? Yeah, I'll give it to that's not what this is talking about When the Bible says God giveth more grace, it's to freely give. It means to abundantly give. God is so gracious. He just freely gives it. He abundantly gives one phrase I saw in the definitions I was looking up stirred my heart. It has this idea to just pour it out. He giveth. He just pours out, gives freely and abundantly. God giveth more grace. The word more there is interesting. And uh it has this idea. Give it freely, abundantly, pouring it out. More grace. The word more there has this idea: ever increasing amounts In other words, he gives more grace today, maybe, than what he did yesterday. It's continually increasing. Notice carefully the wording here. Notice what it does not say. But he giveth grace. Do you agree with me? If the Bible said that if the Bible said that God gives us grace, that would be a blessing. You agree with me? Man, praise the Lord. God gives me grace. He gives me things I don't deserve. He enables me. He does these things for me. He gives grace. But doesn't say that. It says he giveth more grace. increasing amounts. Now remember what he's been talking about. Wars and fightings. Worldliness Spiritual adultery, selfishness, sin, ugliness. He's been dealing with all that and he's been sorting it through and addressing it. And he says, but hold it, but God gives abundantly pours out ever increasing amounts of grace I want to suggest to you tonight, it is impossible to get so far away from God that God cannot reach out, find me, and bring me back. His grace is so abundant. He gives more grace. It doesn't say God giveth grace. It says he giveth more, ever increasing abundance. Then the word grace there. What's we talking about? What's he mean by the word grace? Well, of course, when we hear grace We think of saving grace. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith, not not of yourselves the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Our definition of grace is undeserved favor. In other words, when I accept Jesus as Savior, His grace, He gives me eternal life, He removes the judgment, He gives me a home in heaven. All of that I don't deserve any of it. He just gives it to me. uh in response to me trusting grace. And that is one aspect of grace. But he's not talking here necessarily about saving grace. The word grace here, though, what he's referring to is the strength or the supply or the ability that I will need in any given situation, even though I don't deserve it. Is everybody with me? You follow what I'm trying to say here? The grace here is as a child of God, as a saved person, I face situations in life. Maybe there's wars and fightings and I've got to deal with that. Maybe I find myself being extremely selfish and I got to deal with selfiness in my own heart. Maybe I find myself getting caught up in the things of the world and And uh maybe in my devotions or I come to church and I realize, you know, I've really become a pretty worldly Christian. Wherever I may be, I realize I'm not what I ought to be as a Christian, and I think, you know, how do I get back to being what God intends for me to be. How do I get back to being a strong, mature, spirit-filled, godly Christian? How do I get back to that? I don't feel like I'm capable. I don't feel like I'm able Well, God's grace, He enables us, He supplies that which we need, He gives us the strength we need to do what needs to be done to become that Christian I deserve. And He does it abundantly in ever increasing amounts. And so one thing that we need in our lives is this. We uh Uh let me rephrase this. One thing we need in our lives is not more justice. Everywhere we go We demand justice. We demand how many people are so sick of people protesting somewhere demanding more justice. Anyone tired of that? And we look at on the news and we get so frustrated, why don't you all start fulfilling your responsibilities and quit looking for your rights? Why don't you start being just and stop demanding justice? And the sad thing is that mentality has crept into our Christian churches. I deserve this. I deserve to be treated right. I am going to get what's coming to me. Brother, uh, I tell you, you better be careful when you start demanding uh what's coming to you Amen? Better watch out. That's what's coming to me. Brother, we might get what's coming to us. We might not like it. Can I get an Amen? And so we don't need more justice. We don't need more rights. We don't need more provisions. We don't need more money. What we need is God's grace. In our church, in our lives, in our homes, and in our country. We need the grace of God, the grace of God. I'm convinced if we would seek the grace of God as diligently as we seek what's coming to us. As diligently as we seek what I deserve, as diligently as we seek my rights, and I went my way. If we learn to seek God, I need you to be gracious to me. God, I need you to do for me what I am unable and I don't deserve to do, to have done. And uh seeking God's grace. Now, I tried to set a stage here. I hope you all are sticking with me here I tried to set a stage here of how badly we need the grace of God. If it wasn't for the grace of God, where would every one of us be right now? We would be where? We'd be in hell. I suggest to you, if it wasn't for the grace of God, we'd be in hell right now, every last one of us. We need God's grace. We need God's grace. And before we go around withholding grace from others, we better stop and reevaluate how desperately I need grace from God And so we need God's grace. And that's the foundation I'm trying to set here. How desperately we need God's grace. Now the next statement in this verse Gives us a very, very serious warning. As desperately as we need the grace of God, he names here the one thing. The one thing that hinders God's grace from being poured out in our lives, God's grace being poured out in ever increasing amounts The one thing that withholds God's grace. And what is it there in verse number six? What is it? Pride. Pride. The thing I desperately need the most is grace. The grace of God. And the one thing that will keep me from getting it is my own, excuse me, stinking pride. My own stinking pride. Now look carefully what it says. Now hear me out before you react to this. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say he giveth more grace, but he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith Doesn't say this. God resisteth the drunkard. Doesn't say that, does it? It doesn't say he giveth more it doesn't say uh behol uh but he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the thief. Don't say that. Don't say God resisteth the dishonest. Then say God resisteth the angry. Doesn't say he resisteth the immoral person. Now, before you react and say, wow, what are you saying? Those aren't God doesn't uh God's not uh uh against us? No, no, no. All those are grievous sins And all of those have their own consequences. But there is one sin that is actually the root of all of those I listed, and I'm suggesting to you the root of every sin known to mankind, and that is the sin of pride. Pride. Pride quenches the grace of God. The grace of God Now I want to talk just as quickly as I can about pride. Just going to go down through this, uh try and do it very, very quickly. Some things about the one thing that keeps God's grace. Listen, if if you want to try, if you and I want to try and live our lives as Christians without the grace of God, if we want to go through tomorrow We would get up in the morning and deal with the issues of life and try and be what God wants to be and try and do that without the grace of God, then go ahead and let pride be in your life. But if you say, preacher, I need the grace of God this week. I need the grace of God in giving me wisdom and decisions to make and my own health and the and uh the issues I deal with and the affairs of my life that I have to deal with, I really need God's grace in helping me and showing me how to do that. If that's the case, then we've got to deal with the pride in our lives. And I want to suggest to you, there are Christians in our churches across the land, around the world. I want to suggest to you there are Christians that are struggling in their Christian life for one reason and one reason only. They're too proud to humble themselves before God. And the pride, their own pride, is withholding God's grace and God's help and God's supply and God's work in their life. Pride. Now what is pride? Number one, I put this down, pride, just things about pride. It's taught in the Bible. First of all, pride brought down the devil Pride is what brought the devil down. We won't take time to turn there. You can jot this down. I encourage you to read it. Isaiah chapter 14. Verses 12 through 15, five times the devil says this: I will, I will be like the Most High, I will dwell on the sides of the north. I will I tell you what, anytime we start using that word I, I, I, I, we can, it's a sure indicator that we're dealing with pride in our life. It's what brought the devil down. You can go over to Ezekiel 28, and there we find God's end of the that interaction when God says back to the devil six times, oh yeah, I will. And God cast him out of out of heaven It is pride that brought down the devil. And I tell you, pride has brought down many of Christians. Pride has brought down many a Christian men, many of Christian women. Gotten too proud. Aye, aye, aye. Number one, I put this down. Pride brought down the devil. Number two, pride. Now this is where I want you to take your Bibles. Turn with me to the book of Proverbs Keep your place here in James. We're going to end in James in just a bit. But I want us to go back to Proverbs. I want you to see a few verses here. It is surprising to me how much the book of Proverbs, the book of wisdom Deals with pride. And how much the subject of pride and the subject of foolishness go hand in hand. Let me show you a few things here. Uh number one, I said pride brought the devil down, is what brought down the devil. Number two, pride, get this, is hated by God. God hates pride. Look with me at Proverbs chapter 8 and verse number 13. Proverbs 8 and verse 13. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Can I get an amen there? If I fear God, I'm going to hate evil. Now he says the things that God hates. Pride, very first one on the list, and arrogancy, demanding my way. And the evil way and the forward mouth, look at those last three words. Do I what? Hate. God hates pride. I don't know about you. I don't want to have anything to do with what God hates. I want to stay away from that. When my creator, the Almighty, omnipotent God that we sang about. That God says, I hate this. Brother, you and I better stay as far away from that as we possibly can. This matter of pride. Turn over to chapter 16, just a few pages there, and notice with me verse number 15. I'm telling you, if pride brought the devil down, pride will bring you and I down. And we need to be very, very careful. God hates pride. Look at chapter 16, verse 15. Verse 5, I'm sorry, chapter 16, verse 5. Everyone, no exclusions, everyone that is proud in heart is a light. An abomination to the Lord. Though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished. Now We talk about sins in different things. We have certain sins that we as independent Baptists like to say. That sin is an abomination to God. We talk about homosexuality. That's an abomination to God. And it is. But I want to point out to you, pride in the heart of a believer is an abomination to God also. We better be very, very careful. The same terms used for some of these sins that we like to pile on about, those same terms are used For the child of God that has pride in their heart and thinks I'm something and it has to be my way, you need to be very, very careful. Pride is the one sin that quenches the grace of God. God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. I don't want to have anything to do with that which is an abomination to God. How many people would say, Preacher, I want anything to do with homosexuality. I want to stay away from that. How many people would feel that way? Amen. I hope it's true for all of us How many people would say, preacher, I don't want anything to do with abortion. Good night, killing a little. That's an abomination. I don't want anything to do with that. How many people would feel that way? Sure, certainly. Wait a minute How many of us would say, preacher, I don't want anything to do with being proud in my own heart? I don't have anything to do with exalting myself and really think that I'm something that's my way or the highway. How many of us feel that way? God resists at the proud. He hates pride. It's an abomination to him. Number one, pride brought down the devil. Bring you and I down, surely will. Pride is hated by God. I don't want anything to do with that. Number three, pride brings shame and foolishness. to the life that possesses it. Look at Proverbs chapter eleven with me. Proverbs eleven. This is the one sin that God resists this sin. It's the one sin that quenches the grace of God. Notice Proverbs chapter 11 and verse number 2. When pride cometh, oh, there it is, it shows up. When pride cometh, then cometh what? Shame. A little study on that word shame there. It means this. Listen carefully. It means to be disgraced, to be dishonored. It has this idea of when pride shows up The Bible says shame comes in behind it. In other words, when I get proud, I will tend to lose people's respect. When I get very proud and I start demanding my way and throwing my weight around and get very exalted myself, my Bible says that right behind that is a loss of regard. People aren't going to respect. People don't respect and regard that. God has no respect for a person that's very, very proud. Shame comes behind that. Then look at the rest of the verse. But with the lowly. One who rejects pride, one who puts away the pride out of their life with the lowly is wisdom. And so, um, one, pride brought Satan down. Number two, pride is hated by God. Abomination Three, pride brings shame and foolishness. You know what I found out? This is personal experience. I'm sure none of you ever had this, but I found out whenever I get proud, I say some things that are pretty shameful. I found when I get proud, I tend to act ways that later on, hopefully I get right with God. I look back and say, I can't believe I acted that way Can't believe I said those things. I can't believe I did all of that. You know why? Because pride brings shame. Anyone here, you you don't have to acknowledge this if you want, but I wonder how many of us have ever uh uh acted foolishly, got proud, acted foolishly, and later said something like this. I'm so ashamed of myself. I'm so ashamed of myself. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Pride bringeth shame. Right behind it comes shame. Write this one down. Number four. Pride is the only source of contention Pride is the only source of contention. Look at chapter 13 of Proverbs. Now remember he was dealing with this in James in the earlier verses of chapter 4. Wars and fighting among you. Now he gets to verse 6, and he's bringing up the subject of pride. God resisteth the proud. I don't think that's coincidence. Look at Proverbs chapter 13. in verse 10. Proverbs 13 again. Now the first, I circled the first word on that verse because I think it's very, very important. Only by pride cometh contention. According to that verse, how many other ways besides pride does contention show up? None! There's no other avenue. There's no other door for contention to go through other than the door of pride. Um uh behind I just I just put it in my words, this is the way I I say it. Behind all fussing is pride And all contention to get in the not getting along and worked up and angry and all that behind all of that is not the Spirit of God Is not the grace of God, is not the goodness of God, is not the holiness of God. Behind all that is the proud heart of mankind. Only by pride cometh contention And contention is the complete absence of grace. Complete absence of grace. If I'm in contention with my wife, if we're in contention, there's fussing going on and there's conflict going on between us, if I'm in contention with her, that is the exact opposite of me being gracious to her. Contention is the absence of grace. Only by pride cometh contention. Pride quenches God's grace in my life And when I get proud, then I'm not going to show grace to others. I'm not going to be gracious to other people. Only by pride cometh contention. Then look at the rest of the verse. I thought this was interesting. Only by pride cometh contention, but on the contrast, with the well-advised is wisdom. But the well-advised is wisdom. So he's contracting. Here's a proud person. He's always in a fuss, always in a fuss, always in contention. No grace. But, contrast to that with the well-advised, the word well-advised there, and I'm just paraphrasing this, just putting my own words, is this: the one who is willing to listen to God With the voadvised is what? Wisdom. Wisdom. This comes back to what we said earlier. When I get proud, I get all contentious. And I start doing things that are foolish. I won't listen to God. I'm going to lean on my own understanding. I'm going to make decisions. I'm going to take actions. That are not under the advice of God, but are the result of my pride, and I start acting foolishly. I'm telling you, pride is a terrible. What I'm trying to say is this: pride is bad. Anybody picking that up? This is not a pride is not a good thing. Brought the devil down. It's hated by God, brings shame and foolishness. It's the only source of contention. Let me give you another one real quick. Pride leads to destruction. Look at chapter 16 again, if you would. Flip over there real quick. It leads to destruction. Chapter 16 and verse number 18. Pride goeth before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. The word destruction there is interesting. You can put this in the margin of your Bible. It means complete ruin To be completely shattered and broken. I mean useless. It's pride. Pride goes before that. If you see a life that is completely ruined, completely shattered, completely destroyed, you say, oh, proud pride drove through here. Because pride goeth before it. It goes down, and what it leaves in its wake, what it leaves in its path, is destruction. A haughty spirit, that means an exalted attitude about myself, an exaggerated attitude about myself. I heard a fellow say several years ago, he says this, I just want what's coming to me. I thought, good heavens. I could take you, he lives somewhere else, lives in another state, I could take you to that fella, and I'll show you, I can show you a completely broken person. I mean physically, spiritually, every way, absolutely shattered, destroyed. Telling you, pride goeth before destruction I I don't think we realize. I don't think we realize how awful a proud heart is and the destruction it brings. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. The word fall means total calamity. I mean utter ruin. Jesus put it this way in Matthew chapter 23 and in Luke chapter 14 and Luke chapter 18. This is what Jesus said. This is the way he worded it. Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abase. Knocked down, put down, forcefully humiliated. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted Let me give us, to myself and all of us, let's share a little bit of advice. Tell you what, rather than exalting ourselves, let's just humble ourselves and let God do the exalting. I found out when God exalts someone, it's a whole lot better than when they exalt themselves. Pride is destructive, leads to destruction. The word abase there means destruction be forcefully humiliated. I like this definition. I thought this was interesting. Reduced to pitiful circumstances. When a person got proud. And the last one, come back to James, and I end with this. We said prize brings the devil down. Boy, you could do a series on that. Pride is hated by God. In the list of abominable sins, pride is right there in the middle of all of it. It brings shame and foolishness. How many people have been destroyed and acted foolishly? Because of pride. It's the only source of contention. It leads to destruction. And this has been my point, the whole message, and this is the whole point of this verse Pride quenches God's grace. Look at verse 6 again. He giveth more grace. He pours it out abundantly. Wherefore he saith God resisteth the proud. He holds back that grace. He won't pour it out. But he giveth it, he pours it out unto the humble The thing I need the most in my life is God's grace. And the thing that hurts me the most is pride. Because pride Quenches the grace of God. And I must have that. I must have that. You know who I thought of as I was putting this together? You know who I thought of? I thought of somebody that started out very, very humble. And they had the blessings of God on them, and they had victory and joy, and they were used of God in a great way, and they got proud. And they rejected. And what God had given and what God had done for them, God took it away. You know who I was thinking of? King Saul. King Saul. In fact, God says, when you were young and humble in your own eyes, God blessed you and used you. But you've become proud. And God has taken away from you the kingdom. God has taken away from you. the kingdom. Let's make a deliberate, conscious decision to reject pride Let's make a deliberate conscious decision tonight on a Sunday night. So we begin a new week. Finish out the Lord's Day in God's house. Let's make a deliberate decision. I am going to humble myself before God. I'm going to repent of my pride. It's sin. God hates it. I'm going to push that out of my life, claim the cleansing blood of Christ. I want to humble myself before Christ so that He can pour that grace out on me and enable me to live like I should and be that Christian God intends for me. and deal with the struggles and trials of life, with the power of God and the grace and the presence of God in my life. Humbling ourselves. Say, how do you do that? I think you first of all begin by confessing pride as sin. Lord, I've been very proud. I've thought too highly of things. I've thought too uh too high uh too selfish on things. God, I've done wrong We confess that. I thank God He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Pride. Then we say, Lord, I humble myself before you. I put myself, you lead me and you direct me and you help me. I no longer lean on my own understanding. I'm going to trust you in all my ways. And I tell you, we'll see God do something in our lives. There may be some prayers we've been wanting God to answer, that God's just waiting for us to humble ourselves. So he can step in and turn that thing around. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight to humble ourselves God, you instruct us to, you command us to humble ourselves before you. We want revival. We want your blessings. We want your grace. We want answered prayer. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many?