I read verses uh one through fifteen. Um I guess everyone's got it. Everyone got it? Cool. All right, let's start reading in verse one. The vision of Obadiah, thus saith the Lord God concerning Edom. We have heard a rumor from the Lord, and ambassador sent among the heathen. Arise ye and let us rise up against her in battle. Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen. Thou art greatly despised. The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee. Thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rocks, whose habitation is high, that saith in his heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground? That's prideful, isn't it? The attitude. Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord. If thieves came to thee, if robbers by night, how art thou cut off? Would they not have stolen till they had enough? Grape gatherers came to thee, would they not leave some grapes? How are the things of Esau searched out? How are his hidden things sought up? All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even to the border. The men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee and prevailed against thee. They that eat thy bread have laid a wound under thee. There is none understanding in him. Shall I not in that day, saith the Lord, even destroy the wise men out of Edom? the understanding out of the Mount of Esau. And that mighty men, O Temon, shall be dismayed to the end that every one of the Mount of Esau may be cut off by slaughter. For thy violence, violence against thy brother Jacob's shame shall cover thee, and thou shalt be cut off forever. And the day that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away captive, as forces and foreigners entered into these gates, cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one of them. He's referencing here when Babylon came and laid siege there. Edom actually assisted Babylon. But thou shouldst verse twelve But thou shouldst not have looked on that day of thy brother in the day that thou became a stranger, neither shouldst thou rejoice over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction. Neither shouldst thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress. Thou shouldst not have entered into the gate of my people in the day of their calamity, yea, thou shouldst not have looked on their affliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their substance in the day of their calamity Neither shouldst thou have stood in the crossway to cut off those of his that did escape, neither should thou have delivered up those of his that remain in the day of distress. For the day of the Lord is near upon all the heathen. As thou hast done, it shall be done unto thee, thy reward shall return upon thy own head. Um the message, I don't really have a title. If you want to give it one, I guess it you could say something like uh a warning to Edom um oh a warning to Edom and to the other nations, something like that. But we're gonna look we're gonna look at this passage tonight. Lord, I thank you for the day you gave us. It was good to be here this morning. I pray you would use your word, Lord. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit as I try to deliver the thoughts that you put on my mind, um in my heart here. And I pray that um That you would just use your word. And you would teach us tonight in the best way I know how, Lord, I just am asking you to get me out of the way. And so you can do what you see fit tonight. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So the book of Obadiah here starts out, um, it says right there in the first verse, this is concerning Edom. It's concerning Edom. Now, I think a lot of you probably know who Edom is. Edom is the descendants of Esau. So they are a brother nation, if you will, to Israel. Abraham begat Isaac, Isaac begat Jacob and Esau. And of course, through Jacob, we got the nation we see the nation of Israel. Jacob's name was changed to Israel, Esau to Edom. Now what we know of Jacob and Esau is they were best friends growing up, right? Of course, far from it. They didn't get along. Let's just rehearse in our mind a little bit the history that Jacob and Esau had. They were totally opposite. Jacob liked to stay in the kitchen, right? Remember that? He kinda liked to stay inside the tent and do his own thing there. And Esau was the hunter. He was the outdoorsman. Can I pick on you guys? I'm going to. These guys are like, they're totally opposite from each other. It's hilarious. Gavin and Jaden, they're totally opposite. And whenever you see them, they're usually hitting each other, like they were just a few minutes ago. They're family, right? But they're best friends, that that that they're frenemies. Is that the word we use? Frenemies Yeah, cool. Jaden's like, yes. And so Jacob and Esau were total opposites. Jacob's name meant trickster, deceiver. Remember that? He was a sneaky fellow. Um to the point where he would lie to his dad, right? Messed up. He lied to his father-in-law later. Of course, his father-in-law also lied to him. It's just a family event, I guess. Um Esau, his personality was totally different. He was just like he was kind of carefree, I guess the word would be. It's like, hmm, let's see. What do I want today? Soup. What will I give for it? Oh, my birthright. That's a good deal. Right? Okay, it's sarcasm again. There's that what did you say, the ground is cracking. I like that. That's good. Um but that's just that they were their their personalities were different. Um and Esau Wanted to kill Jacob. Remember? He saw he wanted to kill him and so then Rachel helped him uh help him escape and all that kind of stuff. Was it uh Rachel? Was it Rebecca Rebecca. Yeah, his mom. Helped them to get escape and all that kind of stuff. And um they didn't have a good history. Now the history of their nations, of course Jacob, like I said, became Israel, and you know this is all just review. And Esau became Edom. The relationship of the brother nations really matched that of the brothers. They didn't exactly always get along. If you go to Numbers chapter 20 real quick. We're just going to look at this just to point out the fact that Edom and Israel don't always get along. Didn't always get along. Israel was enslaved in Egypt for a long time, 400 years, right? And um Edom was not. So when Israel left Egypt and they were going through the wilderness, remember they asked for a passage, and Edom said, Nope In fact, if you do, we'll kill you. Look at verse fourteen of chapter twenty, Numbers fourteen, twenty. I mean twenty, fourteen, chapter twenty, verse fourteen. Moses sent messengers from Kadash unto the king of Edom. Thus saith thy brother Israel, their brother nations, right? Thou knowest all the travail that hath befallen us. Our fathers went down into Egypt, and we have dwelt in Egypt a long time, and the Egyptians vexed us and our fathers We cried unto the Lord, and he heard our voice, and said, Angel, and hath brought us forth out of Egypt, and behold, we are in Kadesh, the city undermost part of thy border. Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country. We'll not pass through the fields, through the vineyards, neither will we drink of the water of the wells. We're not asking for much, really. We will go by the king's highway. So they're not going through crops, they're not going through fields, we're going on a road. That's what they're asking. We will not turn to the right hand nor to the left until we have passed thy border. And Edom said unto him Nope. He said, Thou shalt not pass by me lest I come out against thee with the sword. Whoa. And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go by the highway, and if uh and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay for it. Well only without doing anything else go through on my feet. He said, Thou shalt not go through, and Edom came out against him and with much people, and with a strong hand, thus Edom refuse to give Israel passage Um pretty tough. So th their history h is the same as the history of the brothers themselves Um th there is tension. Now if if if we have if we see a group of people leaving a country that's been wrecked. Egypt was wrecked. Okay, God brought the plagues and destruction, right? Firstborn and every household dies, that's destruction. Um along with losing all the cattle and everything. Um and there's a group of people, we would use the term refugee, right? Um there's refugees leaving, of course the Lord led them out to The promised land, but they weren't taking in they weren't even that not even that they weren't taking him in, they weren't letting them pass through. And they're here, they're supposed to be brother nations. And so it's kind of tense there. Edom never really treated Israel well. The nation of Edom didn't treat the nation of Israel well. Now you fast forward after uh Israel's in the land for so many years, they go through all their kings And all that kind of stuff. Go to Psalm 137. Psalm 137. This is referenced here in Obadiah. It's referenced in Amos, and it's referenced very clearly here in Psalm 137. When Babylon came to Jerusalem, Edom helped. And Edom actually not only allowed the Babylonians to come in and didn't help Israel. They helped round up the the refugees and to turn and turn them over to Babylon. Look at Psalm 137. Look at verse number four. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy. Verse 7: Remember, O Lord, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem, who said, Raise it, raise it. even to the foundation thereof. O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed, happy shall he be that rewardeth thee as thou serve us Edom held Babylon. If you go to Amos and look at the we won't go to it for sake of time, but Amos references it in chapter one. And then when we get here to Obadiah and when you look at verses Look at verse twelve. But thou shouldst not have looked on the the d thou shouldest not have looked on the day of thy brother and the day that he became a stranger, neither shouldst thou have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction, rejoicing over the destruction of Jerusalem, of Judah. Rejoicing in the day of the destruction. Neither should have spoken proudly in the day of distress. When Babylon comes in and plunders. They're rejoicing about it. Look at verse 13. Thou shouldst not have entered into the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Thou shouldst not have looked on their affliction in the day of their calamity Nor have laid hands on their substance in the day of their calamity. Well, they took some of the loot. Edom did They're not only helping Babylon, they're they're getting some of the leftovers. Right Now this isn't part of the message, but we should never, ever rejoice when a city is destroyed. We should never death is not something to rejoice in. Well, if it's the death of our enemy, we should rejoice. No. The Bible says, rejoice not when thy enemy falleth. There should be nothing happy, nothing to rejoice in when there's death and destruction. Okay. And of course Edom was rejoicing in the destruction of Israel, Judah So there we see that in Psalm 137. We see that here all throughout. So the book of Obadiah here, the first 14 verses, is addressing Edom. And the boy, there's a lot to address. He addresses their pride. And he says look at verse 2. I like this. He said, Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen. So out of all the heathen nations, they're just a little one. Right? And boy, they got taken advantage of later, didn't they? Edom did. It's amazing that um well he even says that it would come back on them Verse 3, the pride of thine heart hath deceived thee. And it sure will. It sure will. Pride can be very deceiving, can't it? Now, a little bit about Edom here. He says in verse 3, Thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rocks, whose habitation is high. If you do some studying there, there's some mountains in the northwest of Edom. Uh Mount Seir is there. I think I'm saying that right. But they would live in these mountains. They would live in these cliffs. So they would look down on Israel literally and figuratively. Um, so they they were high up and they thought they were impenetrable because they were s so high up. They had the high ground and they made themselves like as the eagle. That's how they thought they were. They were you know, they were high. They w no one could bring them down. Verse 4, thou that exaltest thyself as an eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down. Doesn't matter how high you are, the Lord can bring you down. And pride goes before destruction, and the Haughty Spirit before a fall. So there's a lot to address here when he's addressing Edom. He says uh verse seven, uh the men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee. Um man, that's a thing. You you if you make alliances with deceitful men, they're probably going to deceive you. That's just a general rule of thumb there. But uh verse nine, uh to the end it says, uh and thou I Mighty men, O Temen, shall be dismayed to the end, every one of the mountain of Esau may be cut off by slaughter. And so he's addressing Edom He's addressing their relationship with their brother nation, Israel. He's addressing their pride. He's addressing their arrogance. And he says they're going to be cut off Verse 14, neither shouldst thou have stood in the crossway to cut off those that did escape. They went to cut off Israel, as Israel was escaping, as Judah was escaping destruction. They cut them off. And then you know what God's gonna do to them is cut them off. It's amazing how our own sin is usually our downfall. But then in verse 15, there's kind of a switch. There's kind of a switch in verse 15. He's been addressing Edom, Edom, Edom. Now look at verse 15. For the day of the Lord is near upon all the heathen. That's not just Edom, is it? All the heathen. As thou hast done, it shall be done unto thee, thy reward shall return upon thy head. Verse 16, For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all the heathen drink continually. Yea, they shall drink, and they shall swallow down, and they shall be as though they had not been So here he's been addressing Edom and the pride of Edom, and then he shifts to focus on the pride of all the heathen. If you do a little bit of studying, I I read this in a commentary and um trying to find exactly what they said here. Now um Edom Where did it go? Edom and Adam are the same in and human hu humanity, mankind are the same, there it is, the same uh Hebrew characters And Edom is a representation of the pride of all the nations. The pride of Edom is a representation here of the pride of all the nations. And one day all the nations, like Edom, will be cut off. Of course, we know the Lord's going to come back. And the nations of the world will have gathered, you know, after we're gone, and then we come back, and the nations of the world are gathered against Israel, and the Lord will cut them off. Same thing that happened to Edom. And by the way, Edom was destroyed. And uh as far as far as I I I can find out, maybe someone knows more about this than me, but I think Um, what uh from what I was reading, when Jerusalem was destroyed in A. D. seventy, the last of the Edomites were wiped out. And so what God says is going to happen is going to happen. And there's a strong warning to nations that want to live like Edom. So we look at something like this and we say, oh yeah, Edom, they were treated Israel terrible. They did this. They were so prideful. They were so self-centered. They were so self-pleasing. But wait a minute. This warning is not just given to Edom, it's given to all. When a nation becomes like Edom You're risking having the same consequences. In fact, you probably will. What is it that brings down nations? What is it that brings it brings wars? What is it that brings contention? Pride. Only by pride comes contention. We get lifted up. We think we're better. We exalt ourselves as the eagles and make ourselves high and we're the best, we're the strongest. That doesn't mean anything. Edom thought they were okay. In fact, they not only were they did they have a a good geographical spot dwelling up there in the mountains, they had the alliance of Babylon. You didn't mess with Babylon. As far as God's concerned, he can do what he wants. Doesn't matter if you're allied with Babylon or not. Doesn't matter if you're the in the greatest strategic location and you're allied with the strongest nations. Pride will wreck you. And pride wrecked Edom. And pride has wrecked every nation in history. Pride is ugly. A nation, we've been talking about the family. It's made up of families. It's made up of people. How's our pride? Is there any? Because if a nation is filled with prideful, arrogant, self-centered, self-pleasing people, We better watch out. We're not you know, uh a a nation is not saved by by uh uh what's that verse? A horse is a vain thing for battle. Um you know what I'm talking about? I'm probably misquoting it. It's it's some yeah. Horse is a vain thing in the day of battle. And so anyway, this warning goes out not just to Edom but to all nations. Edom is a picture here. And it was a actual nation and God did wreck it. But if you want to do some studying, go um I'm going to give you some references here and then I'll move on to some points. Okay? Genesis twenty-five through twenty-seven. Chapters twenty-five through twenty-seven you can read about Jacob and Esau. And then Numbers 20, we already read that. You can see how Edom refuses passage to Israel. You can see the invasion of Babylon in 2 Kings 25 Of course, Amos chapter one talks a good deal about what Edom did, and Ezekiel thirty-five actually talks a good bit about uh Edom and Israel there. So if you want to do some studying, that'd be a good thing to do. Now, I'm going to finish up the book here and and then we'll make application. Verse 17. I love it that in these prophets you see where the prophets will give the warning, tell you what's going to happen, but there's always hope. Verse 17, But upon Mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness, and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions. The house of Jacob shall be a fire, the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for a stubble. One day, God's gonna take care of business. There's gonna be peace on this earth when he comes back. When he comes and sets up his kingdom, there is going to be peace and it's going to be great. It's going to be wonderful. There's not going to be true peace on the earth until he comes back. But man, we're looking forward to it. Isn't that great that we have that to look forward to, that we have that hope to look forward to? And as bad and as terrible and contentious as things get, there's always something to look forward to For one, we have heaven to look forward to, but we also have the millennial reign to look forward to. It's great. And so if you don't know Christ as your Savior, or if there's people in your family that don't know Christ as your Savior, now is a great time to hop on. Because we have a lot to look forward to. So what kind of nation was Edom? Edom was prideful. Edom was self-centered, self-absorbed, self-pleasing, self-satisfying. It was self. It is not very different from our society. We are self-centered, self-pleasing Self-admiring, self-worshiping, even, and that's really all we care about. I don't mean you personally, I'm talking about our society. We are a very self-centered society. We care more about our emotions, we care more about our feelings being hurt than other people's well-being. We care more about what if someone says our face looks funny. Oh, we are just so messed up. We are just so hurt. Did you hear what they said about me? Who cares? Quit being so self-absorbed. Yeah, I'm not talking to you. We're not, I mean, yeah. Talking about our society. Because no one in here is self-centered. Right? So that's where we're at. We care more about ourselves than we do our brother, our sister, our family, our church, our country, our neighbor. You know how I know we're so self-centered. Because we care more about what we're going to eat tomorrow than we do whether or not we've witnessed to our next door neighbor. How many of our next door neighbors have we not witnessed to? You follow me? No, if you have, that's great. Like I said, you know, no one in here, you all have done that. That's good. Um but boy, we're a self-centered nation, aren't we? The amount of money we spend on ourselves versus the amount of money we spend on other people. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be. You know, we spend a lot of money on ourselves. We spend a lot of time on ourselves, a lot of effort on ourselves rather than God and rather than others. We're a very prideful bunch, aren't we? Uh our society, we're a very prideful nation. Now, I love my country, obviously. Um if you've been here for any length of time, you know your pastor loves his country. I love my country, you love your country But we better be careful of that pride thing. Because pride comes before destruction, right? Um just because we have the biggest military does does doesn't mean much in God's sight. Right? Just because we got a great economy, not as great as it was, but in the grand scheme of things it's pretty good. Doesn't mean That oh well God's thinking I can't can't judge them. They've got aircraft carriers. Well God's not thinking that. Oh, I can't judge them. The average household now makes I saw the average household makes over a hundred thousand now in the United States. Anyone else see that? It's like a hundred and three thousand is the average household income. Yeah. Man. Anyway, I need to meet some of these people. Ha. Um but anyway, it was all You know what? I can't judge them now. They're well off. That's not how it works. In fact, some of those things can give us a false security I don't need God. I got money. I don't need God. We got a strong military. I don't need God. We got three cars, two and a half children and a one and a half car garage. Isn't that the average Right? And we can be lifted up in pride. And it's funny because every good and perfect gift comes from God. God's the one that blesses us with these things, and we think we don't need him Kinda funny, isn't it? It's not funny like, ha ha ha, funny like that's funny. Like your face looks funny. Not yours, but you know what I mean. So beat him with prideful Edom was careless. Just like Esau was careless. Edom was careless. Making dumb alliances, um, that's kind of careless. Uh verse 7 of Obadiah. And all the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even to the border. The men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee. Imagine that. You make an alliance with the world and then they act worldly. What in the world? Uh use world again there. See that? There's the grounds cracking again. Why why are we so surprised when we make friendships with the world and then they act worldly? Why are we so surprised? God said it was Ephesians, Galatians, be not deceived, God is not mocked, whatever man sows shall he also reap. Somehow we're surprised when we reap what we sow. Somehow we're surprised when our alliances and our friends With the world, act like the world. That's what's going to happen. You make an alliance with someone deceitful, they'll deceive you. Edom was just careless. I think we can be careless sometimes We're careless in the in we're we're just careless. If you want to know how careless we are, look at people while they're eating while they're texting and somehow driving. And I I somehow living. We're careless. Our our personality is we're a careless bunch of people. I'm careless. I mean I I I'm I'm I'm Oblivious half the time. It's like what I e you know me. We're we're a careless bunch of people. And if we've got to be careful and not careless. Because Choices have consequences. You know, Esau being careless, that cost him a good bit. That cost him everything. Um and Edom being careless, that cost them. They were wiped out We better be careful. Don't ally with the Babylonians. I mean, that's just just don't do it. Alright. What else was Edom? Edom was violent They love them surviolence. In fact, they found it entertaining. This all sounds so familiar, doesn't it? Prideful, violent, non-violence entertaining. Look at verse 11 again. Oh verse 10. For thy violence against thy brother, Jacob, shame shall cover thee. Violence against thy brother Jacob. Not only were they violent, they found it amusing when Babylon was violent to Israel. They they got entertainment out of violence. Should I stay here for a minute or should we move on? I think we should stay here for a minute. We are so entertained by violence. Is violence sometimes necessary? Sure. But why in the world would that be my great why in the world would I want to pop a bowl of popcorn? Well I would love to pop a bowl of popcorn. Oh, and get some Cheez Its and put it on there with some cheddar cheese and dump a bunch of salts on there, mix it all together. And if you're really feeling adventurous, Dave, put some old bay on there Yeah, that's good stuff. But why would I eat that while I'm watching some gross violent stuff on TV or a movie or something? I find that entertaining. I find that that that should be I should find that sad You know, I shouldn't find enjoyment. Well well they're the enemy. Well I'm not supposed to ha I'm still not supposed to find entertainment in that Supposed to mourn for that. Supposed to be sad about that. Rejoice not when your enemy falls, right? We'll watch some of the the the most violent shows on TV. We'll watch some of the most Listen to some of the songs with some of the most violent lyrics. Violence is a glorified, it's entertainment. There's a problem with that. Is there times when violence is necessary? Sure. But it's not entertainment. It's a sober thing, really. Is there times, Tom, where you've gotta kind of be tough at work? But he doesn't enjoy it. I'm just kidding. He probably does, actually. I'm sorry Tom, I should have thought about that before I picked on, yeah Um but you get the point. We look at Edom, they were prideful, self-centered, self-absorbed, self-worshiping, they were careless, it was just whatever They were violent. They were spiteful. Huh? It's just sound, it doesn't sound like we're reading the current events. They're spiteful. Towards their brother nation. And we already read verses eleven through fourteen. We could do it again, I guess. But man, they were spiteful towards God's people, Israel. They had it coming to 'em. Get what they deserve. I don't care. I ain't helping them. Let me ask you, do you think there were innocent people involved? in the destruction of Jerusalem. Oh yeah. It's sad. Any care. Found it entertaining. In verse twelve, it's probably the the worst thing here, they were apathetic. They didn't care Verse twelve. But thou shouldst not have looked on thy on thou the day of thy brother in the day that he became a stranger, neither shouldst thou have rejoiced over the children of destruction. uh children of Judah in the day of their destruction. Neither should I have spoken proudly in the day of distress. They they didn't care about the destruction. It's like, ah, whatever. That's cool. Alright. So we can read the we can read this. We can look at this passage here in Obadiah. And we can single Edom out, but we better take verse 15 and apply it to us as well. Verse 15, for the day of the Lord is near upon all the heathen. We have we better watch our pride. We better watch what we find entertaining. We better watch these things. Pride will cause us to be Like Edom. Pride will cause any nation to be like Edom. We think we're indestructible. We look down on others. And not just on the scale of the nation, I'm talking on the individual scale. You as a person. Think you're hot stuff. That's how what we the terminology we would use. Well no we're not. Doesn't matter how successful we are. Without him we can do nothing. Rather than being self-centered, let's be other-centered. Let's be God-centered. Poor choices will cause us to be like Eden. Poor choices who we associate with, decisions we make, should be thought through. Violence and anger will cause us to be like Edom. Maybe we ought to watch our temper. Maybe we need to watch our anger. In the worst one. Indifference towards the things of God. I don't care. Church? I guess we'll go today. Hey, honey, have you seen my Bible? Yeah, it's in the car where you left it. It's whatever. You know what I mean? Indifference. Eh, whatever. Yeah, church is good sometimes. Yeah, that God stuff, that's good sometimes. That's attitudes that we have. That's probably the most destructive thing that e that that Edom had, the mo the thing that contributed to destruction the most. Can't ride the fence. You're either for God or you're not. All the nations that act like Edom will be judged. So how is your pride? Or I should say, is there any pride? Is there any pride? How's our choices? How's our indifference? Listen, we love America. We really do. Pride will bring destruction. It is bringing destruction, isn't it? Every side, every person thinks they're right And it doesn't matter the party, the candidate, it doesn't matter the the platform, whether it's media, whether it's politics, whether it's business. There's an arrogancy. Arrogancy is destructive. Only by pride comes contention. I don't want to see any more contention. I don't want to see any more wars. You don't want to see any more wars. But pride will bring that. We look at the fact that our president was almost he was almost killed. Probably mess you up, won't it? Pride will kill people. Pride will kill families. You know why a divorce happens? Because it's pride. You know why kids don't talk to their parents anymore? Because of pride. You know why you can't go to that family member's house anymore? Because of pride. This isn't just the national scale. You know why churches go through splits? Because of pride. They're not fun. We went through a church split right after me and Miss Courtney met. Right after we got engaged, we went through a church split. Right. That was the reason for it. It's rough. So let's take this warning from Eden. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I uh honestly the the only way I know how to give an invitation is and we need to get rid of our pride. Maybe we started putting God first and others first and ourselves last. Ride wreck to eat them. Let's work on that, okay? I'm not gonna ask for a raise of hands on anything in regards to that. I'm looking around to think everyone's home folks tonight Pride will send you to hell. Pride is what caused Satan to be cast out. The only reason someone goes to hell is because they're too prideful to accept Christ. Pride's destructive The Lord I will ask this question, is there anyone that doesn't know Christ as their Savior? You hear you say, if I died right now, I don't know if I go to heaven, I'm not sure. Would you raise your hand? Is any is there anyone like that? I don't want to take that for granted. Now as we stand to our feet, if there's some business you need to do with God,