Gives us again a a brief reminder. This is not the verse we're going to look at is not talking about how to be saved. That's important to keep in mind. And this prayer is not given to us just simply to recite it verbatim meaninglessly. It's a pattern, it's a model, it's something to go after, to follow after, to pattern our prayers after. And so let's pray. We'll look at this. And verse number 12 is what we're going to look at. Father, we're very grateful again for your blessings. privilege of being in the house of God. We ask now, as we do look into your word, particularly this passage that's recorded right from your lips, that uh you would help us to uh be as receptive To the truths here, as if we were sitting right at your feet back when it was given. Lord, to do that, I need to get out of the way. So Father, I yield my will to yours. I want to remove my will from the equation, Father. I want to yield my body and present my body so that you can speak through me, my tongue and lips and mouth, and that it would be you challenging our hearts. And I pray for revival in my heart and life in our church, a revival of prayer. And so teach us and help us tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. This whole section, all the way back to verse number five, the Lord is telling his disciples, saved people, people who profess to be saved and claim to be followers of him, more than just trusting Christ. They've actually taken up the cross, they're following him, they've completed committed themselves to be followers of Jesus Christ. He's teaching them about prayer, and the first five uh verse five through eight, he's telling them how not to pray. Do you remember he said don't pray like the hypocrites, they just want to ha look good. That's all their prayers are is just show. Make them look spiritual He said don't pray like a heathen. They just think if they say enough words over and over again that somehow God will hear 'em. He said, don't pray like that. So don't pray like the hypocrites, don't pray like the heathen Here's how you should pray. He gives a few principles up above there. You know, pray in secret. Pray very simple. Keep your prayers simple. And then he says, after this manner, and it's kind of like the Lord says, listen, here's a prayer for you. This is an example, a pattern that you can base your prayers after. Of course, we can pray at any time at a moment's notice And the Lord is accessible to his children. 24-7. We don't have to go through some elaborate rituals to approach the throne of God. We can come boldly, we're told. But on a consistent daily basis, we ought to have time that is committed to the throne of grace. And I believe that's what he's addressing here. When we come to the throne of grace on a scheduled, deliberate time to pray Um then here's the pattern for us to follow. You remember we pointed out several things and I'm basing a lot of this on a lesson I've gotten from an old preacher many, many years ago, and I gave the outline out for that, but I see it here in the Lord's Prayer. Worship is uh should be a part Of our deliberate prayer time. Verse number nine. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. He's worshiping God. He's recognizing God who he is and what he is. And that's important in our prayer. And then we notice submission ought to be a part of our prayer time. Jesus did that in the Garden of Gethsemane. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. So we ought to pray submissively, not coming as some Charlatans, to be honest with you on TV, telling us that we can command God and we can demand things from God. No, no, no. We come very humbly, we come submissively to his throne And so there's worship, there's submission, there's praise. We'll get to that down in verse number 13 at the end, where he says, Thine is the kingdom and the glory and the power And the power and the glory forever. And so he gives God praise there, and we'll look at that. And then verse 11, 12, and 13 is the key part of prayer. What prayer really is, is making requests to God Verse number 11, his request was for physical well-being. Give us this day our daily bread. That's our sustenance to be well physically. Just came from the hospital just a little bit before his little baby will pray for here in a little bit. And we prayed for that child's physical well-being. And I think when he says, give us this our daily bread, he's talking more than just a loaf of bread. He's talking about our sustenance, our physical well-being. So we're dependent on God for that, and that's a request. We ought to pray for our provisions, right? Let me try that again. We ought to pray and ask God for provisions, right? Yes, amen. And um uh and we ought to we ought to uh make physical requests to God. for our physical well-being and things we need and food and all of that. And so he does that. Now we get to verse twelve and there's a actually to be honest with you, I see in verse twelve a combination. I see a request, but also confession. And confession is a key part of prayer. And we'll look at that also. But verse number 12, he says this: forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. It's a request there, but it's also a confession. I'll try and point that out. Prayer and forgiveness, I think, are two of the most spiritual aspects of our life. My ability and my consistency and my discipline and the sincerity of my prayer life is a key aspect of being a good Christian, being a mature Christian. I'll say this I cannot be a good, mature, spiritual Christian and not pray consistently. If prayer is absent from my life as a Christian, then my spiritual life is hurting. I'm in rough shape. But there's another side to that, forgiveness. I need God's forgiveness On a regular basis. She said, preacher, we're already saved, so God's forgiveness. Why do I need forgiveness? I'm glad you asked. We're going to talk about that in here in a little bit. But not only do I need God's forgiveness, but I need to be forgiving. Now let me make a strong statement here, but it's true, and it's going to strike home with many of us, I think. If I am unwilling to forgive someone else as a Christian, then I am not the Christian God intends for me to be. I cannot claim to be a spiritual, mature Christian if I am withholding forgiveness from someone. And we're going to look at that. So, my statement is this: prayer and forgiveness are Two of the most spiritual aspects of life, two of the most two key aspects of being a spiritual mature Christian And uh this is a Wednesday night crowd. For the most part, you know, these are folks on a Wednesday night crowd, for the most part, are folks who do love the Lord and who are committed to Christ And so this is a challenge to us to maintain a prayer life and establish a maintain a prayer life as God instructs us, and then also Seeking, finding God's forgiveness on a regular basis, and providing forgiveness to others on a scriptural basis You study the Bible and you study particularly the Lord Jesus Christ's teaching, and he made it very clear how important forgiveness is. Not just in our prayers, but in our lives in general. He was very emphatic About that, w how that we need God's forgiveness and we must offer forgiveness to others. In fact, he says here verse 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And did you notice in verse number 13, he ends the prayer. What's the last word of verse 13? Amen. When you're done praying, you say, Amen. I mean, that's what we do. But then if you notice. That's right. Or if you like what the preacher said, you say amen. But notice verse fourteen and fifteen. It's kind of like he comes back And he elaborates a little bit on the statement he made in verse 12. Verse 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, lead us not temptations, those from the evil thine, kingdom, glory, power, forever. Amen. Then it's like he comes back and says, For if we forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. So he's elaborating, verse 14 and 15, he's elaborating a little bit on the very important statement he made in verse 12. And I'm saying all that to say this. Our Lord is very emphatic on the importance of forgiveness. In my prayers, if I'm going to have effective prayers, if I'm going to be a mature spiritual Christian, I need to understand and I need to practice forgiveness. Now, I started the message with this, and I want to reiterate this here. Verse number 12, none of this passage and very little of this whole sermon talks about salvation Now there is sections in chapter 7 that he touches on salvation. We'll look at that. But none of this is about salvation. And verse number 12 is not a condition for salvation. Verse number nine, who how is God addressed? Right at the beginning of this prayer. Look at verse nine. How is God addressed? Our Father. Who are the only people that can legitimately call God their father? Christians, saved people, children of God. So this is a prayer of saved people. This is not a prayer for salvation. It's important to understand this. He says, after this man pray, our Father which art in heaven save hill. Then he says, verse 12. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debts. The reason I'm saying that is this. There's a good number of people, and I've read in various books I have in different places. Where folks take this passage and they make this a condition for salvation. That if I'm going to be forgiven, saved from my sins. In fact, I had a person tell me, I just thought of this, remember this. It's been a number of years ago they told me I can't be saved because I got somebody I won't forgive. I said, Well, that is sin, but and you need to turn from that and trust Christ, but maybe you need to trust Christ and able to get the ability to forgive them. Maybe you need God's forgiveness to enable you to forgive them. So this the important thing is not this is not salvation. Now what forgiveness is he talking about here? Well, there's two aspects to forgiveness. One is what I'm going to call the forgiveness of salvation. That is where I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. I recognize myself as a sinner. Jesus died for my sins. I put my faith and trust that he did that for me. I receive what he's done for me by faith, accepting that as applies to me, and God forgives me. Now, that forgiveness of salvation is where God wipes my record clean. My standing. That has to do with my standing before God. I like 2 Corinthians 5. 21, it says, For he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us Who knew no sin, Jesus who didn't know any sin, he was made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. That's a fantastic verse. If you pay attention to what it's saying, this is what he's saying All my sin record from the day I was born to the day I go out into eternity, whether the rapture or death and resurrection, the uh every sin, every thought, every deed, every misdeed, everything Everything about me that was sinful was completely placed on Jesus Christ, completely removed from my record, and in its place, the righteousness of Jesus Christ is put in on my account. That is a mind-boggling. That as far as God is concerned, my standing before God, I am as righteous and holy and pure and good as Jesus Christ. Now that's the forgiveness of salvation. That is thorough. That is complete. But there's also a forgiveness that I'm going to call the forgiveness of fellowship. Once I'm saved and that record is complete, I'm still living in this old sinful body. How many people found out since you've been saved you still have a sinful nature? Anybody find that out? Yeah. Some of us just in the last hour had to deal with that. So we need forgiveness of fellowship, not to be forgiven as far as my standing before God is concerned. That's settled. But on a daily basis. I like to illustrate it this way, and I've done this many times. But it's like you have a child. Anybody here you have a kid and that child anybody hear your child ever do something you didn't want them to? They sinned against you. Now, as far as their standing with you is concerned, they're still your kid. They're still there. Nothing that relationship hasn't changed. That was established at birth. But their fellowship together. How many people here ever can think of a time when one of your children was doing something wrong. They knew they were doing wrong. They suspected you knew they were doing wrong, and they were very nervous around you or they avoided you. Yeah I mean parrots no, especially moms. I don't know what it is, but you did something wrong, I can tell And what that is, is the fellowship is broken. That sin has broken the fellowship. And ideally what that child would do is come and say, Dad, I messed up. And to our boys' credit, they did that with me several times where they came to me before we had to address it, said Dad, I messed up, I did wrong, I'm sorry, and um, and we were able to deal with it And that's what the forgiveness here is talking about in verse 12, and he's telling his disciples, forgive us, pray this, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. So he's talking about that standing. 1 John chapter 1, verse. 6 through 10. He's talking about Christianity. And John says this to the believers. He says, we, if we say we have no sin, we call him a liar. He's talking to Christians, so we recognize that sinful deeds, though our standing with God is pure and clean and right and good, are practically speaking our everyday living, we're not living up to that. And if we say we don't have sin as a Christian, and I don't hear this much anymore, but years ago it used to be folks who'd come across them every now and then, oh I'm saved, I don't sin anymore. Well that's a lie. God said we have no sin, we call it we're we're lying. And he says, but he says if we confess our sin He's faithful and just forgiveness. It's the same idea. Remember when Jesus was going to wash the disciples' feet and Peter got all worked up? You ain't washing my feet You're you're the son of God. You ain't gonna wash my feet. And the Lord says, listen, if I don't wash your feet, then I'm not gonna have anything to do with you. Oh, in that case, give me a bath. Peter. He says, You don't need a bath and he's illustrating there that we don't need to get saved over and over again, but we walk in the sinful world and we pick up junk and we need that dealt with and confess to me. maintain our fellowship with God. That's what this verse is about. The forgiveness of fellowship. So, what and I thought this was interesting. I'm going to give you a little outline here in a minute, but I want to touch on something else Look at her verse 12. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. I got looking at that word forgive. And I looked it up how it's used, various places, the word it comes from and how it's translated various places in the Bible and how it's used. It's interesting word. And I I guess maybe I never really thought of it In the way that it's used other places. The word forgive here in this instance has the idea of to forsake something. One of the definitions was this. When he says, forgive us our sins, the idea is he's asking the Lord to walk away from my sins. To forsake it. It's translated a couple places to divorce. Lord, divorce me of my sins. Forsake my sins. Here's the one. I took several definitions, I put them together, and I thought this captures what I believe the Lord is saying here. This is my summary of how the word is used. Let these sins no longer be a factor in our relationship. Lord, I want you to deal so thoroughly with my sins that they are no longer a factor in my relationship. That tells me it's more than God just removing the consequences of my sin. That's God getting that sin out of my life. I think it ties in with 1 Peter 1:9 where he says, we confess our sins. He's faithful in just to forgive us our sins, but he doesn't stop there and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So the idea is not just Lord, I want you to remove the consequences of what I did wrong. Lord, I want you to completely get this out of my life. I don't want this sin to be an issue in our relationship anymore. I want to be cleansed from it. I want it out. I want to be divorced from it. No longer be apart. And I think that's what he's talking about here. So he makes a request, Lord, forgive us our debts Lord, don't let the debts we have to you any longer be in the factor in the relationship with you Boy, what a prayer that is. I say this often, and I think a lot of you understand, appreciate what I'm saying. One of the great things I look forward to in getting to heaven is the fact that sin will no longer be a factor in my life. Amen Not in my thoughts, not in my heart, not it won't be any desire, there won't be anything there. Only desire will be pure and holy and right and good. My thoughts will all be pure and holy and right and good Nothing about me will be contrary to the holiness of God. And I think that's the prayer here. That's the prayer. Forgive us our debts. We're divorce them. Get them out. All these debts we have. So let me give you my outline here, real quick. Number one, I notice in verse number 12, in this aspect of the prayer, the awareness of my debts. This prayer is praying. It's an awareness of our debts. Now, what does he mean by debts? By debts, he's talking about the results of our sin. We all know Romans 3:23. For the wages of sin is death. Now here's what we think sometimes When we hear that the wage of sin is death, that's what God owes me for my sin. And we use the illustration, a guy works 40 hours a week for his boss in the coal mines, and at the end of the week, that boss owes him wages. He works, he owes the wages. That's true, but that's not what Romans 3. 23 is saying. Death is not what God owes me for my sin. Death is what I owe God for my sin. That is the debt of my sin. I hate to admit this, and you are going to be shocked and disappointed with me. But last two weeks ago, a week ago, my dad and I went up to a Pittsburgh Pirates Now that's not what you're going to be disappointed about. When we came back, we were coming out of city. I'm following a little GPS. It's like 10 30 at night. We got two and a half hour drive. I'm following the GPS. This guy comes down and cuts me off and I have to go off on an exit. Or I would have wrecked. So now I'm off the exit. There's no return exit to get back on whatever road I was on. So now I'm completely blind. So I'm following my GPS and rather than getting me back on the road where I knew how to go back, it took me some other backward way through Pittsburgh and down out to Uniontown and that way. It's like good great So I'm I'm driving I'm I'm like a pilot. I'm going instruments only. I have no idea. And Dad said, Where are you? I said, I don't know. He goes, you know where you're going. No. Dad. Next thing I know, and he keeps going, stay left, stay left, stay left. Shut up. Stay left. So I stayed left, and lo and behold, I'm on a a a toll road, and I miss the toll thing, and I'm on the easy pass entrance to the door. I can't stop, you know, I'm going, zing, and all of a sudden, whoom, big cameras. I said dad I'm dead meat, I'm gonna have to sell the house, hawk the car, we're cook. Yesterday the mail it showed up and I saw it Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. I'm like Oh no. Twenty seven dollars. It's kind of expensive to drive four miles on a Pennsylvania turnpike, but That I had sinned against the Pennsylvania Turnplate. I broke their laws. I transgressed. They didn't owe me anything. They weren't in debt to me. I, and by the way, I paid it today, so um uh I was in debt to them. And as soon as I cast those cameras flashed and I saw the sign, I became aware of the fact that I was in debt And so that's what he's saying. Forgive us our debts. He's saying there has to be an awareness here of the fact that we are in debt to God It's kind of like the idea of have an ex-com. He served his time in prison. He comes out and somebody brings it up and will say something like this Hey, I s I paid my debt to society. I owe debt. And you and I, as sinners, are in debt to God And as a Christian, as a child of God, when I'm going to deal with my sins as a Christian, I have to keep in mind those sins have put me in debt to God. When I say the things I ought not to say, or I do things I ought not to do, or I don't do the things I should do, or I don't say the things I should say. I am a debtor to God for failing to live up to the standard He requires of me. And so these debts put us, these sins put us in debt to God. And here's the thing, how many folks here were saved you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Alright, so our sin debt you say, but preacher, our sin debt is paid. That's correct. But think about this. Paul said, I'm in debt to Christ now, because he paid that debt for me. Follow what I'm saying? If I if I was uh if if suppose all right, suppose dad said, and he did say this, but I let him, he goes, I'll pay that fine for you. Don't worry about it, I'll pay that fine for you I said, no, Dad, I'm responsible. I'll be a man and I'll take my But suppose dad would have paid that debt for me. I'm no longer in debt to Pennsylvania Turnpike But I would be a debtor to dad. And he'd say, no, I don't pay. You don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. No, no, no, I'm gonna get no no But I would be a debtor. And that's the way it is for us as Christians. We sin, and even after we get saved, we still sin, and praise the Lord, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. But yet we're debtors to him because of what he's done for us. So there's awareness here of this debt. And so there first has to be awareness of sin. Before I can ever get to a point where God's going to answer my prayers. Paul said in Romans 7, I'm paraphrasing here, he said, I wasn't even aware of my sin until the law came When the law came, I realized I'd broken God's law. I saw it, and now I'm a debtor to the law, and then Christ paid that for me, and he realized that he was in debt to sin. So uh So this we need to when we come to God in prayer, I want to get back to the subject. And when we come to God in prayer, he says, after this matter, pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive it. We've got to be aware when I'm coming to God that I'm a debtor to him. That I I've sinned against him, and that has to be dealt with. I need to be aware of that. Sin is a huge factor in unanswered prayers. Sin is a huge factor in getting my prayers, and I need to be aware of its presence. I found, uh see if some of you all will agree with this, I found that the when I'm close to the Lord. When I'm walking with God and things are clicking and I'm on board with God and I'm in tune, I'm far more sensitive to sin in my life than when I'm a little out of whack. Anybody notice that? I s I mentioned several times the guy down at Highland Park Baptist Church, the older guy, I mentioned this. Man, he was at the altar all the time and at first I thought this guy must be a drunkard or something or some some wicked sinner. He's always at the altar. And this was new to me. I was just saved a little time. It showed up. I found out the guy's one of the best Christians I ever met in my life Tremendous, uh an older man, widower, loved God, served, and I learned something. He was close to God, he was so sensitive. And when God would deal with his heart, he'd want to respond And so if I'm on praying ground and if I'm really able to get a hold of God, we talked about this Sunday night, have that passion in my prayer I need a sensitivity, awareness about me of things in my life and my heart, my mind, and attitudes and different things that grieve the Spirit of God, that hinder my prayers. I need to be aware of them And need to address them. So there's awareness of my debts. Then, as I just said, there's an addressing of my debts. He asks God to forgive them, to divorce these sins from my life, to forsake them, to make them not a factor. In my prayers and in how they affect my prayer life. It's a request for forgiveness, it's an acknowledgement of debt. If I would go into the bank, suppose I go down to um Lesbaco. I have a car loan there. Suppose I went in there, just suppose this scenario, I went in there and said, listen, I want you all to forgive my debt I owe you. And they get out the books. They said, you don't owe us anything. I I want you to forgive me. Well there's nothing to forgive. If I go in there and say, listen, I'd like you to forgive my carload. They'd say, Forget you. But if I would ask uh uh uh this thing isn't going over the way Uh if I would ask for forgiveness, I would be an implication that I owe them something, right? If I would ask them to forgive my debt, it's implying I'm acknowledging I owe them Money. That's my point. David in Psalm 51, he confesses his sin with Bathsheba. He says, Have mercy, O God. A request for mercy is an acknowledgement of guilt And a request for forgiveness is an acknowledgement. I'm indebted. I've sinned against God. I owe him something. And so he's addressing the issue. He's telling us to address this issue of sin in our life. So what is confession? Forgive us our debts. He's acknowledging that he's in debt. He's confessing he's in debt. He's not telling God, I owe you for my sin. God knows that. When we confess our sin, we're not giving God information. I say that often. God already knows. Just tell God, guess what? I sinned. What? No. God knew that the moment it happened. He saw it. He knew it was coming. So confession is not just acknowledging to God that I've sinned, it's addressing it, saying, God, you are right, this is wrong, this should not be like this was broke your law, it violated your holiness. It grieved your Holy Spirit. There's nothing right about what I did. I confess it. I acknowledge it. I agree with you. That's what confession is, not just throwing information at God. It's agreeing with God. It's getting, it's looking at it from God's perspective. It's evaluating it the way God evaluates it. David said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, if I cherish it and I hold on to it in my heart, I'm not seeing it the way God. God doesn't regard iniquity. He doesn't love it and cherish it. God hates it. It killed his son. It violates everything his sin does. And I need to get that approach. That's what confession is. And so he's addressing this here. A vital factor in answered prayer is acknowledging and addressing the sin in my life, confessing it and forsaking it and dealing with it the way God does. If I want to have an effective prayer line I must do that. It's a vital factor. Successful Christian life and spiritual growth are dependent upon me addressing my sins and dealing with them Yeah, anybody here ever hear a preacher make this statement? We've got to keep short accounts with God. Anybody ever hear a preacher say that? What's he mean by that? If I mess up, if I sin it not if, when I sin and when I mess up, I need to deal with that immediately. Don't let it linger. Don't let it carry on. Come and make it right Confess it to God, forsake it, get it taken care of, address it before you go on, because it affects my paradigm, it affects my spiritual growth, it affects my Christian life Keep short accounts with God. Confess and forsake them immediately. And so that's what he's saying here. Forgive us our debts Part of my regular daily prayer time. I ought to be seeking God to deal with and addressing the sins of my life and these issues and God. And listen, here's the other thing. What happens if I don't deal with sin right away? What if I let it linger? It breaks bellshield of God. But what the sin itself, what happens if I let it go? What if you put a butt a glass of milk in the refrigerator and you just leave it there? What happens to it? Doesn't go away. It gets worse. Do you ever hear the story of the little boys that cat died? So they buried it out back and he got missing the cat so bad day later. But he buried it. He left the tail out. He says, Oh, it got missing the cat and you went out and picked it up. Yeah. Buried again, but left the cat. Then a couple days later, eh, and it kept getting worse. That's what sin does. If I don't deal with sin, there's a progressive nature. It gets worse and worse and worse. I was trying to help somebody who lives in another state, and they've got a mess on their hands. And one of the things that came out was this. It didn't just happen overnight. There were little things that took place and weren't dealt with months ago. If they'd have been confessed and dealt with and forsaken months ago, wouldn't be in the situation they are now. So that's why it's so important our Christian life, in our prayer life, and in just our general Christian growth, is that when these When these sins come up and when they do, and they do, that we deal with them, address them immediately, and get them out and forsake them and and uh divorce ourselves from them So there's an awareness of the fact that I've got sin I have to deal with. He addresses it. Forgive us. But then I put this, and I'm going to end with this. The evidence of a desire for God's forgiveness. He tacks something on here that kind of throws us a little bit. Look at verse 12 again. Forgive us our debts. Now, to me, it'd be good to end that statement right there. But period, done. Lord, I want you to forgive my debts. But he doesn't end there. What's he say? Lord, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Ouch. The question, is this a condition for God's forgiveness? I don't think so. I don't think this is an exchange of forgiveness. God, if I forgive Tom, then you'll forgive me. I don't think that's I don't think that's what he's saying here. I think what is I think the idea here is this Is that if I really, really want God to forgive me, if I understand how badly I've sinned against God and how indebted I am to God, I don't have a problem forgiving Tom There's a vast difference between my sins against God and God's sins against me. Follow what I'm saying? My debt to God is ten million times worse than Tom's debt to me. And if I really grasp what I'm asking God to do for me in forgiving my debt, But I'm not going to have any problem forgiving his sins against me. Follow what I'm saying? Does that make sense? And I and turn with me to Matthew 15. I think I got Support for that idea. Matthew, chapter 18. I'm sorry. I tell you one of our problems as Christians, we don't realize how devastating our sins are. We don't realize how badly in debt to God we really are. And then somebody comes along and cuts us off or says something or neglects or does something. They mean they're just mean to us And we all worked up about that, and we don't even stop and think about, good night, what I owe God. Matthew chapter 18, look at verse 21. Now I'm going to read an extended portion here because the Lord can say it better than I can. Matthew 18, look at beginning in verse 21. Then came Peter unto him and said, Lord, how off shall my brother sin against me? And I forgive him. Till seven times. Now, I don't know about you, but I sense a little irritability in Peter there. What? How many times do I have to forgive this guy, Lord? Seven times? I think Peter's thinking that's pretty generous. Look at the Lord's response. Jesus saith unto him, I say to you, not until seven times. And right there I can hear Peter nudging John. See, I told you we don't have to forgive him seven times. times. But until what? Seventy times seven. Peter just clunked What? Now the Lord tells this tremendous story that so beautifully pictures our forgiveness, our debt to God, and others' debt to us. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take an account of his servants And when he began to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. Now if you do the figuring on that, this is something according to my figures I did years ago This is a debt in the multiplied millions of today's dollars. This is no way in the world this guy could possibly pay this back in ten lifetimes. I mean, he is overwhelmingly in debt, hopelessly in debt. But for as much as he had not to pay Verse 25, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. That again tells me that this was serious, serious debt. tremendous way. You're going to sell you, sell your kids, going to sell your wife, everything you have, try and pay some of this back. He's hopelessly in debt. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me. I will pay thee all. And verse 27 is classic. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him, and what? Forgave him the debt. Isn't that what we're asking the Lord to do in the Lord's Prayer? Forgive us our debts. But The same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants, that'd be Tom, which owed him a hundred pence. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. Now who is further in debt? The guy to the king or Tom to me? Me to the king or Tom to me? The guy, the king, overwhelmingly. He's been shown unbelievable mercy. And now he takes the other guy and chokes him. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him to say, Look at this, verbatim. He says the exact same thing to him that he said to the king. Have patience with me, and I'll pay thee all. And he would not But went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry By the way, our unforgiveness affects others, not just the one that's involved. It affects others. These other people are sad when they see what's happening And came and told their Lord all that was done, and the Lord after that he had called and said to him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me, shouldest not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his Lord was wroth and delivered unto the tormentors and till he should pay all that was due unto him, so likewise shall my heavenly father do also you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses You see, what I'm trying to say is this. The basis of my willingness to forgive others ought to be my understanding of how forgiving God has been to me. Overwhelmingly, God has been forgiving to me, and surely, doesn't matter what they've done You say, yeah, but in this case it was really, really bad. Then you and I, if that's if that's our thinking, well this case it's really, really bad. They don't deserve my forgiving, then that's if that's my thinking, then I don't really understand how much God's forgiven me I really don't understand how deeply in debt to God I have been. I tell you, if you get to read much of Corey Tenboom What a powerful, powerful testimony that precious woman had. If you're not familiar with Corey Tenboom, she was a lady, I don't think she was Jewish. Uh she she she hid the Jews during World War Two from Hitler's nonsense. They got caught and they got hundreds of them out of the country, saved their lives. They'd hide them in a little compartment. I think it's called the hiding place. And they got caught and her and her sisters, her parents were killed, I believe. Her sisters were sent off to concentration camp. Horrendous. Horrendous. I mean, I could tell you it's it's horrendous. You can't imagine. And years later, I told this in the last year or so as a powerful illustration of forgiveness. And she survived. I think her one sister died. They were trusted the Lord, just looked to God. She came out of there a strong Christian, out of that prison, out of that concentration camp. Raped, abused, humiliated. She was speaking in a church in Germany, giving her testimony, and lo and behold In the back of the church was one of the German guards in her concentration camp. She recognized him immediately. He had violated her, done terrible things. And he was in the service. Guess what her subject was? Forgiveness. She said afterward, he came directly up to her, his hand outstretched, and he said something to this effect. He said, Froline Tenbu. I am so glad to hear you testify of our wonderful Savior who forgives us for all our atrocities when Jesus died for our sins on the cross. The guy had gotten saved. She said she stood there, and I'm putting this in my words, with bitter hatred in her heart for this man. She as he's standing there with his arm outstretched, she said, I would not put my arm out. She said, I prayed in my heart, God, I cannot forgive this man for what he's done to my sister and myself. I cannot do it. God convicted her, and finally, as he spoke there with his hand outstretched, she deliberately, and I'm not telling us exactly what she does, but she deliberately Forced herself to put her hand out and take his hand, and she said, whatever his name was, I forgive you. She said the moment she made that statement, peace filled her soul. And God gave her grace to genuinely And sincerely forgive that brother in Christ for what he'd done. She made something to the effect that it was one of the most amazing experiences of her life When she forgave the man that had done so much. And the point is this: if I want to grow as a Christian, I want to be mature, and if I want God to hear and answer my prayers, I need to understand how deeply indebted to God I am for my sin. And then I need to freely forgive others. For the comparatively minor things that they've done to me. The Lord's Prayer. I think, I know, there are tens of thousands of people That recite that prayer and have no comprehension of what that's talking about. They're just saying words and do not grasp the significance of what the Lord is telling us. When we pray, we need to address our sins in our own hearts, and we need to freely forgive those who have sin against us if we're going to have God respond if we're going to see God's doing. I wonder, and God's been dealing with me and I mentioned this Sunday nights, I don't know why. Sunday nights, Wednesday nights, we've been talking about prayer. God has been working me over about prayer And I wonder if sometimes our prayers aren't answered. And we'll just say, well, it's not God's will. I'm wondering if sometimes they're not answered Because number one, we're not willing to address sins in our own heart and life, and number two, we're not willing to freely forgive others their sins that they've done against us. And it's just uh it's just a plug in prayer life. We've got to deal with that. We've got to address it. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us recognize the important truth you've given us here in this matter of prayer. We readily acknowledge, Lord, we all deal with sin. The preacher down to the little kids. It's part of our nature. We hate it. But it's there, it's real. And I pray you'd help us to be aware of it and to acknowledge it and to address it. And then, Lord, help us to display the forgiveness you show us to others so that. You can hear us and answer us like we so desperately want you to answer. I wonder with our head bound, eye closed, and this is between you and God, and it's to be honest, it's probably none of my business. But maybe tonight God has dealt with some specific sin has come up as this has been preached. It's just come right to the mind. That's the Holy Spirit bringing it up. Boom, here it is, here it is. This needs to be addressed. You're aware of it, it needs to be addressed. Maybe there's somebody that we've been holding out on forgiveness, and God has brought it up immediately, and we said, There it is. That's the problem right there. It needs to be addressed. So let's not just slough it all. Let's not ignore it. Let's say, God, we mean business. We want you to answer prayers. We desperately need you to answer our prayers. I'm willing to do what I gotta do. I'm willing to adjust what needs to be adjusted so that we can see you answer prayer in a powerful way. Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. Help us, Lord. Don't don't let us alone. Provoke us until Willing to do what needs to be done and we get this matter taken care of. We don't have a piano tonight, both heads bowed, I suppose, maybe right there at your pew. You'd make that a little altered Say, God, here it is. And give an opportunity to respond to what the Spirit may have dealt with our hearts about. Lord, forgive me. Divorce this from my heart and life. Forsake it. Get it. Don't make it a part. I don't want it to be a part of my relationship with you anymore. I'll confess it. I'll forsake it. I'll do what I need to do. Forgive. Because I don't want this to be a factor in our relationship with you anymore, Lord. I want to be clean and clear If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. Father, we commit this now to you in Jesus' name. Amen.