Everybody wanted me to sing, but I refused to do it. And all God's people said, Praise the Lord. Matthew chapter six Somebody called me today and asked if I was preaching on fasting yet. It's coming up here in the Sermon on the Mount. I said, no. We're actually going to be looking at the sermon, uh that the Lord's Prayer here for quite some time. So uh eventually we'll get to that, but I do want to deliberately spend a fair bit of time on the Lord's Prayer as we call it. I might be a little loud on this Dave. I don't know how it sounds to others. But uh Let me get set up here. Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 9. And I'm going to read down through verse 13. Matthew 6, verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Of course, this is the Lord. speaking to his disciples. It's important to keep in mind, I keep reminding this, this he's not talking to unsaved people here. He's talking to saved people who are who are actually more than just believers They've committed themselves to be followers. They are what the Bible refers to as disciples. That's more than just a believer. So he's discipling believ uh disciples and he's teaching them how to pray And the first couple passages in this section, verse 5 down through 8, he's telling them how not to pray, not like the hypocrites, not like the heathen. Now he's telling, this is the pattern, this is how you should do this. Follow this example After this manner, therefore, pray ye, verse 9. Here it is. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen If you remember we pointed out, I do not believe, and I'm very confident of this, this is not given to be some sort of ritualistic prayer we just repeat In fact, I don't see any of them in Scripture anywhere. Prayer is talking to God, pouring your heart out to God. And he's given this simply as a pattern, as a uh uh a model to follow after this manner. like this. And if you remember, we pointed out five different principles of prayer that are found in this. Let me pray and then we'll talk about prayer. Alright? Father in heaven, we ask you to bless now our study of what we refer to as the Lord's Prayer. I ask you would teach us. I need revival in my own heart, Lord, and I know prayer is a vital part of revival and spiritual growth. Lord, I think all of us feel that way. We want to grow in our faith. We want to be stronger. And we understand that prayer is a vital part of that. So teach us to pray, I ask. I pray that through me You could challenge us and help us to understand what makes effective prayer. I yield myself to you, I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask, Lord. That you would fill me with your spirit and speak through me. And I pray that we would be uh uh a little stronger in our prayer life as a result of this lesson In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Five principles in the prayer, this model prayer, we remember, we said the first one we noticed is adoration. We actually started this, it's the idea of worshiping God, and we'll say more about that. Then there's uh uh uh the the principle of praise or exaltation And he goes through and he praises God, he thanks God, gives God glory for things that God has done for him. And that's what we see that in here. Then of course there's confession involved in this prayer, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and so confession is involved in that. Verse number ten, I notice some submission is part. We don't think of prayer as uh when we think, well, I'm praying to God What do we think of mostly when we're praying to God? We think mostly of what? Asking God for stuff, right? Making a request. And that is prayer. But in this prayer here, we notice there's another principle involved, and that is submission. When we come to God in prayer, we don't think very much of Me yielding to God's will, me submitting to God's will. We don't say it this way, but we're think our thinking is we want God to do our will We're asking God, this is what I want, this is what I would like for you to do, this is what I need, this is what I need changed. And that's all part of it. That's good But uh we'll notice that, this matter of submission. Verse 10 is where I get that from, where he says, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven. Probably if we were honest, most of our prayers are my will be done instead of thy will be done. And so submission is a very, very important part. Remember when Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane And uh he said, Father, if be possible, let this cup pass from me. Then he added submission. What did he say? Nevertheless, not My will, but thy will be done. So his prayer, he incorporated this principle in probably the most important prayer, perhaps has ever been prayed Well the Lord yielded to the will of God and paid the price for our sins. So I see submission here. Then of course what we normally think of prayer is uh uh supplication or making requests And verse 11 and 13. So we'll look at those. We started last week, if you remember, on the adoration aspect of prayer or worshiping God. And uh if you remember we pointed out that our whole lives should be characterized by worship. It shouldn't be just something we do on Sunday morning, Sunday night, and uh, you know, I made a little to-do about we don't call these worship services. It ought to be just uh we ought to be worshiping God as much Sunday morning, uh Monday morning as we are Sunday morning. So uh he brings it here and he makes a statement, our Father which art in heaven So here he's recognizing God for who he is and what he's like. He's worshiping God. He's recognizing God's authority. And then we pointed out, I'm trying to build up to pick up where I left off last week, but we pointed out, if we're going to pray, our prayers are going to be effective. We must have a right connection. He says, Our Father. Is everybody i is all of mankind a child of God? No. Is God the Father of all mankind? No, that's referred to as the universal Fatherhood of God. A lot of churches teach that. A lot of your liberal type churches are going to teach that. But that is not scriptural The only way God is my father is through the new birth, through trusting Jesus Christ, my personal Savior. I am born into the family of God. We're going to talk about that, Lord will, on Sunday morning in our message, being born again And so God is the Father of those who are saved. Now, in a generic sense, he's the Father of all mankind in the sense that he created us. But as far as a relationship of father-child, father-son, father-daughter relationship, the unsaved world does not have that And so when he says, our Father, which art in heaven, he's establishing the fact that as a Christian, when I come to God in prayer, when I come to pray, I need to keep in mind that I am like a child coming to his father for requests. I am a child coming to a father that I can trust, I'm dependent upon, I know that one loves me I know he has my best interest in mind. I know he'll take care of me. A good father would never give his child something that was not good for him. He would never withhold from his child. something that is good for him. And so when we come to God in prayer, we must have the mindset that I am coming like a child coming to his father. I am literally coming to my spiritual father, our Father which art in heaven. So there has to be the right connection. Now here's where I touched on last week and I want to pick up now. Not only in our prayer as we approach God, adoring him, worshiping him Yeah. Must there be a right connection? I need to be saved and he's my father, but there has to be a right concept. Now they tell us, and I believe this is true, a lot of times people's concept of what God is like They get that from what their father is like. Their concept of God is taken from their understanding of what their father is like. That tells me fatherhood is incredibly important. That very much my actions as a father are very much going to form and have an impact on my child's concept of God. Now here's the problem. A lot of times our understanding of our father and our relationship with our father is very, very different than what God really is. Uh we pointed out if you remember some people have very uh uh strange concepts of fatherhood. And so maybe somebody comes from uh a home where the father is very angry, he's very abusive, maybe he's uh unkind or whatever, very selfish. And so they grow up with this concept that God is very harsh that God is not loving, God is uh maybe the father is very inconsistent, and uh so they have this concept that God cannot necessarily be trusted. And they'll push him out of the society won't be a central figure in their life. And so I gotta have, if I'm gonna view God as my father I must have the right concept of what God is like. And Jesus touches on that in this prayer. He doesn't just say, after this manner, therefore pray ye, our Father. And then he goes on. Now he says, Our Father, which what? Art in heaven. And then he says, Hallowed be thy name. And I believe he's doing that deliberately to make sure that our concept of our Heavenly Father is correct. That we're not approaching God with a wrong concept of what it means that He's our Father. Some fathers perhaps are very soft And uh, you know, they don't they're some are overly strict and angry and and harsh and others are just overly soft, anything goes, sure, whatever, live it up, whatever. And so they get that concept of God God's really not concerned about right or wrong. God's not really concerned about it. He's just kind of uh foot loose and fancy free and you can do what you want and love God and and uh whatever. Um I mentioned this occasionally but early on when I was here we had a lady I don't remember what I preached on, but um uh it was basically a lot of preaching is on right and wrong and doing right and trusting God, obeying them. And uh she said to me afterwards, she goes, Pastor Letterman, as long as you love God, it doesn't matter what you do. And those are exact statement, her exact words. And of course I took issue with that. If I loved God, then it tremendously matters what I do But maybe somebody might get that concept from a father who is, you know, just, hey, whatever, we love you, you can do whatever you want. And uh so we gotta have a correct concept of God So here's his statement, our Father which art in heaven. So he's telling us something about this Father about what God is like, which art in heaven. Um and so one thing we get from this prayer is when we are praying We're talking to God. We're talking to a God that is in heaven. Now, here's a problem I think we have sometimes. We think of spiritual realities as in very vague terms. Very vaguely. Heaven is just to for some people, heaven is just this never never land. Oh, it's just wonderful somewhere. Uh, you know, it's just this vague thing. Uh sometimes we get the idea about the devil. We just have this vague concept of the devil. He's just kind of, oh, he's bad, you know, he's the he's the booger man, you know, and he's the devil's just whatever. And uh we get that concept of hell. And uh we hear the term hell used very loosely today. And um uh uh and uh just a vague concept, well it's some bad place, you know. I've heard and so seen people say, oh, uh if you say if you do that, you're gonna go to the bad place, you know, stuff like that. The fact is the Bible presents heaven, hell, the devil, God in very Real terms, very distinct terms. And so when he says, Our Father, which are in heaven He's not just using some vague God's out there somewhere and and whatever, just some vague concept of God and this vague concept of heaven. No, you study your Bible And the Bible speaks about heaven as a very real, literal place. In fact, you're perhaps aware of this, but the Bible refers to three different heavens. How many people are familiar with that? The Bible talks about three different heavens. Now, not the way the Mormons present it. They come by, they're going to talk about uh the different heavens. The Bible um uh references to heaven are three. The first one The Bible refers to heaven. It's referring to the atmosphere, where the birds fly. Um the where the rain and snow comes from. Uh turn with me. We're going to look at some verses here. I want you to see them You know, I turn to Isaiah fifty five. Turn there real quick and I'll while I'm talking, you turn there. Um can you Can you turn in your Bible and listen at the same time? What a crowd. No. Uh let's give it a try. Uh One form of heaven, one reference in the Bible refers to heaven, it's talking about what we would call the atmosphere, the air around the earth. Where the clouds are, where the rain and snow falls from, where the birds fly, heaven. Notice in Isaiah, if you're there, Isaiah chapter 55. And look with me at verse number ten. This is one place where the Bible call is uh uses the term heaven in referring to the atmosphere. Verse ten for as the rain cometh down and the snow from heaven and returneth not hither, but watereth the earth and maketh it burn uh bring forth. I think he's talking about the middle of May, rain and snow coming down from heaven. So one reference in the Bible is and when it refers to heaven is the atmosphere. Now think about our text. Jesus says, after this manner, therefore pray, our Father which art in heaven. I think we all agree. He's not talking about the our Father which art in the atmosphere. Right? So we can scratch that. What does he mean heaven? So he's not talking about the atmosphere. The Bible refers to a second concept of heaven, and uh it that is referring to outer space Turn with me if you would to let's go to 1 Kings. I like this one. This is fascinating. 1 Kings chapter 8. I think most of us are familiar with Psalms 19, verse 1 and 2. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day and the day others speak, night and night goes on. And so, but look in I uh uh 1 Kings chapter 8. Did I give you the chapter? Chapter 8. Now come down to verse 22. Solomon here is offering the prayer of dedication for the temple he's built. This is a magnificent structure And he's built this for the glory of God. Of course, David provided the materials before he died. Solomon has brought this thing together. And beginning in verse number 22 of 1 Kings 8, notice what he says in his prayer. And Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the congregation of Israel. So there's tens of thousands of people spread out here. And spread forth his hands toward heaven, all right, towards the atmosphere where the birds are. So he's standing like this before this. immense crowd of people in front of the altar in front of this majestic building. And this is his prayer. And he said Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in heaven above or on the earth beneath, who keepeth covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their hearts. Who has kept with thy servant David, my father, that thou promised him, and spakest also with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thy hand. uh as it is this day. So he's worshiping God. He's praising God. He's telling all out all these wonderful things, expressing gratitude for all that God has done for him. Now look at this Therefore now, Lord God of Israel, keep with thy servant David, my father, that thou promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel so that thy children take heed to their way, that they walk before me as thou hast walked before me. And now, O God of Israel, let thy word, I pray thee, be verified, which thou spakest unto thy servant David my father. Now look at this. Now he's asking God a question. He's kind of throwing this out there. But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Look at this. Behold the heaven of heavens. cannot contain thee. How much less this house that I have built? Then he goes on with the prayer, yet thou hast respect of the prayer. He goes on. But that caught my attention. That fascinates me. He's standing before this magnificent, massive structure, the temple. I mean, it's hard for us to fathom the beauty and immensity. He's got the altar and all the instruments, the furniture necessary for the worship of God in that economy. And in his prayer, he says to God, he says, God, can you even dwell in this building? And he makes an amazing statement that tells us a lot about God. He says, the heaven of the heavens cannot contain thee. What's he referring to? He's not just referring to the atmosphere where the birds fly. He is talking about what we would call outer space. Where the sun, where the moon, the the solar system, all the planets that revolve around our sun. He's talking about the pictures that the Hubble space Camera up there, satellite. Those pictures that that thing takes of deep space. Anybody ever seen any of those pictures from the Hubble? That is absolutely fascinating. And to think millions and millions and hundreds of millions of light years, the distance that light travels in a year multiplied by hundreds of millions of times These distant galaxies and galaxies beyond number, this universe is incomprehensibly massive And he makes this statement. He says, God, heaven of the heavens cannot contain thee. The whole entire universe cannot contain God. He's bigger than the universe. I read that and I think about that and I thought, the immensity Of the God that I am talking to when I bow and pray that He the whole universe can't contain Him. How many people find that just astounding to think of that? And when you and I come and we're going to pray to God, one of the things I believe he's telling us here, when he says, our Father, which art in heaven, He's saying this God that I'm praying to is so incomprehensibly immense. And that's who I'm talking to. That's who my heavenly father is. So there's three kinds of heavens. One is where the birdies fly, where the rain falls down every day, all day long, um around here. And uh do you realize I thought of this today, most of the world, this type of weather was back in early March. We get it and alright, I'm griping about the weather, I'm sorry. Uh but anyway. Uh and then you have the the universe, but there's a third heaven, if you would take your Bible, turn to 2 Corinthians chapter number 12. And so when he says, Our Father which art in heaven, he's not talking about the atma uh the atmosphere where the birds fly, obviously. He's not referring to the universe because Solomon tells us under the inspiration of God that the universe can't even contain God. So when he says our Father which art in heaven, he is referring to what the Bible calls the third heaven, 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And look with me. I'm going to start reading in verse number one. If I can get there. 2 Corinthians 12, verse 1. Here Paul is again writing under the inspiration of God. He says this: it is not expedient for you, doubtless. For me doubtless to glory, I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, whether in the body I cannot tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell. God knoweth Such a one caught up to the what? The third heaven. I knew such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell. God knoweth. How that he was caught up into paradise. Now, there he uses another term referred to the third heaven, and heard unspeakable words, which is not lawful for a man to utter. So Paul, all Bible scholars agree, and I agree with them, so they must be right. Um he's referring to himself And he goes on, expands a little bit later. But he Paul was saying this. He says, I don't know whether this happened to me literally, physically, that this happened, or it was just spiritual thing or one type of thing, but I was caught up into the third heaven and then he refers to it down, I think it's verse four, as paradise. This is not the universe. This is not uh the the atmosphere and stratosphere and and ozone layer and all that. This is talking to about a third heaven, which is the very dwelling place of God. Revelation goes to great lengths describing this place that Paul is referring to here. And so Paul says, I don't know exactly how this played out, physically or spiritually, but somehow I ended up, God took me up to the third heaven, the very presence of God. And that, when we say, when Jesus says, our Father which art in heaven, he's talking about our God in his very dwelling place. the heaven that people go to when they die into the very immediate presence of God. Now we understand that God is omnipresent. His general presence is everywhere. But he dwells in this third heaven, the very immediate presence of God. It's an amazing thing. Now just a little aside note, he points out here in verse number four about he heard unspeakable words which is not lawful for a man to utter. Now if I understand that correctly, I believe I do. That what he saw and what he experienced there, he was not, it was unlawful for him to share that when he got back to earth, some of the stuff he saw there. That tells me this. This is the reason I'm saying that is that every now and then somebody comes out with a book or some story or something where they went to heaven for a while and then they come back and they're going to tell us all about what they saw in heaven. As soon as they start doing that, I know They did not go to heaven because this verse tells me that it's unlawful to share those things. But Paul saw in them and he wasn't allowed to. So Paul wasn't allowed to I'm pretty sure folks in our day and age are not allowed to share what they say. So uh don't don't don't get too excited when you hear about folks saying, Well, I went to heaven, I was there, I came back, and I'm gonna tell you everything that God told me to tell you. Be very, very careful about that kind of stuff. Be very, very careful. So, nevertheless, here we have this third heaven is presented as a very real, a very definite place. Where it is God's immediate dwelling. It's not the atmosphere. It's not the universe. But it's a um uh maybe another dimension. I don't know exactly how to describe it. But it is a very real, a very definite place, as real as this earth is that we're standing on. Is this Our Father, which art in heaven, just as real as the sun and the moon, just as real as outer space, it is absolutely real. The immediate dwelling place of God. So Jesus is teaching his disciples about prayer. He says, don't pray like the hypocrites. They just want everybody to see them and be impressed with them. Don't pray like the heathen. They just say the more they say, the more chances are God will hear them. That's not the way it is. He says, when you pray, you pray like this. Don't say these words exactly, but pray like this. Our Father, and understand that you are coming to your Heavenly Father A God that loves you and cares immensely about for you, dearly, and has only your best interests in mind. But that Father is in heaven And he is distinct and separate from us, and he is amazing. He is not like us in the sense dwelling here. He is so far Beyond and above us. When we approach God in prayer, I put it this way: when we approach God in prayer, it is vital that we keep in mind the majesty, the immensity, and the greatness. of the God that we're approaching. Now let's be honest. How many folks here ever had a request or you prayed for something? And you didn't really say this, but in the back of your mind you're thinking, And you don't even think it this way, but it's there, is I don't think this could ever possibly happen. Come on now. Anybody ever have that mindset of prayed and I asked and God do this? But really, we're just thinking that is no way. This is impossible. I'm here to tell you, when we come and we pray to our Father, which art in heaven, and we consider the mensity and the greatness and the majesty of the God, Then we'll agree with Jesus when he said this. With man, this is impossible, but with God, all things are possible. And that affects our whole approach to God. So when he says, Our Father, which art in heaven, he's making sure we have the right concept of who it is we're approaching, and the uh majesty and the immensity and the and the the uh uh the greatness Of the God that we are approaching. And so he says, our father, now come back to Matthew. I got a few minutes, but I want to touch on one other thing here. Matthew chapter 6 And he says, our Father, which art in heaven, then he makes another statement. What is it? What follows that? Our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Now again, I think he's addressing the concept of God, that we have a right concept of God. The word hallowed Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. People all around the world just rattle this prayer off. I just our Father Our Father which are in heaven and how be thy name thy kingdom come, thy will be done. They'll say it in their little prayers in church or at a funeral or whatever, and they just rattle it off They're not even thinking about what the Lord was teaching us there. That word hallowed. Anybody want to take a guess? What does the word hallowed mean? Holy is the word it comes from. It's hard for us sometimes to really get a distinct definition of what holy is. We kind of understand it in general terms. But he says, hallowed is thy name. He's making this statement. This is the idea. Your name is set apart from all others. It's hallowed. It's distinct. The word holy comes from the same word we get our word sanctified, which means literally to set apart from everything else. In the Old Testament, they would sanctify the instruments in the temple. They were not allowed to use them for anything else. Remember Belteshar, he had the pot, the um Uh he had the um uh cups and and things from the temple, and he's drinking beer and whiskey and and vodka out of these, or their version of it. And these are instruments that were set apart for the worship of God. And God says, you're found in the balances, your weight in the balances, and you are found what? Wanting. And God destroyed them that night. And so when he says, hallowed be thy name, he says, Your name is above all other names. Your name is set apart from all other names. Hallowed be thy name. In other words, your name is holy. Your name is to be kept holy. Your name is very reverent. The name of God. I want to suggest to you we ought to be very, very careful how we use God's name. God says that his name is holy, it is set apart, it is sanctified. And we live in a society, even among Christians, where God's name is bannied about. in such a uh uh trivial way, in such a frivolous way, when Jesus instructing his disciples to pray. He's saying, when you're praying to God, recognize his name is holy. Now one thing we can say about the the the Jews, the Old Testament Jews, they had their faults. Lord knows that We can see that all through there. But I tell you one thing they recognized was the holiness of God. In fact, we're told that the Jewish scribes, when they would be copying the scriptures over, of course they didn't have printing press and all of that Xerox machines. So they would by hand make copies. When they came to God's name, we are told, they would throw the pen away before that they've been using before. They would wash themselves, they would get a brand new pen, and they would write the name of God, then they'd set that pen aside and go by because they had such reverence for the name of God In fact, in some situations, they wouldn't even say or spell God's name. So one thing they understood was the greatness and the holiness of God. So Jesus says, uh when you pray, pray this. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Now what do we think of when you think of name? What do we mean by we say that's his name? What are we referring to? Alright, what we call them, it would be their identification, right? That's uh there's Brian, so everybody knows we're identifying who we're talking about. Uh children, uh little Stormy had her baby Is it yesterday? Um and she named it Vivian Grace. Isn't that a beautiful name? I like that name. Um that doesn't mean I don't like your name. I'm just saying I like So you know people get offended by everything. But anyway, that's we identify that. And so when he says, hallowed be thy name, that he's referring to the title that represents God. uh that identifies that person. In fact, a name is often an indicator about a person's character. I could, I won't do it because uh I don't want to, but I could say some famous person's name And you would immediately think about, all right, let me do it this way, let me do this. What do you think of when I say the name Benedict Arnold? Traitor. That name identifies a characteristic of that man. And that characteristic was so overwhelming and so uh influential that that name becomes identified then And so a name is often, and particularly in the Bible, a name often had more than just an identification of who that person is, but it was also an indicator of the type of character they were Does anybody know what the name Jacob means? Anyone remember? Subplanter is the literal term. It means this idea. Jacob's name meant literally he's a trickster. You couldn't trust him. He was untrustworthy. He was sneaky. He'd he'd uh undercut you, man, he'll get your birthright. He'll get the first blessings of the firstborn. I mean, he lived up to it. And so his name but when he wrestled with God, God changed him. And God not only changed his character, but he changed his name. He says, Thou shalt no longer be called Jacob, which is subplanter, but thou shalt be called what? Israel. Because as a priest Thou hast uh uh had victory with God. I'm not quoting that correctly. And he changed his name because his character was changed, and now he's known as Israel. And so when Jesus is teaching us To pray after this manner, yeah, follow this pattern, follow these principles laid out. The first one is adoration of God, worship of God, our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. And he's saying, keep in mind what God is like, the character of God. We use nicknames today, which refer to somebody as tiny. They may have the nickname Tiny. What do you picture when you hear somebody's nickname Tiny? Some big old guy. But the ch the name we give them identifies a little bit about him. Uh we put down, I put uh uh there was a was he uh a pool player Fats Domino Anybody remember old was was he a singer or was he a pool player? Singer. And uh name, you know, you just picture what he looked like Oh we had a little kid uh down in Tennessee rode a bus. I lo I don't know what it ha he has to be in his thirties or forties by now I guess. I don't know. But uh he rode the bus. I love the kid dearly. Get what his nickname was? Cornbread. I always wonder how in the world and that and nobody knew his real name. I mean everybody was Cornbread. That's what I that's what I figure. He must have liked cornbread. He looked like he loved cornbread. And so names what I'm trying to say is this names often identify not just who that person is, but what they're like. And so when we talk about hallowed be thy name, Jesus is teaching us when we pray, remember not only just who God is, our Father, and what he's like as far as the massive, majestic majesty of God in heaven. We need to remember that He is holy. He is holy. God's name is hallowed because God is holy Lord willing, my plan is uh in June I want to start a series through the summer months on Sunday mornings on introducing God. And I really believe that we have gotten so far away of understanding what God is like in our churches and in our nation. That would do us real good to stop and come back. Who exactly is this being that we refer to as God and what is he like? And I think a lot of times we have never really stopped and considered what is God like. And so Lord will, in the summer, we're going to come back and try and see, all right, what exactly is God like? What is he like? Some of the things we know from his name being hallowed, one thing we know about God is he is all-knowing. He is all knowing. He already knows. Let me ask you this question. In the matter of prayer, I'm coming to God to pray. Do you think the fact that God is all knowing would be a factor in my prayers? Sure, I think so. When I'm coming to God in prayer, I need to keep this in mind. I'm not giving God any information that he doesn't already have. When I'm coming to God, I have a need. Lord, I really, God, with all my heart, I need this. My Heavenly Father knows that. I know that. He knows the situation I need changed. He knows the sin that I'm confessing. Keep in mind when I'm confessing sin to God, which is a part of my prayer When I'm confessing sin to God, I'm not surprising God with something I've done. How many, how many parents, most of us are older here, our kids are grown, how many You found out after your kids were growing some stuff they did when they were little and you're like, what? You did what? Anybody can I get a witness? I never know. Uh God never says, What? You ever think about that? God, I messed up, Lord, and whatever, I said this, did that, whatever. God's not, huh? God already knew about it. God already knew about it. That tells me something about prayer. Prayer is usually more for my good than God's information. It's me getting straightened out, me getting my heart and mind and thinking in tune. Hallowed be thy name when I come to God. I'm coming to an omniscient God, all-knowing. I cannot give God information He doesn't already have. I wanted to go to Hebrews, but I I want to start winding down here. But Hebrews 4. 13 it says, God uh all things are open and In other words, nothing's hidden from God. I have no doubt in my mind, I know this for a fact, I'm talking to some folks that have incredibly broken hearts right now. Maybe nobody else in the world knows, maybe nobody outside of your home knows about it, but I'm telling you this, God already knows about it. God knows about that. That situation that's killing us, God already knows about it. And uh I'm not giving them some information. I'm not surprising him. And then God is not only all knowing, but God is omnipotent, all powerful. This idea that God is bigger than the universe, that it can't even contain the heaven of heavens can't contain them. That just captures my imagination. And I come to God with my request, and it seems so overwhelming to me and so impossible, but then I stop and consider who I'm talking to. And suddenly it seems awfully small. Seems like, well, God could take care of this, and he can. And then God is holy. God is holy. I would like for you to go to this and I'll end with this passage. Hebrews chapter twelve. How do you define what holiness is? How do we grasp in our minds what it means to be perfectly holy? Here's my feeble attempt at defining the holiness of God. I put it, this means God is perfectly just and righteous. He is completely without moral imperfections in any way. Look at Hebrews chapter 12, and I want to read verse number 28 and 29. I like Hebrews 12, it's a great chapter. Look at verse 28 and 29. Wherefore, we receiving a kingdom which cannot be removed, let us have grace. whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. Now he uses the term serve there, and that's correct. But I want to, for the sake of our message, inject a little different word, and I don't think I'm doing scriptural teaching injustice, whereby we may pray to God. Acceptably, with reverence and what? Godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire I think this verse is capturing what the Lord is saying in Matthew 6 when he says, after this matter pray, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Instructing us to come to this God. That's our Father. But we need to come with reverence and godly fear. In prayer, I am approaching an all-powerful, eternal, all-knowing, all-wise, holy God. But because I'm in Christ, He's my father. That amazing thing. This incomprehensible God, Father. I'm born into his family through Christ. So the Lord's setting up this prayer in amazing, amazing ways. What does the Bible say in 2 Chronicles 7. 14? If we want revival, if my people, which are called by my name, shall what? Humble themselves. Do you agree with me? Humbling myself is seeing God. for his majesty and holiness and what he is. That is humbling. Humble himself and pray. Turn the wicked way. Seek my face. Then well here they're here. I think that's right in line what the Lord is teaching. So one thing we can take away from this first principle of the Lord's Prayer is adoration of God for His power, His majesty, His holiness, but the fact that He's my Father. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord, in our prayer life, to have a renewed sense of your power, your majesty, your purity, your holiness, but also Your love and care for us as our Father. I pray you'd revive our prayer lives. We pray they would come alive with answers and direction and our hearts and lives being changed Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I've been praying and praying since we've started this that God would revive me and revive my prayer life. I've been asking Him. That my prayer life would fall in line with what I understand the Bible teaches about prayer. And how many with me would say, preacher, I'm with you on this. I really am going to ask God to send a real revival to my prayer life. On a daily basis, I come to God. I come to Him in a scriptural way As the Lord presents here. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my prayer. God bless you. My hand's raised, and that's what I'm asking God. For revival. As I can see this. Father, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. You know where we're at. You know what we want, Lord, and yet we fall short of it. So we ask you to teach us and help us like you did the disciples so long ago. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Let's stand together, heads bowed, eyes closed. I just think it's appropriate on this subject, especially. Kathy plays a few verses of imitation. Maybe just bow at an altar, bow before the Lord, and ask him to send a real revival in our prayer life and stir us that our whole concept and our approach to the Lord would be what it ought to be. How about it?