Reading in verse number nine. This is a sermon on the mound, greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. And he's discipling his disciples On how to pray. And he told them in the previous verses, you remember, he told them how not to pray. Don't pray like hypocrites and don't pray like the heathen. And then he says verse 9, after this manner. And we already said, I don't think he's telling us just to repeat this verbatim, but he said, this fashion, follow this pattern. He says, After this matter, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen Refer to this as the Lord's Prayer. Now what I'm doing, what I want to do, and I introduced this the other week, is I want to take this prayer that the Lord gave as a pattern, and um uh I want to break it down into five sections. to help us pray as an outline for our prayers. And that's where that little handout you have there is. And we went over that the other week back before missions conference. And I want to kind of follow this because I see these five points that were given to me years ago by an old-time preacher And as I studied this, I saw they fit in beautifully, not necessarily the same chronological order, but the points are there and the pattern is there. And so we're going to follow that. And what I want us to look at tonight is the first We're probably only going to get part of it, but the first two verses, and we're going to look at the matter of adoration or the worship in our prayer. So I'll try to explain it. and uh see what we get. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask now that you speak to our hearts from this passage of scripture. Lord, we are excited about track month and what you did there and the and the the number of tracks that have gotten out and the folks that were exposed to the gospel, um Lord I have no doubt in my mind, some of these tracks are still in living rooms, in kitches, in cars maybe in pockets of a jacket somewhere and I believe they'll bear fruit in many for many, many years. I have no doubt about that. And then the newspaper and that ad, where that got out to, who knows? People might have cut it out, hung it up on a refrigerator. Who knows where that ends up. And so we just commit all this effort to you, Lord. It's your word, it's your gospel, and uh we pray you'd use it to save souls Now we talk about prayer. I ask Lord that we would saturate our efforts with prayer, and we could be known we could uh have the same characteristics that the New Testament church was known to have Preaching and prayer, preaching in prayer, preaching the gospel. So let that be true in our lives, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen All right, as I said, I'll try and pick up here where we're at, but as I said, we um uh we don't find out, we don't find Jesus teaching the disciples how to preach. You know where he's going to say preach this way, he doesn't say this is how you organize things, this is how you do that. But one thing he does do, he teaches him over and over and over again is how to pray. This is how you should pray. I like what D. L. Moody said. I referenced it before. He said, I'd rather be able to pray than to be able to preach. And I'm wondering if um the prayers of God's people haven't had as much or maybe more impact on the world and humanity. as the preaching of the Word of God is. And so we're looking at prayer. If you have your handout there, we broke it down into five sections. And the first one we have here is adoration. And I get in verse number nine is where we get that. Then we have exaltation or praise. I added a little bit to it. We went over this the other week, praising God for spiritual things, for physical things, for people. Then confession. We don't want to write that down. We confess that to the Lord and it's done. We don't want a record of that. And then submission, submitting to the Lord, and then asking and making our request. So let's come back up here to this adoration. Look at verse number nine. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Now here's what he said. Notice how he starts out here Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I describe that as adoring the Lord. His his prayer starts out and he's uh and he's worshiping God. He's recognizing who God is and what he's like. And the point I want to try and start out with this, is this. Adoring God and worshiping God should our whole lives should be characterized by that. Every part of our life ought to be characterized by worshiping God. We should not just turn our worship on and turn it off. Uh I've never referred to and I'm not against it and I've got good friends that do. I'm not opposed, I don't think it's sinful or wrong, but I've never done it. I've never called our church services, I've never called them worship services I don't know if you notice that I mentioned it a few times over the years. And the reason being is this, we don't come here uh we don't turn worship on when we come into the service and then turn it off when we leave Worship should be characterized our entire life. We ought to be worshiping God as much Monday morning at 1045 as we are Sunday morning at 1045. You see what I'm saying? It ought to characterize our lives, everything we do. It's not something we turn off. Alright, we're worshiping God now. Alright, now we're not. That's foreign in Scripture. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here, but turn with me to 1 Corinthians And chapter number 10. And this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. I highly recommend. If you don't have this verse memorized, you ought to memorize it, and I recommend underscoring it at least in our Bibles. 1 Corinthians chapter number 10. Look with me. Anybody know where I'm going with this? Any ideas? 1 Corinthians 10. 31. Come down to chapter 31. We're talking about our whole life, every aspect of my life, being a part of worshiping God. 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Look what it says. Whether therefore ye Eat. I think it refers to spaghetti. That's what we just did. And whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do what? All to the glory of God. You know what that's saying? Every aspect of our life ought to be an exercise in worship. I ought to be worse. Everything I'm doing is doing for God's glory, recognizing his supreme authority over my life, submitting to him and trusting him and obeying what he says. And that's what glorifies God. That's what lifts him up. That's what gives him the glory. The word whatsoever there is interesting. I got studying that. I thought this was really interesting. The word whatsoever has this idea, an itemized list. How many people here when you go to grocery store or whatever, you get the receipt and when you walk out you walk look down through the receipt and make sure the right price is what they charge you. Anybody ever do that You get an itemized list. That's the idea there. Whatsoever you do. Everything you say, all right, what did I do today? Everything on that list I did that day, I should have done for what The glory of God. I should have done it as an act of worship to God. I'm doing this for God. I'm doing this so God looks good. I'm doing this so people will praise the Lord. I'm doing this so God is exalted And not just what I do, how I'm doing it, the whole process. So that word whatsoever is an itemized list, or it means this. Every, each specific thing. So that's why I'm saying is we don't come to church and say, alright, now we're going to worship, and then we leave, alright, now we're not worshiping. Everything, me getting up and brushing my teeth in the morning Eating oatmeal for breakfast. Um, you know, whatever, in the morning tying my tie, everything I want to be my best, I want to do it for God's glory. Whatsoever you do. It has this idea, and this is one of the definitions in one of the um uh dictionaries I looked it up. Uh has this idea anything and everything. Anything and everything. So what aspect of my life should be lived for the glory of God? Any aspect and every aspect Ought to be done for God's glory, ought to be an act of worship. And so um uh and so that carries over into our prayer life. He says, listen, this is the way you ought to pray. Don't pray like the heathen. They just say stuff over and over and over, and they think God will hear them because they say it so much. Don't pray like the hypocrites. They do it just to be heard of men and look good. He said, when you pray, the very first thing you got to do is get your focus in mind on God so that the results of this prayer God is exalted. God is glorified, brings worship to God. So, prayer, and I don't remember if I pointed this out or not. Come back to Matthew, and here's something that ties right in with this Notice in verse number 9, he says, after this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Did I touch on this the other week? And then he comes down, he says, uh, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven. Then you get to verse 11, give Us. And so the attention changes, the focus changes. And so as prayer life begins, this pattern prayer he gives to us. This model that we're to follow and pattern our prayers after, it begins with the focus on God, not on us. Now, how many times do we come and our whole mindset in my prayer is going to be, I need this. I want this. I need God to do this. I need this. I need that. I want this. I need this. Lord, I need that. And that's fine. It has its place. But the pattern that God gives us, the motto He gives us, doesn't begin with what I need. It begins with how great God is. And it's a whole different focus on our prayer life. And so and it's true in our lives that we ought to our whole life ought to first of all be lived uh lived for God. We must place our focus on God in our prayers. Place concentrate our mind on the Lord when we pray Rather than being so focused on what we want or what we need or what the situation is, oh I got this, I'm overwhelmed with this, just stop, put that aside. The very first thing I need to do is our Father, my Father, which art in heaven and get my focus on God and get a right position there. Uh the mu majority of our requests Focus on what? Look at the prayer list. Yeah, it's us. Look at the prayer list. The overwhelming majority of requests on the list are I gotta get feel better. I need I'm sick. I don't feel good. I don't can't do this. I can't do that. And that's fine. We're to let a request be known to him. We come to God in prayer, we need to stop and put us second. And put God first and get our mindset on that. Uh and if you look at this prayer request, and we'll try and point this out as we work our way through here But if you look at that, the majority of the request that Jesus gives here is God's will being done. That's the overwhelming emphasis in this prayer he gives us. Not our will being done. But God's will be none. The emphasis here is God's name being glorified, not me getting more stuff. God's kingdom being advanced, not my kingdom And so the overwhelming concern of this prayer that the Lord gives us as a pattern is God's glory. There is no aspect of our lives as disciples that begins with us. Regardless of our condition, it must not begin with us, it must begin with the Lord. Our circumstances, our desires. Take your Bible, if you would, come over to verse number 33. We're in chapter 6, but look what he says in verse 33. Who knows what verse 33 says? But seek ye first the kingdom God, his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Do you see the same setup there? In the Lord's prayer, it was thy kingdom, thy will be done. Our Father which art in heaven, uh, and it's all on God, then it's my request. Matthew 6 33 is the same setup Seek ye first the kingdom of God in his righteousness, and then all these things will be added unto you. Your requests will be met. And so what we try here's what we try to do. This is uh what I was wanting to get at. We try to compartmentalize God. Now what do I mean by that? What do you think? When I say we try to compartmentalize God, what are we trying to do? Put him in a box. That's another way of saying it. What do you mean by that? Anybody you follow what I'm thinking? Compart yeah. Uh yeah, what we do is we do something like this. Alright, God, this is the compartment you are in. And when I want God, I want things of God, I'll come over here. Lord, this is your day. This is the day that you the rest are mine. But Lord, this is your day. And that day I'll do what you want. The rest of the time it's mine. You follow what I'm saying? And we put God, we put them in these little compartments. Lord, this is your room. Over here's your room. So when I come and I want to interact with you or whatever, I'll come over there and uh we'll do whatever. But Lord, the rest of the time, all the rest of the rooms are mine. And I'll do what I want and I'll deal with what I want. Or this day is yours. The rest of the days are mine. This 10% is yours. The other 90% is mine. Um and and w that's what he's teaching us here. We have to begin with God. We have to begin with the Lord. Um This is what we try to do. We try to worship God the way we work our jobs, I think. What do we do? Uh I don't uh you know you work on assembly line or whatever, you're not taking the parts home and working on it home generally. You're going in and you're punching in and this is the time I give to my employer And when I'm done, I punch out and I go do my thing. In fact, we say it, this is my time. This is my time. And that's fine. That's to understand it that way. But our Christian life must not be that way Our Christian life needs to be the Lord has it all. It begins and ends with God. And so he says, our father This very prayer begins with recognizing God. Too often our desires dominate our prayer lives rather than God's will being done and God's glory being given. We want this, we want this, we want this, we want this, we want this. We say, anybody ever think this way? God didn't answer my prayer. Anybody ever think that way? I prayed this prayer, God didn't answer my prayer. You know what? Maybe God did answer it in a way that he gets the glory and we not get what we were asking for. See what I'm saying? And so we have to come, we begin our prayer with this mindset, God is God, His will be done, His kingdom come. And I'm submitting to him. Now it's not that we can't ask our own requests. We can. He tells us to. And in the pattern, he has it here. But we have our priorities right, and the emphasis must be right And um and uh that's so important. Now, let's look at what he says here. That's the whole attitude, the atmosphere of the first of the start of this verse. Our father I'm submitting to God, I'm exalting the Lord, I'm glorifying him right at the start of my prayer, I'm putting things in place Now, let's look at what he says. The first thing I notice, our Father, which art in heaven. Um First thing I notice when we pray and we have God in the right place, this is what I put it down, a correct connection. Our Father. Doesn't say our God. He says our Father. Now we have to, if we're going to pray the way Jesus instructs us to, we need to have this idea. The relationship I have in my prayers is just like a child's relationship with their father. This is a new concept a little bit in the New Testament. In the Old Testament, the Jews' relationship with God was You stay away, you stay back. Remember when Moses went up on Mount Sinai? Anybody that comes up there, they're getting fried. You know, they're not going to make it. And the whole concept, the holy of holies Only only the high priest, one day out of the year, gets to go in there into the presence of God. Now there's a change taking place. Jesus Christ is removing that sin that has separated us. He's going to shed his blood. Now he's introducing this whole new concept. God is not some Yahweh way far out there that's hard. I can't approach him. He's so holy. I'm so sinner. I can't even approach him. Now it's like a little kid coming running in and approaching his father. And so it's all uh the the connection is right. This is an intimate approach with God. Um you know my boys sometimes, and uh of course they're grown now, but not not as much, but occasionally it still happens, they'll say, Dad I need to talk to you. And that's either good or really bad. I need to talk to you. And then we get our and they'll say stuff and they'll ask questions and they'll discuss things that they don't want to discuss out with other people. It's an intimate type thing And Jesus is saying, we're approaching our Father. I can come to God. Now I start with Him, but it's an intimate approach to God. It's a personal approach to God. It's so different than what the Old Testament saints had. This is new. Where they can approach God, referring to God as their Father. Now, the Old Testament concept is still true. God is still holy, He is, apart from Christ, inapproachable. But through Christ, I can now approach this holy, fearful, awesome, intimidating God But I can approach him because I'm in Christ. He's my Father now. And so there has to be a right connection. By the way, only true believers can refer to God as their Father. Only people are saying the world, the religions of the world, they have like this term. They call it the universal fatherhood of God. And I promise you there are pro quote unquote preachers in our town that believe in the universal fatherhood of God. Now what do we mean when we say that when they say that term universal fatherhood of God, what are they talking about? What do they mean by that? Hey, we're all God's children. You watch news at all, you watch Fox News, Bill O'Reilly, I've heard him say that a number of times. Well, we're all God's children. Now that sounds good and it sounds real kumbaya ish and it's ecumenical, but it's not scriptural. The Bible does not support that. We are not all God's children. That is not true Now take your Bibles. I want to show you a few verses here with this. And go to John chapter number 8. Now, if anybody would have been considered the children of God, it's the people Jesus was addressing in John chapter 8 and verse number 44. He's talking to the religious leaders, the people, the the folks uh uh pee See that? He's still holy, you know, so we better be careful. But uh he's referring to Uh the folks that the the population considered to be great men of God. If anybody was a child of God, these people were. And in John, what's that? No, they weren't. The people thought they were, but look what Jesus says to them in John chapter 8, verse 44. Ye, these Pharisees, are of your father the devil. Can you imagine how they reacted to that, the Pharisees? I I don't know. I'm uh they are ticked. How dare ye say this? This is almost blasphemous in their mind. Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there's no truth in him. So that one statement there tells us that this idea of the universal fatherhood of God is bunked. Scripture does not support it. Go over to John chapter 1. And verse number twelve. John chapter 1 and verse 12. We use this sometimes in our soul winning, but this refutes this idea, this false teaching that everybody is a child of God. John 1 12, notice what it says. But as many as What? Received him. To them gave he power to become the sons of God. To as many, even to them which believe on his name. Now the word you need to understand there is the word power. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. That word power there means have the authority to claim for myself a child of God. As many have received the Lord Jesus Christ, they had the authority of God to say, God is my Father, I'm his Son. That's what the word power there means. It does not mean They had the ability to become the child of God that somehow I can be good enough, God gives me power, I can be good enough, and I'll become a son of God. No, that's not what he's saying So if you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, you have the power, He's given you the power or the authority to see yourself and understand yourself to be a Son of God. So, how many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen Amen. That means we have authority from God to say, I am a child of God. I'm a son of God because I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I believe on his name. And so, uh now here's a question comes up. If you would, come over to Acts chapter 17. I want to kind of touch on this real quick. Sometimes folks will use this verse to say, oh, but what about this passage? This passage says In so many words, that we are all the children of God. Acts 17 and verse number 28. Paul is in Athens and he's disputing with these guys. These are unsaved people. He's confronting them. Now he's using a little tactful approach. He's quoting some of their poets. And he's trying to make a connection with it. And he's saying, you know, some of your guys have said this. And he's trying to get their eyes and their trust off of these false idols and onto the true and living God. And look in verse number 28. Look what he says, verse 17 He says, um, for in him, speaking of God, we live and move and have our being, as certain also of your own poets have said. So he's referring to their own writings. Ye for we are also his what? Offspring. Verse 29. For as much then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, silver, stone, graven by art and man's devices. Then he goes, Times of this ignorance, God winked at So what's he saying here? He says we're all the offspring of God. What's he talking about there? He's not talking about being in a relationship as a child of God. He's simply saying God did what God created all of us. We're all the creation of God. And so that is true in the essence. The unsaved and and the saved person are both the offspring of God. in the sense that God created us. God gave us that light. And he's trying to confront their uh faith in these idols that can't talk. They didn't create us. We're not their offspring. We're not made in their image But we as humans are in the image of God. So he says, our Father which art in heaven. He's talking to saved people. Only a saved person can approach God as our Father. The Bible puts a clear distinction between those who belong to God and those who do not. And only those who have accepted Jesus Christ their Savior can come to God as their Father, can claim Him as their Father. So when he says he starts off this prayer, it's an it's an expression of worship and adoration of God, and he said, and uh he says, Our Father, after this matter pray, our Father which art in heaven Now, uh there has to be a right connection, and then there has to be a right uh cons conception. Our Father, which art in heaven. Now, if we're not careful If he would have stopped and said, Our Father, this is where you ought to pray, our Father, uh, and uh if he would have said, let me get there and quote it correctly, if he would have said, Our Father Hallowed be thy name. Or suppose let's just leave that off. Our Father, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in heaven. Let's leave that off. Suppose he would have went, our Father, give us this day our daily bread. That would probably be more like the prayers we pray Wait done. He is our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. So we have the connection. I'm his child, he's my father, so I'm approaching him in a very intimate personal way. It's like I'm coming to my father. But he qualifies it and he clarifies here a little bit, which are in heaven. Here's the thing I'm trying to point out. People have different concepts of what a relationship with a father is like. Would you agree with me? There's all different kinds of ideas of what a father is. Some people have fantastic fathers. And they love their kids and they're teach them and they lay out the rules right and wrong and they guide them and they're just fantastic fathers. Some people have fathers that are terrible. And they're hard, and they're absent and they're selfish. And their whole life is all about them and me and mine. And so when the Lord says, uses that phrase, our Father, I think there's an idea behind this so that people don't mistakenly Portray unto God the characteristics of their father, he says, this is what our heavenly father is like. You follow what I'm saying? He's clarifying their understanding of what God the Father really is, because it's very easy to portray unto God the characteristics of our father that are not true about God. Now I had a great dad, but he was human. And he had his flaws and his mistakes and all that, as everyone does And so I have to be and I come to God as my father, I don't mistakenly view God as treating me and being the kind of being that my father was to me, and though my father was a great father to me. You follow what I'm saying? And so I think he puts that our Father which art in heaven there to uh clarify the fact that God is our Father. We have access to an intimate relationship It's personal and come right to him just like a kid crawling up on his loving daddy's all-wise daddy's lap and you know, pour my heart out to him, tell him the things I need and the things I would like and the things that are bothering me and How I messed up and I want to get that right and do right here. I can pour all that out to God just like He's uh He is my father. I can pour that out like a child to a father. But I have to also remember That Father is incredibly holy. That he is in heaven. And that Old Testament concept of God is still in place. And we must not we must never think of God as the old man upstairs. As just and and I think it's all right to refer, I hear people sometimes, and and and I'm I'm not against it, it's just I think you have to be careful. People refer to God as uh daddy And uh he is our father and we can approach that way, but we need to come with tremendous respect. For who he is. The fact that he is in heaven and his name is hallowed. And it's his kingdom, not ours. And it's to come with this awe that he's my father, he's in heaven. That's a wonderful truth. But he's in heaven and he's holy and he's the head of this kingdom And so I come intimately, personally, boldly, Hebrews tells us, but very, very respectfully, very, very humbly, very, very worshipfully. To God. And so can you imagine if we start every day, we start our prayer time boldly coming to God like a father loves his child, a child loves their father, but also Recognizing He is holy, He is powerful, and He is God. He's in heaven. And very, very reverently. I tell you what that'll do. That'll change our whole mindset. As we approach our prayer time, our whole way of thinking as we come into our prayer time. And so The first part, as you see on the little outline we gave you there, is a time of adoration or worship and recognizing and remembering and thanking God for who and what he is. So let's pray. Father in heaven We ask Lord that you would reveal yourself to us and help us to understand a little clearer in our hearts and mind is who you are and what kind of Father you are and and uh your holiness and your your uh position. as head of the world, the universe. And so I pray you'd stir our hearts and help us to pray with this mindset in. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. We do have one little item. Rebecca is coming and she wants she has actually moved her membership to another church.