Chapter 16, we're back here again. We've been looking at this passage for oh five or six years now. No, not quite that long. But uh a king and a musician, and I just want to bring one more, we've uh been looking at this, I've kind of taken a couple rabbit trails as we work down through here because this passage touches on some subjects that are not directly related to the life of David, but nevertheless they do affect us. And so I tried to explore some of those a little bit. And um my wife was oh it's been a year or so ago, but she got this thing where if she saw a ri a trail going off, a little dirt road going off or a thing, she'd want to drive up there and see what it is, you know, and go up there and Uh she'd get up and be a drug gang M13, maybe shooting at her, and she'd come flying out. And so no no, not really But uh that's kind of what we've been doing. We've been seeing a little trails here as we work our way through. In this last section, uh I'm just gonna read verse 23. 1 Samuel 16. Now you remember the context. Remember what the situation is. Samuel is so backslidden God's removed his spirit. He doesn't do that now in this age, but back then the spirit could be removed from even a saved person. So God removed his spirit, and in its place an evil spirit from the Lord's upon Saul. Tremendous distress, discouragement, overwhelming. um uh depression comes upon uh soul. You know when the presence of God leaves something it leaves a huge vacuum, doesn't it? Leaves a big vacuum hole there. And so um so we looked at that and we considered Saul's steps to getting to that point from being a great man and deteriorating down to this position where he's at now. Then we looked at David. David's called in. They said, Whoa, they got this great idea. I'll tell you what, let's bring a musician in. Somebody play some nice music. And it'll calm you'll do good. So they found David. They knew about him, brought him. And then we looked at David. And some characteristics of David that is mentioned there in verse number 18. And we went down through there. And boy, what amazing young man David was. And uh my heart was stirred by thinking about David. I would love to have uh met him back then at that situation. And now we're on to the music itself, and we're talking about the influence. Let me see how I worded it here. The dynamics of the gifted musician. And I tell you, if somebody understands music as God intends for it to be, and they are able to use that music uh in the proper way, it has a profound impact upon Christian lives and upon the church. Uh it can in a positive way. However, remember we touched on the fact that Satan is a master musician. He was created as a musician and perhaps heaven's choir director at one point before the fall. And he understands the power and influence in music. And uh we don't have to look far in our world to see how Satan has used music to deteriorate uh not just our generation but previous generations. And so we're looking at the subject of music. Verse number 23. I think I need to turn my mic on here, Dave. Verse 23 of 1 Samuel 16, it says, and it came to pass, and we've pointed some of this out numerous times as we worked on this, but it says, It came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul. Look at this. That David took a harp and played with his hand. Look at this. And so Saul was what? Refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. Now, as I said, I mentioned before, I put in the margin my Bible, music affected him physically, emotionally, and spiritually. the power of music to affect us. And so I want to continue that. And uh what I want to do tonight and um is just give some, again, this is a little rabbit trail, but I want to give some principles or characteristics of godly music, and maybe it would help us uh to evaluate the music that we allow ourselves to be exposed to. The music we expose ourselves to We can't help it, but we're going to be exposed to ungodly music. We live in a world that is saturated with ungodly music. How many people ever stood at sheets and got blasted with ungodly music standing there pumping your gas? Anybody go to Denny's? And you sit on there and pfft. I loved it when uh brother Mike Stubler was with us. You know, he had numerous brain surgery, had his tumors removed, he had this horrendous scar from the side of his face up across the top here, and uh it was just awful. And didn't bother him a bit. And I loved going out to eat with him. We were at Applebee's in Morgantown. He had a doctor's appointment where we sat her in Applebee's and he had this music just And so Mike uh I said, man, I wish they'd turn it down. He says, I'll get 'em turn it down. And he did. And uh the lady came over, he goes, uh Can you turn that music down a little bit? Oh, I'm sure. I'm so sorry. Nice and quiet and peaceful So we live in a little world with ungodly music, but Mike used that to his this is a this is a rabbit trail off a rabbit trail but This is a funny story. He was talking to somebody, it might have been someone here in a church, but he had been convinced that they had transplanted some dog glands into his he side of his head here when they did the thing. And uh the the person's like, no way, no, no, really. He says, here, you can feel it right here. And he reached up and touched and he went, They scared them out of their stocks. Oh my When Mike got saved, it's very similar in some ways to my salvation. When he got saved, now back in my day it was rock and roll. You know, good times rock and roll. But Mike, it was more rap. And when he got saved, it didn't take him long. God convicted that and he destroyed all that music. He told me one time, it's like 1,400, maybe a thousand, I don't know. bunch of money's worth of rap music just destroyed it all. He says, this isn't of God. I don't want this influence in my life. Isn't that something? So uh let's pray and we give you some uh principles. You might want to jot these down Father, I ask now you'd bless as we study this subject of music, and Lord, I can't help but think that heaven isn't filled with music. That heaven is filled with music. And I, Lord, we study our Bible and we see how music has been such a part of your interaction with man and man's worship of you. And so I pray you'd help us. We live in a world filled with sound and music of all sorts. So we want to be wise. We want you to be pleased with us. And Lord, we want our guard our our hearts and our minds And uh with good godly music and not the wrong influence. So please fill me with your spirit. I pray that you would teach all of us tonight through me And that we'd give you the glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing I learned when we put our radio station up back in 1999, I found out that about everybody listens to the radio when they're in the car or something. They're listening to something. And I found out that when we put the godly radio station on and got some godly music, uh, it gave somebody people another alternative. And so we want an alternative as from what the world offers us. A couple things here. Oh, this is a uh this is another little ps But um I was talking to a preacher friend of mine that's going through a very difficult time. We've been friends for many, many years, and he's going through a very difficult time And uh I was driving over yesterday to see Brother Charlie Ross and Ma's driving us talking to him. We talked about a half hour. And um I said something about David, King David, and I said, you know, God puts us through hard times to prepare us and train us us and we come out stronger. I said, I believe you're going to come out of this stronger. I said, I believe you'll be able to help people in a more thorough way and with more understanding. And we got talking, he says, you know, it reminds me of David. And uh David and Saul, King Saul. I said, I'm preaching on that right now. He goes, well, let me tell you something I observed, and somebody had shared this with him. He said, I wonder if the reason King David was f a success as a king and King Saul was a failure in in very real way as a king. He says, King David went through a series of tests and trials and battles before he ever got into the throne. Whereas we have no record of King Saul ever going through any of that. He was just plucked out and put in. Whereas we have a record of several years and a pretty good period of time that David is fighting giants, he's killing lions, he's being chased all over creation by the psycho-king. He fails and defects off to the enemy, and he goes through all of that. And so he goes through an incredible period of trials and testings and failures and heartache and fear Before God ever put him into the throne. And you see David indoors. Even after he's on the throne in failures, he deals with them. And uh I th I thought my preacher friend had a good point there That God is preparing David and He's gone through that. And you can't study the life of David without understanding the role music played in David's life. David was before David was ever a soldier, he was a musician. Before David was ever a king, he was a musician. As a young boy on the side of a mountain with a flock of sheep, he learned Principles of music. He learned the influence and power of music in our relationship with God And so we're studying the life of David, and it makes perfect sense when you look at his life that you need to stop and study music a little bit. and understand its role there. So as I said, I want to give a few principles here, and I'd like for all of us to evaluate the music I listen to that I choose. Like I said, some of it we have no choice. It's just we're exposed to it But the music I choose to expose my heart, my soul, and my mind to. I want to ask us to evaluate it a little bit tonight. Number one, this goes through it. And again, a lot of this isn't original with me. I am not a student of music anyway, but I am a student of the Bible. Number one, I put this down. Godly music praises the Lord Jesus, not man. Godly music praises the Lord Jesus and not man. I believe David clearly understood that. We're going to look at a good bit of verses this evening, and if you would, most of them, a lot of them are in Psalms. So if you would go with me to Psalms chapter 9 Psalms chapter nine. I ate a peanut butter chocolate chip cookie before church Oh, that's great. But you shouldn't do that before you're going to speak for a while. Psalms chapter 9, and look at verse number 2. And also ate some banana cake with the cream cheese icing on it. I love this I love this new diet I'm on. It's great. Seafood, yeah. You put it in front of me, I'll eat it. Chapter 9, verse 2. Notice the top of the verse. Notice the title underneath there. To the chief musician upon Mufflebin. A psalm of who? David. David wrote this. Pendant under God's inspiration. And look at verse 2. I will be glad and rejoice in thee. Look at this. I will sing praise to who? To thy name, O thou most high. Alright? He's praising godly music, praises the Lord Jesus Christ, not man. So here he says he's praising God's name. He's singing praise to God's name. Come over to chapter twenty-one. And verse number 13. Oh, by the way, look at the look at the title here. It says, To the chief musician, the psalm of who? David, here we go. Verse 13. Be thou exalted, Lord, in thine own strength. So will we sing and praise thy what? Power. So David's singing praise to God's power. He's singing praise to God's name, to God's power. Chapter 28. If you would, turn up a few pages over there Look under the at the top of the chapter, the title there, who wrote this? David. Here we go. He knows, he's writing music, he understands this. And uh verse number seven, the Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted and trusted in him and I am helped. Therefore, because the Lord's my strength, because the Lord's my shield, because I trust him and he helped me, therefore My heart greatly rejoiceth. Look at this. And with my song I will praise him. I will praise him. And then one of the key verses, at least in my Christian life, chapter 40. Shortly after I got saved, I came across Psalm chapter 40, and it clicked with me in a powerful way. Here we are, it's almost 40 years later, and this still, these first three verses mean so much to me. Psalms chapter 40 and verse number one. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up out, uh brought me up also out of a horrible pit out of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock and establish my goings. Now look at verse 3. And he hath put a what? New song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. I like this last verse. Many shall see it and fear. And shall trust in the Lord. When I got saved, God, you've told you so many times, but God so transformed my life, so immediately I was uh I mean literally I was a completely different person 24 hours. From before I got saved till I after I got saved. I mean it was immediate change. And um these guys at work, you know, they're all ex cons and cocaine heads and Uh anybody any remember anybody remember back in the day, Deadheads? Anybody know? And uh old Jim was a deadhead. No, Mark was his name. Mark was a deadhead. And uh I mean my life was so changed it was only a couple weeks Mark came up to me, hey man. You know, I said, hey Mark He goes, man, you you're freaking me out, man. You scare me. I said, what are you talking about? He goes, man, you're so different. Things have changed so much. You scare me. You know what I thought of? I've just been reading this verse, and it says, many shall see it and what? Fear. Fear. But the point I'm trying to make here is this. He says, God put a new song in his mouth, and even praise unto God. Praise unto God. And so God gives us a new song. And that word new there has the idea of newing character. It doesn't mean necessarily newly written, just one written yesterday, although that's not in and of itself wrong, but it was a new character, a new type of song, something different than that the world had been providing him. Something different that what had been in his mouth and heart. Now something of a whole new character is there. And so David clearly understood that godly music praises the Lord Jesus Christ. For sake of time, I don't think we're going to turn there, but would you would jot this down, John chapter 12, and verse 42 through 43. John 12, 42 through 43. And there he's rebuking the Pharisees, and he makes this statement. He said they loved the praise of man more than the praise of God. And I'm afraid if we're not careful, and this is true not just in our music and in our singing and that type of stuff, it can be true in in preaching or anything we're doing. But if we're not careful, we cannot allow ourselves, we must be very careful, we cannot allow ourselves to get where I'm performing so that people think I'm amazing. So that people get. And even within the church, where some circles you almost have where we're idolizing singers and musicians. And when we're hanging big pictures on the wall, you know, and uh we're fainting when they walk by and that type of stuff. I tell you, our worship, our awe, our exaltation is off track. It needs to be the Lord Needs to be the Lord. One thing I've always appreciated here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been the what I believe the sincerity of our musicians. And I'm not saying that just to you know to Smooth up. What's the word? I'm not saying that just to flatter anybody. I'm saying that sincerely. I sincerely believe that The sincerity of I really believe that when folks come up and sing that they're genuinely singing not to be praised but to bring glory to God, and that's the way it ought to be. That's the way it ought to be. Whether we have gifted talents, you know, how gifted we are. I'd far rather have somebody sing so that people th think highly of God. And maybe be off-key a little bit and struggle a little bit, but they're genuinely trying to get people to glorify the Lord Jesus and to have somebody that is opera And they're doing it all for me, everybody. Look how great I am. Look how wonderful I am. And I think God has blessed our church with folks that sincerely want to glorify God. I have a preacher friend of mine and I mean they love the Lord and they're wanting to glorify God also. But they run about 40, 50, 60 folks. Not a massive church, good solid congregation. They have nine concert pianists in the church. And I've always hated him so much for that. And uh but you know, I'll take I'll take a couple folks and play piano pretty good and folks that sing or whatever And they're genuinely trying to point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. The Pharisees love the praise of man more than the praise of God. And we have to be very, very careful. So godly music, number one, is sung uh is uh is for the it i it praises the Lord Jesus Christ and not man, not the singer. Number two, jot this down Godly music, now this ties in close to this, but it's a little different take on it. Godly music is for the Lord. It is not a performance for man. It's for the Lord. It's not a performance for man. Years ago I had somebody and a good person, and I think they just misspoke. But um I'd asked them to sing a special and they did. They did a very good job. Then later they came to me, they said, you owe me big time. I sang that for you Sunday. You owe me big time. And I said, wait a minute, I hope you weren't singing that for me. That ought to be done for what? For the Lord. For the Lord. And really, when a musician gets up here and sings or the choir or whoever, they're really not singing for you and I. They're really singing for the Lord. We're just getting in on it We're just getting in on it. Let me give you some scripture for that. Back Psalms chapter 9 and verse 11. Again, this is David. is uh being used of God to record this. Psalms 9, verse 11. Sing praises to the Lord, which dwelleth in Zion. Declare among the people his doings Sings praises to the Lord. Now we're going to go to the New Testament. We looked at these two verses last week, but man, you can't teach on music and not go to Ephesians chapter number 5. I want you to see these and maybe mark them in your Bibles. Ephesians chapter 5. And then Colossians 3. 16 is almost verbatim, the same. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 19. Verse 18 says, Be not drunk with wine, where is in excess, but be what? Now look at verse 19. I think this is the result of the filling of the Holy Spirit. But be filled with the Spirit Speaking to yourselves in songs and hymns and spiritual songs. Now notice the wording of the last part. Singing and making melody in your hearts to the church congregation. No. To great crowds? No. To who? To the Lord. To the Lord. To the Lord. Alright, Colossians, come over there. Just a few pages. Colossians chapter 3. Verse 16, again it's almost verbatim telling the church here at Colossi uh Colossae Um almost the same thing. Colossians 3:16, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and monishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts. To the Lord. Say oh if a preacher I uh I d uh I'll just stand there and I'll kinda Just kind of follow along. I'm not going to sing. Why not? Oh, everybody would think I'm a terrible singer. I don't want people to think bad of me. Listen, you're not singing for everybody else You're not singing for the person beside you, the person in front of you, the peer person behind you. We're singing to the Lord. To the Lord. Oh, by the way, and I want to be careful in this. I don't know if I can this Let me put it this way, godly music is primarily not for evangelism The music, when God instructs us in Scripture, I can't find anywhere where He instructs us to sing for the purpose of evangelism. Now, I want to qualify that. I believe good godly music can prepare hearts for evangelism. Some of these hymns are powerfully convicting for unsaved. And I believe an unsaved person comes in and another, this is important, why we sing to the Lord and sing sincerely to the Lord gustily and heartily from our hearts. It's God can use that. The Bible says God inhabits the praise of his people. And I think the presence of God is there. And if you have some unsaved people mingled in, they can there are a greater chance of them coming under conviction. You follow what I'm trying to say So music can prepare the hearts, but it's not primarily designed for evangelistic emphasis. Music, as God instructs us in his word, is designed for God's people to express their love and their praise and their awe to God Himself. I'm singing unto the Lord, unto the Lord, unto the Lord. One of the most amazing experiences I had in singing was not in a congregation and uh it was fun this past September I think it was. Brother Hummel had me come up to the big beacon or October had me come up to the big beaten meet beacon meeting up there. Wanted me to lead the singing. And uh that was fun. That was interesting But that wasn't my most amazing experience with music. Dave Heath knows about this. We are over in Kazakhstan. And we had met a couple Christians, Kazakh Christians in the city of Almaty there. And we were meeting and and um and uh getting a feel for the Christians in there, and the last day we had a day free, so The head of this little Bible institute that we had gotten to know while we were there, he was telling us about this mountain you can go up, and it's just a beautiful scene, and we had a half a day or so. So we had a vehicle and we went up there and he took us up and uh we got up there. When we got up there there was another group of Christians we had met. How many people remember Max? We were praying for Max. He's in Sweden. He was with them. He was in the country at the end. And he had come up there and just by chance, quote unquote, we all happen to be on top of this mountain. It's snow-capped. I mean, it's almost like the Rockies. It's incredibly beautiful And we got up there and we saw him, hey, and uh, and uh I think Jua was with us and he was kind of translating with us back and forth, and um we got talked a little bit, and somehow we ended up just singing uh how great thou art. And I'm telling you, you talk about the presence of God, and here were some Kazakh believers, a couple Russian, he was Uzbekistan or something He was in exile fleeing for his life because of persecution. And we all got together, they're singing in Russian, in Kazakh, and we're in English. And by the time we got singing, everybody was just belting out and lifting up their voice up on top of that mountain. How great thou art! How great thou art! And man, we were just humbled When we were done singing that. And I believe that is God's intention for music. Is to sing to him. Sing to him. Exalt the Lord. And so godly music is for the Lord. It's not a performance for man. By the way, godly Christian music is not for the unsaved. It's for the Lord. It's for the Lord. Turn with me. I got Psalms 137 written down here. Let's see what that says. Psalms 137. Oh, I know what it says. Go to Psalm 137, the end of the book of Psalms. Israel is in Babylon. Heathen, pagan country. Imagine the kind of music they're here and there being exposed to. Psalms 137 I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept when we remembered Zion. God had chastened them, he had taken them captive because of their unbelief and rebellion. Now they're sad They're weeping. We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. For they were for there they that carried us away captive. Look at this. Required of us a song And they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, sing us one of the songs of Zion. So here you're a bunch of pagan unbelievers, wicked, wicked people, and they're saying to you, hey, sing us some of those hymns you got. Sing them for us. Entertain us a little bit. Put on a show. We want to hear your songs that you you sing, your hymns. Look how they responded in verse 4. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? You know what I think they were saying, at least implying here, God's songs aren't for the ungodly. They're not for the ungodly. They're for God's people. To sing to the world, to sing to the Lord, not to sing for the world. Number three, let me give you these the rest here real quickly. Number three, godly music is distinctively different than the world's music Godly music is distinctively different than the world's music. Psalms 40. He hath put a new song in my mouth, new in character, distinct from all that was there before. Do you know Fanny Crosby was 31 years old when she got saved? I just found that out. I thought she was much younger. And she made this statement. Apparently she had written some songs before she was saved, kind of of a secular nature, and then when she got saved, she dropped that. Completely. And uh she made this statement. The church must never sing its songs to the melodies of the world. Is to be distinctively different. Godly music is to be distinctively different than the world's music. Um Howe Webb, anybody recognize the name Dr. Howe Webb, great evangelist, years going by, he's with the Lord now. He's actually preached here. many, many years ago, and I understand he packed the place out. He made this statement. He wa he was uh quite a flamboyant preacher. He'd pretty uh Great with words. He made this statement. He said, When the Christian music carries the beat, instrumentation, and exact sounds of the lost crowd, it results in confusion and shame It is shameful to use musicians who in shallow songs daze instead of praise, who entertain instead of train. They transfer the worship owed to Christ to concert-hopping, money-hungry entertainers who have never left the world far enough behind to stop sounding like it. Oh, that's a tremendous statement. And Christian, godly Christian music should be distinctively different than the world. I like to tell the story of one Christmas we got a card from a lady in town here a lawyer's wife and she goes, I love your radio station. She put a little money in it. I love cards that come in, they have a little money in it. They're my favorite. But she had a little money in it for the radio station. And she goes, I love your radio station. I listen to it all the time. She made this statement. She goes, when I tune into 88. 7, there's no question that I'm listening to a Christian station. She made this statement. Her words, it is distinctively Christian. That's the way godly music ought to be. If you ever turn to a station, you don't know if it's Christian or world or whether what it is You can't tell. And then you hear something about Jesus, God mixed in there. You say, what in the world is this? Is this Black Sabbath or what is this? And uh but they'll mix uh that that's not godly Christian music. Godly Christian music is distinctive from the world. Distinctive from the world. What is Romans 12? 1 and 2 say, Beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world Don't be molded, don't look like shaped into thinking the values and the sounds like this world, but be transformed By the renewing of your mind. Number four, write this down. The message of godly Christian music should be crystal clear The message of godly Christian music should be crystal clear. In 1 Corinthians 14, 15, Paul's talking about tongues But he mentions this. He says, I will sing, and I'm not sure I'm quoting it exactly right, but something to this effect, I will sing with understanding. I will sing with understanding. In other words, he's saying the word understanding there means something to be clearly perceived, to be intelligently understood. And what Paul was saying is he says, when I sing, I want everybody to clearly understand what I'm singing about what I'm saying. I want it to be intelligently understood. They know exactly what I'm singing about. Some of this modern Christian stuff, you don't know if they're singing to their lover or if they're singing to the Lord. You don't know and it's not clear. What is the message? What do you say? So it needs to be clear. No doubts, no questions about it. Everyone should know exactly what we are singing about. And they come in here and we're singing voices, they ought to know exactly singing our hymns, they ought to know exactly what we're singing about. Number five, godly Christian music emphasizes the message, not the music. Emphasizes the message, not the music. I'm telling you, I believe some of the most beautiful music in the world is Christian music. I mean just music itself I think Christmas songs, the music in Christmas songs is some of the most beautiful ever written. However, The emphasis is not upon the music. The emphasis must be upon the message being conveyed. The message being conveyed. The mus uh this is the way I see it. The music, as beautiful it is, is just the backdrop for the message. For the message It's kind of like I look at it, how many folks here, you have China, you know I'm talking about fishware. You have China, very beautiful. My mother, my wife, and my mother-in-law, man, they have some ornate China. It is just beautiful. And for special occasions you get it out. Ooh, the china's out. Ooh, who's coming? And they get the china out. And boy, you put a sizzling steak on there and a baked potato. and some uh asparagus or something, you know, and man you got that on there and it's all decorated up. It seems like when it's on a fancy plate it tastes better than when it's on an old paper plate, you know. bending over and soaking through and ripping. Um it's the meal that's significant. The plate is the music. And the meal is the message. Does that make sense? And so the more beautiful the plate is, you know, it seems like makes the food taste better. But uh nevertheless, it's not the plate itself. The plate is the background for the music. Frank Garlock is the father-in-law of Ron Hamilton. Anyone recognize that name? Patch the pirate, Ron Hamilton, tremendous Man of God, musician. His father-in-law, Frank Garlock, said this, contrary to public popular opinion, sacred music is not for entertainment. Christian music is first and foremost a vehicle to praise the Lord. And what he's saying is music is the backdrop, is the vehicle to get that message out that we're going to praise the Lord. Number six, jot this down. Godly music targets the heart and the spirit, not the flesh. Godly music targets the heart and the spirit, not the flesh. Do you ever notice you can have a little child in the most godly home, most sheltered home, and they'll go to Denny's or somewhere and there'll be wild music playing, and next thing you know that little kid's Anybody ever see that? How music affects just a little child. They're never exposed it. They're not taught how to dance. And boy, next thing you know, they're just buggy in the way. Where does that come from? I'm telling you what it is. Music affects the flesh and has an impact. Anybody here ever sit here, it's some ungodly song, you don't like it, you're not even listening to it, next thing you know, your foot's tapping away Anybody know or or going like this? So, ooh, what am I doing? You know? And uh so godly Christian music uh targets the heart and the spirit, not the flesh. Music has a powerful influence on our mind, our body, and our spirit. Galatians 5. 16 tells us, and the verses before and after, tells us there's a tremendous struggle going on inside every one of us as believers. And that struggle, that battle, is between the flesh and the spirit. The Bible says the Holy Spirit of God lusteth against the flesh, and the flesh lusteth against the Spirit And these two are contrary one to the other. And so you and I are on a lifelong battle, a lifelong struggle, between who's going to control my actions, my decisions, my attitudes, whether it's going to be the flesh Or it's going to be the Holy Spirit. Then he goes down, he describes the works of the flesh. Anger, hatred, unforgiveness, malice, bitterness. He just goes down through there. Works of the flesh are kindness, goodness. mercy he goes down through the list. So there's this constant battle. Now what I want, uh it's like the old Indian. You've heard the story. The old Indian said to the missionary that he got saved and the missionary is told to him. He says, how's it going, Chief Chief Wahoo and um he goes oh great battles he goes what's that? He goes I have in me two dogs one's a good dog one's a bad dog and they're always fighting fighting fighting And they said, well, which dog wins? He says, the one I feed the most. And he's talking about the spirit and the flesh. And so I want to be very, very careful that this powerful influence music is not targeting my flesh. Because I've already got a hard enough time without feeding that flesh. And so we need to stop. Is that what's this music targeting? Is it my heart or is it my flesh? And number seven, last one, write this down and I'll quit. Godly musicians are separated from the world and dedicated to Christ. Now, how many people would agree with me on this? God can use his word even if it's preached from a carnal preacher. Sure. God can do that. God honors his word. But would you agree with me? God blesses and uses on a more consistent and effective way a person, the preacher that is consecrated to the Lord. So the word can have free reigns, not having to deal with all the garbage. Well, what is true for the preacher and what is true for the soul winners, I believe, is also true for the musician. A singer. And so as uh I can't just live an ungodly wicked life and get up and then think that my music is going to bring glory to God and all that. Now God can through the message and do that to someone. But I'm telling you what he's looking for is a godly, separated musician that is dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ, where what they are singing is not just words coming off their lip, but it's an expression of how they're living their life. Right? You follow what I'm saying? And so we got some of these. That's what I was trying to talk about a couple months ago on a Sunday night. Remember when I stopped and I just wanted to talk about where we take this words from ungodly, worldly CCM people out there, they're as worldly as can be, a lot of them I don't really think are safe, and then cleaning it up and playing here. I think we have to be very, very careful about the associations. that our music is with. And so godly uh musicians are separated um From the world and dedicated to Christ. Before, as I said at the beginning, before David was ever a soldier, he was a musician. Before he was ever a king, he was a musician. And he learned his music in fellowship with God. on the side of a mountain watching those sheep where it was him and the Lord alone. And God taught him the importance of music. The music we listen to. Oh, by the way, before he was a soldier, he was a musician. Before he was a king, he was a musician. Up on the side of the mountain, a young boy, he's a musician. And God said he was a man after his own heart Man after his own heart. And I think it was David's godliness and David's commitment to Christ that made him so effective in his music and in his ministry. This is what I'll end with. I jotted this down as I finished my study. The music I listen to. Music I choose to expose myself to is either helping me be a better, stronger, more godly Christian, or it's hurting me Helping me or hurting me. I need to stop and evaluate it. I need to stop and evaluate it. Somebody says, our music is our moral. Music itself isn't good or bad, it's just whatever. I don't agree with that. Would you agree with me? There are some immoral words. There are some godly words. There's immoral music and there's godly music. Now, this is how far I'll go. I would say each individual note is uh is amoral. I don't know what the notes are. What are some notes? C, A, B, C, Sharp. That note in and of itself isn't bad or evil. Any more than a letter isn't bad or evil. Oh, that letter L, that's a bad letter. No, it isn't. It's just a letter. But how you arrange those letters can make bad words. Right? And the note in and of itself is amoral. I'll give you that much. But how I arrange those notes can be godly or ungodly. And so we had to be careful what we expose ourselves to. We have to be very, very careful. I hope this was helpful. And so David played His music to King Saul, and boy, the impact it had on Saul. David understood what godly music was, what it required, and God used them. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us in this world saturated with music of every strike, most wicked and the sweetest, most beautiful godly music, and just all points in between. I pray you'd help us to be discerning. I pray as we preach Sunday night you'd give us wisdom and we would care. And care enough to be careful. and uh to uh screen and vet what we're going to choose to allow to influence us in this realm of music And uh I don't know how to give an invitation for this. Maybe tonight you'd say, uh, maybe there's some, and this is between you and the Lord, you'd say, you know, I know there's some stations there that I got set that Aren't playing music that I would listen to if Jesus was sitting in the car. Maybe there's some CDs or MP3s or Whatever. And um, you know, it's I need to stop and think about this a little bit. I wonder if there'd be some that way. Say, preacher. I need to uh think that through a little bit. Again, that's between you and the Lord. But let's be careful. Let's be careful. Father, I pray you bless now and help us to be wise, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.