More uh West Virginia Black Bears baseball game and we had a good group. Several folks drove, we had a busload of folks and uh had a wonderful time. Our team won And so that's a good thing. The weather was perfect. There was a big old storm, went across, you could see it off on the horizon, and just skipped by us. So we got a little lightning show over there, fireworks, and Uh just a neat little stadium up there. And so if anybody missed out or went and you'd like to go again, let me know. I'd love to go back up there again. schedule another trip up sometime. So uh if you're interested in that and we have enough folks, I think we need at least twenty-two to get the group rate. And so if anybody's interested, let me know. And um We'll see if we can put one together. It's a very brief season. They don't have a full season like Major League, and so we only have like two months, I think, to get in on it. I learned something. We had a little grandbaby, little Kenley's in I learned something last night profound. I learned that you can have a great, wonderful time with your granddaughter, and you can watch a baseball game and enjoy a baseball game, but you cannot do both at the same time. It's either you're giving her attention or you're watching the game, and so we had a great time, and uh praise the Lord for it. Matthew chapter 6, I'm gonna read verse 9 through 13. This is the Lord's Prayer And we're studying this, and the Bi uh the Bible says in verse 9, After this manner therefore pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth, in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Tonight we're looking at verse number thirteen, the first part And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. I speak tonight on the subject prayer and temptation. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our message on prayer. Father in heaven, we bow before you now as we look into your word. We're asking you to open our hearts and minds. That your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives the truths given here. Lord, I yield myself to you and present my body anew and pray that you would speak through me. I pray for revival in our prayer lives, in my prayer life. Pray for revival in our church, in my home, and in my heart. And Lord, I believe that your word is necessary. So help us. Again, fill me with your Spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord gave four, in the three and a half years before the Lord was crucified, that was the period of time what we refer to as his earthly ministry. That's when he presented himself as the Messiah to Israel. Of course they rejected him. Then that three and a half period of time is when Jesus did all his miracles. It's when he preached all his sermons. It's when he presented, did all his teaching, called the twelve disciples, and of course it culminated with his crucifixion Crucifixion, and then his resurrection, ultimately his ascension. About three and a half years at the end of his life. During that three and a half years, he gave three he gave four major Sermons, you could call it, although a couple weren't really sermons, but discourses. The first one is here in Matthew chapter 5 through 7. We call it the Sermon on the Mount. It's what we're studying. The second one you find in Matthew 13, where he gave a series of parables, and he was illustrating the kingdom and the Christian life and God's authority. Matthew 25 through 24, he gave another very important Sermon, and that was what we refer to as the Olivet Discourse. Those are prophetic. And he's referring primarily to Israel's situation during the tribulation period. And then the last one, the major one, is in the upper room with his disciples the night before he was crucified, and he spoke to them about him leaving. and the coming of the Holy Spirit. And he in he would prepare them for that. So those are what we refer to as four major sermons or discourses that the Lord Jesus gave. Of course there were scores of others. He was constantly teaching and preaching all through uh the Israel and that area there. So, but those are four. But we're looking at the first one The Sermon on the Mount, I say this every Wednesday night, the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. And I really believe that. He's talking to Christians. He is preaching to what we would refer to maybe as the Wednesday night crowd. These are folks that have trusted him as Savior. They made a decision that we're going to follow the Lord. They committed themselves to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. And um th you know, this is fairly a fair level of commitment, the crowd, on the part of the crowd that's uh he's addressing. The section we're looking at, he's teaching them how to pray. Let me back up here a little bit. It's important for us to understand. I like Jim I like what Jim uh Kent Shirt said tonight. He says, all men die, something to this effect, all men die, but not everyone really lives. Then he has John 10. 10, I think the reference is underneath there. It's important to understand when I accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, God does some wonderful things in my life. He gives me a peace that I never had before. How many people can witness to that? Could witness to that? There's a peace in my heart I never had before I knew Christ. There's a joy, a deep-seated joy down inside our hearts that an unsaved person doesn't understand. And it's hard to explain But if we know Christ as Savior, our heart, there's peace in our heart. And there's a joy in our life. And it bothers me sometimes when you have Christians who claim to be saved, and there's no peace There's no joy. And something's not right with that. But it's important to understand, though that peace and that joy is there that the Lord gives us, the Christian life also consists of conflict. And trials and difficulty. My greatest, of course, I've been known you know it's thirty-some years ago, thirty-seven years ago, I guess, now that I trusted Christ. And I tell you, some of you all could testify the same thing, the same thing I'm going to say. Some of my greatest heartaches, no, with not a doubt, not some of the greatest heartaches I've ever had in my life have been since I've been saved The greatest trials I've gone through in my life have been since I've been saved. And some of them are because I got saved. And how people responded in situations I find myself in. So though there is great peace and there's great joy in the Christian life that this world cannot produce and cannot give to us, there's also great conflict. And the reason for that is We are in a spiritual warfare. We are absolutely, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are in the crosshairs of the devil Especially if you've committed your life at any level to live for the Lord and be what God intends you to be. You and I are in the crosshairs of the devil. And there is a spiritual warfare going on. We have a threefold enemy. We understand this. The world is not for you and I living for God. Absolutely not for it. This old sinful flesh does not want me to live for God. You know, sometimes we're defeated in our Christian life for no other reason than we just don't want to do what's necessary to be victorious. The old flesh doesn't want to do it. And this flesh is no friend of grace, and this world is no friend of grace. And then, as I said, we've got the devil out to take us down and destroy us. And so we're in a warfare, and an important aspect of the spiritual warfare that we're in is prayer. It's prayer. Did you notice here in our study of the Sermon on the Mount what a large section, what a large portion of that sermon is devoted to prayer? He talks about a number of things and then goes on. We still got a good ways to go to get through this sermon, but this is a huge section on prayer, and that's not Just by coincidence. The Lord isn't just filling time or trying to take up space in the Bible. It's deliberate because prayer is so vital. in our Christian life. So vital in having victory in our Christian life. And so the Lord here in Matthew chapter 6 Beginning in verse number five, really, he's teaching us how to pray. Now, for those that have been in for the last several months, you've been in on the Wednesday night messages, you know that's what he's teaching. He's teaching us how to pray And he tells us, and I've kind of went back and regrouped it in my mind, and uh I seen him telling us, teaching us three things are important in our prayer life, how to pray. We ought to pray secretly. You remember in verse number 5 and 6, he says, don't be like the hypocrites are. Hey, just pray to be seen. I just want everybody to think there's some great men of God or women of God. Look how much I pray. Look how beautiful my prayers are. Look how amazing my prayer life is. Watch out for Christians who brag about how much they pray. That's hypocrisy. He says, pray secretly. Prayer life is primarily between you and God. Then he prays second of all. He says, not just pray secretly, but pray specifically in verses 7 and 8. He says, don't pray like the heathen. First it was don't pray like the hypocrites. They just put on a show. It's all just show. But don't pray like the heathen are. They just go on and ramble on and on and on and just say the same stuff over and over and over He said, don't pray like that. When you pray, just get to the point. Ask the Lord what you want. Tell the Lord what you need to say. Don't just fill space and use up air. Be specific. And he we spent a good bit of time on that. And now he's telling us here in the sermon uh on this uh Lord's Prayer as we refer to it. Uh we should pray speci uh pray secretly, pray specifically, and then he tells us we should pray systematically. And that's where the Lord's prayer come in. uh comes in and um uh this is where he's saying, all right, this is how you should pray, after this manner. And he goes through very systematically covering several things. He Points out in the beginning we noticed that we ought to worship in our prayer. There ought to be adoration. Our Father which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name Man, he's exalting God. He's worshiping God. He's lifting God up. That's who he's approaching, but he's also his father. So praise systematically, there ought to be worship, there ought to be praise Uh, there ought to be a time of confession in my prayers. Get the sins dealt with. A time of request. Time of surrender. And so we looked at all these. Now we come down to verse number 13, the first part, and we're looking at the third request that is listed in this prayer. And I want to read it again. I want to give a couple of thoughts here about this part of the prayer, this request that he gives us as a pattern. He says again, and lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil. This is the third request that I see in the Lord's Prayer. I want us to notice three things. First of all, I want us to notice the placement of this request. There's two requests preceding it. One is give us this day our daily bread. That's physical well-being. We ought to pray for our physical well-being. If you have physical needs, you ought to pray about it. Give us this day our daily bread. The second request is forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. That's there is referring to sin. Then of course the third request is lead us not into temptation. Now I think there's a progression here, and particularly between the second and third requests. He deals with forgiveness. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. I see. A very clear connection between those two. I don't believe he put them in that order just randomly. I think there's a purpose here, it's not a coincidence. Immediately following the issue of having my sins forgiven and then forgiving others, that it may be sinned against me. Immediately following that, my request is, and Lord lead me not into temptation. Now I think there's a reason for that. I'll offer my suggestions. I think, first of all, when we understand how great it is to be forgiven by God. When we understand how much my sin costs the Savior, how much it costs the Savior for me to be able to be forgiven for my sin. You know, it wasn't necessarily my sin that cost Jesus dying across. He didn't have to do that. But if I wanted to be forgiven for my sin, somebody had to pay that price. And when I realize the costliness of my sin, I don't want to go back and do it again. I don't think it's coincidence. He says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And Lord, lead us not in temptation. Lord, I don't want to go back into that again. That sin was horrible. The consequences of it and the uh uh and the cost of it. I do not want to go back into it. Now we're gonna use our Bibles a bunch. I hope you got your Bibles with you. So I'm gonna go to a bunch of verses, I'm gonna try and do as quick as we can. If you would turn to Luke chapter 7, it's not too far away, Matthew, Mark, and then Luke. And come over to chapter 7. Here we have a, I think, a tremendous illustration. Of somebody who understood what a great thing it is to be forgiven by God. We sing about it, we hear preaching about it, we talk about it sometimes. But I think sometimes we overlook what amazing thing it is to be forgiven. If you and I have ever done somebody wrong, badly, we've done them wrong. And then they very graciously and kindly forgive us. Man, that's a wonderful thing. Look in Matthew, in Luke chapter 7, come down to verse 47. Here's a woman that uh had sinned greatly. Let me get my spot here. And um she comes and she uh washes the feet of the Lord Jesus. And um uh if you come back to verse number 39, it says when the Pharisees which had bidden him saw it. They spake with themselves, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who look at this, and what manner of woman this is, which toucheth him, for she is a Sinner. I mean, they're repulsed by this woman. But come up to verse 47. For sake of time, we won't go through this Verse 47, Jesus says unto them, he says to the Pharisees that are criticized, but wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which are many, are what? Forgiven. Now look at the result of that. For she loveth much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth what Little. I'm going to suggest to you the Lord is teaching us something here. I don't believe He's suggesting that, boy, here's a person who's lots and lots of sins, and here's a person, oh, they only have a few little sins. No, no, no. We're all wretched sinners. The point he's making here is the fact that this woman was so committed to Jesus and so concerned about doing right and so devoted to him was because she understood the greatness. of the forgiveness she had in Christ. And so I don't think it's a coincidence that, Lord, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation. We understand how wonderful it is to be forgiven. People who think lightly of Christianity People who don't take their relationship with Jesus Christ very seriously, they just fluff it off and they don't want to talk about it That's the kind of person in my mind really doesn't understand the greatness of forgiveness, if they've ever experienced it. And here Jesus is presenting this model prayer, and in the prayer itself, it presents the fact that if we understand how wonderful it is to be forgiven of our debt to God, oh, we don't want to be led into temptation. That will be the natural desire to not be led into temptation. I put this down: a lack of appreciation for past forgiveness produces a lack of concern for future sin. I can't really appreciate how wonderful the forgiveness is of what I've already committed, then I'm not going to be concerned about whether I commit any more sins in the future. So the placement of this request, I think, is very, very significant here. Verse 12 is a concern over past sins. The first part of verse 13 is a concern over potential sins. The past, I've confessed them, I've forgiven them, as I forgive others. Future, Lord, don't lead me into temptation. Deliver me from evil. And so there's a connection there. But I also think there's another significance about the placement. In this prayer, I'm picturing in my mind a person that's praying this genuinely sincerely. They're following this pattern. They've confessed their sins. Forgive us our sins as we forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors. And they've got victory now. Apparently they've confessed this sin. God's forgiven them. They're on praying ground now. Things they've done, they did what God says to do when we mess up in sin, confess it. I'm assuming they've forsaken it. The idea and the pattern in this prayer is they've forsaken it. And now they've had victory. And you know what follows victory in the Christian life? Zoom. The devil comes in like a flood. Anybody here ever go through a revival meeting and God stirred your heart, you made some great Decisions. Maybe young people went off to camp and God stirred your heart and you say, you know, I'm going to live for God. I'm going to be that Christian God saved me to be. Uh, you know, some of us that have a great meeting and Revival meeting, whatever, sword conference, our heart stirs, I'm gonna be what God wants me to be, and we finish it out, and man, we're on top of the world and we're on victory. We walk out those back doors. Twenty-four hours later, we're knocked flat on our back, the devil hit us broadside. And can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? After a great victory, we ought to be very, very diligent. And I maybe I'm reading too much into this here, but just the placement. Here's a guy's had victory and all that, and now I want to pray, Lord, don't lead me into temptation. Don't let me lose what I've gotten. I want him to do something stupid after I just made some great decision. I've got things right with God. I've dealt with this sin. I've experienced forgiveness. Don't let me just stupid. Lord, don't leave me, lead me not into temptation. Deliver me from evil. I think it's very, very important that we understand that there is a particular reason for this request placement here. I want to suggest to you we need as much prayer after a victory as we needed to gain the victory in the first place. We need as much prayer after God sends a revival, after we do some good things, make some great decisions. We need as much prayer afterward as that went into to get us there in the first place. We'll be as concerned about our spiritual well-being. Here's the danger. Maybe I'm struggling with some area of my life and maybe a besetting sin or whatever, and lo and behold, for uh various events, I get victory over it And we do this. Praise the Lord, that's behind me. And we let our guard down, and what happens? Boom. Next thing we know, we're right back where we were. And so, do you see what I'm saying? The placement here, I think, is significant. That after we forgive my sins and my debts as I forgive others. And now, Lord, don't lead me into temptation. Second thing I want us to notice is this: the perception in this requests. First is the placement of the request. The next is perception. When we talk about perceiving something, what do we mean by that? I want you guys to get involved here a little bit. When I perceive something. Uh-huh. I understand it. Anybody else have something if I perceive? Um it it's it basically means that to understand, to uh uh to to understand. If nothing else we learned tonight that perception means understanding. But I see, I see what this is. I I perceive what's going on here. I understand what's going on here. I I I grasp it I think the Lord in instructing us to pray after this pattern, this model, to follow this system, so to speak. And he has us pray, Lord, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us and evil. I think he's trying to get us to perceive or understand or be aware of the fact of this. I need the Lord to have victory in my Christian life. The fact that I'm told to ask God to not lead me into temptation, to deliver me from evil. implies to me that I need the Lord to have victory over temptation. That I need the Lord to be victorious in my Christian life. I think David understood that. If you would, keep your place here. Come to Psalms real quickly. Psalms 141. I love the book of Psalms. I read a chapter from Psalms every day. For years now, I've read Psalms twice throughout the year. I love the book of Psalms. In 141, David makes a great statement. Of course, under the inspiration of God. Psalms 141, if you just go to the middle of your Bible, you're going to be awfully close to Psalms 141. Now this is a prayer of David. I think he is praying along the same lines As what the Lord Jesus taught us in the Lord's Prayer here, in this model prayer. Psalms 141, look at verse 3. Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. Now what does that imply? If he is asking the Lord to set a watch before his mouth and keep the door of his lips, what's that imply about his ability to watch his words and keep his lips? He needs help. Anybody here give a witness? Anybody here ever do this? I I'm I'm pretty positive nobody here has ever done this, but maybe. Why in the world did I say that? Now look what he says in verse 4. So to watch the Lord before my mouth, keep the door of my lips. David's saying, Lord, I need you to help me. Incline not my heart to any evil thing to practice wicked works with men that work iniquity. Let me not eat of their dainties. You know what verse number 4 sounds like? David is saying to me, Lord, lead me not into temptation, and deliver me from evil. David had a profound understanding that in and of himself, in his own power and his own ability, he could not have victory in his life. He desperately needed the Lord. Peter learned this, and for sake of time we won't go there, but if you want the reference, it's Luke 22. We're going to end up there a little bit later, maybe, but Luke 22. Lord Jesus, he's coming down to the crucifixion. I mean, time's running out. The opposition, things are getting hot. It's coming down, so to speak. And Jesus looks at Peter and he says this. Peter, and I'm paraphrasing here, I'm simplifying it. He says, Peter, you're going to deny me three times. Peter's immediate response was, Lord, you're right. I know I'm powerless. I can't do anything. Oh Lord, God help me not to do that. No, what does Peter say? Not me. I'll never do that. Uh oh. Lord says, Satan, Peter, wants to sift you. In other words, Satan wants to destroy your life. Peter says, I'll never deny you. I'll never mess up. I'll never make a stupid decision. I'll never do nothing dumb. Lord says, before that crow, before that cock crows three times, you're going to deny me three times. What happened? Exactly what the Lord said. Who was Peter dependent on to have victory? Peter! I'll never do that. I had a I mentioned this occasionally over the years, but early on had a couple that got saved and baptized. They were living for God and they were struggling a little bit. They missed a lot of church and different things. And they came and we need to talk to you. So we want to be good Christians. We want to live for the Lord. We're just struggling. So they came to the office, we talked and I gave them just some basic things they could do that would be very, very helpful. I think if they'd had Followed what I said. And uh finally the gal says this. She was sincere as could be. She gritted her teeth. We're never gonna sin again I said I didn't say it this way, but I thought, oh brother, they are dead meat. You know, who were they who was she try she was determined. I'm gonna grip my teeth and I'm gonna have victory And I tried to explain him, listen, you in and of yourself and me and of myself, I can't have victory over sin. I need the Lord. What did the Apostle Paul how many people agree in the Apostle Paul is a pretty good Christian? Yeah. Read Romans 7 very carefully, particularly the second half. He says, the things that I would, I don't do. The things I would not, I end up doing them. Paul said, I cannot have victory in and of myself. Things I don't want to do, I end up doing. Things I want to do and I should do, I end up not doing them. He goes, who shall deliver me from this body of death? And he makes this statement. I thank my God through the Lord Jesus Christ. He wasn't saying you and I can't have victory. What he was saying was we can and do have victory when we stop trusting ourselves and look to the Lord Jesus Christ. There's people all through this auditorium here, now, and Sundays and crowds that can stand up and testify, I had a besetting sin. And I fought that and fought that and fought that, and I could never get victory until I trusted Christ and gave it over to Him, and then the Lord gave me victory. All around is folks talking like that. Um There's a perception in here. The Lord's instructing us prayed this prayer with the idea that we understand that if we're going to have victory over temptation, if we're not going to be led into temptation, we need God to help us. If I'm not going to get involved in evil, I need the Lord to help us. Because left to ourselves, we're going to mess up every single time. There's not a person that lived that walked this planet apart from the Lord Jesus Christ that had the ability in and of themselves, the power in and of themselves to conquer sin. The flesh cannot conquer the flesh It's like a snake eating itself. It doesn't happen. And so there's an important perception. What did Jesus say? Jesus says, without me, you can do nothing. And that's true. And I think that's what this prayer here is implying. Peter knew it, learned it the hard way. David understood it. And you and I need to understand it also. I think it's implied here. Now, coming back here, one more thought from this passage I want us to point out. I want us to notice the protection that is requested. This is really a request for protection And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. You say, ah, that's Jesus. He doesn't know anything about temptation. Huh. If we had more time, we would go to Matthew chapter 4. And there you have a tremendous record of the temptation of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was out in the wilderness for forty days, forty nights. Tempted of the devil. After those forty days and forty nights, the devil shows up and he first thing he now how many people would agree with me, if you hadn't eaten for 40 days and forty nights you'd be hungry. I haven't eaten in forty minutes. I'm starving already. What is the first thing Satan shows up? Take these rocks and turn them into bread. Food. There's so many lessons on temptation in Matthew chapter 4. There's first five, six verses or a little more. There's so many lessons there. If we just heed them, it would help us so much. Of course, Jesus counters them with Scripture. It's written, Thou shalt not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And he counters Satan with script with scripture. Satan comes at him again. By the way, just because you and I have victory in one area doesn't mean we're not going to get hit in another area. And by the way, just because you have victory over in at one time doesn't mean Satan ain't going to come back again. He does. Again and again and again and again. When I've I've said this before, but when I uh about everything I say I've said before, but when I went down to Bible college, I was saved about a year and a half. I'd gone to school up home just shortly after I got saved, and then I transferred down to Tennessee. I showed up down there, I thought this is going to be awesome. All Christian campus, all Christian students. We study the Bible every day. There won't be any temptation. There won't be any sin. There won't be any devil. And I showed up on campus and the devil was my roommate. Not literally, but Finally, I finished Bible cards. I thought, oh, I'll get out and I got a position in Indianapolis. I was going to be the youth pastor, and I had the title Pastor Dennis. Awesome! Man, I want no more temptations. Pastors don't get tempted. Pastors never sin. It's going to be great. Man, the devil was a member of the church. I came to the conclusion. It's this way till we get raptured. It's this way till we get the glorified body. The devil's just going to keep hitting us and hitting us, hitting us. So does Jesus know anything about temptation? Yes. Hebrews tells us he was tempted in all points, like as we are. So don't get this idea, well Lord says don't uh don't believe it's not temptation. He doesn't know what it's like to be tempted. Oh yes he does And without sin. And so the Lord knows a little bit about temptation. And he conquered it completely. I mean, he shut the devil down. The devil had no art. The devil kept coming back with stuff. Boom! Boom! Boom. The devil didn't get one inch in tempting the dev in Jesus Christ. Not one inch. So he knows about temptation. And he knows how to defeat it. And he gives tells us to pray to him And say, Lord, lead us not into temptation. Now here's my question. Some of you might be thinking, if you're thinking, you might be thinking this. In what scenario In what scenario would God ever lead us into temptation? Why would he be asking God, why would we be told to ask God, lead us not to temptation? What what situation would God ever lead us into temptation? Why would I have to ask God not to lead me into temptation? He wouldn't do it whether I ask him or not. Well that's what we need to understand temptation. Now this brings up a little interpretation issue here with different scholars. The word temptation, real quickly, I'll just give this to you. The word temptation has several meanings, several applications. Sometimes the word temptation is used in the Bible to refer to a hardship, difficulties. Job, the temptations of Job. It wasn't a soliciting, it wasn't enticing him to sin. He just went through a really hard time. So sometimes that's referred to as temptation. Sometimes the word temptation is used in the Bible to refer to testing. The Bible says when Abraham was tested of God to sacrifice Isaac. That was Abraham's, it was referred to as temptation. God was testing his faith, the commitment. Now God was never going to have him kill Isaac. It was a test. It was temptation. And then the third use is what we normally think of as enticement to sin. Someone luring me, getting drawn away, desiring to sin. So which is he referring to here? There's different arguments. I wasn't even going to bring it up, but I'm convinced the Lord here is talking about enticement to sin. The reason being is the statement right before it is lead us the statement right before it is forgive us our debts, our sins. He's talking about sin. The whole context is sin. Lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil. So the Lord Jesus is instructing us to ask God, ask the Lord, to not lead us into temptation. My question again is. What in the world, situation, circumstance would the Lord ever lead me into temptation? Well, let's look at what temptation is, real quick. James, if you would, turn there. James chapter 1. And we preached on this. It's been, remember we started the book of James a decade or two ago. And verse number 1, notice with me, verse 13. I'll give you a chance to this because I really want you to see this. This is important to understand what the Lord is saying when He tells us to pray that He not lead us into temptation. James 1:13, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Question, does God ever tempt men? No. Now it's interesting the request in the Lord's Prayer is it doesn't say, Lord, don't tempt me. God doesn't do that. God never tempts man at all. So we can't blame God, and He's not answering them. But he says, lead me not in temptation. Now, what does he mean? Look at verse 14. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away, next two words are very important, of his own lust. And what? Enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. The temptation, temptation to do wrong always begins with my own lusts. Temptation to do wrong always begins with my own sinful nature, my own sinful desires. That's where it begins. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away by his own lust and what? Enticed. Here it is. You want it? Here it is. Desire, opportunity. And when desire meets opportunity, becomes temptation. When a jet and it may be a genuine, legitimate desire, an opportunity for an illegitimate fulfillment of that desire. When that opportunity is there, desire is there, it's illegitimate, that's when it becomes temptation. You follow what we're saying? So he said, leadeth not into temptation God never allows us, let me tell you about, God never tempts us to sin, but God does allow us to be tempted to sin. Right? If God didn't allow us to be tempted to sin, we wouldn't never be tempted to sin. But God allows that He doesn't do it. He doesn't instigate it, but he allows it. He gives it the opportunity. Now here's the key verse and uh come over here real quickly with me and I'm I'm gonna shut it down there. First Corinthians Chapter 10, verse 13. If you don't have this verse memorized, this is a very good verse to memorize. I think 1 Corinthians 10 13 explains what Jesus is saying when he says, lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil. 1 Corinthians 1013 And if this isn't underscored in your Bible, it ought to be. And if this isn't memorized, it ought to be. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such is common to man. I had a person years ago tell me, I've never been tempted, they messed up, they said, I've never been tempted to sin before. I said, oh brother. I didn't say it that way. Oh brother. Temptation is common to all men. Well nobody's ever been tempted like I am. It's common to all men. There's no temptation to take you, but such is common to man. But God is faithful, all right? God's getting involved in this. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able? Look at this. But will with the temptation also make a way to what? Escape. Lead us not into temptation. That you may be able to bear it, but deliver us from evil. You know what I think the Lord is instructing us when he says, pray that ye enter not in temptation but be delivered? When he says, pray this, lead us not in temptation, though yeah. I think what he's telling us is that we are to pray. That God would show us the way out of that temptation. But will with the temptation make a way to escape, provide a way to escape. And that's what the prayer is. Lord, what's the escape here? Show me the escape. Don't lead me into temptation. Show me the escape. Lead me. Direct me where that escape is, away from the temptation. So that I can bear it, so that I'm delivered from evil. I think that's what he's asking the Lord for. Now, it's up to me to follow the Lord's leadership. If I'm being tempted to do something, I'm suggesting you, and we all are. Whenever, let me don't say if, let me put it this way. Whenever you and I are tempted to do something wrong, our very first response ought to be hit our knees at the throne of God and say, God Deliver me from uh lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from you. Show me the path of escape. Show me the way out. Don't let me get engaged in this. God help me. Give me wisdom. Help me see it. Now it's up to me to follow that. It's up to me to decide whether I'm going to follow the Lord's leadership out of it, but I've got to Ask the Lord for leadership there. By the way, that brings in this matter of separation. I can't hang around a sinful a uh uh atmosphere. And then say, oh God, don't lead me into temptation. I've got to keep myself clear. I've got to stay away from that stuff I've got to be careful in the television, the places I go, and the computers and the radio and all these areas. We live in a sinful world. I've got to be very, very careful. And then let the Lord lead me. Here's the point of this request, and I end with this. If I sincerely want victory over temptation, I must understand my dependence upon God. And I need to look to him to lead me and direct me on how I get away and how to get out with that. Um I read uh ha everybody recognize Queen Mary, bloody Mary from England. Anybody recognize that? One of the most brutal uh monarchs there ever was She hates. I'm telling you, your forefathers and my forefathers, spiritually speaking, paid a price for their faith. Some of the great men and women of God in years going by, I mean, they paid a horrendous price rather than deny Christ. We think we're such strong Christians. You go back and read some of these people. It's amazing the level of faith that they had. And now we got Christians playing with this and don't know that, and I'm not, man, alive. Queen Mary had two Christians. That she was condemned to be burned at the stake. One of these two, and this as far as I know is documented history. One of these two, the day leading up to when they were going to be burned at the stake, was boasting loudly to all in the prison and this other fella That uh he was confident he was going to stand firm. He would never deny his Lord. Uh he didn't mind the suffering. He put it this way, he says, I'm so grounded in the gospel, I will never deny it Said this to his party. He says, I long for that fatal morning, even as a bride longs for her wedding. Just bragging and bragging. The other fella that was just as condemned to be burned at the state, that same night leading up to it, they said this, was a poor trembling soul. Scared to death that he would deny his master. He was afraid of the fire, he said. He was in a great deal of dread that when he began to burn, the pain would cause him to deny his Lord. He begged his friend to pray for him. And he spent that entire night weeping and praying and crying over his weakness and crying out to God for strength. The other fellow continually rebuked him and chided him for being so weak in faith. Well, guess what happened? When they both came to the stake, he who had been so bold recanted at the sight of the fire. Denied his Lord, and went and lived an apostate's life. However, the poor trembling man who spent the night in prayer Pleading God to lead him not into temptation stood like a rock, praising God and magnifying God as he was burnt to a cinder. What's the difference? One was very, very sure of himself, I've got all the answers, I know it all, my faith is great enough. The other one said, God, without you, I'm nothing. I'm scared to death. I'm going to trust in myself. I'm scared to death. I'm going to lean on my own strength. And he cast himself on the Lord, and the Lord gave him the strength, and gave him the faith, and he died a faithful testimony to our Lord. I think that's what the Lord's telling us. We pray, lead us not into taste, but deliver us meal. We need Christ desperately. To trust Him to lead us and direct us, that we can live pure, godly, victorious Christian lives. So what's the challenge? Challenge tonight, let's commit ourselves to pray. And pray that God will give us victory, that God will direct us, that we can walk with him and please him in every area of life. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless this challenge. Lord, I know it stirred my heart as I prepared this. And again I ask, Father, for revival in my prayer life, a stronger prayer life, a more a greater dependence upon you. On a daily basis, I pray your Holy Spirit would stir our hearts to get us to the point where we die to self, we distrust ourselves. And we trust you completely, particularly in this matter of temptation and victory. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, and this is true of all of us, so I'm not trying to single anything out. But how many would say, preacher, there's some areas in my life that are a little besetting sins, you might call it. There are areas I know I'm weak. There's areas where I know I struggle. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me tonight that I would be able to sincerely trust the Lord to give me victory in those areas. Sincerely trust the Lord to lead me and direct me away from that. So that I can be that person he intends for me to be. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Sure enough, all around. We can't do anything without Christ. And particularly in this matter of temptation. So important. We're going to stand a moment and pray. I'm great, folks. Maybe find a place in altar this evening. Say, Lord, revive my prayer life. Make me stronger. Direct me. Help me to trust you. I believe God will do it. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand in