Greatest preacher that ever preached, the Sermon on the Mount, of course, by the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's teaching us how to pray. After this manner, he says, pray. Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to go ahead and read the whole prayer here. And we're breaking it down into uh various elements that he gives us here of what genuine prayer is. Let me get hooked up here By the way, we do have just a uh just a brief uh business meeting afterward. We have two item uh one item, I'm sorry, one item we need to vote on, and uh we'll explain that there I think I'm good now. There we go. And so um we'll have that after our prayer time. Uh Matthew chapter six, verse number nine. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. So here he's teaching us how to pray. Not teaching us to repeat this verbatim necessarily, but how to pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Now if you remember, we taught that that we noticed that that is an element of worship in our prayer time when we pray. We recognize who God is and we adore him and worship him. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done as in earth as it is in heaven. And we pointed out the element of submission to the Lord. Our prayers always ought to be submissive To the Lord's will. Jesus prayed, Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. He was submissive in our prayers. We don't come to God demanding We don't come to God commanding God what to do. We come very submissive. And then he says, Give us this day our daily bread. That's what we're going to look at tonight. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors Lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. conglomerate together these messages, but I've entitled tonight, How to Ask for Things from God. And so let's pray and ask God to bless us. Father, as we look into this portion of your word, Lord, some of us were talking earlier about the key role that prayer pray plays in So I ask, Lord, that through me you would use your word to teach us how to pray and how to ask for things from you. Lord, we'd like to see our prayers answered. We'd like to see visible, the visible effects of praying in our lives, the lives of others in our world. So teach us how to do this right so that we can see these answers that you promise in your word. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer, and challenge us and help us. We're praying for revival in our hearts, our church, and our nation. And so show us what we need to do and help us, we pray. In Jesus' name Amen. As I pointed out, I believe there are several elements here that the Lord gives to us in this matter of prayer, one being worship. Keeping in mind when we come to God and pray who it is we're talking to and what this God is like. Our Father coming to a We're praying as like a child coming to its parents, Father, which art in heaven. This heavenly father is an awesome God. He rules and reigns. From heaven. And so we keep that in mind that He is the God of the universe, though He's our Father. So we worship God, then we come very submissively: Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done You know, we're going to make our requests, we're going to give these requests to you, but Lord, under it all is a submissive attitude. We want your will to be done, and we want your will to supersede our will. Even though we bring these requests. And then there's the element of praise, which we haven't got to yet. I notice that in verse number thirteen. I'm adjusting the order that what they're given here, but in verse thirteen he says, For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And I get the impression the Lord is teaching us to praise God in our prayers. Uh more than just asking for stuff. We ought to be thanking God for stuff and giving him the glory. For who and what he is. And then there's the element of confession. We haven't looked at this one yet, but I see that in verse 12. He says, Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors And it's important that we come and confess to God and acknowledge our shortcomings, our sinfulness and our sinful hearts. And then What prayer is all about, what prayer is, the I mean the substance of what prayer is, is requests And we see this in verse 11 down through the first part of verse 13. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And I see in this here. Now I was reading commentaries and different guys that uh wrote on this and whatnot. And uh they have different numbers of requests made. You know, to me that's incidental. I see three. I see the Lord making, giving us, teaching us to make three requests. One of them is for provision. And that's verse eleven. Give us this day our daily bread. And we're going to look at that here. I see a third second request is that of forgiveness of debts, or in Luke he refers to it as sins. And coming and making the request that God not just forgive our sins, but remove them from us, cleanse us from those sins, and then deliverance from evil. I think in these three requests that the Lord Jesus presents in this model prayer, I see a little bit of a progression here. I don't know, I may be reading into it a little bit, but I kind of see a progression In verse 11, it's a request for our physical well-being. Give us this day our daily bread. And so the request here, as the Lord presents as a pattern for us, starts with our physical well-being. And I'm glad that God cares about our physical well-being. Now some people, some groups take that to extreme. You know, God never wants us sick, God never wants that, and there's no trial. They take it to extreme. But We've got to be careful of the other extreme that think that God doesn't care about our physical well-being. God very much does. In fact, in James, we were preaching, he says, if any among you sick, let him pray. So God is concerned about our physical well-being and our daily bread. So I see, first of all, he starts out: give us this day our daily bread. He addresses our physical well-being. Then he addresses our spiritual concerns And he says, forgive us our debts. Then he says, deliver us from evil. Lead us not in temptation. Deliver us from evil. And so I see this little progression. I see my relationship with myself, maybe, my own physical well-being. Give us this day my daily our daily bread. Then I see my relationship with others Forgive me your debts as I forgive others. And so I see here this request has to do with my standing and my relationship with my brothers and sisters. And then he says, lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil, and that affects my relationship with God. And so I see this little progression here. In fact If we did have physical life, our spiritual life would be pretty rough, right? God created the body of man before he breathed into that body the breath of life. So without a physical body. There's no platform for our spiritual existence. And so it's right for God to be concerned with our physical well-being. We uh I got thinking about this. Um correct me if I'm wrong some other time. But um We can't w the only time we can win souls is when we're in our physical bodies. Once the rapture takes place, or once this body dies, we go to heaven, we can't win any more souls This is our only opportunity we have to win souls is here and now in this in this physical bodies. We can't advance the gospel. We can't be involved in advancing the gospel on planet Earth Um except without except with our physical bodies. We have to be in our physical bodies. However, the Lord is not just concerned about our physical well-being, he is concerned about our spiritual well-being I like what Jesus said when the devil tempted him after he came out of the wilderness in Matthew five. The devil said, Why don't you turn these rocks into bread? And the Lord had been fasting for forty days and forty nights and You know, if I didn't eat for forty days, rocks would look pretty good to me. And of course the Lord could have very easily turned those rocks into bread, right? I mean that wasn't a problem. But the Lord's response was, now think about this very carefully. It's in Matthew 4. 4. He says this. Man shall not live. This is what he does not say. He doesn't say this: man shall not live by bread. But by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. He doesn't say that. He says, Man shall not live by bread alone. So he is acknowledging the f the concern for our physical well-being. We do need bread And so I I just noticed that I was looking at these requests. I mean, this is an intensely spiritual prayer. He's not asking for a new Corvette. You know, we'll touch on that. He he this is very spiritual. This is this is God teaching us how to ask for stuff. And so um but it's not just the physical, but it's also the bread. So let's look at verse eleven. I want to give you just a couple lessons that I see here on how to ask for things from God How many people here tonight would say, Pastor Leatherman, I have something I would really like to ask God to do for me? There's at least one thing I really, really would like for God to do for you. How many people here like that? I would say it's probably all of us, whether we acknowledge it or not. Probably all of us. Kathy and I have something we very much would like for God to do. And so how do we ask him? How do you approach him? I would imagine I've never done this, it never will happen, but imagine if I had opportunity to go in before Congress. Or go in before maybe the president or a king of some country and they would say you could ask him anything you want. I would I would ask, all right, what's the protocol? How do you go about what would be appropriate? How do you do go about doing this? So that's what God's telling us Here, how to ask things for God. Number one, how to ask things for God. Number one, I believe he's teaching us here we need to keep simple requests. Keep the request very simple. Give us this day our daily bread. I notice I'm looking at this request. He's concerned for your well-being. This person is the Lord, of course, presenting here. We're concerned for our well-being. And all he says is just make a very simple request. Do you need daily bread? Then just ask for daily bread It doesn't have to be elaborate. It doesn't have to be complicated. It doesn't have to be these lengthy explanations Just come and ask God for what you want. Give us this day our bail daily bread. A simple request. I remember when I was in Bible college, I was spending the summer uh at school the one year and I ended up doing that from there on. I think I came home my first summer. Last time I just stayed there. And um I was eating a job. This was early on, and they announced in chapel there's a fellow on campus, and they're hiring folks for the summer, work for the summer. If you're interested, go to this one room. So I went to the room. There's about 40, 50 students there. The guy's up front, he's got all this stuff. We're sitting there and he says, all right, uh here's here's what this is about. And he took about twenty minutes to a half hour telling us how wonderful this opportunity was and how great it was and how uh how we're gonna love it. And I mean we're 20 minutes into the presentation. We have no idea what we're doing yet And it was lengthy and it was awesome and it was all this stuff. And then he says, you're going to be selling these little books door to door through Chattanooga and you're going to make like five cents on a book and it's going to be amazing. I said, forget it And I found usually if folks have to make a long explanation and a complicated explanation before they ask me for something, it's usually something's up. As pastors, it was true in every place I've served in the ministry, and here we get calls not as much here as we did in Indianapolis, out in Colorado, but uh we still get them fairly regular. Folks call up and they ask for things. They want to help with this, that, and the other, and I mean you name it, they've asked for it. And generally if I get to call them out in Lake Independent Baptist Church, they say, uh yes, is this pastor? Yeah, what can I do for you Uh and they'll go on and start telling me this long story and all these things, and we're on the phone for 15 minutes, and I know where it's going. And they're gonna eventually they're and finally some occasionally I have to say, uh listen, uh what do you need? What what what what do you need? What do you callin? What do you ask him for And we don't what I'm trying to say is this, we don't have to do that with God. How can you just come to God and say, God, this is what I need. Whoa is this God? I need daily bread. See what I'm saying? So we need to keep our requests very simple. Just ask God for what you need. Just ask God for what you want. A few moments ago, I believe every one of us raised our hands and said there is something I really, really need, I really, really want God to do for me, whether it's provide something or change the situation or heal something, whatever it may be. God's instructions to us in prayer is just keep the request simple. Just ask Him for that. I wonder if that isn't why children's prayers are so effective. You know what a kid does when he prays? Just ask God. God, just give me this. God, I need that. God, we want you to do this I was um uh back when I was real young and for some reason this stands out in my mind but my uh my dad had gotten saved and things were going south in the home there and Uh we were s the my sisters and I for a brief period of time were staying at one of my dad's friends' house for a few days till they worked through whatever was going on at home. And um this guy was a strong Christian, still a good friend. He lives in Wyoming now. And um they had uh one of his kids was there, I think it was his nephew was staying with him also. Anyway, they were going to have prayer time. He came down, he said He said, Dad, we're gonna pray. You need anything? It's like I'm going to Walmart. Daddy, you need anything? You know what the little children do? They request it very, very simple. Lord, this is what I need. Give us this day our daily bread. Very simple request. In relationships between people, there are generally givers and takers. Did you ever hear that? Generally one person will be more of a taker, another person will be more of a giver. There's givers and takers. I think in a healthy relationship, there's a little bit of both and both of them. Tend to be both ways. In our relationship with God, God's the giver. We're the takers. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. You look at the Bible, you look at our relationship with God, it's God giving to us. It's always that. That's what it is. Everything. God giving to us. Romans chapter 8, I'll just try and find this and read it real quick to you. This is one of my most encouraging verses in the Bible. I go to this often. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 32. If you want to mark it in your Bible, I'd highly recommend it. Romans 8. 32, he says this. I'll give you a moment there if you want to find it. Romans 8. 32. It's right after Romans 7 And so when you get there, verse 32, I like what verse 31 says. If God be for us, who can be against us? Then verse 32 he says this, he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? That whole verse is God giving, giving, giving. If God gave his own son for us, good grief. If he didn't withhold his own son, How shall he not with him freely give us all give us all give us uh give us all things? And so in our relationship with God, God's the giver, God's the giver. In fact, I want to suggest to you every aspect of the Christian life, every part of the Christian life is my response To God giving to me. And I think that's so important that we as believers understand that. In reality, I'm not doing anything for God. My whole Christian life, my whole Christian service, isn't me necessarily doing something for God. It's me doing something because God has done so much for me. Our Christian life, our Christian service is not to earn salvation. Our Christian life, our Christian service is because God so freely gave us salvation. And it is a response to God giving. I got thinking about this and even our tithe. I was trying to think of something that I am doing for God that is not the result or a response to God giving to me. I can't find anything. Well, what about tithe? I'm giving God ten percent of my income. Uh who gave you that income to begin with? Here's the idea. Tithing is not giving to God something that's mine, and I'm giving it to God. I'm not giving God something He doesn't already have. Tithing is me simply giving back to God a portion of what he gave me in the first place. This is not what tithing is. Tithing is not me giving God $10 and then He'll give me $90 back. How many people agree with me? That'd be a good deal. If you'd come to church with a ten dollar bill, you'd walk out with nine ten dollar bills. I bet we'd have more people coming to church. Right? That ten dollar bill is ten percent of a hundred. That's not what tithing is. I'll give God a ten-dollar bill, he gives me ninety back. Tithing is God giving me a hundred bucks and me giving him ten back. That's his. Right? So why would he do that? Why didn't he just give me the ninety? He's got a hundred bucks and he wants me to give ten back. Why don't he just give me the ninety? Why does he give me a hundred then ask me to give ten back? He's daughter's obedience. He wants us to trust him. This is what I think. I just came to this conclusion, I was studying this. Said God gives, gives, gives. And we give something back. It's bec I give him ten dollars, it's because he gave me a hundred I think God established the tithe to teach us to be like Him, that we would learn to give. He doesn't say, bring me 10 bucks, I'll give you 90. He doesn't say that. He says, I'll give you 100. Learn to give ten of that back to me. Learn to give. Learn to give. And everything you get, learn to give. Because God is a giver. And we are the takers. And the whole Christian life and even the giving of our finances is all, I believe, designed to God to teach us. to give back to him our life, our love, our service, because he gives so much to us. I love Romans chapter 12, the first couple verses. Romans 12, 1 says this I beseech you, therefore, brethren. What's the next phrase? By the mercies of God. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know what he's saying there? He's saying, I'm begging you, because of all that God has done for us, because all these mercies God has poured out on us. Present your body. He didn't say present your body and then God will pour mercies out on you. God's the giver. God's the giver. God's the giver. And our Christian life, a good, mature, strong Christian life, is simply a life lived out of gratitude for all God has done for me. And I'm simply living for him. I'm giving myself, my talents, my love, my faith, everything. I'm putting it back on him because he's done so much for me. How much faith would we have if God didn't give it to us? How much air could we breathe if God didn't give us air? I put this down in my notes. When God stops giving, we stop living. Isn't that good? Sounds like a song. But uh so he says, keep your requests simple. God gives. That's what he does. And so ask, and it shall be given unto you. Everything we have, everything, our eyesight, our ability to think, our very life is a gift of God. And isn't that what the devil does trying to take that dog's credit away? We evolved from monkeys. No, we didn't. God gave us life. Well, I'm I'm a self-made man. No, you're not. God gave you everything you have. God gave me everything. Ability. So I worked hard for this. God gave us the ability to work for it. And so when we come to God in our prayers, our requests, it's important, I believe, that we keep the request simple. Just a simple request. What did Peter say? And and you know these are different there are different contexts in the prayer. The context of the Lord's prayer here, the Samano prayer, is our daily walk with God, our prayer time The context of Peter out in the water, walking on the water, and he begins to sink, that's a whole other context. He didn't stop and say, wait a minute, while he's going down, I've got to worship God first. I've got to praise something. No, no, no. He just says, Lord, help me That's about as simple a prayer as you can get, but as effective. So, how do we pray? How do we ask things for God? Number one, we keep our prayer requests very, very simple. Then, number two, I notice in this Give us this day our daily bread. I notice a specific request. Very simple. I don't got to explain all the things. I don't got to go into all the details. In fact, we're going to notice here in a minute. God already knows what I mean So I don't gotta elaborate, I don't gotta explain everything. I just ask them. Very simple, but then very specific. Give us this day our daily bread. Now, here's a question I had. Why would he teach us to pray and ask God to give us our daily bread? Why wouldn't he say, Lord, give us our weekly bread? How about our monthly bread? Why don't he just give us all the bread we need at once, and then we'll have it? Ah, you read my notes Generally speaking, God operates on a daily basis. Generally speaking. Now there's some exceptions. When Joseph was king, uh was uh in the prison there in um Egypt There's going to be seven years of famine. They were going to there and that were preceded by seven years of abundance. So there God was not working on a daily basis. He was loading them up so they would have the resources needed for down the road, and I think there was lessons on faith and all of that involved in that. But that's the exception. And sometimes God gives us an abundance of some things, and I'm always curious, and I base this on God's work in Egypt there, how God operated with Egypt and Joseph. If I get a significant amount of money or whatever something comes in, or maybe the church, the giving is exceptionally well, I always think we need to be very, very careful because God may be preparing us for something down the road There may be a project that we don't know has, or maybe something here. And so, but nevertheless, I said all that to say that generally speaking, God operates on a daily basis When Israel was in the wilderness and they needed some food and God said, I'm going to send you manna, what was the schedule on them receiving the manna? Every day it was daily. Every day in the morning you'd go out. Now the exception being on the Sabbath you collected extra on Friday, so they'd have uh so they wouldn't have to go out on the Sabbath. That was very important But the schedule was a daily basis. Lamentations, verse 3, and I wanted to read verse 22 down through 26, but we won't take time to go back there. But he's talking about his mercies, how great his mercies are. And Latin 3, and I think it's verse 23, he says, God's mercies are new every morning. They're new every morning. Here's the neat thing, as I was studying that, and this stirred my heart. Every morning I wake up, regardless of how bad I may have messed up yesterday, I wake up this morning, God's got a clean slate for me, his mercies are all brand new. I can't burn up tomorrow's mercies today Now, if God would have given given Israel all their manna they needed for the month on the first day of the month, by the fifth day of the month, they'd be out of manna. Right? How many people here did uh well I mean I said uh when we one of the positions I was in years ago, we got our salary was monthly And got it to the beginning of the month. I tell you, I learned how to discipline and budget my income. Because about the 25th, 26th of the month, that pile got pretty small. And so God doesn't pile us up ahead of time. He generally gives us daily, our mercies, every morning. I get up in the morning, God's mercies are new. And so he says, give us this day our daily bread. Then the word bread, we already touched on this a little bit, but I believe when he says, give us this day our daily bread, I don't think he's just referring to a loaf of bread. I think what he says that, give us this day our dairy bread, I think the Lord is referring to everything necessary for me to live. It's all about all the things, my bread being everything I need to keep me alive for my physical well-being. He doesn't give us all we need at one time. He doesn't give us everything in one lump sum. Lord, give me my lifetime bread. Reminds me of a fellow in Luke chapter 15. That wanted all his inheritance at once. Remember that guy? What did he do? Yeah, he wasted them, righteous living, squandered it all. How many people can see humans doing that? Yeah. None of us oh the present company excluded, of course, but other people would do that. So he says your daily bread, your daily bread, your daily bread Now why does he do that? Why need why he just, Lord, I need I've got bills to pay, Lord, I really need this income, I need a little extra money here, tires. Every time I take it out to Charlie, I'm gonna buy new tires. And um and uh Why didn't the Lord just give us our whole lifetime of income at one time? Because some of us would buy boats and four-wheelers, and by the time we were fifty, we'd have that money all burned up Yeah. But I think there's more I think there's a more significant reason why he di operates on a daily basis and Sandy stole my thunder. It's okay, I forgive you. God's my mercies are new too. I think the Lord gives us operates on a daily basis because he wants us to keep coming to him. I wonder how many of us how many folks here be honest enough to say I pray more when I have needs than when everything's met? Anybody here? It's human nature. And God, more than anything else, wants our attention. He wants our our interaction. He wants our fellowship. He wants that relationship That fellowship going on. And I think God knows our nature. And so He makes us, He makes it in such a situation where we will want to come to Him. On a daily basis. He wants us to come to him. He wants us to come to him on a daily basis. He wants us to trust him on a daily basis. He wants us to walk with him on a daily basis I'm telling you, if God gave us everything we needed in one lump sum, we would forget all about trusting Him. We would forget all about living by faith. And we would have everything we needed. That's one of the dangers of prosperity. You know what I think is killing America? God's blessings. He has blessed us so much that we've lost sight of the God and we're worshiping the blessing. The gift has become our God, and God, the gift giver, is pushed out of the way. And so God says, if you're going to grow and you're going to walk with me, and your prayer life is going to be what it is, Just going to do it on a daily basis. We're going to operate on a daily basis. Keep you close to me. Keep you trusting me. Keeping you and I living by faith. I think that's prayer's primary purpose. Isn't to tell God what I need. In fact, are you still there in Matthew? Come up to verse number 8. Look at verse 8. Now initially this looks contradictory, but if you understand prayer's purpose, there's no contradiction here. Verse 8 says, Be not therefore like unto them These heathen that said all these prayers, though if I say enough words, be not therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of. What's that last phrase? Before ye even ask them Now if you're like me, my thinking is, well good night, why do I have to ask him then? He already knows. How many people here I think most of us here are old enough, our kids uh you have k enough ki enough here to have kids understand what I'm going to say I love it when my kids come to me and ask for advice. I love it when my kids come to me and say, Dad, I need this. Can you help me with that? Can you help me with this? Can you show me this? Can I get a witness? Anybody like that? Sure. You know where I think we get that thinking from? Our God. God wants us, God, show me what to do. God help me with this. God, I need to meet this need. I need wisdom here. I think the whole purpose of prayer is not to tell God what we need. He already knows that. It's to keep us close to him, to keep us trusting him, keep us looking to him. He created us for his pleasure, not vice versa. And so give us this day our daily bread on a daily basis, making very simple and very specific requests. So prayer's primary purpose is to keep me close to God. Uh, and I don't have this in my notes, but I got thinking about this before the service, I was reading over my notes again. I got thinking about this. Two of the most difficult things in the Christian life. For me, and I my observation is, I believe, for a lot of Christians, is one is soul winning. Sharing of faith. Man, that's a challenge. This old flesh, mmm. You know, this whole world the devil fights that. Soul winning and prayer. See the two things. I don't know about you, but Reading the Bible seems sometimes a whole lot easier, comes a whole lot more natural than praying. I read my Bible for twenty minutes to half hour, and then I pray for five minutes and it's like, all right. Come on, you're all looking at me, what? That's right. But you know, in the book of Acts, you know the two things they were consumed with in the book of Acts. Read it carefully. You know the two things that New Testament church did more than anything else. They prayed and they preached the Word of God. The two things that the church was established on are the two things we struggle with the most. So God knows that. So in the prayer aspect, he says, all right, we're going to do this on a daily basis. So that you keep coming to me, you keep walking with me, you keep trusting me. Now let's look at this again. Give us this day our daily bread. Now I'll give three implications. We have two thoughts on how to ask things for God. And it's not complicated. One, simple request. Number two, specific requests. Ask God. I need daily bread. Ask him very specifically. Don't try and complicate it with lots of words and explanation. You don't got to do that. Just tell him what it is. He already knows. Now, three implications I notice in what he instructs us here in asking these things. Number one, implication is the concern of God. God cares about us. Give us this day our daily bread. This is a request for the necessities of life. Things we take for granted. I doubt there's any one of us, now I could be wrong, don't so I'm just making a statement, but I doubt seriously there's very many, if any of us today Had to get up this morning and say, God, I need you to give me bread today. I don't have anything to eat. And if you don't answer, if you don't provide it, I'm not going to have it Probably most of us, let's see if you agree with me on this statement. I don't care if you do or not, but let's just see if we do. Most of us took for granted the fact that we'd have something to eat today. Right? Most of us took that for granted. But God is very much concerned about the stuff you and I take for granted. He instructs us, ask God for the most simplest necessities of life. Ask him. Don't take for granted these things. Ask me for them, pray for them. And so I see here the implication in the statement, give us this day our daily bread, God is tremendously concerned about the small issues of life, the most basic things of life. Well, God don't care about that. He's just worried about the people that have this. No, no, no. God's concerned about the bread in our cupboards The great, majestic, all-powerful creator and sustainer of the universe that rules kingdoms, that's the Bible says that nations are a drop in a bucket to him. He cares about what's in my refrigerator. God's concerned about what's in my cupboard. This amazing God that I can't even comprehend the immensity of them. And he says, I want you to want you to pray and make sure come to me, make sure that you got the bread and the food you need. I'll make sure you're okay. Make sure you're taken care of. What a, this is, I don't mean this to be uh trite, but what a cool God. Now God's not cool, he's holy, he's powerful, but that is a neat concept. That a God of that significance and that power is concerned whether I have bread or not So the implication here is the concern of God. The other implication here are consideration in prayer. Now this didn't come out. I picked this up after I kind of finished the message up, and I was looking back over it. I noticed something that I missed. Notice what he says here. Look at it, and I'm going to read it. But you'll notice what I'm trying to do here. Give me this day my daily bread. Now it says, give what? Us this day our daily bread I think what the Lord is teaching us here that we ought to be as concerned about people around us' well-being as we are about ours. This isn't a selfish thing here. Lord, I want Lord, I need my daily bread. Lord, give us, but Lord, I want to make sure, Lord, I'm praying Dale has his daily bread also, and Cindy has her daily bread, and and Curtis has his daily bread, and Matt has his daily bread. God is teaching us in our prayer life that we ought to be concerned about others as much as God is concerned about them. And we care about it. What's that poem? And I just thought of it. I don't have it memorized. It's a song. It's a poem, but it's kind of a song. Others, Lord, yes, others, let this my motto be. And even when I, and it goes on and says something, even when I kneel to pray, my prayer will be for others. Give us this day our daily bread. And so, right for ours, but also we need to be concerned and have consideration for others. And then the last observation I made in this a contentment. in life. And this is what struck me. Give us this day our daily bread. And I said, this is the bare necessities. He doesn't say, give us this day an abundance of luxuries. I study the Bible and I study the requests made in the Bible and the instructions in the Bible, and I don't I hesitate to say it's wrong to ask God for abundance I hesitate to say that. Because Philippians chapter 4 says, uh in everything, be anxious for nothing, but in everything but be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. So God says, make your request. In Psalm 60 something, I think it is, he says, open thy mouth wide. So I hesitate to say we ought not to ask for abundance of things. I think we can ask for great things, but what I'm trying to say is this: the emphasis in Scripture is upon contentment. Contentment. And he's telling us, pray for just the most basic necessities. I tell you what would do a heap of us, I tell you what would do a lot of us a heap of good. is we learn to be content with such things as we have. Paul told Timothy, godliness with contentment is great gain. What does this world say? Great game is great gain, not contentment. Do you ever see that little bumper sticker? He that dies with the most toys wins. I'd like to make one. He that dies with the most toys squandered the resources God gave him to use for the advancement of the gospel. But it would take up the whole back seat of my car There's nothing wrong with having toys. There's nothing wrong with having nice stuff. Abraham had tremendous stuff. David, Solomon was unbelievably wealthy. But I think the whole idea in this prayer, give us to say our daily bread, is simply contentment. God, I'm content if all I have is the necessities of life. You're still good to me. I still love you. I'm still going to live for you, and I'm still happy. America has bought the lie that you're not happy unless you're living in luxury. I tell you, a bunch of us have been to some third world countries, and I've never seen anybody happier In any place I've been than in some of these poverty-stricken churches where they have almost nothing but a Bible, a song, and a local church. And they're as happy as can be. Give us this day our daily break. Contentment, contentment, contentment. The overwhelming emphasis in Scripture is not the accumulation of stuff and living in luxury and having huge budgets. The emphasis in Scripture is daily bread, being satisfied with the necessities of life. In Acts chapter What chapter was it? Um Ananias and Sapphira said they sold the land. Am I right? Chapter five, is that where it is? The end of chapter five Boy, they want to impress everybody how rich they were. They sold the way, oh, we're giving all this money, and they're holding it back. They wanted more stuff. They wanted to hold on to that rather than advance the gospel. I put some scripture down. I'll end with this. First Timothy six six. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Philippians 4, 11, Paul said, I have learned whether uh I'm not quoting this correctly, but he says, whether I'm uh have abundance of things, or whether I'm in great poverty, I have learned, in whatever state I am, therewith To be content. Paul said you had to learn that. Income natural. And then in Hebrews chapter 13, be content with such things as you have. Does that mean we shouldn't ask stuff for God? No, he tells us to. Let your request for no. Open your mouth wide. But if all God gives us is our daily bread, there's no reason for us not to be the happiest people in the world. No reason for us not to be able to rejoice and sing praises. We don't have to walk around all mopey dopey because I don't have the latest of that or the newest of this and my cell phone is a year old I need 700 more dollars to get another one. We ought to be able to say, hey, I go to bed tonight and my tummy's full. And God's good to me. I got something in the refrigerator, I got clothes to wear, I got good friends, I got a church that loves God. I have a Savior. And Lord, if that's all you give, I praise you and I love you, and I am happy as can be. Isn't that good? What a way to live. If God gives us over and above that, praise the Lord. But when He teaches us to pray, He teaches us to be very simple in our prayer, be very specific, and we ought to be satisfied. With whatever he does for us. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us that we could be the kind be able to pray the way you teach us to. And Lord, we'd like to see your power. And I read the book of Axor and I see these amazing souls saved and lives changed, and the church filled with the joy and the presence of God. Lord, we've lost that. We've got so complicated. We've got so selfish. I pray you could bring us back to simple prayers taught in this passage here. Teach me, Lord, as pastor, and all of us. To pray simply, to pray specifically, and to pray satisfied, to be satisfied with what you do. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many people would say with me, I need revival in my prayer life? I need revival. I need purification in my prayer life. Anyone like that at all? God bless you. My hands raised. Maybe tonight in a prayer meeting is a good place to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, Do a work in my prayer life. Adjust it, modify it, change it. Help it to be what it ought to be. Change my heart, my whole approach, my perspective on it. And I think God would help us. I really do if we if we were serious. Father, bless now, I pray, a little invitation time. And stir us in Jesus' name. Amen.