You know, there's uh there's bad news everywhere, you know, anymore. You don't you don't have to look for it. I mean it's it's all over the place. But uh what di what doesn't get told nearly enough is there's a lot of good news around. And uh the men that you've heard this morning are men with good track records They're faithful men. They've served the Lord a lot of years. They're still at it, still doing right, and uh and living clean lives. And uh Pastor Leatherman been here twenty-one years just plowing away in uh this uh neighborhood I mean, suffering for Jesus in the Deep Creek Lake area. I mean, I'm telling you, it's it's uh it's something else being here. But uh But uh he's done a great job. And even though this is uh this is a resort community, uh and and that has challenges. It has its challenges I mean a lot of folks come here even by homes here. And they just come over here to play. Come over here to play. It's like uh like being in Florida. You know, a lot of guys, man, I'd like a pastor of church in Florida. Yeah, sure you would. Everybody'd like to live in Florida. But I'm telling you, most folks go to Florida. The last thing on their minds church. Now, it's not that it can't be done, but we got guys all over Florida that are that are getting it done anyway. But thankfully, thankfully, we've got good news. Brother Willette is writing a column for us in the sword that we've entitled, It Can Be Done. And whenever we started doing that, he and I had a conversation and we agreed that uh we weren't going to just write about big churches. Although we've got some large ones and we're happy to report their their uh uh story as well. But we talked about that and we agreed, you know, there are churches that maybe a guy starts with a little handful and Two, three, four, five years later, maybe he's up to 142 or 168. Uh that is a story. And uh he may not be on Staten Island where there's five hundred thousand people. He may be in a community where there's uh uh in fact I preached the other day in a in a county, in a county where I think there's only like 12,000 people in a county. But yeah, guys in there just going at it, getting it done. And uh and so we're we're excited to report some good things, good news. And um you know we all have to focus on we can't ignore the bad stuff. But I'm just glad, I'm glad I still got reason to smile when I get up in the morning and uh to thank God for his goodness and uh Part of part of what we're doing and Brother Lederman's vision here and these other guys on board with us in this, I mean uh part of what we're trying to say is here guys, hey, these may be the last days. I mean the trumpet may sound before night. But uh but we got reason to be excited. We really, really do. And uh to stay at it. I want to read just a couple of verses from Acts chapter eight. Acts chapter eight And I know when lunch is, I'm not telling you, but I do know. And I promise you we won't miss lunch. Acts chapter 8, verse 3 and 4. As for Saul, Saul, you know his story up to now. And we got guys like that in everybody's town. I mean guys that are just as mean as a stripid snake, just as mean as a devil they are. We got guys like that all over the place And they had them then, and here's one of them: Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house and hailing men and women, committed them to prison. Pretty bad news. Therefore, they, that is, they in the Jerusalem church, they and that early Christian movement, they that were scattered abroad, that is, they were kicked out of their houses, they had to close their businesses, they had all kinds of difficulties. They therefore that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word. They went everywhere preaching the word. Now, it seems to me like what I'm reading in the book of Acts is the Great Commission in full bloom. The Lord gave the commission. The only church on the planet in the early stages here was Jerusalem. And they just went out and began to do what they had been instructed to do. And, you know, as I look at this, I say, well, maybe I can learn how church, how churches ought to do church if I just read What these folks did in following what the Lord had told them. And in a little study that I did of all the 28 chapters of Acts, There are both precepts and examples for us. I mean, definite, pointed, principle things that we can look at that says, hey, do it this way. And there are examples as well showing how that ought to be carried out, and we can learn a lot from that. I think based on that study. You know, our soul winning, our efforts, our uh things that we do to try to reach people ought to be straightforward. We ought to just get up and go at it. We ought not try to hedge it with vocabulary that sounds uh l light and less filling, I mean, you know, that type soft things. I mean we ought to just say who we are, what we're about, straightforwardly Uh it ought to be purposeful in what we do. We ought to we ought to say, hey, we we know what this is about. We're having a we're having an event. Well what's that about? Well it's it's it's uh we're gonna reach people. We're going out on the streets. What are we doing? Why are we out there? We're not out there just to tell folks about our nursery and and uh you know about uh the new building we built and things like that. I mean I mean we that may come up But but that's not our purpose for being out there. Our doing what we do and doing church as church ought to be done ought to be straightforward, it ought to be purposeful, it ought to be compassionate. Compassionate. There are people who walk through these doors with their teeth rattling because they are so tense and nervous because they don't know what goes on in here. We meet people all of the time as was described uh uh last night by Brother Boulette who have uh I mean I mean they I mean they they apparently go to the tackle box every morning before they leave the house and and they load up with metal and all kinds of stuff like that. I mean I mean we meet people like that all of the time and and and and the and the deal is when that when we are straightforward and we're purposeful in what we do But let's also note that it is to be uh compassionate in our presentation and in our uh getting engaged with people. But it also ought to be determinant. Determinant. I mean just determined. Now, uh it snows in Garrett County some of the time, but uh our purpose doesn't change We are determined nonetheless. I learned even though in Carroll County, 200 miles from here, we didn't get as much snow there as you get in Garrett County, but we did get some. But I discovered that when the snow is coming down is a grand time to go knock doors. I'm telling you, I I mean I've got more snowstorm stories, more more stories when it was just impossible to be out. But I got in a four-wheel drive vehicle and went anyway. I'm telling you, don't ever cancel soul winning unless the government uh governor declares a uh thing and shuts the roads down. I mean, just don't shut it down because it's snowing a little bit. Nobody's gonna be mowing their yard. Nobody's gonna be out golfing. Nobody's gonna be I mean, they're gonna be at home if it's snowing in all likelihood. In fact they'll be shocked that you even show up at the door. Determined we ought to be, and consistent. Consistent. Well, it's vacation season. Yeah, I know, but let's not quit. So man, it's a holiday weekend, and uh you know a third of our people are gonna be grown. Yeah, but I know, but let's keep at it. A consistent summer, winter, fall, and spring, and principled in what we do. Principled about it We're not taking some shortcut. We're not just chalking stuff up to say we got something done. We want every little child to be dealt with thoroughly. We want every bus kid to be dealt with thoroughly We want every single person to do everything we can to be sure that we've got them in. And our efforts ought to be aggressive. I mean we got we got places in town, we got neighborhoods where the devil has set up shop and we ought to just say, hey In my town, he thinks he's going to do that and not hear from us. Hey, listen, we hear from them all the time. Right. Yeah. Yes, sir. And we ought to just get on the aggression and go after them and say, uh they think they can set up in our town and not hear from us? No sorry. We're going after those birds. Aggressive we ought to be, and and you you say straightforward, yes, purposeful, yes, compassionate, yes, determinate, yes, consistent, yes, principled, yes, aggressive, yes. Why? Because soul winning is right. It's always right. It's just right to do. Not only that, but soul winning is fruitful It is fruitful. You say, how do you know that? Because I still do it. Amen. I still do it. When I became editor, I and I've probably told you this here before, but it it scared me a little bit because I had a I had a schedule that I kept uh over in Carroll County, I mean, every week. Monday nights, Tuesday nights, Thursday nights, and some on Saturday. And once in a while one of those nights would get uh you know bumped around a little bit, and I'd do something else to make up for it. But uh but those times I just I mean I just didn't schedule a lot of stuff. I just after it, after it, after it, after it. Amen. And that's why Sunday after Sunday, Sunday after Sunday, I had people down the aisle. I had people coming to join. Yes. Right. But it scared me when I became editor. I said, oh man, I'm going to be out traveling. You know, last year, last year, I mean I trimmed back a little bit, and I still made 71 trips last calendar year Got about that many on the docket this year. So you say, well, I'm not in the same place. I mean I can't I can't do what, but I'll tell you what I did determine. Because long, long time ago, I made up my mind that every single day that I live and breathe, and I'll have to confess and tell you, I've missed a day or two But I made a resolve to the Lord years ago that I would every single day I'd witness to somebody. Amen. Somebody. And uh so here I am. I don't have my buddies to go with me now like I did when I was at the church. I'm gone several days every week. So I said, you know what? This thing can take a twofold approach. I can do two things. Number one, when I am in town at home in Mercosur, I can still, I can still do what I resolve to do. I can still witness, I can still go after people when I'm in town. And so I just I just keep my antenna up everywhere I go And uh year after year, I get to lead people to Christ in my own city just because that I keep witnessing to people. But then there are the hotels that I stay in and people I meet coming and going in the travel and people I meet at the book table. Uh er every every single year now for a good number of years, I I don't think we've missed a year that I have not led some people to Christ at my book table in the lobby of somebody's church. One year I actually kept up with it for the year and I led seven people to Christ at my book table. Just keeping my antenna up. Sometimes you can just tell by looking at folks You know, hey, glad to have you here. You come to church here. Oh no, we don't come to church here. We came with so-and-so, but where do you go to church? Well, we go to so well, how long have you been a member? Well, I'm not a member there. And then I pulled them to the side and I said, let me ask you something. And just keeping my antenna up, get to lead some folks to Christ. Soul wings right, it's fruitful. And uh The guy who says it's no longer fruitful is the guy, there's two things going on with that guy. Number one, he's either not doing it, or if he drills and tries, he just doesn't know how. Could be. So winning is fruitful, but now understand, it not only is right, it's not only fruitful, it's also laborious. You say, what does that mean? It means it's work. It is work. I mean, I mean, you know, it I mean it's it's sometimes it'll press you. But uh but it pays. It is exciting. There's nothing, nothing to compare with uh just seeing somebody in and getting them to the savior. Now I mentioned this little study. And uh I went through the book of Acts, all 28 chapters of it, looking to see how the early church dealt with folks. Oh Acts chapter 2, that great chapter of the day of Pentecost, all those foreigners were in town to celebrate the Feast of Pentecost. God gifted the 120 in that church that I think already existed God gifted that hundred and twenty. You say, why do you think it existed already? Because it got added to that church that day. It's hard to add to something you don't got one off. The hundred and twenty, God gifted them with the ability to speak languages they had not studied. It's not ecstatic j jabbering or utterances or nonsense, none of that. Uh the the glossile, the dialecto, the terms in there. I mean it's specific known languages And God gave it to them so they could preach the gospel to those foreigners. And I read in verse chapter uh chapter two, verse eight, where the people said, How hear we ever Man in our own tongue, our own dialecto, wherein we were born. And I said, you know, I glean a principle from that. There are people coming to my doorstep who do not speak the same language I speak. We were chatting a little bit here about the Spanish ministry a while ago. We you know you don't have to be a you don't have to go to a foreign field to be a foreign missionary anymore. Right, yeah. Because we got folks coming to us. So we have to learn the languages a little bit or learn a little bit. I I've discovered, you know, people, you don't have to be fluent in a language to be able to converse with them a little bit. I was telling the brother, I've been down to Puerto Rico several times and uh they usually have uh meetings in various churches and then last night of the week we'll have a big island wide rally and had twenty some odd churches involved and I see these two Puerto Rican pastors coming in the door and and I'm standing there kind of in the lobby and in the And I as I saw them, I I knew them, I'd met them before, but I didn't remember their names. And uh the little dad was Spanish. I tinker with it a little bit, not a whole lot. Uh and I and I can make a mistake and step into a pothole real fast And those those uh those Spanish pastors or Puerto Rican pastors came in and I said, Oh, uh I said, Buenas noches, Hermana See there's one guy in the crowd who understands it. They started laughing too, and I said, What did I say? And the one guy said, You called us sisters. See this the little difference between Hermanos and Hermana is the difference between brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters. Now, you know, I laughed at myself and but I but I I enhanced my friendship with those two guys just because I tried. That's true. I I went to Japan for meetings. I was there gone three weeks. I flew up from Nashville to Detroit, got on a plane in Detroit for a 12-hour non-stop flight to Tokyo. And in fact, Jim Norton arranged that trip for me. Jim's in heaven now. Spent 50 years in Japan. Spoke Japanese fluently. One of the greatest soul winners I've ever known. And uh he had arranged me for me to speak two, three, four times every day. 18 days there, only one day we took off to go down to the bomb site in Hiroshima. that I did not speak at least once, but most of the time it's two, three, four times a day. I got on that plane in Detroit Sit down in my seat and here comes a young Japanese American heritage young man sits down beside me, immediately asked me what am I doing going to Tokyo, and I told him He said, Do you know any Japanese? I said, no, I don't. He said, would you like to learn some on the way over? I said, I would love to. So by the time we landed in Tokyo, I had learned how to say Kenichiwa It's a nice greeting. Or if it's someone like a pastor or a mayor or somebody that you want to be especially honoring, they have another term, Ohio. Spelled differently, but it's pronounced the same as our state. If you want to make it honorific, you say Ohio Gazimus. And he taught me all these things. So when I when I get to Tokyo, I'm saying, oh, Ohio Gazimus, and other things that he taught me to say in general things. Twice on that plane they served they served a meal in that twelve hours Both times on the flight they said, Do you want Western utensils or chopsticks? First time he came, uh I said, uh and he said, Do you not know how to use chopsticks? I said no. He said, Would you like to learn? I said, sure, bring the chopsticks. I ate two meals with his instruction by the time I got to Tokyo, I was eating well with the top six. I had no idea how that was going to serve me because at breakfast meetings we were having almost every day, luncheon meetings we were having almost every day with those uh Japanese pastors and missionaries and others Every single time they were trying to be courteous to me, they were saying, Would you like Western Utilistic? I don't know, the chopsticks will be fine And then when I actually am eating and getting the food into my mouth and doing it fairly well, I can hear them chattering down there and pointing to me. It's like, hey, that that American, he can actually eat with chopsticks. It served me well. Every little thing that we can do, somebody who speaks Russian or Chinese or German or whatever it is If we do our best to reel them in, to bring them to the Savior, to make a spot for them. I thank God that many of our churches now, they've got two or three language groups. I mean they got departments or they got a church inside the church or whatever. Right in the book of Acts. Uh folks, I mean, I mean we're we're getting folks In their native tongue. Chapter 2, verse 41. Another principle. How they go after people. Chapter 2, verse 41 says, they gladly received his word. They were baptized, and the same day they were added to them about 3,000 souls. Now notice that. 120 folks at the start of the day, they had 3,000 editions in one day. And I can hear it now. Somebody's saying, you know, our church is getting too big. I can hear it now. Somebody is saying, oh, they're just into a numbers racket. They're just out to get everybody. They're just trying to Well, again, we plead guilty on all of that. Absolutely. You say, well, I'm not in the numbers. I don't believe that. I bet you're in the numbers when your paycheck shows up. You go down to McDonald's to buy a hamburger and give them a twenty dollar bill and they don't they only give you back half the change you're supposed to get back, I bet you're in the numbers. Amen. So why do we get so pseudo-spiritual whenever we say, oh well, well, you know, it's just numbers. No, no, no, no, no. Listen, every one of those numbers is somebody. And we want to see the church house full. So they went after people in great numbers. You get to chapter 3 and verse 2. A certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried whom they laid daily at the temple gate, which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple. This is the guy of whom uh Peter and John said, Silver and gold have I none Hey, that's a good verse to quote whenever they want you to pay the rent. Amen? Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have given to thee. Hey listen, you and I can say, such as I have. Here they're dealing with a man who's handicapped and a beggar. I mean, that's double trouble. Handicapped and a beggar. And we got folks like that all over the place. Folks that have handicaps, hearing, seeing, other crippled things, sometimes mental emotional problems and disorders. While I was still pastor over in Westminster, we started our Good Shepherd Department for handicapped adults. It's more than 25 years ago now we started that. On any given Sunday, they're going to have 50, 60, 70 people in that department. The social workers who run those group homes, some of them actually bring them and stay with them, and some of those social workers have gotten saved. Bless the Lord. Now, just going after handicapped folks. And do you know those handicapped folks, every single one of them have got a family? Yes, sir. And you treat their special person special. And there's a good likelihood that family will think you're special. Because they've been to some other churches where they got the message right away, we just assumed you didn't come here. And as far as beggars are concerned, the McDonald's where I eat breakfast in Murfreesboro almost every morning when I'm in town. It's in the neighborhood where there's two homeless shelters and one of them just shut down, so guess where they all hang out now Every morning I go there and there's several of them in there. They got their backpacks and whatever else and they they buy one cup of coffee and sit there and sip on it all morning long just so they can stay in the air conditioning or stay in the heat Those beggars, those homeless people. They almost all smell odoriferously. I mean, reap to high heaven. Smell like tobacco, smell like some of them smell like alcohol, some of them got the stench of drugs and other stuff on their bodies. Do you know every single one of them is somebody's some mother's baby just a little while ago. Not all that long ago when some mother held that young man or young lady in her arms. And it won't be all of that long before some of them check out into eternity. And you think I'm gonna go in there and eat my bagel every morning, hash them by, act like they don't exist. No, sorry. I'm gonna march right up to every new one I see. I'm gonna tell them I'm gonna say, hey, let's get acquainted. They'll look at you sometimes like a calf staring at a new gate. Like, what is this guy? Guy who's got a coat on, he's got a shirt on, he's got cufflinks on, wearing a tie. Sometimes they think you're a lawyer or a banker, or sometimes they'll think you're a plainclothes cop. But I tell him I said, No, I'm a Christian and I'm a Baptist preacher. I won't tell you about Jesus. Now there's people in your town like that, and some of them you can lead to Christ if you'll try. They did it, they did it in the book of Acts. They did it. I mean I'm learning, I'm learning. Some of these folks with Other languages. We can go after them. And we can go after people in great numbers. We can plan big days. And we can go after the handicapped. We can go after beggars. You get to chapter 4. And uh top of the chapter says they spake unto the people, the priest, the captain of the temple, the Sadducees. You say, Who's that crowd? Just a bunch of unsaved religionists. Being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead, they laid hands on them, put them in hold of the next day. It was now even time. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about 5,000. So you got this unsaved religionist crowd. Well, what do you do with them? Well, you do with them what you do with everybody else. You say, well, some of them are going to get mad at you. Yeah, I know. I preached one Sunday night over in Westminster on why we do not uh why we do not join the National Council of Churches and all the other ecumenical things, something like that. I bought a big ad in the Carroll County Times, the newspaper over there, and plastered that subject in boxcar letters. When it hit the newspaper on Friday night, Saturday, the Episcopalian rector called me up and he said, I hope you're not going to be inflammatory with that. And I said, well, I said the only one way for you to find out now to show up, I knew he wasn't doing anything anyway on Sunday night. Not only did he show up, but two of his ecumenical buddies, who were pastor of mainline denominational churches downtown, three of them showed up and sat there in the service. Yeah, just threw a little oil on my fire. I skimmed that skunk up one side and down the other. And uh you know it's funny because you take a stand on stuff like that, and some of those rascals will be angered, but somebody else will admire the fact that you've got the spunk to tell the truth. And you'll reach people. And so you go after even those unsaved religionists. Even chapter 4 and verse 18 talks about they called them, commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. You're under the threat of the government. What do you do when the government comes crashing down on you? Hey, you don't forget what you're about. You don't forget you're a church. That story that came out of Carroll County just a few months ago, the lady county commissioner who refused to stop speaking, praying in Jesus' name. She's a member of our church over there. Amen. She and her husband are soul winners. And uh, you know, they got enough pressure on that the Supreme Court actually went ahead and heard a case on that and solve the problem, at least for the moment. But uh you say, well what what do you do? You do what Robin did. You you just say, I I'll not shut up. Lock me up, if you will. Under the threat of government. You and I just Hey, what happens what happens when trouble comes to the church? Inside the church? Chapter 5. of Acts tells the story of Ananias and Sapira. Remember their lying saga? And how they wound up flat on their backs and in the grave? Well, verse 14 says that right at the end of that believers were the more handed of the Lord multitudes, both of men and women. Hey, you may have trouble in your church. Don't stop gospalizing. You may have trouble brewing. You may have people hating you, sitting on the third or fourth, or fifth pew. They may be hurling darts at you while you preach. Forget about them. Preach for souls. Go after the sinners. Get people in the pews who need to hear it. And I can tell you some stories I don't have time to tell you in that regard Don't let those devils or some of their buddies so sidetrack you You know, they'll but they they may be mad as they can be, but if you keep getting people saved, I promise you, whatever their problem is, it's not gonna make much hay, it's not gonna make much heyday if you keep getting folks saved Now, I I I think I'll stop, but you work through the book of Acts, and I mean I did tell you there's twenty-eight chapters, so we could go on here for a while. And I went through the entire twenty-eight chapters just looking to see how they dealt with people and what happened when they engaged people. I mean, chapter five, verse forty, they were punished by the authorities What did they do? They counted themselves worthy to suffer for Jesus' name. And the Bible says daily, they went out from that, daily, daily, daily. Cease not to preach and teach Jesus Christ. That verse was a big part of the catalyst in me deciding I'm going to try to win somebody every day of my life. Now, chapter eight, Tragedy Strikes. Tragedy Strikes, Stephen's killed What do you do? Well you don't quit. They didn't quit. Chapter 6, the church gets bigger, and you got people grumbling because, well, you know, the pastor's not attending to us. I mean he doesn't have to eat with us as much as he used to because the church has gotten so big Well, what do you do? Well, you don't quit going after sinners. You find some people to help you. And you just give yourself to prayer and to the ministry of the word. That's what they did. You get to chapter 8. Got that Ethiopian showing up. Oh, got a black man showing up. Whoa! I don't suppose they had any racial problems in those days. Yeah. Don't have time to tell you all of that. You say, what's the solution to the race problem? Grace is the solution to race. You get a full dose of grace, you won't have any trouble. With the right embrace. Amen. Not even poeticise that anyway. I'm just simply saying Doing church like church ought to be done? It's about going after people. It's about getting out the gospel It's about winning people to Christ. It's about pushing Jesus, telling people about the Savior who loved them, died on the cross, rose from the grave, made it possible for their miserable, hellbound soul to go to heaven when they die. Glory to God. Amen. I was over in Frederick on Sunday. They had Friend Day. They had 81 visitors. From Sunday to Sunday, they had 41 saved, 19 of them on the weekend. Baptized, I've forgotten how many, several. It had five families. Five families joined. Not in the folks that were saved. Now I mean five Christian families joined on Sunday. You say, well, how'd they do that? Well the week before they uh they took scripture portions with the church name on it and they knocked on over 23,000 doors. The week before. 120 of their people and some other folks who were helping them. And uh you say, boy, sure it's good those folks in Texas can do that. I'm telling you, that's just over the mountain over here. In Frederick. In fact, Frederick, some of you who've lived in Maryland a long time. You know what? Frederick, I mean, I don't I forgot how many times I've heard people say Frederick is a graveyard for churches. You can't build a Baptist church in Frederick. Well we got two or three of them started in there now. And Frederick Baptist is really made. They had five hundred and forty-two on Sunday. That's one of the best days they've had, but they've they've had two or three days similar to that last couple of years And guys, look, I'm not saying compare me to you or y us to them or them to us. We we're not into making comparisons. But we do rejoice with folks who have things to rejoice about. Amen? Absolutely. And we're excited because everything, every time you hear some bad news, just determine to write in your town, kick the devil in the teeth. Just kick him in the teeth and kick him on down the road. And determine to stay on track, just keep doing what we do Get up on Sunday, take a text, and preach. Amen. You know? Folks come back on Sunday night. Don't don't coast. Kick it in gear. Folks show up on Wednesday night, don't go in there all casual. Don't say, well, I just got a little group. Preach like It may be just a little group, but preach like uh just imagine what you'd like for it to be and preach to the imagination. I I don't want to quit but I'm going to. I can smell the food. Guys, I tell you what, we got all kinds of things to be excited about. Thank God for the day. And somebody came down the dirt road in western Kentucky in those river bottoms, and this boy heard about the Savior. I thank God for that. I'm not over that. Still excited. Put my head on the pill at night and I know. But I'm forgiven, born into the family of God. Heaven bound with the hammer down. Amen. I'm still excited about the fact that I felt the call of God on my life to be a preacher. Every opportunity that I have to stand in front of somebody. And God's been so good to me. I've preached in some of the largest churches in America. Preaching great churches every year. I mean, size-wise, great churches. I'm grateful. I mean I've I've I've had the privilege to do some things that are that are mind-boggling to me I'm going to tell you, I never, I never, and there's never been a time, you'll never hear somebody say, if they do, they're lying. I've never one time when a guy called me, I've never said to him, How many people you got? Yeah I've never done that. Brother Ulak doesn't do that. Brother Fox doesn't do that. And you know, I go and preach in some churches sometimes and there'll be there'll be twenty people in the auditory Bible class. They get their attendance done on Sunday morning, they'll post it back there. 51 people here on Sunday. You say, well, how do you preach to that crowd? I preach to them just like I preached to the big crowd where I was the week before. Because I thank God for the privilege that I have. I remember as a teenager boy when somebody would call and say, would you come preach for us? Man, I was so excited. That somebody would invite me to get in front of them. I still have that in my soul, in my heart. And not only that, but I remember the first soul that I led to Christ. Yes, yes. Young man named Jackie Bond. Did not know that shortly after we were out of high school, he had hit a bridge abutment one night in the middle of the night and go out into eternity in an instant. I've thought about that so many times. There's others like him in your life and in mine that if we reach them, they'll go to heaven. If we don't They're going to go to hell. And so I still stay excited about one-on-one, just seeing who I can reel in every day. I hope that you'll make some commitments in your heart in this meeting about what you're going to do with the life that you have left. Let's stand up. We'll pray.