So if you would take your Bibles and turn back to Matthew chapter six. Matthew chapter six. And uh isn't that amazing how God does that, brings songs together and they all just tie together beautifully. And that tells me God's wanting to do something. God has uh something in mind for us this morning, and so I'm excited about that. Matthew chapter six, while you're finding your place there, a group of friends went deer hunting and uh they paired off in twos Uh they were gonna hunt for the day, meet back at the cars uh at uh after dark, and um that night one of the hunters came back by himself. They went out in twos. He came back by himself and he has this monster eight point he's He's dragging in and carrying in. And uh they said uh when he got there, they said, Where's Harry? And he says, I d uh Harry's back there, he had a stroke or a heart attack or something. He's a couple miles up the trail And they said, You left Harry laying there and carried the deer back? He said, Well, I figured want to steal Harry So you've got to keep your priorities right here. Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, this is a familiar verse, no doubt, for many, if not most of us. If you're not familiar with this verse, this would be a good one to commit to memory and be able to claim in time of need. Let's read verse 33 together, if you would. Read it with me But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. This verse is talking about priorities, and I've entitled my message priorities for a new year. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you, Lord, for a good service this morning and Lord, I'm uh I'm just encouraged by the folks that have come out. Uh a lot of uh plenty of good excuses to stay home today. But uh nevertheless, folks are faithful and we rejoice in that. And I pray now, as we look into your word, that uh you would open our hearts and minds and help us Myself included, all of us help us to establish our priorities here at the beginning of the year. What we're going to live first for, what we're going to emphasize, what we're going to place high on this list And I pray it would be pleasing to you. I yield myself to you and present my body anew this morning. Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit And uh have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Matthew 6. 33 was for me, for most of my years in college, what I claimed to be my life verse I think it's good for a Christian to find a verse in the Bible that is very significant to you and just hold on to that and maybe make it, like I said, your life verse. I used this through college. As I said, it was very significant to me. This was a verse, Matthew 6. 33, that I clung to in college. Some folks, and listen, if it's if it works out this way, praise the Lord for it. But some folks uh uh you know they went to college that I went to school with, their parents were paying their bills, their parents were covering everything. I didn't have that I literally worked my way through and my paycheck to come in, I'd give my tithe, and the rest of it went right to school, and just kind of lived however I could. And uh Matthew 6, 33 Brought me through college in a very real way. It brought hope and courage to me when things were difficult. I look back over my uh early years of my Christian life. And this verse here and the promise of this verse helped me to go forward in times of real difficulty and some real dark times. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. What a great verse. What a great promise. And as I said, that helped me through some very dark times. Now, the context of a verse is very important if we're going to understand what that verse is talking about. We have to get the context. What the passages before and after are talking about. Then you place that verse in that context, and then I glean from that the truth being taught, and I can apply it to my life. The context of Matthew 6. 33 is, and as James read, that's why I had the number of verses read before and after, the context of Matthew 6. 33 is dealing with God's people worrying about stuff. The Bible term is anxious care. Being stressed out, to use modern uh contemporary language, being stressed out over the issues of life Now, apparently, this was a pretty big uh problem in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ Much of the Bible, particularly New Testament and the Old, deals with God's people not worrying, not getting stressed. Not being so anxious and concerned about issues of life. So it was apparently an issue, a problem back then. I'd suggest to you it is still a problem today. In fact, I would suggest that this matter of worry and anxious care is more of a problem today. than it was even in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ. Luke chapter 21 verse 25. We'll not turn there, but Jesus is speaking about the last days. Talking about the days of his return. And he makes this statement. He says, in those days, when the Lord comes back, men's hearts Will be failing them for fear. In other words, he's saying, in the days before I come back, people are going to be worried, they're going to be scared, they're going to be anxious, they are going to be stressed out. Would you agree with me? We live in stressful days. People worried about everything, the economy, uh terrorists. Uh now it's uh Americans shooting Americans Um so people uh uh are in our day it characteristic one of the characteristics of the last day is folks are going to be worried. Folks are gonna be strong Now this is not my message, but I want to throw a few things out here by way of introduction about worry and anxious care. It's very common. Uh how many folks here have ever worried about anything? Raise your hand Alright. How many folks here, see if you're like me, how many folks here have ever gone in this situation you really weren't worried about it, but you got worried because you weren't worried about it. You know what I'm talking about? And I'm not. Something's wrong. And uh so it's very common But let me point out a few things in these passages, particularly what James read, and uh why uh w we need to deal with this. First of all This is by way of introduction. Worry is unnecessary for the believer. Look with me at verse 26. Behold, the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither they reap, uh, nor gather into barns. And yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Look at verse 27. Um And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. Yet I say unto you that uh every even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. So worrying is unnecessary. God takes care of the birds. God takes care of the flowers. And so it's not necessary for me to worry. I'm sure He'll take care of me. If you would go out to a farm somewhere, go out in the country, and uh here's a farm, and the farmer has dogs, and he has cats, and he has some goats. And then out in the meadow there's some cows and steers and has a few pigs over here in this pen. And every one of those dogs, cats, billy goats Cows, stears, and pigs was very well fed. They had a nice place to stay, a little shelter, and uh well taken care of How many, looking at that, seeing how well the critters are taken care of, would say, you can probably assume he's taking good care of his children Do you agree with me? I mean if he's taking care of his dog and his cat and his billy goat and the pigs and the cows and the stairs, um Safe to assume he's taking good care of his own children. Hey, we look out here, and God's taking pretty good care of his critters. Do you agree with me? A couple thousand birds fell out of the sky the other day, but don't pay no attention to that. But for the most part Well, you look around and say, I was out the other day walking around the woods a little bit, and uh might have been New Year's Day, I forget, it was a real cold, snowy day, and here's a little bug flying around. I thought, how in the world does that bug survive? It's like five degrees out, ten feet of snow, little bugs flying around. And uh I'll be honest with you, a thought came to my mind, man, God takes care of that little bug Listen, if we can look in creation and see how God takes care of his critters, we can be sure God's going to take care of us We don't need to worry about 2011. We don't need to worry about the economy. We don't need to worry about all this, that, and the other. God's going to take care of us. He's taking care of the critters. He'll take care of us. So first thing I see here by way of reduction, worry is unnecessary. Second thing I put down, looking at verse 27, worry is useless Look at verse 27. Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? Now, boy, I'm so worried. I wish I was six foot instead of five foot ten and a half Is that going to make me grow? No. Worrying is absolutely useless. It doesn't change a thing. Doesn't make anything better, it's not going to make anything worse. I can't, it does, it accomplishes nothing. And so it's completely useless. Now I know uh what I'm saying here this morning is easier said than done. Right? Uh some of y'all are getting worried that you worry. But it doesn't change a thing. I put this third one down. Worry is unbelieving. Look at the last part of verse 30. O ye of little what? What's he saying there? You're all worried about your food and clothes and all of this. The whole problem is you just don't believe what I say. You're not trusting me. Your faith is not in me. Oh, yeah of little faith. So worry is unnecessary. It's useless. It's unbelieving. But here's the worst of them all. Look at verse 32 and the first part. For after all these things do the Gentiles what? You know what he's saying? He's saying worrying is ungodly. It's characteristic of the heathen. When you and I are anxious about things, stressed out about situations, all worried. What we are doing, we are practicing what those who do not even have God do. We're living as if there's no God. Uh, oh no, what's gonna happen? Things are terrible, everything's gonna fall apart, this is horrendous, it's all gonna be awful. You know what we're saying? Well, there's no God gonna take care of me. God's not going to be good to me. God's not going to take care of me. Now I know I'm up here preaching this. I'm telling you, it's a whole lot easier to preach it this this than it is to practice it. Can I get a witness And uh we tend to be that way. Dr. Williams, uh Don Williams, our evangelist friend comes by that um takes over our mission house every time he shows up. Um He made a statement one time. This was years ago, and it stuck in my mind, and it helped me tremendously. Years ago when his folks were still living. How many folks remember uh Don and Berness uh When they were still living, he would come up here and spend a month or so and he'd go hunting and all that stuff. And um his mom would worry sick about Donnie, she called him. I always call him Dr. Donnie. But um she uh what a and if it get dark s my phone would start ringing. Is Donnie back yet Is Donnie there? Where is he at? We would you go out and find him? Make sure he's okay? And um so he'd finally show up. I'd go out and say, I said, would you call your mom? She's worrying me sick and uh call me up call me up she would worry that and he made this statement he goes why do we always assume something bad happens when I don't show up. He goes why why is the first assumption, oh something terrible happened? He says, why don't we just assume, oh, he got delayed? Something got that. And uh his answer was, because we just don't believe God We tend to worry. We tend to think negative. And so the context of Matthew chapter 6 And verse 33 is that of worrying, of that of being having anxious care, being stressed out. As a child of God, he is telling me here in this passage of scripture. that I am not to be concerned about having enough food to eat, having enough water to drink. Or what clothes to wear. God's going to take care of that. If I just do what he says, if I just follow his instructions, God will take care of that. I don't have to worry about that. Amen? That's what he's saying. Don't worry, why take you thought for what to wear, what to drink, and uh uh food to eat You don't have to worry about that. Your Heavenly Father is good. He's going to take care of you. He says, Oh, what if China cashes in and wants to cash in on the all the loans that our country has made, our economy is going to fall, we're going to go into a depression and soup lines and all that. Listen, God will take care of us God will take care of us. And so we don't have to be concerned about those things. But verse 33 tells me There is something I should be concerned about. There is something that I should give very close attention to. He says, what you gonna wear? What you gonna drink? What you gonna eat? Ah, I take care of the lilies, uh the birds, ravens, um, uh blue jays, um Raccoons, I take care of all that. You don't need to worry about that. But verse 33 begins with that word. There is something You should be very concerned about. There is something that should be, should have my very close attention. There is something that I should make a very high priority in my life. Having food, clothing, drink, all that doesn't have to be a high priority. God's going to take care of that. Don't you worry about that. You just do what I say, I'll take care of it. But here's something that should have a higher priority in my life than having clothes to wear, than having food to eat. Excuse me, than having a boyfriend. Something that should be a higher priority in my life than having a boyfriend or having a girlfriend. Something that should have a higher priority in my life than owning a house, or what job I have, or what kind of car I drive, and that is this The priority of my life should be the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That should be of a greater concern in my heart and life, my heart and mind, Then what food I'm going to eat, what clothes I'm going to wear, what house I'm going to live in, what car I'm going to drive, uh whether uh uh what where I'm going to go on vacation, any of these things of this life are secondary to the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now here's a question What in the world is the kingdom of God and his righteousness? If that's going to be more important to me than these other areas of life, which The Gentiles, the unsaved, would say, you know, having food to eat, having clothes to wear, having a job and a house to live in, man, that's the most important thing. And God says, oh no, no, you don't worry about that. There's something more important than that The kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now, as I said, the question is: what in the world is the kingdom of God and his righteousness? What is that? Um, it's not something physical. It's not something tangible. Now, what what do I mean by the by the word tangible? Can't touch it, you can't hold it. It's not something you can't grab a hold of. The kingdom of God is not some place we can go to. It is not something we can possess and hold. It's nothing physical. The kingdom of God is not on a map. It doesn't have any borders. The kingdom of God cannot be traveled to or traveled through. What is the kingdom of God? Now, I trust you have your Bibles. Let's look at a few verses and determine what does he mean? If this is more important than food and clothing and dress and houses and all this What in the world is it? Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter 14. Romans chapter 14 And notice with me verse number 17. Romans 14, verse 17. Romans 14, 17. What is the kingdom of God? Verse 17. For the kingdom of God is not meat and drinks. But, by the way, that sounds like a little bit the context of Matthew 6:33, doesn't it? Eating, drinking, clothes, houses, stuff. He says that's not what the kingdom of God is about. But the kingdom of God is righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. What's he say? He's saying the kingdom of God, to put it very simply, is not something that is visible, tangible, but it is spiritual. It is a spiritual kingdom. If you would come with me over to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Gives us a little more insight. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. I hope you brought your Bibles, church, and we bring them to use them. Amen? 1 Corinthians 4, verse 20. How many folks are glad you drove through the cold snow this morning and came to church? Raise your hand. Good. That's the vast majority. 1 Corinthians 4, verse 20. For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in what? Power. So, this kingdom that I'm supposed to seek, this kingdom of God, that's to have a higher priority in my life than food and drink and clothing and all of that, it's not something I can buy It's not a place I can go to. It's not something I can hold. I can't even see it. I can't hear it. It doesn't make any noise. I can't feel it with my skin. What in the world is it? The kingdom of God is simply this: it is God's rule over my life and God's will for my life. That's the kingdom of God. God ruling over my life and his will being accomplished in my life. So Matthew 6. 33, in the context of that entire passage, is telling us that more important, a higher priority than food clothing, houses, job, whatever, a higher priority is that God's will be done in my life, that God be Lord of my life and I submit myself to Him and his will be accomplished in my life. That is number one priority in 2011. More important than keeping my job? If if if It comes down to doing the will of God or having a job, I do the will of God. If it comes down to doing the will of God or having food to eat, I do the will of God. I seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. And if I will do the will of God, if I will submit to His Lordship, If I will live in his kingdom, so to speak, subjected to the king of that kingdom, I'll make that first. Then he'll make sure I've got that job. Then he'll make sure I have that food. If I put the food, the clothing, in place of the will of God, then I'm on my own. I I don't have that promise to claim. I can't I can't claim the promise God's going to take care of me. But if I put God first, uh uh if uh if it comes down, listen. If it comes down to doing the will of God, I'll speak to young people and singles now. If it comes down to doing the will of God or having a girlfriend, I do the will of God. And all the parents said, Amen. I tell you what what burdens me a a a bit as a pastor, and this has been this way for years, and we were a youth pastor, I saw it As people come along and some good looking girl or some good looking guy, I don't think a good looking guy exists. I mean there's one in the world I think of, but um Uh and it ain't Tom. But um if it comes down, I I I see this uh with young people, all of a sudden this guy comes along, will God goes out the window. Huh? Some good looking gal comes along, shh, there goes the will of God. Has no priority whatsoever. Boy, some good job comes along, and uh shh, there goes the will of God. Some big uh man, I can uh uh buy this house, a man or two of that, and will God out the window. God says, if you won't worry about those things, And concern yourself about the kingdom of God, I'll take care of those things. You'll have those things Seek ye first the kingdom of God, his rule, his will over your life. All these other things be added unto you. Now, how do I seek first the kingdom of God? What does this involve? Number one, this is the message. Priority must be that I first of all enter the kingdom of God. I've got to make sure I'm in that kingdom. Turn with me, if you would, to the Gospel of John. Very familiar passage, chapter 3. Let's see, John's before Matthew, after Matthew. John chapter three Guy shows up to Jesus one night wherever he was staying. Nicodemus. Well, we know that thou art come from God can A great teacher, no man can do things to do except God be with him. And Jesus just completely ignores his accolades and his flatteries and just says, look what he says there in uh verse number 3. Jesus answered him and said unto him, Verily, Verily, I say unto you, say unto thee, except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. Come down, if you would, to verse number. Well, let's just keep reading. Verse 4, Nicodemus said to him, how can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? What's Nicodemus' problem? He's looking at the earthly kingdom The things you can feel, see, and touch. Uh he's his mind is where the clothes, food, houses, raiment are. He says, well, how could a man be born again go back in the world? What are you talking about? Look what Jesus says. Jesus answered, barely but I send you. Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot, I circled that next word. What? Enter the kingdom of God. You've got to be born of water and of the Spirit if you're going to enter this kingdom that we're supposed to seek first. How do I get into God's kingdom? How do I get into the kingdom where Jesus rules and I live in submission to Him? I've got to be born of water and of the Spirit. Um, let's read on here a little bit. And that which is born of the flesh is now the question I can see, now this is just me injecting But I can see him saying you're born of water and of spirit. You cannot enter the kingdom of God. I can see Nicodemus just scratching his head and look of bewilderment And Jesus, of course he knows all things, but Jesus sees that, and he immediately, before Nicodemus can respond, He immediately goes and explains what he means by being born of water and of the spirit. Look at the next verse, verse 6. That which is born of the what? Flesh is And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marble not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Now you hear some preachers, you read some commentaries, and they will say on that part where Jesus said you must be born of water and of the Spirit, they will give that stuff meanings that God never intended. When he says you must be born of water and of the Spirit, Jesus is not talking about baptism. That has nothing to do with the subject. It's not in the context here. It's completely, it's a complete injection of something Jesus was not talking about. So don't buy this when people suggest you've got to be baptized to be born in the kingdom of God. You've got to be baptized to be born again to be saved. That's not what he's saying. Others, and this is a little more spiritual and in a sense it's true, will suggest that he's talking about the Word of God. Other places, the Bible talks about the washing of the water of the Word, the Word of God being like water in some sense. And it's true we can't be saved apart from the Word of God. But that's not what Jesus is talking about. It's very simple He explains it on the next verse. Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. You can't get into God's kingdom to seek it first, unless you're born of water and spirit, that which is born of the flesh. In other words, you've got to be born physically and spiritually if I'm going to enter the kingdom of God. You say, where does water come in? When a child's born, uh the woman's water breaks. Right? Born of water. And so he's simply saying you'll never be able to seek first the kingdom of God if you're not born physically. I mean people think that's very profound. You don't even exist if you've not been born. So you've got to be born physically. So that tells me something. That tells me there's two worlds of reality. There's the physical world, that which we are born into naturally, but then there is a spiritual world where I need to be born supernaturally. Born of water and of the Spirit. And so I must end. The only way I can enter the kingdom of God is by being born spiritually. How many people here were born physically? Raise your hand. Uh that's over half. Some of y'all were found under a rock, I think. But um I was glad to see Tom raised his hand. Praise the Lord. I always wondered that. But anyway, we're born physically. But he says, if we want to enter the kingdom of God, we've got to be born spiritually. spiritually. If all I am was born physically, as all of us here we can safely assume were, then if that's all I've had, the only birth I've had, then I have, get this, I have no spiritual life. Spiritually, I'm dead. I am outside the kingdom of God. I'm not part, to use other terminology, I am not a part of the family of God. Church membership is not how I enter the kingdom of God. Baptism is not how I enter the kingdom of God. Christian service is not how I enter the kingdom of God. Well I teach Sunday school. Well I sing in a choir. Why I uh I help in the nursery. I of course I'm a part of the kingdom of God. Of course I'm saved. I do all these things. That's not how you get saved. Well, my parents are Christians. Of course that makes me a Christian. That's not how you get born again. That's not how you get into the kingdom of God. I must be born spiritually And then he goes on the chapter, we don't have time. We go down, read down, he gets to John 3. 16. John 3. 15 says that whosoever believeth in him should not perish every last life. And of course John 3. 16 So the way I enter the kingdom of God is by trusting Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, acknowledging my sin, trusting Him that He died for me on the cross, was buried, and rose again Trusting him in my heart and life, and he gives me supernaturally spiritual life. And I am born spiritually, and now I am in the kingdom of God How many folks here are you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That means that you're in the kingdom of God. The moment you trusted Christ, you entered the kingdom of God. You're in that realm. Or Jesus is king. Now if there's some here this morning and you say, I don't know what you're talking about being saved. Uh I don't know if my sins are forgiven. I I never trusted Christ. I I don't know I have any of that Then it's my duty to tell you, according to the Bible, is you are outside the kingdom of God. And if you die outside the kingdom of God in your sins, as the Bible describes it, You're lost for all eternity. John 3, 15 and 16, you will perish. Means to die and go to hell, be separated from God for all eternity. So it makes sense that a high priority would be that I enter the kingdom of God. Would you agree with me That's the most important thing. Listen, year 2011 could be your most successful year financially, could be your most successful year as far as your family and marriage is concerned. concerned. It could be your most successful year as far as things you want to do in your life are concerned. But if you're outside the kingdom of God, it is the worst year, could be the worst year of your life if you die in that condition. So, seek ye first the kingdom of God. What does that mean? I need to enter the kingdom of God. Number two, I need to embrace The kingdom of God. Once I'm saved, once I'm a child of the king, once I'm in the kingdom, God expects me to live according to the laws of his kingdom. Says, all right, you've been born again, you're now in my kingdom. How many folks here, when Peter and Elizabeth or anima move over here would assume that would agree our country expects them to live by our rules Did you know in Holland it's you can smoke pot legally? Did you know that? Amsterdam Suppose they come over here and they say, well in my country you can smoke pot and they start smoking pot in our mission house. I think they're listening right now. What are we gonna do? We're gonna kick him out of this house. I'm gonna call the police. And uh they're expected to live by the rules of the kingdom, quote unquote, that they're dwelling in. When you and I got saved, guess what? God expects you to live by the laws of his kingdom. Oh they don't keep living the way you uh they can't come over here and live the way they do. No, not the way they do, but The way people in Holland live, they're in a different kingdom. Hey, you and I, as children children of God, as safe people, we live by a different standard than the world does Well the world's doing is so our kingdom is not of the Lord's kingdom is not of this world We don't live by this world standards, this world principles. We have higher standards to live by. Not to maintain our salvation I don't get saved, trust Christ, get born of the kingdom of God, then if I don't live up to His laws, He kicks me out of the kingdom. That's not that's contrary to Scripture I don't do this to maintain my salvation, but I live according to the rules of God's kingdom. I embrace his kingdom because of my appreciation for what he saved me from. And what he's done for me. The Christian life is a life of gratitude. Thankfulness to God. I love him. He's done so much for me. He saved my soul from sin and hell. He's given me new life. He's given me a new lease on life. He's given me hope. He's given me purpose. And I embrace his kingdom. And I want to live by his principles and standards because of what he's done for me. Does that make sense? There are some things in the kingdom that we are to do. We are to associate with the people of God. Now, I said baptism does not enter me into the kingdom of God, but baptism does associate me with the people of God. So every saved person ought to be baptized. Not to stay saved, not to be saved, of course, not to stay saved, but to identify myself. I am a child of the king, I'm a child of God, I'm part of God's people. And I am associating myself, I am identifying myself as one of God's people through baptism. You say, why baptism? Why that way? Ask God. He's the one that said it. Now we have purposes we think. Picture of death, burial, resurrection, marriage, things like that But I am to embrace the kingdom of God by associating with the people of God. Hey, if you're here this morning, you're saved, you're not baptized, a priority in 2011 should be is that you should get baptized. Amen. It's the first thing a new believer should do. Um then uh also church participation We're not far away. Flip over to Acts chapter 2 real quick. Acts chapter 2. And believe it or not, I'm winding down on this. Nobody believed that. Acts chapter two. And notice verse forty-one. This is the church is just getting geared up. God's doing incredible things. People are getting saved by the thousands. Verse 41. Then they that gladly received his word, what does that mean? They got saved. They received the gospel. Peter just preached it. They got saved. They that gladly received this word, what's the first thing they did? They got baptized. They were baptized. And the same day, look at this, there were added unto them. Who's the them that they are being added to? It's the church. They're in Jerusalem. These people got saved and they got baptized and they dove right into the church They said, we're part of it. We're participating. This is our kingdom. These are our people. This is God's people. I'm a part of this. And look what it says. And they were added in them about 3,000 souls and stop there. They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers. What in the world does that mean? They continue to, you know what? It means they got under the preaching, they got in on the fellowships, they took part in Lord's Supper. They went to prayer meeting. They were active, participating in the life of the New Testament church because they are embracing the kingdom of God, which they are now a part of. Does that make sense? See, that's where I would have said, Amen. So he says, number one, priority, seek ye first king, God, his righteousness, I must enter the kingdom. Number two, I must embrace that kingdom. I'm going to associate with God's people. I'm going to be a part of what God is doing. But he also tells us that we should not just associate with the people of God, but we need to avoid the practices of the world. Now I'm just going to give you the reference as we don't have time to turn there. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 9 through 11. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 19 and 21. He said he gives a list of sins, horrendous stuff. Some of it's more common than we care to admit. And he says, they that do such things are not, shall not enter the kingdom of God. In other words, and now don't let that throw you. He's not saying a Christian can't doesn't mess up now and again. You agree with me? How many Christians here have ever messed up since you've been saved? Hand. Some nest up right now by not raising your hand. But um Christian, he's he's not saying a Christian can't do these things. The key word in these passages, and if we had more time, we'd we'd dissect them a little more, but the key word is the word doing these things. That word do means a continual, habitual lifestyle. Their lives, if their life is characteristic of these horrendous sins, drunkenness, adultery, uh murder, strife, unthankfulness, blah, blah, blah, it goes all the way on down there. If that is characteristic a continual habitual characteristic of your life that uh that means you never were saved in the first place You're not part of the kingdom. And what he's saying is we need to keep those things out of our lives. If we're part of God's kingdom, quit living like you're part of man's kingdom. Split that stuff out. Has no place. So, number one, enter the kingdom of God. Number two, embrace the kingdom of God. Number three, quickly, I need to enjoy the kingdom of God. We make a big deal about the fact that if we get saved, we go to heaven when we die. Amen? In fact, we go out soul when we have it. The question is, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven, not to hell? That's where we start. And that's fine. I mean, folks are glad you're going to heaven when you die. Amen. Hey, I got some news for you. Salvation is more than just going to heaven when you die. Salvation is living a life here and now on this earth. And I tell you, it's pretty good. I've been uh I've been on this side of the kingdom for more years than I was outside. I've been inside the kingdom for more years than I've been outside the kingdom, but I was outside the kingdom long enough to tell you inside's better than outside. Huh? Living for God, living the Christian life, is far better than living the unsaved life. Now they may have more dances and more drinking and more hooting and hollering go on than we do. But I tell you what, we got something they'll never know apart from Christ. We've got peace of heart and mind. We have joy of the Lord. We have purpose in life. There's fulfillment. There's meaning. There's hope. There's promise. So we need to enjoy the kingdom. Uh some of y'all need to put a smile on your face and put a song in your heart and say Praise God, I'm saved. I I'm not lost. I'm not out there. I'm going to enjoy being a part of the kingdom of God Amen. I tell you what, it's just it's been too long. We got Christians walking around with their big black big black Bibles and I got a big black Bible and their black suits and I'm wearing a black suit and but long faces and morbid and listen, we've got something to shout about. We've g this is uh we've got uh you say oh the world's so terrible yeah but God's so good Say, oh, everything is this, and these people are so wicked, and these people are so ungodly. Hey, praise God, we got a church to go to where we're not perfect, but I think we got some folks that are wanting to do right So let's enjoy the kingdom of God. Let's praise God for his promises to us in Matthew 6 and uh rejoice in Matthew And then last of all, number one, enter the kingdom of God. Number two, embrace the kingdom of God. Number three, enjoy the kingdom of God. Last of all, number four, extend the kingdom of God. Turn with me if you would, in the last verse, Matthew 24. Context of Matthew 24 is the second coming. The end days, tribulation period primarily. And look at verse number fourteen of Matthew chapter twenty-four. Matthew 24, 14. And this gospel of the kingdom, the good news of the kingdom, that you can be saved and live under the lordship of Christ. As a child of God, shall be preached into what? All the world for a witness unto all nations. And then shall the end come. You know what he's saying? He's saying that we who are in the kingdom of God, a priority Well, priority in life, more important than food, clothing, house, jobs, all that, we're to be more concerned about the fact that I've entered the kingdom. Once I've entered a kingdom, it ought to be a high priority in life, more important those things, then I embrace this kingdom and live as God intends for me to live. And more important than food, enjoying food, clothing, houses, all that, I need to enjoy the promises of God, the presence of God, the blessings of God in my life. And then, number four, more important than food, clothing, house, all that, I need to do everything I can to extend that kingdom. To get it into all the world, that every single person on this planet has an opportunity to understand the gospel and receive Christ as their personal Savior. Now we can't save everybody, we can't save anybody, but we can take the gospel to people and we can present it to them and it Explain it to them in such a way that they understand it and they can make the choice to receive Christ. And that ought to be our priority. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now there's a number of ways to extend the kingdom. First of all, personal witnessing. Everybody can take gospel tract and give out gospel tracts. Amen? Um by uh giving gospel coming out on soul winning this year. Now it's kind of hard in winter, we try and juggle it around a little bit, but uh well, knock on doors. Let me ask you, um let me word this tactfully so not everybody gets mad at me. Um Which which now I'm not saying what is, but what should be, which should be a higher priority? Reading my Bible or Reading the magazine and newspaper for an hour a day. Duh. Everybody knows the right answer. Which of those two is the easiest to do? Why is it we can sit down and read every word in a newspaper for an hour, but to pick up that Bible and read two or three chapters absolutely kills us. Why is that? You know why? We're not living in the kingdom of God. We're living like we're still outside the kingdom. The affairs of this kingdom are more important to us than the affairs of God's kingdom. Uh I put this down. Uh which is more which requires most effort? Which is highest priority? One hour of prayer or three hours of watching a movie? Say, pray for an hour. Good night. But yeah, we'll sit down and watch some world garbage movie for two or three hours Why is that? Um I put this one down. Uh which is most which requires most effort, highest priority. Go soul winning for 45 minutes Or go out to dinner with uh another couple that's a friend for two hours. Why is it we do the one, not the other? Why is it we can do this but not that? Why is it we can do this but not that? Bible says he ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That means I gotta make sure I get in the kingdom of God. That means I need to embrace the kingdom of God, enjoy the kingdom of God, and then do everything I can to extend the kingdom of God Kingdom of God. I like football. I like it as much as anybody. Several years ago, it's been a number of years ago, a fellow became the head coach of a major football team. He'd been married for 26 years. He was coach of a college team during those 26 years or part of those 26 years. He said, while he was coach of the college team, He needed his wife for social functions and to show the families that he would be looking out for their sons. But when he became coach of the national of a team in the National Football League, professional football, first thing he did, divorced his wife. And this was his reasoning. He said she was unnecessary and was actually a distraction to winning the game. He said winning football was his number one priority. And he divorced his wife so he could be a winning coach. That's messed up. And as much as we condemn that coach for doing that, every day of the year Christians do just as bad. When we set God aside, the kingdom of God is relegated to number two slot So we can enjoy and succeed in the kingdom of man, in the kingdom of this world. The will of God Is set aside so we can have food and drink and houses and friends. God says If you'll put me first, you'll put my kingdom first, I'll make sure all of that's taken care of. And you don't even have to worry about it. You don't even have to his says he says take no thought. Don't even give a thought about it. Sandy went to the hospital last Sunday. And it really was, in many ways, a party in the hospital room up there. When you get up there, it's just laughing and carrying on and everything. And the question she kept saying was Why why does God do this? You know, I don't I don't know why God allowed this. He must have a purpose or a reason. My wife and I went up Monday night. Monday night? Yeah, because the next night I beat her at Scrapple. Um it was Monday night. And while we were there visiting, they said, Would you go by next door? There's a couple over there and they just They they don't have a church, would you go buy and visit them? So we went over and introduced ourselves, talked a little bit, and gave them our phone number and prayed. Left some tracks and literature with them. We went back Thursday. And we visit there and uh Brian Stanley was saying, you know, we just want God to use us. There's some reason perhaps here that God has us in this And so I said, well before we leave, I want to go over and visit that other couple. So we went over there. We talked a little bit. I said, can I read some scripture with you? They said, sure, that would be great. So I got out and I read Romans, read the Romans road. Explained it as we went through. And I said, listen, Christ died for us right the way we were. He'll receive us right as we are. Would you be willing to receive him as your Savior, as your personal Savior? Come in your life, forgive me, and Savior. Give you home in heaven. Something interesting. He sat there and he looked at me, they're both just blue to me. And he looked over to her and he said, Sweetheart, are you ready to do this? She said, Yes, absolutely. They bow their heads and they call on the Lord Jesus to be their personal Savior. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Now here's a man in a hospital, don't know I mean he seems to be coming around heart attack, stroke, just in terrible physical condition. But that night he put the kingdom of God first. And he trusted Christ as Savior. Now, why don't you and I do that on a daily basis? Not trusting Christ, but putting God's kingdom first. Say, today, all these other things I'm not going to give thought to. My thought is focused on what is God's will. What is his what's his instructions? I've got to advance this kingdom. Putting God first. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us, help us to seek you first. Not not to worry about the economy and the politics and terrorists and whatever else, the job situation. God help us to be concerned about your will being done in our lives. Your lordship over our lives being accomplished. How many folks this morning would say, preacher, there's just a situation in my life where it has me worried, it has me stressed. And you say, preacher, I don't want to be that way. I want to trust God in this matter. I just want to put it in his hands and not let this situation drag me down. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I've got a situation. It just stresses me, worries me. I don't want to do that. I want to put in God's hand and God bless you, hands all around That's as I said, that's a lot easier said than done. Takes effort, determination. Just gonna put it in God's hands. Now how many would say, preacher, you know there's some areas of my life where the Holy Spirit pointed out in this last hour That I really need to start putting him first. Maybe it's baptism, church participation, prayer, whatever But the Spirit of God's dealt with your heart. And you say, Preacher, I've got some areas in my life where I need to make them a priority. The Spirit of God has touched my heart tonight. I need to make a priority. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher Which we goodness, hands all around. That means we have some decisions we make need to make. Some actions that need to be taken, some things that need to be eradicated, put out of our life. Let's let the Lord have his way. Let's seek him first. And see if he won't take care of all these other areas. Father, bless now our invitation. You know our hearts. You know the struggles we have. You remember that we're just human. But you've given us your Holy Spirit. Help us, Lord, to trust you, to yield to the Spirit of God, that He can empower us to live a worry-free life and accomplish your will in our lives. In Jesus' name. Let's stay.