We just read verses twenty-seven through um thirty-four. Uh we're just gonna read thirty-one through thirty-four again. There's some other verses in the chapter that we're going to refer to, but for just sake of time, I'll just read just 31 through 34 real quick. Verse 31 says, Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? Now, those are the you know basic necessities of life. Um, you know, food, clothing. Verse 32, for after all these things do the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things, the basic needs. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things Shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil. We'll pray this morning and then I'm going to preach to you on the subject of priorities. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us, Lord Lord, I thank you for uh just seeing fit and allowing me just to just stand up here and share with the share with the people what you've laid on my heart. Lord, if there's anything um That I'm about to say that that's contrary to your word, Lord, please keep me from saying it. Lord, I wanna I wanna um be a blessing to the people here today, Lord. I want you to to use me as you see fit And if there's anything that you would need me to say that I don't have down, Lord, bring that to my mind. Lord, I just want to completely surrender myself to you right now, Lord, and I just ask that you use me this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All of us have a lot of going on in life. We have very busy lives. Many of us wear multiple hats. I've heard people use that expression. You know, someone wears a lot of different hats. They have a lot of different things going on in life. And I was thinking, you know, you might be a student and you work a job. And then maybe another part-time job. You're might be a father, a mother. At the same time you're a brother or sister. Um at the same time you're a church member. You get the point we all wear a lot of different hats. Maybe some of the younger people there might be in different clubs at school, maybe in the scouts or some other club organization. After school activities and sports Um a lot of you may coach one of those sports or something like that. A lot of people volunteer. And I'm thankful for this. I mean we need people to to do that as well. But everyone has a lot of different stuff going on. As I was thinking about this, I'm not probably the most busiest person in the world, but I wear a few different hats, I guess you could say. I'm I'm a husband, I'm a son, uh a pastor's assistant, youth pastor, uh power lifter, spend a little bit of time in that. I try to make sure I eat at least six or seven times a day. I mean I got a lot going on. I'm busy, alright? But the point is, is each one of us have a lot of different areas, a lot of different aspects of our lives, and we're busy Now, let me say right up front, I think that's good. I think it's a and please never misunderstand me f for whatever else I say today. I think it's a very good thing to be busy. Someone said that uh idleness is the the devil's workshop. I think that's true. Um if you find yourself bored, then you find yourself looking for things to do, and the devil forgives you stuff to do. And I think it's very good to be busy. You know, if if you're you know 13, 14 years old, you you come home from school and then you're bored, you find something to do, and it's usually not good. In the summer, if you don't have stuff planned, you find other things to do, the devil gives you opportunity, and we need to be busy. Throughout Proverbs and throughout the Bible, really, you see warnings against laziness, warnings against idleness. It I think it's a very, very good thing to have a lot going on. I think it's a very good thing to be busy. I think it's a good thing to have full schedules. Um at the beginning of the year we passed out a calendar, uh the church calendar ever to everyone, and there's a lot happening. We're busy. That's good. I don't remember what it was. There was some meeting when someone said, Well maybe we can fit that in in our off-season, and then Brother Mark said, What off season? We don't have an off-season. We have a lot going on, and that's good. That beats the alternative of not doing anything, I would say. And I think it's good when we get out in the community and you can see this church is busy. And I think people know us as a busy church, and that that's good. Um having a full schedule is not a bad thing, it's a good thing. I think one of the dangers though, something we have to be careful about is when we have uh very, very busy schedules is trying to figure out when to schedule things. When our calendars get full, they get full. I don't know if y'all know this or not. I'm starting to realize this though. There's only really 24 hours in one day. It and I I learned that Sunday through Saturday, that's it. That's a week. And th that's not gonna change. Time in the day is not gonna change. And so when things fill up, you run out of room. Now like I first said, that's a good thing. Alright, now make sure you get at least three hours of sleep. Alright. I myself try to get a little bit more. I don't know about you, but if I don't get at least like six, I'm pfft zombie the next day. But anyway, that's just me. If you can live off of four or five hours of sleep, by all means, have at it. But uh we have a lot going on. There's only so much time There's only so many days in a year, only so many weeks in a month, etc. And and you can't cram everything. If we if I could, I uh I would, and if you could, you would. There was um a family here in the church that wanted to have us over for dinner um on a Friday night. I'm not gonna tell you who it was, but he'll probably start laughing here in a minute. Anyway, so he wanted to have us over for dinner and um I said sure man invite me over for dinner, are you kidding me? Of course I'm coming. So he invited us over there and said, sure, I'm coming. Friday night? Sure, sounds good. Great. Uh-oh. Day before I realized that's the same time as the deacon's meeting. Oh no. I double booked. Now I'm I'm glad that I'm married because I didn't know I was double vote until she told me. So I mean that that good thing. So anyway, we had to we had to figure some things out here Because I couldn't be in Cranesville. Y'all figured out who this is yet? I couldn't be in Cranesville and here at the same time. I'm only one person. You're only one person. You can't be two places at the same time. Schedules get full quick. At least they they should. But everything was fine. I texted him. This has nothing to do with the rest of the message, but it's funny, so I'll tell you. So um I texted him. This is another reason you should not text in Drive, because I'm like, I'm not gonna look at my phone, I'm just gonna text like this, right? So I'm walking the road and I text send. I told him I'm not going to be able to make it tomorrow night. We have a deacon's meeting. Something was just bothering me. So I looked at my phone once I stopped and I was like, ooh, I won't be able to make it tomorrow night. I have a demon meeting. Oops. So anyway, um don't text and drive. That's has nothing to do with the message. I was just so busy I couldn't find time. Never mind. But anyway Everything was fine. I mean everything was fine. We rescheduled and we went over and another time and it worked. But the pr the point I was trying to make is this: you can't do two things at the same time. Your schedule gets full Something's gotta go. In this case, it was something that just had to be rescheduled. Now, when we get to our text here. Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, says, But seek ye first the kingdom of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. We see here Jesus is telling us how we should prioritize things. And and if Jesus is is saying it, I think we ought to pay attention, I think we ought to take note Um, you all have seen the bumper stickers, God said it, I believe it, that settles it. I like the ones like God settles it, said it, that settles it. So Jesus is saying something we ought to pay attention. He says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. We saw that these things were like the basic necessities of life. But what our Lord is telling us here is that yes, we have a lot of things going on in life, but our main priority as Christians should be to seek Him first. Seek the kingdom of God first. Seek his righteousness first. Not second, not third, not first sometimes, but first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now, if you're here and you don't know the Lord is your Savior, that should be your number one priority. It is to make sure that you know for sure before you leave this building today that you are part of the kingdom of God, that you have trusted Christ as your Savior. That is number one priority. And we're all praying for you. But as Christians, our priority should still be to seek him first, seek his kingdom first. You know, we ought to our priority ought to be trying to win folks to Christ. It's one reason we're passing out so many tracts this month. Our priority ought oughta be to Build the kingdom as far as winning folks, as far as taking care of the church folks here, looking after one another's needs and things like that. Our priority should still be to seek His righteousness first. Seeking first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. What's right to God ought to be right to us. What is his uh priority, what he puts first, ought to be what we put first. I think we'd all would agree with that. So to sum up, what what I'm trying to say here is The bottom line, our number one priority ought to be to put God first. That's a shocker, right? You're coming to a Baptist church on a Sunday morning and hearing someone say we ought to put God first. And if if I were to ask every one of you, bring every one of you up here, I'd say 99% of us would say, yes, I try to put God first. That's good. We should. That'll be our number one priority. I mean after thinking about what he's done for us, I I don't think it's any small thing that we ought to put him first So it should be no hard thing for us to grasp, but basically God should come first in everything that we do. And I know, and I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time preaching like on individual things, like God ought to come first in your marriage. We know that. God ought to come first in your family. We know that. There's some things that are just obvious. Choice of friends, God ought to come first. Well, how you spend your time, God ought to come first. We know that Um but for a few a few minutes this morning, and you know I'll hold my word there, for a few minutes this morning, um I'm just gonna look at three areas in our life where it's At least for me, it's kind of easy to slip up and not put him first. It's easy for us to say, yes, I've I try to put God first in every area, but for at least for me, there's a few areas where I think it's easy to slip up. So we're going to look at that this morning. So the first thing, I think God ought to take priority in our schedules. God ought to take priority in our schedules. We're talking about schedules filling up. And they do. I'll tell you, this is this is what's this is this really helps me out so much. I never have to worry when I'm going to schedule to go to Sunday school. Because it's always at the same time. It's on Sunday. And it's great because I never have to worry about when I'm going to schedule time to come to church Sunday morning because it's Sunday morning. Right? Sunday night, same thing. We have a church service Sunday night on Sunday. I don't have to worry about it. That that's on the schedule. Sunday's on the calendar. The first day. And Wednesday and Thursday night and so on. But when we put things on our schedule Like I said, it's good to put a lot of things on our schedule, so so don't misunderstand me there. But what let me ask you this way, what is the first thing that you do put on your schedule? An even better question, what's the first thing that comes off your schedule? You got two things planned at the same time. One of them has to go. What's your prior? Are we seeking second the kingdom of God? Or is it our priority? A lot of times it's pretty easy to camouflage the fact that we're not putting him first. We'll say, yeah, I put God first in everything I do, and I'm here all the time, I'm here every service. And then something comes up that you do have control over. I'm not talking about things you don't have control over now. Talking about things you do have control over, but something will come up, and then that's when your real priority shows. You know, i i is the Super Bowl really more of a priority? I can I can say that now 'cause it's nowhere near the Super Bowl. It i it is I don't know, do we all do we all watch races anymore? Do we do that? Is a race a priority? And nothing wrong with a race. Sure, I'd like to watch cars go fast. That's fun. But it's not the priority. Um and yeah, I'm talking about church services now, but remember we ought to seek first his righteousness, which is living living the way that Christ would live. What's important to him is important to us. Just so you know, the church is important to him. And he tells us not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Um even so much more as we see the day approaching, we see it approaching, we know Christ is coming back. So we ought to be even more serious about this idea of putting God first. Putting church first. It also means putting each other first. Do you really love your fellow church members? Or do you put them down? You despise them, you don't put them first. You know, if if you if we're not going to look after one another's needs, and we're not gonna I I don't want to misquote the verse, but every man uh looking on others more than himself. Then we can't be we can't say that God's first in our lives. Can't do that. Um soul winning, I think, is something that we ought to make sure that we put on our schedules. Um I just w again one thing that's so easy for me is I don't have to plan when I'm gonna go soul winning because we have soul winning on Thursday nights and Sunday afternoons with the teens. It's easy. Be an easy time for you to as well. I I encourage everyone, come out on Thursday night. Man, there ain't nothing like it. And then they trust Christ as their Savior, they're going to heaven because you showed them how. That should be a priority. I mean, I would think that that's more important than Call of Duty or something like that. You can tell I'm a youth pastor, can't you? Call of Duty. Do you all adults play that now? No? Maybe a few. Anyway, God will take first place in our schedule. You can't uh verse uh twenty-four. Says you cannot serve two masters. You can't have two things as the absolute number one priority. You say God comes first and then you say, Yeah, he is first in my life until something else takes place. Now let me clarify this, okay? Um trying to think of how to word this. I understand that some people have to work on Sundays. And I'm glad that some people do. I'm glad that there's policemen that work on Sundays. I'm glad that there's doctors, so when I fall off here preaching on you, whatever they're gonna be stitches, all right? Glad we have rescue squad working on Sundays. There's people that have to work. Okay? And in Luke chapter 14, verse 5, Jesus even mentions this when the Pharisees are accusing him of Of doing good on the Sabbath. And he says, I don't want to misquote that. Let me go to Luke 14. If you want to, you can go there with me. Luke 14 and verse 5. And answered them saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull them out on the Sabbath day? Alright, if you if there's something that comes up and you can't help it, the ox is stuck in the the pit, you gotta get them out, you're gonna lose your ox. Okay. I understand that. But what I'm talking about is this. You plan for your ox to be in the pit. Hey boss, you need someone to work this weekend, I got you. Pastor, I'm sorry, I gotta work Sunday. Alright? Sometimes it happens, but you're planning for your ox to be stuck in the pit. Now I'm just throwing this out there, but if I had a a a stubborn enough ox to where he keeps getting stuck in the pit over and over and over and over again, I'd find a new ox. God's dumb, man. He keeps getting stuck. And some of you, it's l I mean, yeah, you're you you you keep getting stuck. You man, I'm pastor, I want to make it there. You call him up. I wish I could be there. Maybe we need to find a new ox. Right? Just throwing that out there. So I mean yes, our uh it's our pri we're talking about priorities, we're talking about schedules. Sometimes you can't help these things. But if you can help these things, which probably ninety percent of the time we can, then we ought to be here We ought to uh be able to come to not just church services, but church functions and activities. Love the problem we had yesterday. Well, two problems. Both were related. We we were trying to figure out where we would fit everyone on the bus to go to Cumberland to pass out tracks. We had a lot of people come. It was good. I don't remember how many it was, but it was good. And because there are so many people on the bus that overheated like going up the hill. You know what I'm talking about? Coming back on sixty-eight and shr it's like I'm on the floor and it's like forty miles an hour and it's it's it was it's fun Because everyone had a priority. Yeah, I'm I'm my ox not stuck in the mire. It's not stuck in the pit. I can be here. I'm coming. Good. Gospel got out. Had some people call saying thank you for doing what you're doing. Some other calls too. But um yeah, it's good. It's i we we we showed what our priorities were. So God ought to take first place in our schedule. Second thing is God ought to take priority in our finances. God ought to take priority in our finances. Look at verse um nineteen. Lay not up for yourself treasures upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt. We're back in uh Matthew six, I'm sorry. Verse 19, lay not up for yourself treasures upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. And where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Your treasures. And we're going to talk about money for a minute. You invest in things you care about. Parents, you invest in your kids, you feed them, you give them clothes, you help them out with other things because you love them, right? You have a heart for them. You know, people will say they have a heart for something and they'll invest time, effort, and money into it. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. We'll say that God takes first priority in our life and say, well yeah, well I put God first But we won't e even tithe. We won't even give in a tenth of what he's given us. That's what the tithe is, is the tenth. The tithe is a very basic thing. It's a requirement, of course. God commands it. And the Old Testament Italian prophet Malachi Uh chapter three, you all can laugh, it's okay. Malachi, chapter three, verse ten says, Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse. that there may be meat in my house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing. There shall not be room enough to receive it. It's a command, said God said, it's a requirement, bring the tenth, bring the tithe, and I'll bless you. We want the blessing without the tithe sometimes though. But it it's a very basic thing, and I think sometimes people get upset when when someone will preach on tithing. They'll say, Oh, what's the big deal? I'll be honest with you, it's not a big deal. Let me clarify this before you get upset. I think it's a very, very small thing. Um you know, when we look at all the other commands in the Bible, you know, don't commit adultery, don't kill, you know, that's a big deal if you kill somebody. Don't do it. Where's Tom? You'll see him. Um He's not in here, is he? Ugh, where is he? Hey buddy. I'm looking over there. Sorry. What's up? But um uh what was I talking about? Priorities or something. Uh tithe, yeah, tithe. That's a very basic thing. That's it. And people think it's a big deal, but here's the thing. It's a because it's such a small thing and you don't hear people preach about it that often, that's what makes it a big deal. If you follow what I'm saying. If you can't put God first in something as insignificant as 10% of what He's given you, well then there's no way He takes first place in your life. You see what I'm saying? If you say, yeah, God takes first place in everything, then how come you don't do something as simple and as little as giving him 10% of what he's given you? He's not first place. If you're not tithing. There's something else I learned. Tithe is ten percent, right? Basic math. I get paid a hundred dollars. Hundred dollars. Ten percent is ten bucks. $5 isn't an offering. If I get paid $100 and I put $5 in the offering plate, that's not an offering. If I put $10 in the offering plate, that's not an offering. That That's the tie, that's the requirement. Above and beyond what's required and commanded, that's an offering. Okay? So I'm not even talking about offerings. Right now, I will admit. I'm talking about what God has commanded the basic. And if you can't put him first as the number one priority in your life in something as small as The tithe, there is no way you can put him first in everything else. Because where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Um people say, you know, I can't tithe. I don't make that much They'll say things like, you know, I have to make sure I get groceries first. Wait a minute. Therefore take no thought saying, What shall we eat? What shall we drink? No, no, no, no, no, no. That's not first. You put him first, you give him priority Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things they'll be added unto you. You'll eat, you'll have clothes. But it's not a guarantee that you'll eat and have clothes if you don't seek him first. Saying. Just throwing it out there. But the Bible says God will supply all my needs according to his riches and glory. Seek him first, he'll take care of these needs. And then of course there's the offerings and investments. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. I said that parents will spend money and invest a lot of money in your children because you love them. A lot of us make the comment like, I love this church. My heart is in this church. It's not if you're not putting your treasure in this church. My heart's in missions. Well, how much are you giving to missions? My heart's in the bus ministry. Are you giving to the bus ministry? I'm not talking about tithe. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Okay? My heart now if I okay, I I could say this. I can honestly say this. My heart's in my wife. I love her. Okay? I like to spend time with her. Like spend money on her. Okay? If I spent more money on let me find someone. Tom. If I spent more if I spent more money on Tom then my heart would be more in our friendship than in my relationship with her. Nothing wrong with, you know, saying, hey, let me buy you a coffee, let me buy you an ice cream. If I spend more on him for Christmas, you know there's a problem. Right? Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. That sounds so funny. But we'll say things like, Oh, my heart's in this church. No, your heart's in the movie tickets that you just bought. No, your your heart's in the big T V that you bought. Are are TVs wrong? Well you watch on 'em can be. Oh, you better believe it. But y you know, you you could buy um some old DVDs or or or Netflix or something and control what you watch. That look at or you put track month, lights versus lamps on. I like how our name's a little higher. It's pretty cool. I just noticed that. But there's nothing wrong with that box, right, while it's right there. There's nothing wrong with buying stuff. I like to have stuff, right? But that stuff's not priority. Stuff shouldn't come first. What happens is, is you say, you'll tell Pastor, you know, I can't afford to tithe, or that's all I can do is tithe, and I can't give anything to missions. Well then how how come you can have fast food every single meal? Anything wrong with McDonald's? No. Anything wrong Burger King? Little Cedars, what else do we have here? Is that it? Arby's, Taco Bell, Walmart's got everything. So nothing wrong with that stuff. Man, you get a a double chalupa, that's a that's a good thing, right? But it's not a better thing than putting a little bit of time and effort into some missionaries that really need the help. Or another bus. You know, there's people up in the north end of the county that if we had a route that went up there, they they'd come. So where's your heart? Well, show me your money, I'll show you your heart. Okay. And please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying don't buy stuff. I'm not saying don't have fun. God blesses you with stuff and God blesses you with money. Have at it. But not as the number one priority. We should plan out what we're going to spend here first. Again, not the tithe. We should plan what we're going to give here first and then plan your vacation. And then plan what you're going to spend. So, anyway, I'm I'm done with that point. God ought to take first priority in our schedules, God ought to take first priority in our finances. You ought to ought to take first priority in your private life. This is life that nobody really knows about. You ought to be first. Now, we can get so consumed with these first two points. Spending so much time and effort here, spending so much time and effort um What's my second point? Money. Finances. Don't misunderstand me. We should. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, seek his affairs first. What's right to him ought to be right to us, etc. Be it be here every chance you can be, be it every church activity you can be, more so than anything else. But don't ever forget to put him first in your private life. If you have time to watch a movie and you don't have time to read the Bible, your priorities are out of whack. Anything wrong with watching an an old movie or something, no. But that comes second. If you have time to play Xbox and you don't have time to do your devotions, then you're you're you're messed up. Your priorities are are are out of whack. Yeah, I and I could keep going. But make sure you put him first. Make sure you actually have a time that you set aside to read your Bible. To pray. Spend time with God yourself. Of course, again, I'm not even talking about with other people. Sure, we need to have family devotions. Sure, we need to um have you know studies here, we ought to encourage each other Sending text back and forth verses. Yes. I'm talking about your individual self, your relationship with God. Make sure you plan time for that. It'd be a bad thing if if you don't. So um kind of sum up here, verse twenty-four says, No man can serve two masters, for he either hate the one. Love the other, else you hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon money. You can't serve two things at one time. Either hate one, love the other. So the the the the illustration here is is of love and hate in two individual things. When there's something that God would have you to do on your schedule, and something that you want to do or someone else would have you to do at the same time, which one do you love, which one do you hate? You have God or the other master? You hate God or the other master? You can't you can't have two things as your number one priority. You say, well, I try to put family first and I try to put God first. No, no, no. One's gonna be first. And if you if you put God first, then the family will take care of itself. Well I I I try to make sure that I I take care of this first or or no, you put God first, and all of these things will be added unto you. Can't serve both. So these three things your schedule, your finances, your private life, w when there's a conflict Conflict of dollars, conflict of scheduling, conflict of what I'm going to do now that I have some time alone or whatever. What is your number one priority? I dare say, like I said at the beginning, ninety percent of us would say, yes, I put God first. And how come you don't tithe? We would say, yes, I put God first, then how are you only here one service a week? Or a month or whatever. Again, I'm not talking about things out of our control. I'm talking about things we can control. Yes, I put God first. Well when was the last time that you actually read what he wrote you? We say we put him first, but do we? And like I said, th th there's so many areas. We ought to put him first in every area of our life. You know, he ought to take first place in our families and and our marriages, at a job, or what All all kinds of areas of our life. We wear a lot of different hats and he ought to take priority in each one. But these Or ones that I felt like the Lord spoke to me about. I just want to share them with you this morning. Very easy to overlook these things. A schedule, money. Private life, very easy. So let me just let me just sum up. Is God first in your life? Are you putting him first? Does he take priority? Oh yes, Pastor Matt, but God's first in our home. Make sure he is. Make sure he is first in your individual life. Therefore, take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? God should even come before our basic needs. And if we put him first, he'll take care of the basic needs. And if there's you're here and you and you're not saved, you're not part of the kingdom, and you're not sure if something would happen to me, I don't know Where I'd spend eternity, I don't know if I'd go to heaven or or hell, but I'm not sure. Friend, you need to get that nailed down. That is your number one priority. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? You could seek after all the stuff, be richest person in the world, have everything you could ever want, make stuff your priority. And you could lose your own soul. What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? If you're here and you have not trusted Christ as your Savior, do not leave without getting that settled in a minute. We're going to have an invitation. If you're not sure you're saved, come come come get me. I'll find someone who can show you the Bible or show you in the Bible how you can overshare you'll be saved Now, if you're here and you say, Pastor Man, I'm saved. Good. Praise the Lord. You got the first priority nailed down. Now your first priority is put him first in everything you do. You understand, Pastor Matt, I'm tired. You probably are. You're busy. But what comes first? Your sleep? Or God? He'll take care of the basic needs. He'll take care of them. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us. Lord, it's a simple thought here, but it's very, very challenging. I know it was to me very challenging. We need to put you first, Lord, in everything that we do, and that's an easy thing to say, but such a hard thing to do. Now, with heads bowed and eyes closed, and I'm looking around for just a minute. If you're here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, you're talking about seeking the kingdom of God first, and I'm not even sure if I'm part of that kingdom. I don't know that I'm a Christian. And if something were to happen to me, I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven, but I'd like for someone to show me how. That's you, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. Just slip your hand up and put it right back down. I just want to pray for you right now. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved, but I'd like for someone to pray for me. That's good. Now, if you're here, say, Pastor Matt, I'm saved, I know for sure. But my priorities aren't right. In one way or another, my schedule, my money My private life, in one way or another, my my priorities are not right. If that's you, say Pastor Matt, pray for me that I get my priorities right. Would you just slip your hand up? I just want to pray for you. Yeah, my hands up, that's for sure. Let me put your hands down. You know, it's it's it's let me put your hands down, thank you. It's one thing to um raise your hand and say, Yeah, my priorities aren't right, and that takes a lot of courage, I know. And it's it's another big deal to come up here to an altar and tell the Lord, man Lord, I'm I'm my priorities are wrong. I'm sorry. But it's a whole nother ballgame to walk out of those doors and change your schedule. And change your finances. It's a whole nother ballgame to go out of those doors and make time in your individual private life to put God first. Let's stand to our feet, heads bowed, eyes closed, still no one looking around. If God's dealt with your heart about anything this morning, if she begins to play, you come to this altar and do business with God.