Tis uh chapter number forty, if you would. Again, we're continuing on in our study of the life of of um Joseph and um does it is it just me or does it seem like these weeks, it seems like just yesterday we did this last Wednesday. You know what I'm talking about? It's just each week is just boom, boom, boom, like a day going by So we're back here. I want to begin reading in verse number. I want to begin reading in verse number five. We notice Joseph, of course, is in prison at this point, falsely accused. of assaulting Potiphar's wife. We know he did not do that, but nevertheless, uh injustice took place and he's third in prison while he's in prison. His integrity and his character carries him to the top. And the the the the guard there um uh what was his uh title there, uh the chief The captain of the guard, which we believe to be Potiphar, he puts them up in uh over top of things and and uh serving one another. These two fellows show up, the butler and the baker. These two guys show up. And uh there something took place with Pharaoh. Pharaoh had them thrown in the prison. Joseph is given the responsibility to care for these two guys. serve them is the term the Bible uses. And so he's uh doing his job, doing very, very well. One day he comes in, he notices these two guys are sad. So that's where we're picking up If you would notice there in verse number 5, speaking of the butler and the baker, it says, and they dreamed a dream, both of them Each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream. The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison Joseph came in unto them in the morning and looked upon them, and behold, they were sad. And we talked about that last week. Joseph was very sensitive, very observant. These two guys, they were sad. And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of the Lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly today? So now we'll find out why they were sad. And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me then, I pray you. So obviously Joseph had a relationship with the Lord. He says interpretations belong to God. Tell me, and I'll see what I can do for you. Verse 9, and the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me. And in the vine were three branches. And it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth, and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup unto Pharaoh's hand. That was his dream. Joseph said unto him, this is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head and restore thee unto the place, unto thy place, and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler. But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house. For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also in my dream, I also was in my dream, and behold, I had three white baskets on my head. And in the uppermost basket there was all manner of baked meats for Pharaoh, and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head. You can almost see this guy's anticipating a good interpretation here because he heard what the butler had. Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof. The three baskets are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree, and the bird shall eat thy flesh from off thee. And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again, and he gave the cup to Pharaoh's hand, but he hanged the chief baker as Joseph interpreted to them Prison dreams. Two dreams in a prison. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless as we look at this portion of Scripture. I pray, Lord, there be something from this passage That uh can be applied to our lives, Lord. Your Holy Spirit is the author of that. We're convinced, Lord. And so I'm asking you, in the person of your Holy Spirit If you would fill me, you'll my will take my body and use it to draw from here principles that can help us live by faith It can help us trust you and know you better and be a more effective witness. So have your way in these next few moments as we study this. Teach us, Lord, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. How many people here ever have dreams? Anybody here ever have dreams? I think we all have dreams. They say, I don't know, I'm not an expert on this, but they say that everybody does dream. You just don't remember them. Some people have more dreams than others. My wife dreams all night long, every single night. I mean some of them are violent. And um I'm telling you, she dreams. I hardly ever have dreams. Uh on occasion, maybe a couple, three times a month, I probably have them and don't remember them, but um I just don't dream a whole lot. uh that I'm aware of. How many people here dream a lot? Anybody here you have a lot of dreams. How many people here hardly ever have dreams? Just hardly ever. About 50-50 But we all dream. Sometimes the dreams are fascinating. Anybody here ever have a dream and you think, man, I wish that wouldn't have ended. That was pretty cool. Anybody know? Yeah. Sometimes they're bizarre. I used to have this recurring dream years ago about aliens coming up out of the ocean. It was just weird. It didn't make any sense. Sometimes the dreams are inspiring. I know there's been times, I think in one in particular, where um I'd been studying late at night and was trying to work on a message. It was the week before Easter and I wanted a good message on Easter and it was heavy on my heart and I was working, working And um went to bed and woke up in the middle of the night for whatever reason and I just had this outline in my mind uh for a passage and I quick got I keep a paper there by my bed and I jotted it down and uh lo and behold that thing came together. Now I'm not saying it was inspired by God, but something was going on in my head while I was sleeping, woke up with this boom, boom, boom, three points and a poem. So sometimes dreams are inspiring. Sometimes our dreams are pretty corrupt. Anybody have that? Think, man, where in the world did that come from? In scripture, dreams played a significant role, particularly in the Old Testament, a little bit New Testament They played a role in God communicating a message either to an individual or through an individual and he would give them a dream. Sometimes a deep sleep, the Bible says, would come upon someone. And then God would uh they would have some dream that was a message that God was giving to them and uh to be communicated. It was a supernatural event. It was a supernatural take place. It was a supernatural event taking place where God was speaking through the dream to a person and then communicating that message when they wake up. It was a divine communication. I want to say this, God speaking to and through people In dreams in the Bible was very, very rare. If you think of all the people referenced in Scripture, and there's thousands by name, The few that we have an account of God giving them a divinely inspired message through a dream is extremely Rare. Not everybody in the Bible is having dreams from God. It's a few here and there for very specific purpose. at very unique times often in history. For instance, in can can anybody think I have a few I jotted down. There's probably I know there's more than what I jotted down Can anybody think of someone besides Joseph that had a dream that God gave them that dream? Right, yeah, uh he he he had that, I think it's called a vision, but very similar, yes, Peter. Anyone else, somebody that in the Bible that had a dream that was significant, obviously from God Yeah, that that was more of a vision. I don't think he was asleep, but um similar, very similar. Joseph, of course, uh will look at these How about Daniel? Yeah, Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Very, very significant. God was communicating to Daniel and then through Daniel a prophetic uh um information about future kingdoms at that point, ultimately the return of Christ and uh the establishment of the millennial reign is all in this dream of Nebuchadnezzar than Daniel uh has this vision and so uh Daniel would be a very significant divinely given dream anybody else can you think of anyone else Jacob, uh yes, he saw the ladder uh coming down from heaven. Here's one warehouse who? Yes, we have three dreams that are associated with Joseph. We'll look at these here in a bit. Here's another Joseph, uh Mary's husband, the stepfather of the Lord Jesus, he had a dream. Oh, is that who you were talking about? Okay, yeah, he had a dream. Take take uh the family down to Egypt, escape Herod's rat And so there was a significant dream there. Pilate's wife. Remember she had the dream? She says, have nothing to do with this just man. And then Pilate scared to death and man he's trying to get out of crucifying Jesus. So Right, yeah, the Lord appeared to them and instructed them. And so there are throughout Scripture there are these Signific there are people who at significant times were given a divinely inspired dream. Now we know Everybody in scripture had dreams when they're sleeping. That's part of us. We have dreams. We dream. As I said, sometimes they're very nice, sometimes they're bizarre. But on occasion, through Scripture, rarely, but on occasion, God would intervene and He would communicate a message or information through this dream. to the person and then through the person to others. Now here's, I said all that to say this, and I want to address this, before we look at this, I want to address a question that comes up And maybe some of you anticipate what the question is I want to address. And that is this. Does God speak to us through dreams today? You can go on the internet, or you can go watch some of these guys on TV, and you'll have accounts of people say that God spoke to me in this dream. And God gave me this information, and God told me that this is going to happen, or God told me something about heaven. And you hear this all the time. Does God speak to us through dreams today? I put a couple statements down, a couple thoughts along those lines. Number one, I put this: God does not give divine revelation. Anymore. God does not communicate through dreams or visions or any other way. Rocks found dug up in New York in the ground. God does not give us any further revelation. God does not give any more divine prophecies Somebody says, Oh, I had this dream, and God told me that so-and-so is going to be elected, and God had this dream, and God told me that this person is going to happen to this person They may have had a dream, but God does not give prophecies and revelations like that anymore. And I'll tell you the reason I say that so dogmatically, if you would, come with me to the book of Revelation All the way back to your Bible, the last chapter in the book of Revelation, he makes a statement, God makes a statement about the Bible and about the finality of the Bible. The completeness of the Bible, of God's Word. Revelation chapter 22 And if you would, come down to verse number 18. Now I have this underscored in my Bible, because these statements are very, very significant. And I think they have application to all these Bible versions coming out and everything also. And so notice verse 18. He says very clearly and very strongly He says, For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book Now he's talking about the book of Revelation, but the Revelation is God's final communication. So he's referencing the entire Bible. If any man, look at this, if any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life Out of the Holy City and from the things which are written in this book. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty strong statement And God is saying, I think, in so many words, he's telling us that his communication, his revelation to us is completed in the 66 books of the Bible. When the Bible was finished, when the canon was completed, God now speaks to us through this book right here. He gives this is the uh let me put it this way, this is the only revelation from God we're going to get is the Bible. Here on this time. There's uh uh everything, I guess th let me put it this way, everything we need to know about God Everything he wants us to know about himself can be found in the books of the in the pages of the Bible. There's no other revelations, no visions, dreams, no pe no Jesus showing up. and and communicating. None of that. That's adding to the word of to the word of God. There are no more prophecies About future events given to us. Everything, let me put it this way, everything we need to know about the future is given to us in the Word of God. And so you hear these yardbirds, you hear these guys on YouTube and on television and best selling books They had these visions and God told them this and God told them that and all this stuff about the future. Just put that aside, delete it, click it, don't buy the book. Take it out of your uh what's the thing on Amazon you put it in your the cart, take it out of your cart. And don't mess with that. We got everything we need as far as God's communication, prophecy, revelation, right here in this book. Alright? So does God speak, does God give us revelation in dreams? No. Everything we need to know about God is given to us in Scripture. Everything we need to know about the future is given to us in Scripture. It's complete, it's sufficient. I put this down. Number two, talking about dreams. God may use dreams to get our attention. I think sometimes a dream can uh uh get our attention a little bit. And I I say that For this, I know of accounts where people had a dream about that they died. They dreamt that they died, or dreamt somebody near to them died, and boy, it shook them up And they had to stop and think a little bit. And uh God used that dream to shake them up and make them think about what about what if that was real? What if that does happen to me? And use that to bring them around, start thinking about their destiny about their spiritual well-being. I think God can use uh a dream in that way, maybe to provoke us to action. Somebody may have a dream, someone dear to them passed away, they wake up and say, man, I need to be a witness to them. Not saying that God told them they will, but just using that dream to stir them up And try and be a witness to them and do a little better. Now, again, if that does take place, I think that's possible. It's not more revelation. It's not more uh not some prophecies God's given me more than what I have in the Bible. It's simply maybe some thoughts going through in my mind and unconsciously that God uses to uh uh shake me up a little bit. Shake me up a little bit. Um so God I think can get our attention. God could use a dream. I mean he used uh you see a news report and something happens and boy makes you think about the second coming of Christ or some information we have in the Bible, it stirs you up. So God could use that. However, let me put a strong caution here with that God may use a dream to get our attention or provoke us to action, but I must never base the assurance of my salvation on a dream. Well, I had this dream and I went to heaven and and uh I woke up and boy everything's okay. I don't have assurance of my salvation because of some dream I had. I have assurance of my salvation because of the promises of that book right there. And so I don't want to base any assurance on some thoughts that went through my mind while I'm asleep. And so I don't base my assurance on any dreams. And I don't base, I put it this way, I don't base my assurance of biblical doctrine on a dream Well, I had this dream and uh, you know, I learned this about God. No, no, no. I don't learn about God in the dream. I learn about God in the scriptures. So be don't don't base your actions, don't base decisions, don't seek assurance in dreams. If God, some thought goes through your mind, and God may use that to provoke you a little bit and maybe shake you up a little bit, fine. But that is not a basis for my belief. That is not a basis for assurance. The scriptures and the scriptures only. If God does use a dream in some way, it would be very, very rare. It's not every day I get up, boy, God did this in my dream. Oh boy, God No, no, no. It would be extremely rare, I believe, if God did something like that. And I put this down, it would be unexpected. Don't go to bed and say, alright, God's going to give me a dream tonight. Don't do that at all. Don't look for it. Don't anticipate, and don't put too much on it. If you're having dreams like that, what you might want to do is stop eating pizza before you go to bed. That might solve the whole problem right there. Alright. So does God speak to us in dreams today? No, He doesn't give us information, He doesn't give us revelation, He doesn't prophesy, give us prophecies He may get us to think a little bit, but um that would be very rare. All right, let's look at these guys here. Come back to Genesis And uh let's look at these prison dreams that take place here. Number one, verse number five, my first thought is These were coordinated dreams. They were coordinated. I mean these are obviously, these weren't just random There was something taking place here, and these guys had these dreams. First thing I noticed in verse 5 is these were personal dreams. Look what it says there. And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man his dream in one night. These dreams were not just general dreams about whatever Uh Pharaoh later on has just a general dream about the the cows, the thing cows and the fat cows, and the thin cows ate the fat cows and stayed thin and then the thin ears uh a ate uh fat ears of corn and the uh thin ears stayed thin even though they ate the fat ears. That wasn't talking about Pharaoh personally. But these dreams here were about these guys personally. These were personal dreams. They were about them individually, very specific. So each man dreamed his dream, each man his dream in one night. So these were personal dreams, not general. Number two, under the coordinated, there's obviously something going on here. They both have a dream about themselves. Then it's a very peculiar dream. And I'll explain what I mean by that. It says, each man, they dreamed a dream, both of them, verse 5, each man his dream in the one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream. Now, these were something different than ordinary runner-mill dreams at night. They got up in the morning, they had these dreams, they knew immediately this was different than all the others. This has an interpretation. There is some sort of meaning to this. They were aware of that. It was very peculiar. It wasn't like the others. These dreams were obviously very significant. In fact, look verse 6. It says, Joseph came in unto them in the morning, looked upon them, and they were very sad. They had these dreams, they knew these meant something, but they didn't know what they meant. They knew there was significance to this, but they didn't know what the significance was. This was unusual. And so the dreams were personal dreams. They knew it was about themselves They knew it had some sort of significance, but they didn't know what it was. And the note the other thing I put down was is they were positive dreams. Now by that I mean That they were they were definite. This was going to happen. Whatever this was saying is going to happen, it was definitely going to happen. It wasn't maybe it could These were positive. This is going to take place. I noticed that every dream associated with Joseph was a double dream. There's three dreams in Scripture associated with Joseph. Joseph's dream, remember that before the brothers hated him, the sheaves all bowed down to him. Then the sun and moon, all stars bowed down to him. Anybody remember that? How many people remember that? How many people don't remember that raising your hand? How many people aren't going to raise their hand no matter what I say? Okay. Um double Chiefs, stars, double dream. Here, both these guys two dreams in one night. And then later on, if you remember, I just referenced Pharaoh's dream, and that was a double dream. The kine, the cows. And the corn ears, the ears of corn. Double, double, double. Every dream associated with Joseph was a double dream. You say, well, what does that mean? Now we actually touched on this before, but if you would turn over uh to verse uh chapter number forty one and verse number thirty two We find out why these dreams are double. In fact, I think there's a information here in the statement we're told. That why things are told twice in the Bible. Did anybody ever notice sometimes Jesus would make this statement? Verily, verily, I say unto you. He says it twice. Verily, verily, I say unto you. Why does he say it twice? Why are these dreams doubled? Well, look at verse number 32 of chapter 41. For that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. Why would that be? It is because the thing is what? Established by God. God will shortly bring it to pass. The fact that there is two dreams involved here, two fellas, they both have a dream the same night. It's about themselves, very personal, very individual. And the fact that there was two of them, we walk away from that and say, whatever that means, whatever that's saying is going to happen, you mark it down, it's going to happen. Double. There's significance to that. So the uh there were coordinated dreams. There was something about this. It wasn't just random dreams. There's significance here. They're very personal. They're peculiar. They're different than the others. They're very certain they're going to happen. But they were puzzling dreams. They could not figure out what they meant. Look at verse 8, come back there to chapter 40. And they said unto him, Joseph, the butler and and uh uh uh baker They said unto him, we have dreamed a dream. They know there's something, it means something, and there is no interpreter of it And they're frustrated, they're sad, that this means something, but we don't know what. This isn't like any other dream we've ever had. There's There's a message here, there's information here, but we can't figure it out. It's very figurative. The language, the dreams were very figurative and uh very unclear in its meaning. And so Joseph says, do not interpretations belong to God? God knows what it means. God's the one that gave this to you. In Daniel chapter 2 and verse 28, Nebuchadnezzar comes to Daniel and says, I have this dream, but I can't remember it. I don't know what it means. And Daniel makes a tremendous statement. He says, there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets. He said, God knows what this is. God can tell you what this means. So they're puzzled. When it comes to the future, only God can speak with authority. Did you get that? Only God can speak with authority. Again, you have these false prophets, and they're everywhere. And some of them are incredibly popular. And they'll make statements about things that are going to happen. Um what's the guy, Copeland What's his first name? Kenneth Copeland. He said this, he made, when COVID hit, very public, very well known, he made this statement that God told me that COVID is going to disappear in a certain amount of time. It's gone. It's going to be gone. Well, he was dead wrong. He's absolutely wrong. The Bible tells us in Deuteronomy, I don't know if the reference, the Bible tells us, if a prophet presumes to make a prophecy and it does not come true, that is a false prophet. Mark it down. So every one of these guys that is out there making these prophecies, all they need is one to go all they need is one to be wrong, and they're disqualified. They've exposed themselves as false prophets God's prophecies are never wrong. And God is the only one that can speak with authority about what the future holds. God's the only one. Isaiah 46 in verse 10 says this, speaking of God, declaring the end from the beginning. And the things that are not yet done. In other words, God knows how everything's going to turn out. God knows what the future is, absolutely, and and when something begins, he already knows how it's going to end. God is omniscient, he's all-knowing. When he says something is going to take place in the future You can mark it down with authority. That's going to take place in the future. Interpretations belong to God. Prophecies belong to God. He's the only one that can speak with authority of what's going to take place tomorrow In fact, James tells us in chapter 4 and verse 15, he says, ye ought to say, if the Lord will. We shall live and do this or that. That's where we get to say, well, Lord willing. We're going to be there Sunday, praise her. Lord willing. Um that's simply saying a lot could happen between now and then I don't know. God knows. God's the only one that knows for certainty. How many people are aware of the fact something could happen and none of us be here someday But God knows He's the only one that can speak with authority. Somebody says, Preacher, I'm going to be there, it doesn't matter, I'm going to be there. Well, praise the Lord. But we understand there's God knows whether it's actually going to be or not. Proverbs 27:1. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for what? Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I don't know. You and I may never, you and I may wake up dead tomorrow You know, I mean we don't know. Rapture may take place. I've never seen a dead person wake up, but you never know So only God can speak with authority about the future. So they have these dreams. They are coordinated dreams, and by that I mean there's something unique here. This is deliberate God is doing something. Number two, my second thought is the content of the dreams. Let's look at what these dreams consisted of. Again, it's very figurative language. Verse number nine. And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me. So he's seeing this in the dream. He's standing somewhere, and there's a vine in front of him. Now look what happens. And in the vine were three branches. And it was as though that budded. So there's these branches here, and in his dream he sees these buds come out on the branches. And the blossoms shot forth. He's watching this take place. It's like time-lapse. This thing is growing, the branches are there, and the buds come out, and the blossoms come out. And uh shot forth, and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. Anybody ever see a time-lapse of a plant growing? That's what he's seeing in his dream. This psh has taken place very rapidly. And the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. You know, usually the grapes are not ripe when they first form, but these are ripe grapes. It's all very rapid, uh fast-forwarding type thing. And Pharaoh's cup was in my hands. And I took the grapes and I pressed them into Pharaoh's cup So it's very fresh juice. I pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. That's his dream I think it's interesting that God had the butler give his dream first. The interpretation is going to be very positive here. We'll see in a bit. And I'm wondering, again, this, I don't know how significant this is, but I think that was by design that the butler told his dream first, because his has a positive outcome. And so the baker hears this, and so he says, oh hey, here's my dream. Come down to verse 16. And when the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also was in my dream, and behold, I had three white baskets on my head. In the uppermost basket there was of all manner of baked meats for Pharaoh, and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head. Not as much detail. Not as many specifics. Just kind of a one event takes place. I got this white basket. The meats there is probably referring to baked goods. Birds come and eat it out of the basket. Now why what I'm thinking is, and again I'm not sure of the significance of this, but I wonder if the baker had gone first and it was a negative interpretation, the butler might have said, uh, don't worry about it. I don't want to hear about it. But God had a plan. God is in the details. And even the little even the little chronology of interpreting these dreams for these guys has significance. God's in the details. God's in the details. How many things in our life, some little thing, if it happened a little earlier, happened a little later, would not have had the impact. that it did right then and there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Maybe a message we hear or a radio, a sermon or radio. Anybody here ever, you read a passage of scripture Don't even think about it, just it's nice, you read through. Then maybe a year later, or sometime later, you come back and read that same passage, and man, it has a tremendous effect on you. It's the timing. At that time, what was going on in my life made me sensitive to that truth. Made that truth significant in my life, and I and it impacts me in a way it didn't at another time. And so I see here significance of somewhat in the chronology who's giving their dream first. And so the baker has this dream, and this one has negative connotations to it. He's got this bread meat up in his basket, and the birds are taking it away. The butler, he's got this grape juice, and man, Pharaoh's taking it and drinking it. It's more of a positive connotation Now, they didn't know what the interpretation was, but we looked at these without necessarily knowing the interpretation. We say, well, this has kind of positive connotations, this has somewhat negative. So that's the content of their dreams Number three, I put this down the comprehension of their dreams. In other words, what do they mean? And Joseph says, well, interpretations be uh belong to God. You tell me, I'll find out, God will tell me And he had a tremendous relationship with the Lord, obviously, that he very confidently said, oh yeah, God will let us know. And so look at the interpretation of the butler's dream, verse 12. And Joseph said to him, now he's seen this time-lapse of this vine producing these ripe grapes and pressing it into Pharaoh's cup directly from the vine into the cup. Pharaoh taking it. Here's the interpretation. He says, And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Now if you notice, he doesn't go into every little detail of the dream. It's one general message here. The three branches are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head And restore thee unto thy place, and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand after the former matter when thou wast his butler So he says, three days are going to go by. It's not three weeks, three months, three years, pretty soon, by the end of the week, Pharaoh is going to lift up thine head. Now, what does he mean when he says Pharaoh's going to lift up your head? We don't know what they were accused of. We don't know what it was that prompted Pharaoh to get so angry and throw him in prison like that. But whatever it was involved some sort of disgrace on the part of the butler. Would you agree with me? Getting thrown in jail would be bringing a little disgrace. And so he says, Pharaoh is going to lift up your head. I think what he's saying here is Pharaoh is going to remove that disgrace from you. He's going to clear your name. He's going to erase the record. He's going to restore respect. He's going to take that shame away of throwing in there. And the implication is whatever they were accused of Pharaoh was concluded, this guy was completely innocent. There's no reason for him to hang his head. I'm going to lift him up. I'm going to encourage him. I'm going to restore respect back to him. I'm going to remove the shame that was associated with whatever took place. So he says, I'm going to lift his head, and then he says, he'll restore you back to the place. He's going to back to this high position he had. No probation. No lower way, work your way back up again. Whatever position he had when he was thrown in, he's right back in that position again. And so no loss. Name's still good, position still good, salaries there, uh seniority, everything. It's all right back where he was. How many people agree? That's a pretty good report You know, could have gone anyway. And he's go back. So the butler hears that, as we said. He goes, oh, hey, listen to my dream. Look at his interpretation. And Joseph answered, verse 18. And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof. The three baskets are three days. I can see the butler thinking, oh good. That's just like him. We get out the same day. Yet within three days, Pharaoh shall lift up thine head. They don't stop there from off thee and shall hang thee on a tree. And the bird shall eat thy flesh from off thee. Can you see a look of horror on this guy's face? Whatever this guy did, and we don't know what the crime was, we don't know what they were accused of, but apparently this guy was found guilty. Maybe there was an investigation. Maybe it was ongoing at this point. Might not have been complete. I don't know what all their crime scene investigations involved. But whatever it was, they come to the conclusion this guy is high crimes, misdemeanors, capital punishment, and not only capital punishment, but in a way of absolute shame and disgrace. They're beheading him. Public death. They're going to behead him publicly They're going to take his body and nail it to a tree so all the country sees it, all of Egypt sees what happens to somebody that does whatever this guy did. And then they're going to leave the body hanging there. They're not going to take it down and give it a respectful burial. They're not even going to take it out to a uh a public burial place. They're going to leave the body there till the birds clean it off. It's just bones. And the dogs will eventually come by run the bones off. Absolute disgrace So I don't know what this guy did, but whatever it was, they took it extremely seriously. So they got their interpretations. One is good, the other is bad. Then I notice in verse 20, 21, and 22 we find a conclusion. Look at verse 20. And it came to pass after the third day, exactly as Joseph said, which was Pharaoh's birthday, by the way. That he made a feast unto all his servants. And he lifted up the head of the chief butler. Bring him back up here. Put him back in the position he had. You let everybody know this guy did nothing wrong. He's a good man. I trust him. I respect him. I want everybody to respect him. He lifts his head up from disgrace. And he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among the servants, and he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again. And he gave the cup unto Pharaoh's hand, but he hanged the chief baker. And I love this last statement, as Joseph had interpreted to them. It was exactly the way God said So I put it down as the exact conclusion. Came out exactly the way he said, but it was strategic Now here's what this is, that's I think this is the whole purpose. God included this here. God was strategically putting somebody in place to get Joseph to where he needed to be To do what God intended to do with Joseph's life. Remember, we said way back in the beginning of our study of Joseph, we said God had a plan for Joseph's life. And every time God has a plan for someone's life, there's also a process of fulfilling that plan And this process is taking place. And your life and my life is a continual process of God working in our lives through delays, disappointments. Setbacks, victories, and all of that is working together very strategically so that we can be in the right place at the right time. For God to use us as He plans to use us. Everybody with me on that? And so we see, as we study Joseph's life, we see God's hand in so many ways. And I wonder how many of us can look back over our life and say, ah, I see why God brought that person in my life at that point. and the influence they had. And I see why that disappointment, maybe I lost that job or I was set back here, or this uh uh this uh uh uh uh uh uh disappointment there And God brought that all together so I could grow and be what he needed to be. Anybody here, can I get a witness? Anybody look back over your life and see that? Sure. It's Proverbs 828. All things what? Work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, and God's working in Joseph's life. So this is my I was trying to think, alright, how do I apply this? How does this apply to us Well, let's come back to this idea about dreams. Let's not look outside of this book for direction from God. Do you get me? Let's stick to this old book and let God direct us from here. Did you know Satan can mimic signs and wonders? I think Satan, I've had some dreams, I know they weren't of God. No way in the world. I think they were satanic dreams. I've had when I first got saved, I don't say this much When I first got saved coming out of that ungodly wicked lifestyle, for about three, four months, I had the most demonic satanic dreams you can imagine. I'd wake up in cold sweats in the middle of the night and I'd come to my dad. And I said, Dad, I don't understand. I never had these before before I got saved. I never had this. I said, now it's like unbelievably satanic dreams. And he said, what I would recommend, he told me to do this in other areas, but he said, what I would recommend is before you go to bed, you read and quote verses about the blood of Jesus. He said, you learn songs about the blood of Jesus. You wake up in the middle of the night and you have that, you start singing, What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. And he got that from in Revelation, I think it's chapter 12. Where it says, or chapter 5, they overcame him by the word of their testimony and by the blood of the Lamb. And so he taught me to do that. So don't let these dreams influence. Let's go to the Word of God. Let's read it every single day. Let's let God lead us and direct us from His Word. Amen? Father, pray you bless us now as we study this and these fellows having dreams in prison. And so I pray, Holy Spirit, somehow, some way this might apply to our lives somehow. And with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to get back to that book. I need to spend more time in the Word of God. I need to be more disciplined, more consistent Letting God speak to my heart from his word, maybe on a daily basis. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. We need that. We need it. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I'm just going to trust God in the circumstances He puts me through. I don't understand, sometimes it doesn't seem right But God's allowed it, like he did in Joseph's life. And I'm just going to trust God that he has a plan. And the people and the events he brings in my life, just understand that's part of that process. That needs to take place in my life for God to use me in ways he intends to use me. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, I've got to just have a different perspective maybe on some of the things I go through. God bless you. And God will help us, Father blessed now our imitation I ask in Jesus' name, Amen