Text verse is our main verse. Second Corinthians five and verse seventeen. Very popular verse. Let me read it one more time. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Today I want to talk to you. Um and some of you have read the Bulletin, some of you have not yet read the Bulletin. Um I've gotten uh I've gotten a couple comments on my sermon. But uh just so you know, today I want to talk to you on uh On a subject that is why I am a pro-evolution Christian. One more time, why I'm a pro-evolution Christian. Before you leave, which would be bad, you shouldn't leave. But before you do that, and you and you accuse me of heresy and then get me fired, uh let me define our terms, shall we? Why I'm a pro-evolution Christian. And I looked this up in the dictionary, which was very smart of me. So uh pro means in favor of, in favor of a proposition, opinion, etc. So in favor of I am pro nachos. Nachos are delicious. I think we should eat them all the time. And then we'd be fat, but I'm still pro. The cons pros much outweigh the cons. I'm pro a lot of things. I'm pro coming to church. I like it when people come to church. I'm in favor of people coming to church. Pro is very simple. Pro means yes. Pro means yet, do it. Pro means I like it. I believe in it. Now let me keep going. So we know what pro means. Pro is easy. Evolution is a little bit more difficult word to define. And this is where because no one had a problem with me saying I'm pro anything. It's the when I when you say I'm pro evolution and a Christian that people say, uh Pro-bacon? No one's like, hey, bacon's stupid. No, pro-bacon, fine. But pro-evolution, that's a bad thing. That's a bad thing to say. But I'm going to tell you why I am pro-evolution, but I will tell you That is not quite the reason you would think. Because when people think of evolution, they often think of organic or biological evolution. And you know what, for for very good reason. I'll tell you why, it's because our society has been brainwashed to only think of organic evolution when we hear the term evolution. But that's not necessarily what the word means. Let me give you what the word evolution actually means. A process of gradual, peaceful, progressive change or development, as in social or economic structure or institutions. A process of gradual, peaceful, or progressive change or development Slowly getting better. Slowly improving, slowly changing Now, like I said, most people they jump straight to uh they jump straight to biological organic evolution Now and now and here's something that most people don't know. When you talk to people who are in scientific communities or uh something, they will be very snide with you. They will uh and listen, I'm all I'm pro-scientist. Do you want to why I'm pro-scientist? Because I like cough medicine. Alright, nothing worse than an itchy throat not being able to cure it. You know who created it? Scientists. So great. Science is wonderful. But when you talk to science teachers, I'm a substitute teacher, and I'm I I'm not necessarily always well received as soon as I say I'm a pastor. To science teachers especially. Not that science teachers are all bad, because they're not. Because I love some science teachers. But I'm telling you, they're always like, Oh, you're a pastor, you're gonna come in and tell my kids that they have to believe in Jesus and I'm like, well kind of, yeah. But but um But here's the thing. Scientists will tell you, well, evolution's been proven. And then that only leaves us with a response usually of nuh-uh. No hasn't and and fact is evolution itself has been proven. But that's the but the tricky thing is there's two types of evolution, two types of organic evolution. Micro and macro. They'll say scientists have proven evolution because microevolution is completely provable. You can actually watch it happen. Now I'll give you the uh definitions in a second. So again, don't walk out. That'd be rude. Alright? At least play on your phone until I'm done, okay? Like But macroevolution there's has not been proven. Can't be proved, never will be proved, because first of all it's not real and it goes against God wor God's word. And secondly, because well no one really lives for millions and millions of years. So you can't really observe it. You know, and it's funny because the scientific method requires you to observe something, but no one does that. No one tests anything in evolution, it just kind of they're just like, eh, whatever. In in in macroevolution. Now microevolution, let me give you what this means. Evolutionary change involving the gradual accumulation of mutations leading or mutations leading to new varieties. Within a species. Minor evolutionary change observed over a short period of time. So, let me say that one more time. Evolutionary change involving gradual accumulation of mutations. leading to new varieties within a species. This said, like I said, this is also, this microevolution has been proven. Why do I say that? Because um a very popular uh topic right now is uh is Ebola. Most of you don't know this, Ebola evolves or adapts or changes its DNA every time it spreads to a new new person It just changes. That's not a big deal. We call that adapting Now again, I don't want to lose anyone. I don't want anyone to think that I'm telling them that that macroevolution is real. I don't want anyone thinking that that uh birds came from dinosaurs and man came from apes. I don't want anyone to think that. So let me be very clear. Macroevolution, where a species changes from one species to another, is not real. But microevolution, where little things change to adapt to their environment, maybe over a period of time a bird's beak gets a little bit longer because something happened. Maybe over some time, you know, that disease. Fights off that uh that antibiotic tries to give it you try to give it. Maybe when pests, insects, sometimes uh that insecticide worked really well for a couple years and then nothing. It doesn't work at all. And the insecticide insane, it's because of what we call microevolution or adaptation. Now macroevolution again is the one that we get in trouble with. Macroevolution is the one that we cannot prove, we cannot test, we cannot see happen. And that's why it's not real. You see, I'll give you the definition for macroevolution. Major evolutionary transition from one type of organism to another, occurring at the level of species to higher taxa. Also known as special evolution. Now, let's say it's unobservable. Now let me be uh again, let me be very clear. Macroevolution, the type that we always call evolution, doesn't exist. Microevolution. Is adaptation exists and we can see it happen. And there's nothing in the Bible against microevolution In fact, if anything, an organism changing its DNA on its own is more proof of God than anything else Side note. Alright. I actually wrote in here side note. Uh so I'm gonna give you one. So I'm actually I'm gonna step to this side. So here's your note. Um the reason that macroevolution exists, the reason that macroevolution, the theory is believed among many people, is for this reason. The scientists started with the conclusion that God isn't real. They decided to exclude him from the conversation completely. Scientists are not dumb. They just started with a bad premise that God isn't real. I know some very intelligent people who believe this because they refuse to believe that God did something. So, macroevolution, this is what happened. You see, I uh as many of you know I used to live out in Colorado. It takes you about one day to drive through the Rocky Mountains. From start to finish. I'm going to say one day. One day? Yeah, one day. Twelve hours. Eight you know, fifteen hours. I don't know. One day. Because you're on a highway the whole time. Did you know that back when the Oregon Trail was a big thing, before cars and highways, it took a lot longer than one day Now here's the thing, and I'm gonna leave this open to you guys. You guys can still take a wagon and use no roads and try to get across the Rocky Mountains. You can still try to do that. But that is not the best way. You're like, well what are you talking about? Well I'm talking about scientists say I'm not going to use that road. That road is not real I'm gonna cross it my own way. So what they do is they try to find paths and connect things and go over rivers where they wouldn't have had to go over and cross things and cheat things and and do all this weird stuff and then it takes them Six months to go across the Rocky Mountains or across the evolutionary time where we're just like well, dude, there's a road Guys, God exists. And they're like, nope, we refuse to believe that. It's gonna take us six months to get across these mountains. Half of us are gonna die. Half of us are gonna starve to death. And that's just it. It's like dude, there's a road And we know there's a road. But when you start with the premise that there's no road, it makes the journey a lot harder. Now funny thing is it changes all the time and no and it it gets admitted to like and I will say this many of you if you're uh I I honestly don't know when evolution started being taught in schools. But if you're like 40, what they believe about evolution is vastly different now than what you were taught in schools. It's just different. Not because the world went back and changed itself all over again, but because they're like, alright, so this didn't make sense. So let's say instead of evolving Uh slowly it's actually a punctuated equilibrium and evolved very quickly. That way that's why we don't see all these like connecting fossils. That must be it. Or maybe because the road says that God created them individually Just saying, I mean, you know, they're proving us right or more right and more right all the time, but they refuse to believe it. Because they don't believe those road. Now again, that was just a side note. Like I said, scientists aren't evil. They just start with a bad premise. And by scientists, I mean, you know, historical scientists, which again, you can't really test historical things. And um let's just uh keep going. Now back to my sermon title: Why I am a pro-evolution Christian. Now, many of you think, alright, so he's already proven the fact that he believes that microevolution exists and macroevolution does not. Well, that's not at all what my sermon is about. So I just wanted to throw that out there The I think My sermon isn't about, like I said, evolution biologically, but evolution spiritually Being pro in evolving in our Christian life. We should change over time as Christians. You see, like I said, I I believe that things can adapt to things. I mean, you know, like diseases can adapt. I don't believe that monkeys turn into man. I don't believe any of that. But but I'm not here to give you guys a scientific lecture. I'm here to tell you that we should change over time That besetting sin that you deal with secretly, outwardly, I don't know But you know what you're talking about. That one sent that you just you've had on, you've had for years. I don't know what it is. But that's sin you've had for years. And it just hasn't gotten any better. It just hasn't changed. Don't you think it's about time that we quit being stagnant Christians and start evolving? Changing for the better, changing to be more effective. You see, if we were a disease, and you know I don't I don't think Christians are a disease, but uh if we acted like one, maybe we'd be more useful. Um I think if Christians were I think if we were a disease and we had and someone gave us an antibiotic, you know, within two, three, four years, we would have learned to beat that thing. We learned to beat that thing. But some of us have been saved for twenty years and we're this we've been the same exact Christian for ten. And it's not because that we haven't had opposition. It's because we just allowed ourselves to get beat down. We allowed ourselves to get cured. Let me go to Romans 7. Turn to Romans 7 with me. Romans chapter 7. Because Paul had this. Paul Paul understood what I'm saying. That sin that you you know it's just you you don't want to, you want to stop, you've you've given it up so many times, and and and you just can't get you can't get past it. It's hindering you in your walk with God, it's hindering you in your Bible reading, it's hinder hindering you in your prayer life, it's hindering you in and witnessing to people, but that's sin. It's about time we evolve a pa we evolve past it. We change past it We had we adapt to our environment because the world isn't going to change. We need to The temptations, they're not going to change. They'll probably only get worse. We need to be better Christians. Romans 7 says, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will for to will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good which I do n sorry, for the good that I would I do not But the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that, I would not. It is no more that I do it, but a sin that dwelleth in me I find then law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. For I delight in the law of the Lord after the inward man But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity of the law of sin which is in my members. Now the reason I ask you to turn to that passage is because I can't say it It's a very difficult thing to say, but I will tell you this, if you get a hold of it, if you read it, you will feel encouraged because you're not the only person who's dealt with a sin they can't beat. I'm not the only person who fell with a sin that it felt like you know I can't beat. You knew who struggled with his sin life according to this? Paul, man. He was like, ah, I try to do good and then I failed, and then I tried to do good, and then I failed. And he understood. But that does not mean he succumbed. He may have gotten beaten once or twice, but he did not lay down and let his life not count for God. We need to be more viral as Christians. It's that one sin. But somehow, after years of wanting to get victory over it, You just haven't. Over years of knowing you should be a victorious, you're just not And it's not because it's not because you can't win But it's because you can't win in your current state. You see, you are a new creature in Christ. You are alive in Christ. And things that are alive adapt. The reason the world can't beat sin is because the world is dead. I've never looked at a rock and expected it to do something. Like rock do something. And just doesn't do it. And then I try to use the force and it never works. And um it's true. Come on. Everybody's done it. Everybody's walked into Walmart and been like And if you haven't, you're not a nerd, and if you're not a nerd Then you're not nearly as awesome as you could be. But um but rocks don't just change. You know it doesn't change in like in this pulpit, man, this pulpit's pretty much gonna be this pulpit until someone does something to it. It's not gonna be like, oh, I'm gonna grow a branch one day. No, it's dead. It's dead wood. Now there's trees out there. If you guys haven't noticed, we get leaves and they fall on the ground and then they get new ones and they change. And they at least do something. It's because they're alive. And you, if you have been saved, if you trust on Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are alive, which means you can change. Which means you can be different than you are now. You have that power, you have that ability. You guys need to be a little more like bugs. I hate bugs. Anyone else hate bugs? Bugs are annoying. Now I know the whole science behind it that you know if bugs didn't exist we would all starve and die It does not change the fact that I don't like them. Don't like spiders, don't like bees, don't like flies. I mean really there's no bug that I like No, there actually isn't. I was trying to think maybe the rollway polies, but really those things are kind of annoying too. But um let me tell you something about bugs. In the US, studies have shown that fruit flies, that vests and orange grows were becoming resistant to melathinon. A pesticide that used to kill them. So fruit flies, and by the way, if you've ever seen a fruit fly, they're annoying little buggers. And I hate them. And I am much more intelligent and much more powerful than fruit fly. I know that because I'm just like But somehow fruit flies, something that used to poison them and kill them? Malata some of them. I know it's called. Sorry if I couldn't pronounce it. But that used to kill them? Doesn't anymore. You're telling me fruit flies who have a brain, if they have a brain, very, very, very small, can beat a vi can beat a poison. And we can't beat a sin even though God's given us the power to. And Hawaii, Japan, and Tennessee, that's kind of a random assortment of places. The diamondback mouse evolved a resistance to Bachillus during Genesis, about three years after it began to be used heavily. You know, as soon as three years. Some of us have dealt with sin for more than three years. A certain specific sin for more than three years. And these stupid snakes are like, whatever. I'll beat it in three years. And then becomes completely effective ineffective. I have more. In England rats in certain areas have evolved such strong resistance to rat poison that they can consume it five times more than than normal rats would without dying. DDT is no longer effective in preventing a malaria in some places, a factor which contributed to the resurgent of the disease. In the southern United States, the weed Amarama thusa palermi, which interferes with the production of cotton, has evolved widespread in resistance to the Herbicidoglycophate. Glycophate, yeah. Herbicytoglycophate. Stupid plants can evolve better than we can. Listen, we aren't supposed to be insects and we're not supposed to be weeds, but let's be honest, we should be better than them. But you know why they're better? Do you know why they're so they they they they do evolve they evolve and again that's just adaptation, but they do change. Do you know why they change? Because if they didn't, they would die. How life and death is your Christianity How life and death is it? Is it life and death that you fellowship with other Christians? Obviously not, because you don't really care to go to church every service. How many life and death is it that you witness to people? Obviously not that life and death. Because you don't do it as much. How life and death is it that you have a walk with God? We like to say it's life and death that we have a walk with God. Do we pray and read our Bible? Do we understand and we like to say that's the most important thing? But if it was, wouldn't we do it better? When was the last time you've changed over time? That wasn't the time you've changed. Great thing about this evolution is it's is is these insects are constantly evolving, constantly changing to beat whatever is going to kill it, to beat whatever is going to destroy it. Why aren't we the same way? I know it it doesn't sound like this message has points, but here was the first one. I'm pro-evolving past sins. That keep you down. The second one is a little bit is pretty much the same point. So you're just gonna hear the same message over and over again. But um Actually, give me one second. We believe for some reason that this sin that we can't beat will eventually go away. For some reason we believe that. We believe that the devil will just stop throwing it at us because to give us a break So we just don't do anything. One day I'm going to stop drinking. One day I'm going to fix my relationships. One day I'm going to get up and just go soul winning. One day I I'm I'm going to stop uh I'm going to Deal with my lust. One day I'm gonna stop lying. One day. And if pests and bugs And weeds and these things that have to change to survive would have said, one day I'm going to do this, they would be dead. There would be no more days. Now, God is very merciful to us. God is a holy, wonderful God. And he lets us slide on so much because we're his children, and he loves us, and we love him. But you know what? That one day and is a saying, Tomorrow never comes Come on. We we uh most of our the New Year is coming up, and most of our New Year's resolutions are probably going to be Physical. I'm going to lose weight. I'm going to work out. I'm going to read more. Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I know because I will have those same resolutions. Right? I I get it, right? Right guys? You know, I understand. And we'd like our bodies to change over time, but man, we're just we're just so satisfied. With where we're at. Evolve now. Change not later. Change now. Sometimes we look more like the man in Proverbs 23 than we do anything else. Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour, and the cup, when it moveth itself aright. At thine at the last it bites like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder. Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thy heart shall utter perverse things. Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth down upon the top of a mast They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick. They have beaten me, and I felt it not. When shall I awake? I will seek it yet again. Now this is talking about alcohol, but this that deals with any sin. We don't deal with it because either we think, you know what, I can't, I'm I can't. I'm not strong enough. Or we enjoy it too much. Or we've tried, but we don't want to look like a failure. Or we're too too we're too wrapped up in sin to get rid of it. And so we just decide not to change. But I ask you evolve purposefully Change yourself. Now you'll need God's help. You'll need God's help all the way, but you know what? I know this: if you call on God If you ask God anything, Christ's saying He will give it to you. That's what Jesus said. It is always God's will for you to beat your sin. Period Listen, I don't really like to get into people's faces. I'm not really a in-your-face type of person. It's just not who I am. But I know there is sin among even us Christians, and I know that it weighs us down and it stops us, and in a sense it kills us. It stops us dead in our tracks, moving forward for Christ. Take a note from the bugs. Take a note from the weeds. Take a note from the snakes. A note from the snakes and just Get past it. Decide to get past it. Find ways to get past it. Always with God's help But sometimes he expects you to try on your own too. God, I just don't want to be tempted anymore. And you know what God's gonna say to that? Probably nothing. He's probably gonna be like, well, I'd like you not to be tempted too, but you have a sin nature. We say, God, I don't want to do this or I repent of my sin. I'm going to turn back from my sin, God, I'm going to find ways to keep myself accountable to you. One of the best ways, by the way, is reading your Bible and praying every day. Having a real spiritual walk with God. It's hard not to be accountable because if you're really praying to God, you're always honest. And you say, God, I messed up. And you get really, really tired of saying, God, I sinned. God forgive me. I think it's really annoying to say that every time. Before you pray. If you pray a lot, now if you don't pray at all and you pray like, you know, once every two or three weeks or w or or at church every week, you know it's not that it's It's not that much of a burden on your soul to say, well, God forgive me for this. Now I'm going to pray. But if you're doing that every day, twice a day, once a day, three times a day, if you're praying every single day to God and being honest with God You're going to get really sick of yourself doing that. And I think it'll help. I'm also a firm believer it's a lot harder to sin when you have read your Bible that day. Something about it just helps. Maybe it's the fact that instead of the world being in your ear, God's in your ear. God can help you. God can help you evolve. He's the one who gave you life. He can help you change yourself. Now Like I said, the first point was I'm pro-evolving past sins that keep you down. The last point and second point, the saying last makes it sound like it's shorter. I'm pro-evolving into being a more effective Christian. I'm pro-evolving into being more effective for Christ. Evolution is not only defensive. It is also proactive. Our walk with God should never stay stagnant. Our soul-winning life doesn't develop on its own You see, if we if our life stays stagnant and thus, yes, God will help you get past sins, and that's part of it. But the fact is, God will also help you develop into being a better Christian. Why? Because that's how he created disease. Different strands of the flu are more effective than others. I think we can all agree on that. Today people get the flu, and many times they're like, eh, I got the flu. I'm sick. And listen, I hate the flu more than anyone, or as much as anyone. It stinks. But most of the time uh I'm a pretty young guy and I'm like, uh, this is just uh and you know that's it. I'm I rarely have ever died from the flu. And um In nineteen seventeen, that's how people felt about the flu too. But that all changed when nineteen eighteen hit. Let me tell you about the strand of flu, which was different than 1917, but a strand of flu that hit in 1918. The global mortality rate from the 1918-1919 pandemic is not known. But an estimated 10% to 20% of those infected died. With about a third of the world's population infected, this case fatality ratio means that 3 to 6 percent of the entire global population died. Influenza may have killed as many as 25 million people in its first 25 weeks. Older estimates say it killed 40 to 50 million, while current estimates say 50 to 100 million people worldwide were killed. Like I said, the flu, to me, really not a big deal. In nineteen seventeen, it wasn't a big deal to them. In nineteen eighteen, it killed three to six percent of the world's population. I'm not pro-flu, but maybe we should learn to act like it. You know what made the flu different? Something in the strain something in the virus. Something just changed. Something it evolved. It adapted a little bit and made it really deadly. It made it very effective. Maybe we should adapt to where we become much more effective than we already are. As long as we don't break God's laws that He's laid out for us, we should do, and let me say that again, very slowly, because I don't want to get in trouble again, and I don't want you guys telling me. So let's just sh As long as we don't break any of God's laws and God's commands, which includes our conscience. We should do anything it takes to win souls of Christ. Now, listen, some people um in more uh And less fundamental crowds would take that saying and say, all right, then we'll do whatever it takes to win people to Christ. We'll have rock concerts. We will uh we'll have bake offs during church. I mean, they'll do anything. And I appreciate the idea of we'll do anything. But anything that you break God's commandments makes you less effective for Christ, period. You break God's commandments, you're less effective. It's like the flu. If the flu were to go against itself, the flu would say, all right, I'm going to make you real sick, but I'm also going to give you great hair. See, that's not really the flu's that's not really the flu's job. The flu is meant to hurt you. It's meant to kill you. It's not meant to make you happy. So in the same sense, we are meant to go out and be effective for Christ, but we're not meant to make the devil happy while doing it. But anything you can do, any way you can evolve, any way you can change to make yourself a more effective soul winner without breaking God's commands, You were meant to do that. You were meant to slowly change. I know you're happy with who you are, or maybe you're not. But some of you are like, listen, I like who I am. Most likely I like you too. Nice. You guys said most likely? Yeah. It's a joke. Most likely I like you too. But I know that, man, I can't I can't imagine myself liking you less for being a nicer person, for being a kinder person. I can't imagine myself liking you less. I can't imagine anybody liking you less. I can't imagine you liking you less for being a better soul winner. You might like who you are, and I like who everybody is. Like I said, I like you all. But man doesn't mean you can't be better. It doesn't mean you can't change. It doesn't mean you can't evolve. Listen, I am a I am a strong believer in the principle of tithing. I just am, I have been, since it was ingrained to me by my dad, and uh That's about it. I just happened. Strong believer. You should give at least ten percent, but is ten percent all you should give? I don't know. I know that you start out at 10% and you've been getting 10% for 20 years and then have never put nothing else in the offer in offering plate. It's not my life. I'm not telling any of you what to do. But I know that can evolve. I know you say, listen, I go out soul winning on Great Commission. We have Great Commission here every month. Every month, one uh one uh day a month on a Saturday, we go out for two hours and we just try to win people to Christ. And you say, you know what, I never miss that, or or maybe you you come. So let's say if you don't come, you should come. That's called evolving. If you come every once, every you know two or three months, you should come every month. That's called evolving. If you come every month, we also have Thursday night soul wedding, that's called evolving. If you come to all that, and I hope you do Actually the Thursday night soul winning, little uh announcement. That's actually on Sundays now at five. Just let you guys know. But if you come to everything, if you come to everything we have here to win people to Christ, that's great. You can still evolve Because God is so cool. God will put people in your life that you just know you're supposed to witness to. And then when you witness that person, God's not satisfied. He gives you another person. And then maybe another person and another person. But it's not all about tithing, it's not about giving to God. It's not all about winning souls. It's also about reading your Bible Listen, I I think everyone should read their Bible every day. I think that's very important. I think it's very very necessary. I think I think your life will if you've not read your Bible every day ever, you'll be blown away with how cool it is. I believe that. Right here. You know they say the bottom of your heart? You ever wonder where that is down here? You're like, yeah, it's somewhere right here. But from the bottom of my heart I believe that. But if you're reading it every day, that's great. Or if you're reading it once every week, try reading it every day. That's called evolving. If you're reading it every day, that's great. If you're only reading a chapter a day, try two chapters. Try three chapters. If you get up to like eight chapters, then you're like, all right, well I I don't have as much time to read more than eight chapters of the Bible a day. Cool. Do Bible studies This decide to study out a topic. Read a little bit differently. Grow. Change I like I like the whole I like uh reading uh the Bible in the year thing. It doesn't work for everybody. It works for a lot of people, but not everybody, which is fine. But if you're growing and if you're changing every Day every year. At the end of man, it's it's November. Tomorrow, I think, is December It'd be nice if next December you could look back and say, Well, this is where I've made gains in this area. This is where I've made gains in my prayer life. In my sin life oh okay I guess that would be a negative gain. But in my mor in my morality life, this is where I made a gain here, this is where I made a gain here. And it'd be cool because uh I I we've done this um Uh on a spreadsheet we can now like, you know, we chart where our attendance has been. And I haven't seen it like for the past five years. I've only been here a year, so that's I guess what we did. It was like twelve months of it. And uh, you know, we've grown as a church, which is cool. It's nice to see those spreadsheets. Man, wouldn't it be nice if you had your own spreadsheet? And you'd be like, oh look at that on average I am I'm daggrown this much. Listen guys, the Evolving past through sin life is the first step, and I get that, but evolving to just a better Christian, a better person, because I I'm gonna share with you guys a secret, and I'm gonna whisper. Which is kind of useless over a microphone, but I'm gonna do it anyways. You see, here's my whispering uh thought, and it's a secret. The reason Wow, wait now I can really whisper. The reason that you guys Are supposed to act like your entire lives are about Jesus. It's because your entire lives are actually supposed to be about Jesus. Listen, I I love church. I love church. Your entire life isn't about church necessarily. It's about God. I listen, I I working a job I think is very important. I was in a conversation with my wife. Jobs are important. I really I firmly believe jobs are important. Working, very important. Providing for your family, very important. Money is actually kind of really nice to have. Having friends is awesome. Leisure, entertainment, as long as it's not breaking any God's laws, awesome. Alright? You like to hunt? Awesome. If you like to fish, awesome. If you like to shop and not spend all of your husband's money? Awesome! But that's not what life is about. And I've I've preached this to the teens many times. Your life is just not about you. In fact, your life's not at all about you. And yet we always change to better ourselves for us. Usually we we change the better ourselves for us. Usually we would rather we would rather work on Sundays. And listen, I know some people have to work on Sundays, but we'd rather work on Sundays. Then take a cut and pay. Even though one of them is greatly going to increase our spirituality, our walk with God Again, I I don't I don't want to pick on anybody. I'm not really someone who picks on anyone except for teenagers and they deserve it. But when was the last time you've changed as a person? Like you said, we can uh every time Ebola spreads, it's fact, it changes. Which is why it's why it's why diseases like that are so scary, is because once you beat it You don't know if you've beaten it forever. You don't know if you've beaten it for a year, two years, ten years. Because it keeps changing. The other thing I know about Ebola, which is again, Ebola is gross. It's just a terrible disease. You know what I know about it? Changes when it spreads. When was the last time you spread your Christianity? Now listen, that means winning souls, definitely. But that also means just kind of infecting people with the bug. You know, you're like really kind to someone. You're like really nice. They cut you off, you d you didn't even react. Everyone knows that feeling when you accidentally cut someone off or accidentally do something wrong in a car And you're like, oh no. And you look back at that person and they're like, right? How many of us would rather that person because everyone makes mistakes by the way? How many of you would rather that person be like You know? It's simple, but it's also true You know the you know and so it someone runs a stop sign, you're like, I go ahead. And they're like, I like that person. And then they see a Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Like we really have a long church name, by the way. Um And then they see that bumper sticker on the back of your car, or that sticker, and they say, Well that guy's cool. I like that. That was that I I did something wrong and that he's still forgiving me. Or or if someone does something stupid at work. Instead of biting their head off, you're like, listen, it's okay, let's just try to move past it. That's spreading Christianity. Or when that when that really When that time when the Holy Spirit starts talking to you, and he's like, all right, that this is the perfect time to share the gospel with this person. And then you're actually following through with it. That's spreading Christianity. And every time you do it, you evolve a little more And you change that person a little more. Maybe that person that you could have uh cussed in your head at, you could have like, you know, Baptist cussed and said things that really mean nothing. You could have uh just been like That's really what you say. It's just like random syllables. But you're like oh you idiot You know you like you know you're mad at people and when they cut you off. Maybe when you're just like eh go ahead. Maybe that person really has always hated Christians. Maybe that person was in church at one time, but they felt it was all hip hypocrisy Now if you would have if you would have yelled at them, you would have sneered at them, if you would have done all that, which by the way, your assistant pastor is. guilty of yelling at people and being mad at people. But say you would have done that in the fear of Jesus loving you, they're like, see everyone's a I've made a mistake and everyone's a hypocrite, blah blah blah and then and then when when you don't do it and they see that they're like, oh well Wow, that that person's actually a genuine Christian. Sin made sin made Jesus angry. But you didn't see him treating many sinners with anger. Be kind one to another. I could preach on every good thing you could do all day long, and then you all would fire me. and lie and said that I preached pro monkeys to man evolution because you just want me uh uh but I'm not gonna preach for all the rest of the day. I'm gonna stop right here. And I'm just going to ask the question once more, when was the last time you've evolved? You've purposely, mentally, physically, spiritually, changed yourself. Because you're alive and you were meant to adapt. Can I have everybody's uh heads bowed and everybody's eyes closed?