Share a few things with you tonight and uh we're working our way through the book of 2 Peter and there is actually a hidden effect in that drawing and we're going to see that here in a bit But uh let me give you uh some things from 2 Peter. 2 Peter chapter 2, of course. Uh Peter is addressing these false teachers who were infiltrating the early church, the early churches, the New Testament churches, and they were absolutely wreaking havoc And he's exposing them. He's exposing uh their character, what they're like, and he's warning the church. And here's the thing. If you read chapter two of 2 Peter and you read the book of Jude They're almost identical as we've been saying, but what impresses me, what impacts me in studying these two passages is how serious Peter and Jude are uh and how they're emphasizing the seriousness of false teaching coming in the churches. They are pulling no punches. They are warning of the wrath of God They're they're exposing these people for what they are, and um it is it is really uh very, very strong, strong teaching And we're working our way through. Here in verse number uh 19, he's continuing his exposure of these false teachers, and he's making a statement about what they're teaching. Now he talked about their character previously, but now he's addressing some of what their doctrine is, what this false doctrine was. Look at verse 19. It says, while they promise them, and the people they're influencing, while they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption. For whom a man is overcome, of the same he is brought in bondage. Do you see the irony there? They're saying, oh, here's liberty. We'll tell you how to have liberty in your Christian life. Liberty in Christ. But at the same time, they're servants of corruption. And so I want to look at this here, the promised liberty. Let's pray, and we'll look at this real quick. Father in heaven, we thank you for a good day. Lord, we thank you for souls saved, baptized. Thank you for good decisions. Lord, your presence has been here today in our midst, and we rejoice in that And I pray as we finish out this Lord's Day and we're about to go into our work week, I pray one last time you'd meet with us. I pray you'd stir our hearts. I pray you'd help us make good decisions that we would be effective witnesses for you. Our faith would be strong. Our testimony would be would be sure and true this week as we interact with the work world, uh with the world out there. So I ask that you would please fill me with your Spirit. I yield my will and mine to you I pray that you would take my thoughts and guide them to be exactly what you would have me to say tonight. I present my body anew, and again I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your spirit and that you would teach through me. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Two ways these false teachers were impacting the churches and damaging the church churches very, very seriously, was first of all with their unscriptural teaching. What they were teaching was not in line with scripture And we emphasize this so much, but it is vitally important. And back then, and I think especially in our day and age that everything that we say and do here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has to line up with this book right here. We cannot go out on our own. We cannot lean on our own understanding. We cannot inject the philosophies of this world and the ideas of man. We've got to stick with the old book Sometimes folks say, well, preacher, that's not very popular in this day and age. Our objective is not popularity. Our objective is obedience to the Word of God and the glory of God And so these these uh false teachers are infiltrating the church and they're bringing in this false teaching, unscriptural teaching. Not only that, along with that, as we've been saying, they're bringing in this ungodly living. And I've found that generally when you get away from the Bible, godliness diminishes. And as they're bringing into the churches this ungodliness. uh loosening and and dropping of standards, biblical standards, bringing the world in, the world's lifestyle, the world's uh priorities, and they're influencing these churches by their ungodly living. False teachers are apostates. False teachers are folks that outwardly claim to be Christian. But in reality, they are anything but Christian. They look it, they can talk the talk, they can put on a show, uh, but when you examine them, as Peter is doing here and Jude does, They're anything but Christian. If you would keep your place here and turn with me to Matthew. Jesus warned his disciples. Matthew chapter number seven. Matthew 5, 6, and 7 is uh we refer to it as the Sermon on the Mount. It's three chapters long. Jesus is preaching and teaching not to an unsaved crowd, but to his disciples. He's teaching his disciples what it means to be a disciple. What a disciple of Christ, how he thinks. Chapter six, the Beatitudes. This is how a disciple thinks. This is a disciple's attitude. How to interact with others. And he goes through here in great detail. How many folks here tonight you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many folks here tonight, you would consider yourself, you would like to consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, not just a believer, but a disciple, a follower of his, committed to him. Anybody say I'd like to consider myself a disciple? Sure, I would like to think of myself as a disciple. Of course, I fall short so often, but I like to think that I've committed my life to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's who he's talking to. Now notice In verse chapter 7, look with me at verse number 15. Notice what Jesus says. And he's touching on what Peter has been saying. He says, beware of what? False prophets. Sound familiar? Yeah, that's what Peter's been nailing. It's what Jude is nailing. Beware of false prophets. Look at this. And he describes them. Which come to you in sheep's clothing But inwardly, and I underlined that word inwardly, they are ravening wolves. Do you catch what he's saying? They look good outwardly. They look like just one of the sheep. But he says inwardly they are something very, very different. That word ravening there has the idea of looking out after their own interests You know, I've found that wolves generally aren't too concerned about what other animals think. They aren't concerned for the welfare I found this. Wolves aren't very concerned about the welfare of rabbits Anybody ever notice that? Or sheep. I've found that coyotes aren't concerned about the welfare of a deer that's shot and spent the night. They'll come and eat the hindquarters. Never mind. Ask Doc about that. He'll tell you about that. But he says they're ravening wolves. They look good. They look like they're part of the crowd. They want a hell. Oh, we want to be a blessing. We want to be a hell. But inwardly, they got their own agenda. Inwardly, they've got their own plans, their own purposes, their own goals they want to get after. And Jesus, speaking to his disciples, says, beware. of these false prophets. Beware of these false prophets. Then you read on. He says, and ye shall know them by their fruits. Not by their appearance, but by their fruit, what they do, how they behave. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Answer is no, of course not. Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree, false prophets, false teachers, bringeth forth what? Evil fruit, evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore, by your their fruits, now who's the there? He's talking about verse 20. He says, by their fruits, who's he referring to the there? The false prophets that look like sheep but really are wolves. Say, well, how do you identify a false prophet? By their fruit. By their lifestyle, by what they produce, how they influence people. Do they influence towards godliness or do they influence towards ungodliness? Do they draw people to scripture or do they draw people away from scripture by their fruits? You shall know them. And that is what Peter is doing. He's doing what Jesus warned the disciples about, exposing their fruits. What they're producing. And so, come back to Peter. Let's look at this real quickly. And I just got a couple thoughts. First thing I notice is they promised liberty. Verse number 19, 2 Peter chapter 2, he says, while they promise them, the people they're influencing, while they promise them liberty Now what does it mean to promise somebody something? What they're doing is they're saying, listen, I assure you, I guarantee you That if you follow our teaching, if you follow our example, if you will subscribe to our doctrine and our agenda Then it will produce liberty in your life. You'll be free from bondage. You'll get out from under that yoke. That fundamental church is putting you under and that re- uh and uh sticking to the Bible, oh that burden, that yoke, oh, you'll be free, you'll have liberty And that's what they're promising. They're assuring people that they will have liberty. The problem is, the liberty they were promising is not the liberty of the Bible. They're using Bible terms. Liberty is a good Bible term. I was really tempted to go on a rabbit trail on Christian liberty for the next seven years. So it's a Bible term. Romans talks about liberty. Galatians talks about liberty, several places, Christian liberty. It's a legitimate teaching. It's a reality in the spiritual realm. But the liberty they're talking about was not the liberty of the Bible. And here's a dangerous thing about false teachers. They will use Bible terms, but they will not have Bible definitions for those terms. They'll redefer define the term. Cults are notorious for this. We had, and I've mentioned this I think several times in recent months, but um we had, this was a number of years ago, 15 years maybe more, 20, but we had uh some uh Mormon neighbors. We're coming in on Sunday night and they'd come in and join. The first time they came, they sat in the back, and you can pick them out. I mean just like that. You know, they got the white shirt and the tie and their little thing says Elder So-and-so And they came in and sat in the back and I was up here and I said, All right, we've got Mormons in the church. And so I preached and and went out and we talked afterward a little bit and said, Oh, we just want to visit Another week, some others came back. I think it was another week, the head honcho of the Mormon church. I don't know what they call whatever it is, uh the Mormon um uh what Hed honcho. But uh I I forget what they call their churches. I don't think they call it a church. It's uh whatever. But anyway, he showed up and we're talking a little bit. And um uh he showed up, he's in the service afterward. I went back, he came up, and I preached on Christ or something biblical that night, preached on Christ, and he goes, Oh He goes, uh he says, I've never been in a Baptist church before. It's my first time being in a Baptist church. I said, well, I'm glad you could join us. He said, um, you know what the wonderful thing is I learned tonight? I said, what's that? He goes, we believe the same thing. I said, no, we don't. He said, yes, we do. I said, no, we don't. He goes, what do we believe different? I said, you believe you're going to be a god someday. You believe there's a gazillion gods out there. You believe that God was once a man And he became a good Mormon, now he's God. And as God is now, man uh as man is now, God once was, and as and as God is now, man can be. That's their little motto You and I can be gods. I said, that's as unscriptural as can be. He goes, no, it isn't. It's all in the Bible. I said, and I uh he said it's in the Bible. I said, no, it isn't. He said, yes it is. I said, no What is it? I said, you're saying the same thing Satan said to Eve. Ye shall be as gods. He goes, Satan didn't say that to Eve. I said, yes, he did. And he said, no, he didn't. I said, yes, he did. And here's the thing, what these false prophets were doing is the exact same thing cults do today and false teachers that are infiltrating independent Baptist churches. They'll use this Bible terminology, but they'll give it different definitions. And you've got to know your Bible. And when they're using the Bible but have a different definition for it, red lights ought to go on up everywhere, up everywhere. That is not what liberty means According to Scripture, what they were saying. Their definition of liberty and the Bible definition of liberty were two different things. Biblical liberty. Now please get this. If you don't get anything else Get this. Biblical liberty, Christian liberty is not a license to sin. And that just gets under my crawl when somebody suggests that we have a license to sin. And I know I hammer this a lot, but we do not, Christians do not nobody has a license to sin. God never gives that license out. Biblical liberty, Christian liberty, is not the freedom to do my own thing. In fact, it's just the opposite of that. Biblical liberty, Christian liberty Is twofold. And again, we could spend a lot on this and and we don't have time for all of it, but I just touched on this. Biblical liberty means being free from the law for salvation. In other words, we're free from the law. I don't have to keep the law to be saved. In fact, I cannot keep the law to be saved. In fact, the purpose of the law God gave in the Old Testament was not to save anybody, it was to show us we need a Savior It's our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. Hey, I can't keep this. I can't live up to the standard that God has established for mankind. That His holiness requires. I can't live up to that standard Therefore, I need somebody that can save me from the wrath and judgment of God because I cannot live up to what the law demands. And so I realized I need a Savior. How many people remember when you got saved how sinful you felt? Anybody know what I'm talking about I was such a sinner. I had fallen so short. I was convinced I was the most wicked, wretched, despicable person that has ever lived. I was convinced of that leading up to my salvation. Why? Because I saw the law. And I saw that I was come so short of it. I'd sinned so badly against God. And the only hope was the Lord Jesus Christ that forgive me and saved me. So biblical liberty, one aspect of biblical liberty, is that I am free. From having to keep the law to be saved. For by grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Now biblical liberty goes beyond that. Once I'm saved, once I trust Christ as Savior, and again I'm simplifying this, I'm condensing all the Bible teaching on this But once I'm saved, biblical liberty is not the freedom to live in sin. Some of the Romans were suggesting that because we're saved by grace, we could live in sin. Paul and Romans, I think it's chapter six, says, God forbid. We don't live in sin. Biblical Christian liberty for the child of God is not the freedom and the liberty to go out and sin because I'm saved from grace. It is the liberty and the freedom from sin. I don't have to live in sin anymore. Sin's bondage over me. Sin's mastery over me, sin's dominion over me, has been broken by the blood of Jesus Christ, shed on the cross, and now I'm free from having to be a slave of sin The days, months leading up to my salvation, I wanted out of the lifestyle I was living so badly I wanted out, I mean, every day I was wanting out of it, but I couldn't. I was a slave to sin And I saw that in the Lord Jesus Christ, not only could my soul be saved, but I could be delivered from the bondage of sin. One of the great things About salvation, the cross, the gospel, the blood of Jesus Christ. It sets us free, not just from going to hell, but from the bondage of sin here and now in this life We can be delivered. And so Christian liberty is freedom from the law for salvation, and it's freedom from being controlled by this old sinful flesh. Now don't misunderstand, I still have this sinful nature. How many people have learned that since you've been saved? Good heavens. That old nature's still there. But I don't have to serve it anymore. I'm not a slave to it anymore. I can be delivered. I have liberty to be free from that. Christian liberty, what these yard birds were suggesting Is that because we're saved by grace, oh you got liberty, you can go out and drink and carry on, rock and roll, and fornicate and do whatever you want, and you're saved by grace, not just all that's Covered by the blood, you can just go do whatever you want. Here's the problem with that. When God saves a soul, he changes their wanter. Huh? The Elmudic I approached the Elmudian is talking about salvation because uh uh uh security of his salvation And he says, you need to tell me you can go and do whatever. If you want to go drink, you can go drink and still go to heaven. He says, that's true. He says, but I don't want to anymore Salvation has changed that water. How many people here, before you got saved, there were things you wanted to do, now you don't want to do them anymore? Amen. That's Christian liberty, freedom from that bondage of sin. God never gives anyone a license to sin God never gives anybody a liberty to sin. You won't find that anywhere in this book. You can't even find a hint of that anywhere in this book. God condemns sin. But as a Christian, I'm saved, I'm forgiven, and I can be free from sin. Not sin less. We still got that nature. We battle it, we fight it. Amen? We fight that, but I'm telling you, we can have victory. We can be free. God never gives a license to sin. He gives us liberty from sin. Before salvation, we were in bondage to self and sin. We were bound by the law. But in Christ, we're made free. Again, if you would, keep your place here real quickly, and come to Romans chapter number 6. My, what a study on this very subject in Romans chapter 6. Years ago I had much, if most, if not all, of Romans 6 memorized. Romans chapter 6 for the believer. Look with me, if you would, at verse number one. Now pay attention to what Paul is saying in the context of what Peter is talking about, what these false teachers were given. Look what he says. What shall I say then? Shall I continue in sin that grace may abound? What's his response to that? Verse 2. God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know ye not? That so many of us as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death. Wherefore we are buried with him by baptism unto death, like as Christ was raised up, raised from the dead by the glory of the Father. Even so we should walk in newness of life. Now look, if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we should also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him That the body of sin might be destroyed. Look at this, that henceforth we should not serve sin. No more. We're at liberty. At liberty. For he that is dead is free from sin. Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe we also live with him. Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead, death has no more dominion over him, he that died. Look at verse 11. Likewise, reckon also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, alive unto God. Look at this, verse 12. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that ye should obey it in the lust thereof. In other words, don't be a slave to sin. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves to God as those that are alive from the dead, your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you. That is the exact opposite of what these false teachers were saying. Oh, you're saved. You trust in Christ, saved by grace. Oh, you got l listen, that that preacher saying the Bible tells you you don't have You don't have to sin. You should re uh repent of sin. Once you're saved, you can do whatever you want. That's literally what they were teaching. You can go out and rock and roll. You can go out and booze it up. You can go out and fornicate and cuss and carry on. And it's all under grace. How many people see a problem with that? Yeah, God, the Bible rejects that teaching. And so they're making this promise. You can live however you want. Here's the thing about that, you know, and again, I'm not saying this, I'm just trying to illustrate something, so don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say But I'm not out out rock and rollin'. I'm not out uh drinking it up. I'm not out fornicating. How many people are glad your preacher doesn't rock and roll and fornicate and drink? I got news for you. I don't want to anymore. For I was saved. Amen. I didn't say amen. It was. Yeah, rock and roll. You know? But God saved me and He set me free from all of that. It controlled me. It dominated me. And God set me free. That is Christian liberty. Not freedom to sin, but freedom from sin. Freedom to serve God. Liberty to live for the way God intends for us to live. Amen? So these guys are promising a liberty that is not found in the Bible, a liberty to sin. Last of all, I noticed that these thing guys, ironic as it can be, were overpowered in bondage. They promised liberty. Come back to verse 19 there in 2 Peter 2. They promised them liberty. They themselves, look at this, are what? Servants of corruption. That was what their liberty that was what their liberty produced servanthood to corruption. For whom a man is overcome, the same is brought in bondage. These guys are saying, I mean literally they were saying, you can go out, listen, Christian, you're not under the law anymore. You can go out and sin however you want. And the irony of that was they were bondage to that sin. They didn't have liberty. They're promising all this, oh come on, live it up, come on out with us, we're going drinking Saturday night, come on, be great Oh, we're cussing and rocking roll. Come on, it's going to be great. And they were bondage to that. It controlled them and dominated them. And yet they're teaching liberty. Listen, before somebody comes along, starts telling you something, there's question marks in your mind, a good idea is to look at their lifestyle. Look at what their teaching produces. These guys were in bondage to corruption. They claimed to be servants of Christ. In reality, they were servants of self and sin. It's interesting, Peter already addressed what they're in bondage to. Look back at verse 3 of chapter 2. And through covetousness Shall they with feign words make merchandise of you? Look at verse number fourteen. Having eyes full of adultery, the last part of verse 14. A heart they have exercised with Covetous practices, you know what they were in bondage to? Money. It controlled them. They loved stuff, materialism They were living for bigger and better and more. They needed bigger bank accounts. They needed nicer clothes. They wanted bigger houses. They needed fancier cars They were in bondage to it. I'm telling you, materialism will take over the heart and mind of a person that falls in love with this world. You fall in love with money, it'll control you. Am I right or wrong? I tell you these these crackpots on TV raising millions and millions of dollars so they can buy their own private jet. Give me a break That's what these guys, they were in bondage to materialism and money. It controlled them. Man, just whatever it sacrifice anything and everything to get more. Notice in verse number 10, the first part of verse 10, it says, chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness. Look at verse number 14, the first part. Having eyes full of adultery and cannot cease from sin. Peter's describing these false teachers. Oh, they're promising liberty, and they are in bondage to the lust of their flesh. They can't even control their thoughts. They are so consumed with adulterous thinking. They can't even, they're slaves to the lusts of the flesh. They can't even think. Paul said that we should bring into captivity every thought and intent of the heart. Freedom, I'll tell you, freedom is when I learn to control the old sinful flesh, bind it. Crucify it, mortify it, and then I'm free. Slavery comes like these guys when I let the flesh desires of the flesh take over, the lust of the flesh take over, and I become a f I've become a slave to it. You know what we're seeing in society? We're seeing a community, a society that is a slave to the lusts of the flesh. Cross the board. That entertainment industry, it's infiltrating our education system The loss of the flesh is dominating. And they're beginning, now, they're beginning to prey on our children. Tell you it's slavery to the lusts of the flesh. That's these guys. They're promising liberty, and isn't that what society out there is telling us? Oh come on, get out of those Fundamental churches telling you what you can and can't do, controlling your lives, brainwashing your kids. You need to get out when in reality they're the ones in slavery To the sin and the perversion, the wickedness. I think my opinion is there's a heap of kids need their brains washed. I think. Right? Look at verse 10, the second part of verse 10. Presumptuous are they, self-willed. Look at verse 11. Whereas angels, greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord, these, these false teachers, as natural brute beasts, must uh made to be taken, speak evil of things, they understand not. They're proud. They're a slave to pride They're in love with themselves. They're controlled by their passion for themselves. They have no concept of what it means to die to self. I have no concept what it means to think more highly of others than I do of my own self. And they're slaves to their pride. What an ironic thing. Oh, I'm promising liberty. That's what the world does. That's what modernism does. That's what this wokeism is. That's what That's what this neo-fundamentalism movement is. Oh, get out under strict. And come on, be free with us. And I found without exception, they're in bondage to this all these sins. Their own pride. Jesus said the last days would be characterized by deception and false teaching. That's what Jesus said. In other words, the last days are going to be characterized by a world that says that which is good is evil. The last days is going to be characterized by society that preaches that which is evil is actually very good. Where freedom, genuine actual biblical freedom, is really bondage. An actual bondage to sin is freedom. Say it often, this old world, this old world has perfected the ability to make that which is good seem so evil. And that which is evil seems so good. And the world has perfected the ability to make those who are in slavery to sin and self materialism Present them as ones that are free, while they have the shackles of sin and self around their ankles and their uh wrists. And they're saying, I'm free, I'm free, be free like me. And they've convinced the world, and they're convincing Christians that bondage is really freedom. And freedom is actually bondage. The farther we get from the Word of God, the more you find bondage and slavery to sin. The farther you get from the Word of God, the less freedom we have. Notice that's true for individuals, that's true for nations. Anybody notice America's getting away, has gotten away from the Word of God. Anybody notice that? Anybody notice our liberties and freedoms are slipping away, slipping away, slipping away? China, communist Russia, the most restrictive nations, governments perhaps that have ever existed, at least some of them. Do you notice the first thing they do? They persecute Christians. Because where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty. And if you want to take away people's liberty, you've got to remove the Spirit and the Word of the Lord. We gotta get back to the old book. We gotta get back. Don't buy in to that this idea we're free to sin. We're not We're free to be free from sin and live for God. Amen. Father, I pray you bless now. And as Dr. Williams comes, he's going to show this drawing, the hidden effect. I pray you'd stir our hearts That we would respond