In your faithfulness. We have the opportunity to be in a lot of places, and I hate to say sometimes we see churches that fall by the wayside and they believe the truth of God's word. Looking for more popularity or re reaching crowds or whatever you may call it, I appreciate your pastor's stand on the truth. And do not take that for granted. Do not take that for granted. I hope you lift your pastor up in prayer as he leads this ministry. I learned as a young person watching my grandfather pastor, then my father pastor. I'm not saying that I would not pastor one day. I would never say that. You never say never to God. But I saw the shoes that they fill. And listen, anyone that pastors without being called to it, Just crazy. How about that? All right? Uh that's that's a hard job. Difficult job. You say, well I don't know that it's that, trust me. Trust me it is. Okay? I know it's hard enough for me to stand before God for me. I can't imagine standing before God for a group of people. Think about it I hope you lift him up in prayer. Philippians chapter number two. Uh I kind of wrestled some about the message I would deliver tonight. I was not positive. And the Lord kind of laid this on my heart. This is a very, very, very simple message. Very simple message. So uh I believe simplicity uh can be key, and I don't want anyone to miss the point of the message, but I I want you to let it be a challenge to you. And I'm in no way trying to get anyone to uh doubt their salvation in any way. I'm not trying to do that in any way, but at the same time, uh we have a unique privilege as of us traveling around. We get to be in a lot of churches And we see a change take place. We see a much more apathy in churches today. And we know that the Bible says one day there'll be a falling away. And I believe there's people that are in churches today that claim to be saved and they're not Uh, we know that. That happens in every place. And just because someone is religious doesn't mean a thing. Just because someone comes to church doesn't mean a thing. That doesn't prove uh salvation, but I was going through the Word of God and my again in my own devotions and many times. This is how God delivers something to me Uh he gives me a message or a word or something, pops off the page, and and uh I I wanted to challenge you uh tonight to think and do a self-examination. Philippians chapter 2, again, the Apostle Paul writing, and the Apostle Paul was greatly used of the Lord, and I was actually listening to a message this afternoon. And uh was dealing with Stephen, and Stephen's ministry was very short. Stephen was a martyr for Christ, and he suffered, and they stoned him. And imagine when he stood before God, if the Lord was to ask Stephen, Stephen, uh, how was your ministry? He would have said, Well, it's kind of short, Lord. I really didn't know I was going to be killed that quick. Uh He says, uh how many commerce did you have? I don't know that I had many at all, Lord. The Lord would have said, let me show you something, Stephen. You see that young man right there? His name is Saul. Saul will become Paul. And he becomes a Christian because of your faithfulness. And I will use him to write most of the New Testament. Imagine that. Stephen had that impact. And the Apostle Paul is greatly used of the Lord in writing epistles, and he here he's writing the Church of Philippi and Many times in Paul's writing, he's in prison at the time, and yet he's trying to encourage believers in the faith that we use these letters and we can apply them. They're applicable. to us today as the Church of Jesus Christ. In Philippians chapter number two, Paul is dealing with being in prison and in the effects of being in enslaved in prison. He's dealing with the church and trying to encourage them. Look at Philippians chapter number two. In verse number 12, and I'm not going to read verses one through eleven, that deals with us being having the same mind as Christ and how God exalted his son And giving him a name that's above every name. We know that's going to happen. One day every knee is going to bow. Even Satan's going to bow. Praise God. And in verse number 12, it says, Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed Not as in my presence only, but now, much more in my absence, work out your own salvation, which we're trembling. Excuse me For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. We could part there for a while, couldn't we? This is a Baptist church, right? That means there's murmurings and disputings. Come on, folks. Now you gotta be lighthearted with me, okay? Or I'll call you up here as a volunteer, all right? Verse 15, that you may be blameless. and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom you shine as lights in the world. We could park there for a while. Are we in a crooked and perverse nation today? Do we not shine as lights today? We should be. Verse 16, holding forth the word of life That I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Paul says, Listen, I don't want to labor in vain. Everything I do, I want it to have purpose. Listen, I hope as a Christian today, you want to have purpose. And know that it's not in vain. Know that it's not in vain. Okay? And look what he says in verse 17, yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Now I want to concentrate on verse 19 through verse 23. That's going to be our key area tonight. Verse 19, look what it says. But I trust in the Lord Jesus. To send Timotheus shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. Now I can pause here for a second. Who was Timotheus or Timothy? That was Paul's what? Son in the ministry. It wasn't his physical son, but spiritually he viewed him as his son in the ministry. He brought Timothy up and he said, listen, when I'm off the scene, Timothy's going to continue what I've started Okay? By the way, it's our job to bring Timothy along to disciple other people. I've met Christians and they'll lead someone to Christ and they just drop them And I say, were you going to help that person? Well, I let them to Christ. What more do you want? That's the beginning point. Well, someone else will take care of them. Well, shouldn't you take care of them? Do you help get them to Christ? Help nurture them, help grow them. Help grow them. And so we know too the issues Paul's spiritual son in the ministry. And look what he says. I'm going to send him shortly unto you. He can't come because where's he at? He's in prison. So he says, I'm going to send him unto you that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. So Timothy's going to report. For all, look at verse number 20. For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. Well, that's a great statement, isn't it? He said, There's no man like Timothy. I can trust him. I can trust him. Verse 21. This is a very convicting verse. This is what it says. For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ. Well that's convicting is it not? Paul says of all the other people I know, everyone else seeks their own. Everybody else does what they want to do. But then there's a complete reversal, and look what he says about Timothy. I want you to get it. This is our key verse, verse number 22. But ye know the proof of him, that as a son with a father, he hath served with me In the gospel. Let's pray. Lord, I pray that you'll bless our next few moments together as we gather around your word. Lord, help us as we look into it, that your truth will be open to our hearts. May we examine ourselves tonight. May we be different than when we came. But I have learned that in my life, what makes me the better Christian is the choices I make. Help us this evening to choose right. Lord, may we realize that even by saying we do not make a choice that we're choosing, we're choosing. Help us to choose right this evening. Meet with your people. Bless us in a mighty way in Jesus' name. Amen. As I studied this, as I read through this in my own devotions, this word kind of jumped off the page at me, and I honestly did a self-examination. I said to myself, Jason, is there proof in your life that you are what you say you are? Now, automatically I could jump right onto my background. My grandfather was a pastor. My father was a pastor. I was raised in a Christian home. I'm a third generation preacher. I'm a goody two shoes guy. You understand what I'm saying? What I'm saying is I've never been in the world. I've never desired the things of the world. Morally, I can stand before you and say, I am a good person morally I've never done bad things. Like the world would say bad things. But you and I both know I'm a sinner, just like you That doesn't get me to heaven, does it? No, there had to be a day when I accepted Jesus Christ as my own personal Savior. And then beyond that, I need to show that I'm a Christian. What are you saying to preacher tonight? I'm saying very quickly tonight. I'm going to move as quick as I can. It won't be a long message. Words today, listen, how can I say it nicely? Talk is cheap We hear politicians all the time. We were talking over lunch day with Pastor, and you hear a politician recently, and listen, I'm not telling you to vote for, I'd love to, but I'm not your pastor, so I won't. Okay? Whatever your politicians say, they ask him a question or her a question on an issue and they say, well, I'm going to be very flexible on that. The word flexible bothers me. For instance, let me give you a uh I'll be transparent with you. I'm not flexible in the Second Amendment. Okay? I'm firm. Okay? I'm not flexible in the gospel. Well how do you get to heaven? Well I'm flexible on that. God's not. There's one way to get there. Listen, the truth doesn't flex It doesn't move. It doesn't change. It's unchanging. God is unchanging. And when I saw this, Paul says to them, Listen, I'm going to send the best person I can send you other than me. I can't come. I'm in prison. I'm going to send Timothy unto you. He's going to give me a report of how you're doing. These are people that Paul has nurtured in the faith. And he says, listen, everyone else seeks their own. And he says, But him, you know the what? The proof of him. The proof. The proof. Verse 21 says, that all seek their own. I began to study that phrase, what it means. It means they seek themselves Their own pride, their own conceits, their own ability. That's the definition of most people today. Most people, listen to me, most people that profess Christ today, guess what? They seek their own. They seek their own. Most people care about themselves. Folks, again, I'm a very transparent preacher. I'm a cut-and-dry preacher. I'm a simple preacher. If you don't like the way I preach, I'll be gone tonight. Most of us seek our own, not the things of God. But listen, Paul really builds him up here. He says, listen, most people seek their own. and not the things which pertain to Christ. But Paul says, except this young man Timothy, who's been like a son to me, he has served with me in the gospel. And Paul uses this special word Today, Timothy is different than most people today. And the word is this. The word is proof. Proof. I began to say the word proof. I began to do a word study on this word, proof. The word proof here means evidence of truth or correctness. It is evidence is an outward side or a proof of what is inside. That's what evidence is. That's what proof is. In other words, there should be proof you are a Christian. There should be proof you're living right. There should be proof that God intended you to live a certain way and you're living that way. You say, preacher, I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. Are you living right? You say, preacher, I'm a Christian. I should be able to say to you, you should be able to say to me, prove it. Prove it. Where's the evidence? What are some proofs that you are who you say you are? Let me give you a quick example. I like to use uh illustrations, I like to use examples, I believe visuals help people Let's suppose tonight I'm driving, Dad's tired, he's gonna snore while I drive. Okay? So uh I'm cooking down the road and I see flashing lights behind me. And I say, forget this, I'm gonna keep going. No, I wouldn't do that. Okay. So I'm going to pull over. He's going to come up and say You know how fast you were going? That's usually what they say, something like that. He's gonna say what? He's gonna ask for a couple things. What's he gonna ask for? Driver's license, registration, approved insurance, usually, using that order. And I can say, listen, my name is Jason Cole. I'm an evangelist. I travel and preach. I was just at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church with Pastor Levin. We just preached a meeting. You can trust me. Great. Driver's license, please. No, listen, I'm a resident of West Virginia. Uh moved there in 03. I give them a life history. He's going to say, great, give me your driver's license. Are you trying to call me a liar? Are you saying that I'm not who I say I am? Is that what you're trying to say? He's going to say, listen, pal, give me your what? What does he want to see Proof! Proof! That I am who I say I am. By the way, this isn't even good in some places. Uh, you just got back from a trip and you show the driver's license. That's great. They want to see something else. They want to see what Passport! In fact nowadays it gets out of hand. You go to some place, you go to the Social Security building office one day. I mean you've got to have blood samples Marriage license, I mean birth certificate. And uh some of that birth certificate if you're older, they're you know, they've been through it. You know, I mean you you hold it up and there's not even a date on this. They didn't have ink back then. I mean how do they write on that? They want to see something. They want to see this. Oh wait a minute, I can give them a speech all day long. That doesn't help. They want what Proof that I am who I say I am. In West Virginia, we moved there in 2003 We had already worked with birds of prey. As I mentioned earlier, we love birds of prey. I've always been enthralled with birds of prey. I always wanted to get into hunting with birds of prey. I just thought it was fascinating. And it's uh it's a process to do it. Uh to become a licensed falconer, uh you have to go through a two-year apprenticeship under someone that's already licensed as a sponsor. They'd be willing to sponsor you have to go and be an apprentice to them for two years. And it's it for them to sign on the line is a huge deal. They don't get paid for it. So they have to see that you're really willing to do what it takes. So if I'm out, let's say I'm hunting with my bird and the bird's chasing squirrels, and this has happened to me before And uh one time we were in the woods hunting and and the hawk was going after something and I had to turn around and look behind dad and there was a a woman, was she a state trooper? DNR. D and R state police. And she got down these cattails where we were chasing rabbits and dad's bigger than he looks, I guess, further away, and she got up close to him and saw that he's a tall guy and we turned around and she had her gun out and her hand was shaken and we were were like Can we help you? What are you doing down here? We're squirrel hunting. You can't fire a gun within so many feet of the road. We're not hunting with a gun, we're hunting with a bird. Then she's going. Sure you are, buddy. Okay. What have you been drinking? All right. Where's the pipe? Whatever you got, you know. They said, no, really, we're hunting with a hawk. We're licensed falconers. And I can say that all day long until she says what? Prove it! I've got to reach in my wallet again and pull out something, and again There's only 21 of these in the state of West Virginia. Alright? It's proof, it's evidence of what? That I'm a master falconer and I can have these birds of prey and I can hunt with them I can say all day long, lady, you don't know how much time I've spent on this bird, and I've worked with this bird, I've trained this bird, I've had this bird for twenty years. Great, I want to see what? Proof! Proof. What are you trying to say, preacher? This is what I'm trying to say. There's too many people in too many churches across this nation that sit for year after year after year, and there is no proof that they are what they say they are. No evidence. No evidence. By the way, if you are what you say you are, this message shouldn't bother you a bit. But if it bothers you, there's a problem. There's a problem. There's a problem. I'm going to give you a couple proofs tonight that we should be able to put in our life to show, listen, as evidence, the way we are indeed Christians. Folks, this is this is a very simple message. Very simple. Number one. The first proof that I am a Christian is obedience. Obedience. You know, this is probably the number one problem in the Christian walk today. It's obedience. Do you realize you cannot step outside of God's will unless you first disobey? Think about that. If you decide I'm going to be obedient to God completely, you don't have to worry about God's will, you'll always be in it. Think about it. You cannot get outside God's will without disobeying first. Here or here or in action. Obedience. What do you mean, preacher? Listen, if you disobey all the time, that's evidence, listen, you're not what you say you are. Are you listening to me? You say, preacher, I'm a Christian. I know I'm saved. You should be obedient. To who? Take your Bibles quickly, turn to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter number 2. 2 Corinthians 2 again. Paul is being used, same author here, Holy Spirit's using him to write to the Church of Corinth, 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Again, this isn't me speaking. This is the word of God speaking. Let the word of God say what it says. I'm not giving you opinion here. We already looked at Philippians 2, how Timothy had the proof of him. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Look at verse 9. One verse. Look at it. Don't miss it. Look what Paul says. For to this then also did I write, that I might know the Proof of you whether you be obedient in what's it say? What's Paul saying? Well, wait, Paul, you know us. We go to church with you when you come through and go to town. He says, Paul said, I'm I'm looking for something though. What are you looking for, Paul? We eat with you for lunch. We had dinner together. I'm looking for proof. What's the proof? That you're obedient. In all things. Don't you hate it when Paul uses the word all? He always does it, by the way. He's always saying all. Proof! Proof! Evidence! He said, listen, you should be obedient in all things. By the way, that's a proof. That's evidence that I am what I say I am. Words are cheap, folks. Talk is cheap. There should be proof. There should be evidence. You should be obedient. You should preach obedient to who? Ultimately to God. Do you follow the things in this book? Folks, if you're quiet now, the park here am I keep moving? Are you obedient in all things? Do you realize there are some clear commands God's given in this book? By the way, that you don't have to pray about. Don't you love when you talk to someone about that? God tells us to do this. I've been praying about that. You don't have to pray about what God tells you to do. You just have to do it. It's like giving. I've been thinking, I've been praying about tithing for the last ten years. Let me help you with something. You don't have to pray about it. It's a given. It's a given. You know, I've been praying about witnessing It's a command to go. Are you obedient to God in all things? By the way, automatically we're justifying in our mind. Well, yeah, I obey God in most things. He didn't say most. He said in all things. Are you convicted? Because I am. I'm convicted. Listen, I want to leave evidence to people that I am what I say I am. In a world full of people that, listen, lie. By their lifestyle. I don't want to be that. When someone sees me, I want them to say there's no doubt that I was a Christian. No doubt. No doubt. By leaving evidence, by leaving proof. Are you obedient to God? Young people, are you obedient to your parents? Teenagers, you're beating your parents. Some of you are thinking, I can't wait to get out of the house. Well, you have a rude awakening coming. I'm gonna be my own boss, yeah, with your own bills. You'll be longing for the day where you get free Doritos and peanut butter and jelly. You'll long for the day. You will long for the day. Instead of sitting going I don't have three dollars. I have nothing. They get out on their own and where's the first place they come on Friday night? To the parents, do you have any food? Can I wash my clothes here? Can I siphon some gas out of your car because I'm out? There's none left in my Mustang It's great. Are you obedient to your parents? By the way, young people, you will always have someone telling you what to do. Always. Now I'm moving out. I'm gonna join the Marines. That's great. Well, I'm in love, I'm gonna get married. Yeah. She won't be telling you what to do. And neither will he. Right? Your boss. You'll always have someone telling you what to do. Listen. My dad told me early on, son, obey. Obey. Obey. Obey. Obey. You want to get through life easier? Obey. You want to walk the Christian walk and leave evidence to other people there's proof that you're saved? Obey. Obey. Do you know what this church would do for listen to me, please, people. Do you know what this church would do for God if every member said, you know what? I'm going to obey. Whatever it costs me, I'm going to obey. I said it this morning in Sunday school. Unstoppable. Unstoppable. Because I've yet to see a church that fully obeys. Our problem with the Bible is not not understanding what God says. It's doing what he says. We know. We just choose not to do. Uh, do you obey God? Young people, do you obey your parents? How about every authority placed over you? Oh man. Every authority? So the Bible says. Hebrews 13, 17, you know the verse, obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves. Wow. By the way, that's dealing with within leadership in the church. Study the whole chapter. That's dealing with him. What? We gotta listen to him? He's a tyrant. That's okay. That's what the Bible says. Listen, look what it says. Obey them to have the rule of you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. As they must give account, listen, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable, not for him. For you. For you. By the way, when I find a person that's not willing to follow the authority that God has placed over them, that's evidence, that's proof that they're not what they say they are. Folks don't understand what the Bible says. Obedience is a proof. Listen, obedience is a proof that I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. Number two. Number two. What's another proof? Not only obedience, how about love? How about love? How about love? Again, same book, 2 Corinthians. Look at chapter number 8. 2 Corinthians, chapter number 8. I'm moving quickly. 2 Corinthians chapter number 8. Again, I want to give you what the Bible says. We dealt with Philippians. He says about Timothy, you know the proof of him. In 2 Corinthians 2. 9, he said, What? For this end I wrote that I might know the proof of you, whether you be obedient in all things. Look at 2 Corinthians 8, verse 23. Seconds chapter 8, verse 23, look what it says. Whether any do inquire of Titus Again, Paul is speaking about a fellow brother, a fellow worker. Look what he says. He is my partner and fellow helper concerning you, or our brethren be inquired of, that they are messengers of the churches and the glory of Christ. Listen. Wherefore, show ye to them, and before the churches, the what? Proof of your what? And our boasting on your behalf. Paul says, listen, I've been boasting about how good you guys are in your love toward them. But now I want to see something. I want to see proof. I want to see proof. Isn't it amazing today when we really get down with the rubber meets the road and we ask for proof, people get offended. Isn't that amazing? Well, preacher, you're asking me to do something I just don't think I can do. I can't show you I'm saved Whoa. I've had people say that to me. What's no one's business? It's between me and God. That's not what the Bible says. The Bible says by their fruit You know them. That's what the Bible says. Listen, can you prove to others through your love that you're indeed a Christian? That you're a Christian You see, love for who, preacher? How about for God? How about for his church? I said this morning in Sunday school, do you lift up this church or do you slander this church? Do you have a genuine love for the people in this church? And I should say preacher, I love my church. I love my church. You do realize it's not this building. The church is not the building. When you all leave tonight, the church is not here. Now we say we're going to church, but really if you're not here, it ain't church It's not church, sorry, proper English. You're the church. Do you love your fellow brothers and sisters? Listen, there should be a genuine love there. When there is, that's evidence. That's proof. Listen, that you're a Christian. By the way, you do have to be saved to love your fellow brother. Amen? You ever think about that? You ever look across the congregation and the diverseness of people and you think, wow, I do love these people. What's wrong with me? Right? God does that inside of you, does He not? I love that because you know what that is for me? That's an evidence. That's a proof that I'm a Christian. Well, you don't get along with your fellow brother, maybe you're not a brother. Think about it. Think about it. Do you have love for your own family? I've seen families that can't get along. Then again, I love it when families get along. We used to have a lady in our church in Baltimore and she always got upset with our family. She came to me one day and she said, you know what Your family and I my sisters were there and then brother-in-laws and on Sundays we'd eat together. There'd be twenty of us, you know, all together and she said, Your family's just and I thought, what is wrong with this lady? She's always a opposed to us. And she was kind of outspoken anyway. We were in Baltimore, so everyone's outspoken And finally one day I just said to her, I said, ma'am, did we offend you in some way? I don't understand why you're upset with my family. Did we do something to you? She said, well, honestly, you guys are very I said, go ahead, you're not going to hurt me. Spit it out. Tell me. She goes, you're clanish. You're clickish. You're always together. I said, we're related. Where's your family? I mean, I'm not being, hello! We have the same last name. That's why we eat together. I mean I didn't think it was a it was a no-brainer, you know. But I found it out. She was jealous of what we had. She didn't have that with her family. Listen, there are people in this church, listen, that their family is lost and you are their family. Amen. How many of you, you can give testimony, you're close to the people of this church than your own eleves. God has given you that bond with them. By the way, that is a proof. That is an evidence. That you're a child of God. If you don't have that, listen, you don't have evidence. You don't have proof. Let me ask you, do you have love for others What do you mean others, preacher? I'm talking about the lost. Do you ever think about the lost? Do you ever pray for the lost? Do you ever weep over coworkers? That's not natural, by the way That's an evidence of God loving someone through you. That's an evidence. That's a proof. I don't know about you, but I look for proof in my own life. I want proof. I want evidence that I'm indeed a Christian. Listen, Paul, you've seen it three different times now we've read in the Bible where he said, What? Listen, I know what you say. I've ate with you. I've preached in the synagogues with you. I've been around you. Not good enough. I want to see proof I want to see evidence. Listen, if the Apostle Paul says that of the same people he preached to, shouldn't it we require that of each other? Is there proof in your life that you love, listen, you love your fellow man. Do you love your neighbor? You love your coworker? Do you love the unlovable? Yes. Don't you like Christ's example in the Word of God, how he loved those who didn't deserve love? By the way, I'm glad he did, or he wouldn't love us. You know what I think of sometimes? I think of these people that do detestable things, that do things that we can't even think about, that we can't even say in front of children, to do to other people. And I think to myself, that person's not even lovable. And then it dawns on me that God loves them. But then something else dawns on me even more gripping. Not only does God love them, he loves them just as much as he loves me. That's love. And guess what? The longer you are saved, the more he gives you that love in here. By the way, that's not natural. To love someone you don't even know? For a missionary to come and you all gonna be having a missions conference for a person to say, I'm gonna go to a foreign country, leave my home, and tell people I've never even met? Why would they do that? Well they have a love for those people. Why Because they're saved. It's proof. It's evidence they are who they say they are. Many of us today say we love God, we love our family, we love others, but actually our time is spent loving the things of the world rather than the things of God. You all know the verse? James 4:4, what should it say? Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the what? The enemy of God. By the way, you can't love them both. I had a young person today down in the junior church, a young child, quote a verse to me and said, No man can serve two masters. I wish every adult would take that to heart. You can't be for the world and for God at the same time. You can love the world from Him, through you. That is in evidence So the first one's obedience. The second one is love. And here's the third one, and we'll be done. The third one, a proof, an evidence, you are who you say you are. And that's your testimony. Your testimony. Again, I meet too many people. Oh, they come to church. They know everyone in church. Shake the pastor's hand. But in the world, guess what? There is no testimony. There's no evidence. There's no proof. What is a testimony? It is a statement made by a witness under oath before God. It basically is your talk and your walk, how they line up. How they line up. I meet people all the time that say I would come to church, but I'm not going to because I went one time and I saw a guy I used to work with and he was there and I'm not going because guess what that guy was? The H-word. A hypocrite. You ever hear that? By the way, they have a lot of credence to what they say. Too many hypocrites in church. Too many people that say something, but there's no proof. No evidence. I'm not talking about being morally good, folks. That's not good enough. You do realize you're not good enough to get to heaven. Impossible. You know that. You know that. But listen, knowing it and doing is two different things. Do you have a testimony? Does your walk match your talk? Do you live the same way in here as you do out there? If not, there's a problem. I may have said this here before I had a teacher in college say it. It helped me. Your talk talks, and your walk talks, but your walk always talks louder than your talk talks. Think about it. Think about it. By the way, don't try to don't try to change your children when your talk and your walk don't match. They're not going to listen to you. Once a young person's learned that their parent is a hypocrite, that's it. You think they're gonna get lucky and choose God? I've had parents say that. Well, I think they'll choose God. They won't. They won't. But choose the the easiest route, the easiest path, which is the world's way. 2 Corinthians chapter 13, turn here quickly. 2 Corinthians 13. I've tried to give you scripture for each of these. 2 Corinthians 13, verse 3. In the beginning, Paul talked about Timothy, how there was proof in his life. And then he said, Listen, I'm looking at your life. I want to see the proof in you. And they said about Titus, and he said, listen, show these people the proof of your love toward them. And then Paul talks about himself. 2 Corinthians 13 verse 3, look what Paul says about himself. Listen, look at it. Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which is to you word, is not weak, but is what? Mighty in you. You know what Paul says here? Paul says, listen, guess what? Look at my life. Not bragging. Paul says, listen, of all the people you know, have I given you a testimony? Yes or no? Paul saying, have I given you a strong testimony than I am who I say I am? Paul's saying, listen, I have. I've given you a mighty, a mighty testimony. It's not weak, it's strong. Christ speaking, there's proof in me. Verse 4, for though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God towards you. Paul said, listen, when you look at my life, you see a true testimony. How do you see testimony? You say, well your talk. Your walk. How about your attitude? How about your attitude? I mean too many Christians today, their attitude is wrong. And then they wonder why friends don't come to church with them to be saved. Their attitude is messed up. How's your attitude today? You do realize you're giving off an evidence. You're giving proof that you are what you say you are. What about fruit? Do you have fruit in your life? We mentioned this in Sunday school. What is fruit? Why would God even have us produce fruit? Does God know our hearts, yes or no? Can God see our hearts? Does God know if you're saved or not? Yes or no? Yes. So what's fruit all about? Think about it. Why produce fruit? What is fruit? Proof. Evidence to those around you, to yourself. I'm glad God did that. Aren't you glad sometimes when you produce fruit, you say, thank you, Lord, for the confirmation, I am saved. Hey, sometimes you need that. Do you have fruit in your life? You don't have to turn there for sake of time. Matthew 7. 17 Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree, listen, a good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is shown down and cast into the fire, wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. It didn't say, by the fruits I know them. He already knows. It's us looking at one another. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and that in thy name have cast out devils, and then in thy name have done many wonderful works, and then will I profess unto them I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Can you imagine him saying that to you? He will say that to people that say, listen, I prophesy in your name. I never missed a service. I cast out demons in your name. I didn't know you. Proof. Evidence. The word proof in all these verses we have read, you can study it for yourself. It means to leave so much evidence that there's no doubt you are What you say you are. See, I believe we have a problem in our churches today. Those that are truly saved have doubts about others. Because no matter what you say, we doubt certain people's salvation because you lack the evidence to support the argument. Folks, can you win a trial without evidence? Can you win in your life without evidence? You can say all day long I'm a Christian, but if you have no evidence, you have no proof, you're lying to yourself and you're lying to those around you. If you're saved, you should be able to prove it. You should be able to tell me how you got saved. If you're a Christian, you should be able to prove it. And that's how you do. Do you obey authority? Do you love God with all your heart? Do you love the brethren? Do you love the lost souls? Are you burdened over people? When a missionary shows a presentation, you see those people. Can you see yourself there? Do you get burdened? I don't know about you. Every time I watch a missionary presentation I think I'm going to Africa. I'm going to the Netherlands. China, I'm going. Every time I watch one, I'm called everywhere. I'm burdened. I don't even know these people. But I'm burdened for him. Why? Because he's burdened for 'em. That's proof. That's evidence. Do you have a love for God, your church, and the things of God? Do you have a testimony where your walk matches your talk? How's your attitude? Where's your fruit? Where's the proof? If you can't prove it, there's a problem. Let me say it as nice as I can't listen to me. If you have no proof, you're a counterfeit. Yeah. You know what a counterfeit is? It means you're not real. Which means you're wasting your time. Which means listen, you're not on God's side. You're against him. By the way, remember I said in Sunday school, there's no middle ground. I've met young people and I witnessed to them and talked to them about the things of God and I say, are you for God? Well, no, I'm not really for him. So you're against him? Well, no, I'm not against God. You don't understand. If you're not for him, you're against him. It's that simple, folks. It's heaven or hell. That's it. There is no purgatory, there is no middle ground. You're for him or you're against him. You're saved or you're lost. There should be proof in your life you are a Christian. Listen, perhaps you're not saved. If you're not, listen. Why wait? Trust Christ. Get saved. It's not been a couple years ago we had one of our deacons in our church trust Christ a Savior. I'll never forget when he went to get baptized. He went down to the the baptismal change changing area. We didn't even know. Our heads were bowed and he walked back there and the pastor led him to Christ in the office. It wasn't in a church service. He came to the office one day and the preacher led him to Christ and He came down in the the waters and the whole church went, I mean he heard everyone taking a breath because he'd been in the church a long time. And he said, I know I'm gonna have some people come to me and ask me, What do you think about the deacon getting saved? He said, Praise the Lord, I wish every deacon and every Baptist church would get saved Amen. Folks, if you've been here and you've been doubting your salvation, do you think we're against you? You think we want to stand before God one day and watch? You mean you weren't of us? You were among us, but not of us. We were rejoiced with you. Yes, we were rejoiced with you. Let's have our heads bowed and our eyes closed, please. Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. A simple message, but I believe I believe it was one for the hour. I believe there's too many people that say they are saved. And either they're not, or maybe you need to just do an examination on your lifetime. You say, preacher, no, I am saved. I know I am. But listen, you're not obedient in all things. You know what? You're giving off false evidence that you're not saved These are those around you. There should be evidence. There should be proof by your obedience that you know Christ. How's your love for God? Has it grown cold? Guess what? You're not giving off proof. You're not giving off evidence that you're indeed a Christian How's your testimony? How's your walk before the Lord? The things you do in this church is it out of duty, out of a genuine love for Christ? Let's stand to our feet tonight. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. We're not going to have a long invitation, but if God has spoken to your heart tonight, as the pianist begins to play softly, maybe in your own heart, you see. Preacher, I just there's not the evidence. There's not the proof of my life. There should be. I know I'm saved, but I I don't give off the proof like I should. I'm not obedient in all things. I'm convicted in my heart, preacher. Step out and come right now. Get down on your knees There's not the obedience there should be. There's not the love for Christ there should be. I'm convicted in my heart. I don't have a testimony in my heart that I am what I say I am. Get that right. Get that right. Perhaps you're in this room tonight. I don't care if you've been a church member here for over 20 years. If you're in this room and you were to die and you're not sure you would go to heaven, you're not sure you're saved. Could I pray for you? I'm not going to embarrass you. I wouldn't call your name if I knew it. Would you just slip your hand up so I could pray for you, preacher? Maybe you're a visitor, maybe you come all the time. Maybe people would be shocked if they they knew you weren't But you don't want to play church anymore. You say, preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved. I don't have any proof of my life. I don't have any evidence. I can't prove I'm saved. I can't go back to a place. I don't have a love for God like I should. I don't have a testimony like I should. Preacher, I don't think I'm saved. Can I pray for you? Would you slip your hand up so I can pray for you? Anyone at all? I won't embarrass you. Please let me pray for you. You say, preacher, I'll be I'm too embarrassed to raise my hand. These people know me. Imagine how much more embarrassed you'll be when you stand before God one day. Think about it. Please think about it Preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved. Could I pray for you? Slip it up, put it back down, anyone at all? Slip it up, put it back down What about it, Christian? Is there evidence in your life? Is there proof you are what you say you are? Is there obedience in your life? Is there a genuine love? Is there a testimony for Christ when people see your walk? Does it prove we have a shadow of doubt? This person walks with God. They're a Christian. If not, get it right. Get it right, Pastor. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for the challenge tonight. I pray you would uh help us to do what your word teaches us to examine ourselves. Be sure we're in the faith. Pray it helped us examine our testimonies that it testifies to the fact of what you've done in our hearts and lives Lord, we ask with our hearts that our walk and our talk would line up. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. I thought about Lot