You got the book? All right, the book. This is it. Amen? So the Bible is God's word. And uh we're gonna make a big to-do about that every time you walk in these doors. And I want to do something this morning that when I announce it, you're going to say, Wow, I know that passage. Sure you do. You've been a Christian very long, I guarantee you, you know the passage. It's Psalm number 100. I'm looking at these glasses of water and trying to figure out which one I want. Psalm number one hundred. And the reason that I uh haltingly introduce it like that is because uh passages that we know well we sometimes think we know. And while I was still pastor in Westminster, and maybe might have even been a little before that, uh, I came to some fresh appreciation for the 150 Psalms. I'll have to tell you right up front, there was a time in my Christian life when I read the Psalms when I was feeling a little discouraged or I wanted to be propped up a little bit. I needed a lift And and I and I kind of skated across the top of them. Yes, I mean I mean you can do that. I mean I mean you don't you don't have to dig deep to to get a lot of good from it. But what I discovered was in almost every case Maybe in all of them, because I think over the years I've probably preached almost every one of the Psalms. But what I discovered is in every one, it seems If you just stop and dig in a little bit, there's a bunch of stuff there. So I read one here this morning that you will know maybe even by heart. But I hope it'll be a blessing to you this morning. Familiarity should not breed contempt when it's the Bible. It ought to breed blessing. Psalm number 100. Says, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. A joyful noise, it says, unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Enter it. Know ye that the Lord He is God? It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. His truth is everlasting, his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. Now drop back to the middle of it again in verse 3. This verse says, Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now you may want to keep your Bible open because I'll just wander around in these five verses a good little bit in the next few minutes. This passage, these verses, if I could, I'd like to do three little walkthroughs with you. Three little walkthroughs. The first of which, this passage, tells us a great deal about God Himself. If you look at the passage, four times the Lord is mentioned by name, four times. But there are 11 other references to him in the chapter with adjectives and pronouns where it says his and him. So eleven adjectives and pronouns, four times the Lord. So eleven and four, my math says that's fifteen times. In five verses that the Lord is referenced. So it seems to me that this passage may tell me a good little bunch about who the Lord is, what he's about, what I ought to know about him. And so I look pointedly at those and I discover these things. Number one, this passage tells me that He is God. Now, when I talk about God, it's not as if I talk about man. Man is a creation. Uh man is temporary, uh at least on this earth. And um and and man comes and goes. God is from everlasting, from the eternities past. He never had a beginning. God will be in the eternities of the future. He'll have no ending. God who is God is in fact a living being. He is not a created thing, either in somebody's imagination. or by some other cosmic explosion or something. None of that. God, who is God, is the originator of all things. When when we talk about God, we're not talking about the gods of Buddha uh of uh Hinduism or the God of Buddha or any of those kinds of things. Those are all things that man made Man makes things sometimes and tries to make gods out of them, but they though they be called gods, they are not God. But what the Bible says is there is somebody who is the God. Now, second thing this passage tells me is The Lord is not only God, but he is also the Creator. Know ye that the Lord He is God? It is He that hath made us. So He is the Creator. Now, let me uh make the point here. In case somebody has been messing with you, somebody has been tinkering with your mind. Somebody has been feeding you the Darwinian brainwashing. Let me say very clearly, pointedly, precisely, I mean let me just get on it and walk all over it. You are not an evolvement from anything. Your relatives were not polywogs in the puzzle. They were not. Uh you you're I mean your relatives did not swing by their tails from a tree. Might have been a few of them by their neck, but not by their tails. Amen. Now God is the Creator. And I'm tempted to just park here and get stuck here for a little bit. When I was in school as a younger person a couple of weeks back, they told me that there were nine planets in our universe Nine planets. They said that was it, nine planets. Well, the last of which, number nine, was a thing out there that they call Pluto. Now recently, if you've been paying attention, they've kind of disenfranchised Pluto and they've said it really doesn't certify to be a planet. But then they disc I was down in Orlando, they told me that Pluto was a dog, and I said, ah, that's more like it. But uh but recently they've discovered a planet in our solar system Now they're calling Planet Nine, and it is out on the outer reaches of our solar system. The scientists said it is so far from here that if you put a spaceship in in the air headed to it At the speed at which we send stuff in space around the Earth, which is an enormous speed, it would take twenty thousand years to get to this planet. Now they might miss that a month or two, but that's what they're saying. Twenty thousand years to get to it. But here's here's something else. They say it's out there, but they haven't seen it yet. Now Two different groups of scientists concluded independently of each other that it's there because there are other bodies out there that they have seen which are functioning And the necessity for a planet about twenty times the size of Earth to cause all of these other gravitational things to work like they work. You know, the moon sets where it sits. And uh, I mean it it has a direct relationship to the earth, and gravity is involved in all of that. Just like we are to the sun and other such things. This universe, I'm telling you, whether it be right here or twenty thousand years away from us, everything functions orderly and precisely. If you want to know what minute the sun will peak over the horizon in Oakland, Maryland, 50 years from now. We can look it up in a matter of seconds and know exactly what moment I mean if you want to know on the twenty, whatever this is of of of September, if you want to know in the year 2098. When the sun will come up, when it will set exactly to the moment. That is all. I mean you can predict it in advance. It will come off on schedule. Now that does not sound like random selection, it does not sound like uh happenstance, it does not sound like chance, it sounds like a well-oiled machine. Now, those things do not happen because of cosmic explosions. What's the news? Explosion creates havoc. I mean nobody goes out, puts a bunch of stuff together, blows it up to create a skyscraper. No, no, you put put it the charges in, it it ex it it it causes skyscrapers to be demolished Now you say what what are you saying? I'm just saying this universe is I mean look with the telescope or if you want to stay closer to home use a microscope And I'm telling you, the evidence of a creator is everywhere. Everywhere. Know ye that the Lord He has God. It is not uh I mean we we it is He that has made us, not we ourselves. And by the way, on that planet score They have now identified twelve hundred and seventy-eight bodies that they bel heavenly bodies that they are saying are planets. And out beyond our solar system, they found 1,327 others that they think are planets, but right now our equipment is not quite good enough to look at it closely enough Now I'm just telling you, there's a lot out there, and all of it says God. Amen So we're learning this passage says that he's God, that he's the creator, it says he has a people There are people that he identifies with, gets closely identifiable with. He has a people, and those people may function, this verse says, in his pastor. Now that's language intended to convey to us That God who is God is the creator, he has the people that are his people, they are functioning in his domain. We're we're we're living in an area where where God is uh over all and uh we have the privilege to live there in his quarters, in his domain. This passage goes on to say that we may enter into his gates. Well gates are something that we use as a means of entrance and exit. And so he is saying I have this place, I call my pastor, I have people there already, I created them, I'm the God of all of that, and I have created a means of access so that you too may get in And the invitation is enter into his gates. He appeals to us come in, come in, come in, come in. And not only does he say enter into his gates, but also he says into his courts. Into his courts. It's like saying this is where God holds court. This is where God does business. This is where God has set certain things in place. So you come in You come into his domain, into his pasture, through his gates, and into where he is conducting court, where he is holding business Now, you know, the sooner that you and I turn loose of things, the sooner that we let him run things for us, the sooner that we listen to his instructions, the better off we are. Believe me, the better off we are. Because after all, he's God. He knows everything. Amen. And so we we enter into his courts through his gates. And this passage then says, because obviously some of us are going to balk, some of us are going to say, oh my, I messed this up, I fouled this up, I'm I'm just not qualified. I'm not certified. I'm not entitled to that. I I think I've I've so embarrassed myself, I've done so many bad things. If that be the case, the next thing this passage tells us is about his mercy. His mercy. See, mercy provides for us what we could never provide for ourselves. You say, well, I don't deserve to go to heaven. Of course you don't. None of us do, but God, out of his mercy, has made arrangements. so that we can go even if we don't deserve to go and even if we can't afford to go. You know um Once in a while, because I fly a lot, I build up a lot of credit with the airline, a lot of mileage. And just every little once in a while, either for some of my family or some of the employees of the sort or somebody needing to go somewhere. And I say to them, let me arrange that for you. And I can do it. Now, I've got all those miles built up. And uh, you know, it's nice to have those. Sometimes Betty and I want to go on vacation. We use the mileage and fly free And so building up that mileage, if I say to somebody, hey, you need to go there, let me get the ticket for you. I've got the mileage, we'll fly you free. Now it's great when somebody pays the fare and you know you go and put your money out and all that kind of stuff. But I'm telling you when you fly free, it's just a better flight. I mean there is something about flying free. I mean I just walk on the airplane, I'm I'm I'm just feeling a whole lot better about it. They say, well, why do you give the trips away? Somebody standing on their head to just do good things for you all day long, and you say, well, no, no, no, no, no. No. Sometimes there's a need, sometimes there's a burden. Sometimes somebody's got a sick relative or whatever, and they need to go to a distant city. And I can say to them, let me do that for you. Now listen, that's a silly little illustration, but I'm telling you, when you realize who you are, that you're a sinner, that you're lost, that you're hellbound, and when you realize that the great God Who has created hundreds of planets and a solar system that is so vast and so orderly, and you realize that He has made arrangements so you can get in on everything He's got And you by by his mercy, by his goodness, he makes that possible. I'm telling you what Ought to get pretty exciting right about now. The Bible says His mercy is everlasting. It's inexhaustible. It never runs out. Amen. You can never tap it in such a way as so to draw the fountain dry. And you'll notice in this passage it also very quickly mentions his truth. Several times in the Bible, mercy and truth are mentioned right together. And that's pretty important. See, we live we live in a time, and I hear this, and you probably do too, I hear people say, well now here's how I feel about this. This is how I think I'm going to do it. I I'm going to relate myself like this And and really I've just kind of come to this conclusion, and we come up with all of these kind of cockamamy things that we feel are we want, and we're hoping God will be okay with that. Now you and I need to get over that nonsense. And we need to find out what God says the truth is and go with it. Because what he says the truth is, is what the truth is. And if we don't go with the truth, that means we're building on a falsehood. It'd be kind of like going down 68 over here, big wide road, and uh somebody puts a sign up that says uh there's a bridge over the next valley And I go skating across uh 68 at 70 miles an hour, cruise control on, I mean I am running and I get to the spot drop up one of those hills and there's no bridge Well the sign said there's a bridge. I believe that there was a bridge. I'm telling you, if there's not a bridge, you're in trouble. And a lot of folks have created things and painted the sign themselves. That's how I feel about it. And I'm telling you, when we do that, the bridge is out. What we need to know is what God says. This passage says that to his mercy, his truth And it talks about his longevity when it says to all generations. This is another trap we're falling into these days. It's like, well, we're in the 21st century now, you know. Yeah, I know that. Well we need to understand that all this is true in every generation. Every generation. What was true for baby boomers is true for this so-called millennial crowd. And it'll be true for whatever the next bunch is. All generations. And not only that, you remember in verse 7, it says that his appeal is to all lands, not just America and Mexico and Canada. But it's all lands. Verse 1 says, all ye lands, and verse 5 says, to all generations, so he's God of the nations and he's God of the ages. So whenever I walk through here and look at the 15 items about the Lord, I learned some things about him. Now, second little walkthrough Also learn some things about me and you. This passage says, we are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now, I probably I know have been here before. I've I've mentioned that I grew up on a sheep farm. I learned a lot during the four years that we had those sheep, during my high school years. Dad bought them when I started high school, and two weeks after I graduated, he sold them. He told me about 20 years later he just thought his boys ought to have something to do. Smart daddy. You know I noticed in this passage he doesn't call us his cows or his hogs or his dogs. He calls us his sheep. Now, several things about sheep. They like all the other animals, they have to be birthed. You don't go to the hardware store to get a new sheep. You have to birth them. And everybody who gets into the pasture of the Lord in the word the Lord holds court And and everybody who gets into his domain gets birthed in. Birthed in. You've got to be born again. Born a second time, a spiritual birth. That comes about by the gospel and trusting Christ as Savior. Not only do sheep have to be birthed, but they have to be nurtured. You see, sheep are perhaps the most vulnerable of all the domesticated animals. You go out here in these mountains and turn horses loose. And a lot of them will make it. Uh even even cattle, they they have a pretty good track record for making it in the wild, so to speak. But if you and hogs, I guarantee you you turn those rascals loose loose, they will make it. But you turn domestic sheep loose in these hills. And they won't last long. They're very vulnerable. Sheep have to be nurtured. See, they have a flock mentality. They have to be shepherded to do well. And so nurturing them, that means that whoever's having charge with them has to provide some about their diet When we had those sheep, we had several adult sheep, three or four of them, just in a matter of a couple of weeks. We just walked out one morning there, they lay in the in the yard dead. We had an old veterinarian about a mile and a half up the little highway. Dad said to me, he said, get in the car and get old Dr. Ward. Dr. Ward had retired a long time ago. He was pressing toward 90 years of age, but he'd been a vet for a long time and he still helped the neighbors out. So I go up and I get Dr. Ward Get him, bring him down, and uh he goes out into the lot where we have the sheep where the dead one was. He just took his pocket knife and ripped her open, pulled it up. I'm telling you too much here, but anyway. Pulled her up and as soon as he looked inside, just did a little autopsy right on the spot. As soon as he looked inside, he looked at my dad. He said, You go into town to the feed store. He said, You buy some dry molasses And you mix them up with water so you can spray 'em on the hay. He said you do that twice a day, you won't lose any more sheep. Now he had been at it a long time. He knew exactly what he saw. He knew that there was a deficiency in the diet of the sheep. In fact, we did that immediately, the dying stopped. Sheep have to be nurtured, and sometimes just out eating in the wild, they don't get all they need. And we have to pay attention to that. Sheep have to be nurtured. They have to be fed. And by the way, when I was keeping those sheep, they never not not one day did they pick the field they ate in. I decided for them every day what they ate. Not only do they have to be fed, they have to be sheared. Now I take exception with some of my preacher brethren that I've heard talk about this. When you shear a sheep, that's not punishment. Part of what sheep do for you, they grow wool and you sell the wool and it's part of the fruit that they produce. And you say, well, why do you share them? You get the guy to come and share them. If he's good at it, he won't leave a mark on them. Say, why do you take it off? Because they don't like wearing their rural coats in the summer. So you take it off. Sell it. They have to be shared. They have to be led. I'm talking about sheep have to be led. You can't drive them anywhere. You can drive cattle, you can drive horses, but you cannot drive sheep. They just won't go. But if you get in front of them and call them, they will follow you. Not only do they follow the shepherd, they follow one another. You you you got sheep, maybe fifty or sixty, seventy of them coming along, and get right here, and and just one of them looks at that, nothing to be afraid of, but he just looks at it and he jumps, everyone coming behind him will jump at the same spot. They follow one another. And that's why it's not only important That the pastor be a good example, but the rest of us ought to be a good example too, because his other little sheep watching us, and if we don't jump in the right spot, or if we do something silly, some of them will follow us every time. It's important for us to do what we ought to do. Sheep have to be sheltered, protected against the dogs and the coyotes and whatever else that might be predatory for them. Now, so we learn in this passage, number one, a lot about God. We learn some things about ourselves. One more little walkthrough. There are some instructions here. See, this is the reason a lot of folks just try to push God back. He's gonna have some orders for me, I know it. He's gonna instruct me on some stuff, I know it. It's the problem the atheists have. It's the reason they created evolution. Because see if they ever admit there's a God, they're pretty sure he's gonna tell them something and they don't want to hear it. So they invented the thing called evolution to try to explain how they got here. There are some instructions here As follows, make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Hey, that means the cussing has to go, amen. That means the old foul jokes have to go. Make a joyful noise. Make the kind of a joy a noise that is pleasant to somebody's ear. You know, sometimes we quote this as though we all ought to be singers. But uh I mean Brother Fox does a pretty good job of uh taking some of us who don't know a whole lot about it and I mean he puts us in with uh a bunch of other folks and kind of halfway makes us sound good. Amen? He does. Well uh y y you can do some of that You say, well nobody asked me to sing. Get in the shower. Sing. Everybody sounds good in the shower. You know. Coming over the mountains this morning by myself in the car. I'm singing. Nobody's going to record it, but I was singing. Joyful sounded good to me. Joyful noise. You say, what's the deal with you? Happy boy. Happy. I'm just happy. Glad to be up in Adam. Glad to be coming to Oakland. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Verse second instruction: serve him. Serve him. Well what's what's the deal here? Well I got all the stuff I want to do. Why don't you just figure out something you can do to serve God? Just get in the harness And uh and I and I'll tell you after after being at this a while, the worst thing I can do for me is to get selfish. Worst thing that I can do for me is to get selfish. Best thing I can do for my own happiness, my own sense of well-being. is to get in the harness, serve the Lord, and He'll have me doing something for other people in the process. So make a joyful noise, serve him. Look at this. Sing before Him. I don't sound all that good. You got orders, sir. Sing. Sing before him. Verse 3 says, we are to know him. Know ye that the Lord He is God. No, no, no. That's not just a matter of saying, well, yes, there's a God up there somewhere. No, no, no. It says get to know Him. Uh Pastor was uh commenting a little bit ago, about twenty some years ago, he and I got acquainted, we got to know each other, we became friends. You know, it's not just a matter of saying, well, I've heard of that guy. But you get to know somebody. So the instructions: serve him, sing before him, know him, enter in, enter in, thankfully, enter in. What a privilege. Somebody came down the road, little old farm where we live when I was a kid. Little old dirt road at the end of the road. Betty and I went over there just the other day, Labor Day weekend. We drove back over there down that little old road, pulled up on that little rise where the house used to sit. I sat there and cried like a baby, remembering the day that somebody brought the gospel down that road First time I'd ever heard it. But I listen, they didn't have to talk I I was just a boy, but they didn't have to talk to me long. Explain to me. I yeah, I was a sinner. And they told me there was a Savior. And I trusted him that day. Amen. I entered in. I entered in Got myself in, thankfully that I did. So this passage goes on to say that I'm to praise him and to bless him. I ought to talk good about God. I ought to brag on him. I mean if you're gonna do any bragging, don't brag on me, don't brag on you, brag on him. I mean, after all, somebody that can make a universe like we live in. It's time somebody got in the publicity business and talked about him. Amen. So we got three little walkthroughs here. One of them tells us a whole lot about God. The other one tells us a good bit about ourselves, and then the third walkthrough we just get some instructions. I mean if I am who I am, just one little guy And if God is who He is, the great God of the ages and the God of the nations, if there are instructions, I think it might be good if I read the manual. And just said, this is how it ought to be done. Now, I'm not really done with this, but I'm going to stop. And I'll read another passage tonight and we'll crank up again and run again tonight and we're gonna do it again tomorrow night and Tuesday morning and it'll be done again Tuesday night And I'm just telling you, we're gonna dig in, we're gonna splash stuff out all over the place. I want to catch some of it. I hope you'll catch some of it, and I hope we'll all be strengthened in the process. These are days, these are days. Our country's in trouble. Our families are in trouble. I mean so many, many things pressing upon us, and I have never seen, not in my lifetime, have I seen the urgency That I believe we're all facing today. And we need to get with God, do his bidding, follow his instructions, and I'm praying that these altars will be places where all of us will do good business. These days. Let's stand up together. We'll pray. Our heads are bowed. In a moment there'll be some music, and when the music begins, the altars are open and ready. Maybe somebody in this room this morning, I mean I've I've hit at it two or three times in the process of my message to you this morning. There may be somebody in this room you haven't entered in, you haven't gotten in on the things of the Lord But you want to. The pastor will be standing here at the front. He'll be here to help you. And if you haven't gotten that settled, why don't you come and say to him, Pastor, I need to get it done. You've come this far in your life, and you need to get it done. You know, over the years, good number of people who were sitting in these pews They've graduated to heaven or they've gone out into eternity. And uh and we miss them, we remember them, but we miss them. But the time ran out, the time ran out, and it will run out, it'll run out for all of us one day Don't let it run out on you. Somebody needs to come to the Savior. I hope you'll do it this morning. Maybe for some folks who ought to come and join the church today. Pastors here to help you. Others of you want to find your way to this altar, do the Lord's bidding. Father, thank you for what you'll do now. I pray your blessing to be upon us. Give us what we need. May folks respond today to whatever appeal that you're making to them, I pray in Jesus' mighty name, Amen. Amen.