James chapter number one, preaching through the book of James. We had another blessing today that was um A little indirect, but uh Brother Ed Beard. How many people recognize the name Ed Beard? Anybody recognize that's church planner we support? And uh he is starting a church down in Annapolis And I'll tell you, if there's ever a place that needs a good, strong Bible preaching church, it's certainly Annapolis, among other cities. And uh they had their first service this morning And they've had the last several Saturdays, they've had a hundred plus people out helping them canvas. They got tens of thousands of invitations out. And they had a good crowd. I didn't see the number. Helen, did you see a number on there what they had? I saw some pictures they had posted on the computer and it looked like a good crowd of folks. And so we really need to really pray for Brother Ed And uh I want to say, is it Liberty Freedom Baptist Church? I think is what he's calling it, I believe. And so um Uh that's an exciting thing. I would love to have gotten down and helped them canvas. We had so many things going on here. Uh we weren't able to do that. But um uh praise the Lord for that. James chapter one, we're gonna look at the last two verses of chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. Last Sunday I brought a message on verse 26. These verses go together. They're they're part of one thought. And so I want to read them both again today. We'll touch on both of them. But we're going to look primarily at verse twenty-seven. Notice it says, if any man among you seem, I circled that word seem, seem to be religious And bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart. This man's religion is what? Vain. Take note of that. Then notice the next verse. Notice the first word in the verse 27. What's that word? Pure. So verse 26, this man's religion is vain. Verse 27 is a contrast. Here we have religion. It's not vain, but it's pure. I think I turned it on brother Dave. I just had it on. I turned it off. Ah, there we go. Alright. Verse 26, vain religion. Verse 27, pure religion. Now, what is pure religion? Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. I want to talk about this subject of pure religion. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study in your word and a message. We're very grateful, Father, for uh giving a good day today. We had good fellowship and there was decisions made. Our hearts were encouraged Lord, it's just a blessing to be around your people. And now as we look into your word to finish out the day and start out our week, stir our hearts again, we pray. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I plead with you, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. And uh help us, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. There's several themes throughout the book of James. If you would take it and break it down by subject, or theme or principles that are given. There's several there. A key theme in the book of James is um one of the key principles or uh themes to the book of James. Is this that genuine faith in God is more than simply just having a head knowledge or saying words, but it involves action. Genuine Christianity is a Christianity that lives it out, that um that uh is more than just knowledge. It's one thing to know and say the right things. It's another thing to do the right things. Do you ever meet anybody, and we're probably all this way a little bit, if if the if we're honest, we're probably all this way a little bit. But do you ever meet anybody that Boy, they sure talk the talk, but their walk doesn't come anything close to their talk. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I heard Doctor uh uh Clyde Box years ago put it this way and I don't think it's original with him but he put it this way your walk talks and your talk talks but your walk talks more than your talk talks. Do you get that? Say that three times fast They're straightened up the sheriff's in in town. Some people make a grand entrance, don't they? So it's one thing to say and know the right things, it's another thing to do the right things. And one of the themes, as I was saying through the book of James, is this: it's not enough to just know stuff We need to live it. We need to do it. Look at verse 22 of chapter 1. I just want to highlight some verses that bring this out. We already looked at verse 22 in a previous message, but it says, But be ye Doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. So here you have hearing versus doing. It's one thing to hear and have it in my head. It's another thing to act it out and carry it out in my life. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 2, verse 14. Like I said, this is a theme that runs through these five chapters in James, chapter 2, and verse number 14. What does it profit, my brethren? Though a man say that he have faith and have not works, can faith save him? And the implied answer there is what? No. And so, and we'll explain that a little bit later. He goes down through and brings this all out what he means. And what he's saying in this passage is this. Simply saying I'm a Christian, simply going through the motions that I'm a Christian doesn't prove I'm a Christian. How I live my life is the evidence of my Christianity. And so he's talking about here the importance of doing and acting. And we'll we'll expand on that in another message. Look at verse number 18. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. And here again you have this idea of saying, I have faith. And then displaying the fact that I have faith. And James is not satisfied with a Christian just saying stuff. He's saying we've got to live it. We've got to carry it out. One more verse, chapter 4 and verse number 17. A little bit deeper into the book here. Chapter 4 and verse 17 Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good, and what? Doeth it not. To him, it's sin. If I know there's something I'm supposed to do that is right, if there's something God instructs me to do, I know I'm supposed to do that, and I don't do it The Bible says I'm sinning against God. We call that the sin of omission. The sin of commission is when I actively do something I shouldn't do. What he's talking about here is when I don't do something, I know I should do. And so James emphasizes, among other things, the importance of our faith taking action. Of our faith behaving a certain way. Now, in verse 26 and 27 of chapter 1, he's contrasting, as I pointed out as we were reading through there, he's contrasting vain religion with pure religion. The word vain in verse 26, this man's religion is in vain. That word vain, as we touched on last week, means to be without substance. I like this definition as I went back and restudied the word, the idea of not having success. If my religion is vain, it's not accomplishing anything. It's not successful in whatever endeavor it is. And to accomplish nothing. So, a religion, according to verse 26, as we pointed out before, we seem to be religious, but we don't bridle our tongue. That religion accomplishes nothing. It's not successful. It has no substance to it. Then in verse 27 he says, but pure religion Now that word pure there means what you would think it would mean. It means to uh uh to be without impurities or any mixture. It's genuine It's I like this definition, and I kind of tweaked it a little bit because I think this is the idea behind the word, to be morally acceptable unto God. And in verse 27, he is addressing the religion that God says that's acceptable. That is pure. That's the real deal, so to speak. Verse 26: that's vain. There's nothing to it. It's meaningless. It's unsuccessful. Verse 27, this is acceptable. This is what it needs to be. This is pure religion. Then he piles on there pure religion. Then he says, and undefiled. The word undefiled again means what you would think it means to be unspoiled. It's kind of like the opposite of what the turkey was we ate the other year. That was defiled. You know, it looked fine. But he says, he says, pure religion, the religion that is acceptable to me, that is what I wanted it to be, God speaking, of course And it's undefiled, it's unspoiled, it's genuine. And he describes it in verse 27. Now we want to back up here. I think it's important we back up. What are we talking about, religion? Generally, we view religion. How many folks would let's see how many folks would agree with me on this? I don't care whether you do or not, but let's just see. Um, how many of you agree? Generally religion, in our mind as believers, religion kind of has a negative connotation. Anybody here? In my mind it does. When I'm out soul winning or witnessing, depending on how the conversation goes, a lot of times I'll make some sort of statement like this. We're not talking about religion, we're talking about a relationship. You've heard me say that from the pulpit here. And so we tend to have a negative connotation of religion. But we need to understand what God is talking about here when he says pure religion. And the vain religion of verse 26. By religion, this is all he's referring to. He's not talking about an organized creed. Brother James uh referenced in his testimony that he came out of a re works. based religion. It's not what he's talking about, that type of thing, some sort of man's creed. The word religion here simply means this. Very simple thought It simply means my external worship, the outward display of my worship of God. You understand God wants us to worship Him, right? We all understand that. I have shied away all these many years. I have shied away from calling our church services worship services And the reasoning behind that is, is I feel like the Bible teaches we ought to worship God, not come together just for one service and worship Him and then leave and stop worshiping Him. Worship for the child of God is an ongoing, daily, continual thing, worshiping God, rather than coming in. So I've shy away, but I'm not against it, but I just kind of shied away from that. And all he's talking about here is simply the outward display of my worship of God. And God's saying this is what it should be. This is what your worship of God, the outward expression, the display of it. He's not so much talking about the heart condition. That's dealt with other places. Assuming the heart is right, the outward display of my worship of God should consist of these things. Now, the context here assumes that we are worshiping the true God. It's possible to worship a false God. People do that. Islam is the worship of a false God. There is no God named Allah. Some it's a figment of their imagination. They're believe that they're believing a lie. Same thing with Buddhism and and Hinduism and all these religions of the world. There is those gods are false gods. They non-existent. There is one true and living God. And so this passage is assuming, the assumption here in the whole context is this is God's people. They're worshiping the true and living God. And this is the manifestation, this is the outward expression of their worship of God. Now you go to different churches, you say, how do you express your worship to God? Some would say, well, you've got to save Ten Hail Marys Well you gotta do this ritual, you gotta go through that ceremony, you gotta do this, you gotta kiss this guy's toe. Or whatever. Um and um that that actually happens. Uh somebody was talking to me today, they were somewhere, and they said, I think it might have been Joe, uh, said he was some well, I forget who it was, but he said they were somewhere and there was a statue of Mary, and he said people were actually literally coming down and bowing down to Mary. Who was telling me that today? And uh they were bowing down to Mary and worshiping this statue of Mary. That is false worship He's not talking about there. He's assuming we are worshiping the true and living God here. It's interesting to note That when he says this is pure religion, this is the religion, this is the outward expression of your worship that is acceptable to me, he doesn't talk about doctrine. Doesn't say here pure religion and undefiled is a having a fundamental doctrinal statement. You say, whoa, wait a minute. Question, is it important to have a biblical doctrinal statement? Yes or no? Absolutely. I cannot accurately and correctly worship God. if I do not have a biblical, a fundamental biblical understanding of the Word of God. I've got to have my doctrine in place. But that's not what he's talking about here. Again, the assumption is the doctrine's in place. The motive is correct. And he's saying that this is what it is. So it's interesting to note that he doesn't address doctrine. Doctrine has to do with the intellect. What I understand, my knowing and my hearing, to use the terms in the previous verses. And I've got to know who God is. I've got to understand. I need to have been taught that one way or another. That is important And that's addressed in other passages, but what James is addressing here, you have your, he's assuming the doctrine is right, he's assuming the motives are right. And this is the worship. This is the expression, the manifestation of the worship that I approve of, that is pure and undefiled in God's sight. All right, so let's look at it. What is that? Number one. Pure and genuine religion, worship of God, is displayed in three ways I see in these two verses. One we've already dealt with in a previous message, but I'll touch on it. Number one, in our speech. Our worship of God is manifest, displayed in how we talk. Our the tongue As we mentioned here a moment ago, the tongue is another dominant theme throughout James. Over and over and over, he addresses the subject of how we use our tongue. Look with me again at chapter 1 and verse number 19. Now we've already looked at this, but this is so important. Verse 19, he says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak. And slow to wrath. So he talks about tongue. Look at chapter 2, verse number 12 with me. James chapter 2, verse 12. So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. We're going to preach on that later on, but he's saying here is we need to be very, very careful on how we use our tongue. Understand, we're going to be judged. Look in chapter 3 and verse number 1. My brethren. Be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the condemnation, for in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, that same is a perfect man. And able also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may be obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold, the ships, which though they be so great are driven of fierce winds, yet they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth, even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Boy, it can say the biggest things. But behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth, and the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body And setteth on fire the course of nature and is set on fire of hell. Look at verse 8. The tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. I can't find anything pretty in the Bible that's uh anything in the Bible that says anything pretty about the tongue. And so if I'm gonna if I'm gonna worship God, The manifestation of the worship that God finds acceptable has a lot to do with my speech. Look with me, let's look at chapter 4 and verse 11. All through this book he deals with the tongue. Speak not evil one of another. Brethren, he that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother speaketh evil of the law and judgeth the law. But if thou be a judge of the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one law giver who is able to save and destroy. Who art thou that judges thy brother? See what he says, speak not evil one of another So, what is the form of worship that God finds acceptable? Well, He tells us here. He says it has to do with our speech. The actions of our tongue reveal the condition of our heart, and we've touched on it on Wednesday nights, too. What I talk about How I talk about it, when I say things, why I say things are all indicators as to the pureness of my religion. I can go around and put on a big show that I worship God, but if my tongue, if my speech is out of whack That's vain religion. That's a vain act of worship. It means nothing and accomplishes nothing, brings no glory to God. So Pure and genuine religion, the worship of God displayed, first of all, in our speech. And that's a tough thing. We'll look at that more later. Number two, I put this one down, it's in our service. Verse 27, come back to chapter 1. Look at verse 27. Verse 26 talks about our speech. Verse 27, our service. But pure religion and undefiled before God the Father is this to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction. Visit the fatherless and the widows in our affliction. You say, I want to worship God. Preacher, how do I worship God? Number one, get your speech lined out, straightened out Number two, get serve him. And one way is told here is to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. Now that word visit, I thought, well, what does that mean? I go look at look and it I got looking it up and I and how it's used in other places and different things. It means simply this, just to look in on them. Check on them Make sure they're okay. See how they're doing. You say, what? That's not worshiping God. You've got to cross your heart and hope to die and bow down at the altar and do all this. No, no, no. God says pure religion You check in on the widowless the widowless, the the fatherless and the widows. You check in on them. See how they're okay. Make sure they're okay The visit that word visitor is just a simple word. We understand what he means by that. The fatherless is exactly what you think it would mean, those without a father. Don't give a reason. Say, well, their daddy died. Yeah, it might be that. Might be their daddy bailed out and left. Might be a single parent. I don't know. Doesn't say. Some places that phrase fatherless is used there. It encompasses also orphans. Those that don't have any parent. Not just without a father, but without a mother. Um I think, and you know this is true in all parts of society, but I think I think our bus ministry is a great fulfillment of this instruction right here. So our bus workers go out, and many of these children come in from broken homes. Many of these children come in from absent fathers for whatever reason. And to visit them and care for them and try and help them make sure that's all that's included here. Then he says the widows. Now I think when he's talking about widows here is simply, of course, we know what a widow is, somebody whose husband has passed away Now I think he's particularly addressing older widows in particular here. And this is a whole nother subject. To be honest with you, I was very tempted to just park here and take about Two months and study the Bible's teaching on widows, you could do that very easily. The Bible speaks a lot about it. But the most detailed instructions given to the church On how to care for the widows is given in 1 Timothy chapter 5. And I'm not going to expound on it, but I do want us to notice that. So if you would turn over there with me. I mean God's telling us here, pure religion, the act of worship, the display of worship that is pure, is acceptable in my sight. It's undefiled. Part of that is visiting the widows, checking in on them, making sure they're okay. And then in Timothy, he talks about how the church is to relate to widows, and its extended portion of scripture. It's surprising. How much time and space God addresses to this subject. 1 Timothy chapter 5. I'm going to begin reading in verse 3. And most of this is pretty self-explanatory. I don't want to part here, but I do want us to be aware of what the Bible says. Look at verse 3. Honor widows. And he goes on, that are widows indeed. But if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to show piety at home and to requite their parents. For that is good and acceptable unto before God. That's almost the exact wording as pure and undefiled. So who, according to that verse, who is he putting the response primary responsibility to care for the widows? According to that verse there, who's he putting that on? Children, the family members, the immediate family members. They're primarily uh the widow's care is primarily responsibility is primarily given to the immediate family members. Includes the nephews here And the children. Now look at verse 5. Now she that is a widow indeed and desolate trusteth in God and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day. What's he saying here? She's not looking for handouts. She's praying. She's looking to God. She's doing what she's supposed to do as a believer. But she that liveth in pleasure. Is dead while she liveth. And he's contrasting here. He says, here you have one widow, they're desolate, they're in a tough situation, but they're praying, they're seeking God, they're trusting in God. Then he says, You got this other one over here, she's outliving it up. And maybe the family or whoever's trying to take care of her and she's taking it and just partying and carrying on. I mean rocking and rolling and dancing and drinking and going on I'm tempted to tease somebody, but I won't. But uh she's just living up. And he says, she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth. She says, you know, she's messing up. And while and these things, now look at this, and these things give charge that they may be blameless. He's telling Timothy, you've got to preach against that. Don't let that go on. But if any provide not for his own, speaking about their own widows, and especially for those of his own house, he's denied the faith and worse than an infidel. Now here, I'll be honest with you, and I don't know the full answer just off for this message, but he makes uh some tough statements here. He says, let not a widow be taken into the number under three score years old. having been the wife of one man, well reported of for good works, if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work, but the younger widows refuse. For when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry, having damnation, because they have cast out their first faith, and withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house, and not only idle, but toddlers also. busybodies speaking things what they ought not. I will therefore that the younger woman marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak evil And then he goes on down there. I'll uh end in verse 16. For some are already turned aside after Satan. If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them. But not the church be charged, that it may relieve them that are widows indeed. So he's given some thorough instructions here, and it's interesting. He says, listen, the church is responsibility if a widow is a young lady I think what he's saying here is don't put her on some sort of welfare type thing where you're just meeting all her needs. She's a young lady, she can establish a set of income, she can find another man, she can uh meet her own needs. But if she's a widow indeed, she's an older woman and desolate, and the family doesn't take care of her, then the church is the responsibility to make sure that lady's taken care of. You follow what's going on. So I'm just kind of summarizing it here But James tells us, coming back to our subject tonight, James tells us if you want to worship me, your expression of worship that is acceptable, genuine, pure, undefiled. Is you serve others. You check in on the widows that are widows indeed and you make sure they're okay. Now we live in a very unique time. There are so many programs, there are so many policies, financial policies that people can put in place, life insurance and those types of things, that a lot of times you have a widow that is very well taken care of. Perhaps her husband very wisely put up things in place, and that anything happens to him, she's taken care of. And we have other things and all of that. So we're in a unique situation where the plight of the fatherless and the widows Is not so drastic in our day as perhaps it was at this time given, but there's a principle here. And this is the principle, pure religion, the worship of God, is not selfish It helps other people. It finds people, perhaps, that cannot help themselves, people that have needs that they cannot have met themselves, and it helps them. Believers help them. So we worship God. I want to worship God. I want to express my love and worship for the Lord in a way that's acceptable to God. One of those ways is watch my speech. And another way is serve others. Do things for other people. Help other people. And those that genuinely have needs. They're not talking about being careless here. But pure religion is compassionate, it's caring. And my sincere worship of God is expressed in my care for those in need. Now the Lord, I got looking up how widows is addressed in the Bible, and man a lot, the Lord tore the Pharisees up over this. He said to them, he said, you hypocrites, he basically, he didn't use these exact words, but he basically said, you child of the devil, you devour widows' houses. And he was, and apparently these Pharisees were going about and just ripping off these widows and demanding stuff from them, and it was the exact opposite Of what God says is true worship. And that is caring for others, helping others. Pharisees were, what can I get out of this person? And Jesus said, No, it's the other way around. What can I do for this person? How can I help this person? That is worshiping God. Isn't that something? By the way, us hard-nosed, independent, fundamental, devil-hating, God honoring, shingle pulling, window rattling, hellfire and brimstone preachers, we could use a little dose of compassion. Amen? Do us good to get out, maybe go to the nursing home, go through and visit folks and pray with them, hold their hand and see if they need something. Amen or not? That's what he's saying. You want to worship me And so find people that have needs. Pharisees, good Greek, their religion was in vain. Then there's one other aspect, he says: pure religion, undefiled. Want to worship God in a way that manifests your love and worship for the Lord, that is pure and undefined, the way God accepts it? One, be very careful about that tongue. You keep that speech in line Number two, you serve God. You serve others. Find people you can do something for, help them. And then third, he puts us down. Now, boy, this is a toughie. Our separation. Our separation. Look at the last part of verse number 27. Your religion undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. Look at this. And to keep himself Unspotted from the world. Wow. Can I be very frank with you? We're not doing a very good job on that part, are we? We're not doing too good there. The church in America is spotted by the world. There's no doubt about it. The music that's coming into our churches, the immodesty, the interaction between male and female, the worldliness. He says, if you want to worship me in a way that I accept it, then you've got to keep yourself unspotted from the world. Let's look at these words here real quick. The word keep means this, to very carefully guard myself. I put a guard up. I do not want that world to stain me. The word unspotted means to be without a stain. My wife and I were at the house there. We had the little grandbaby was it did I tell you our grandbaby's in town? And little Tenley was over there and all she does is sleep the whole time I've been there. It's great. And um Th there's some sounds coming out, so I left and Kathy took care of that. But uh while I was sitting there I happened to glance at the carpet and where uh not the carpet, the curtain And where we had the air conditioner in the window for the summer, the two weeks that we needed it this summer. Um I noticed there was a stain on the curtain there. I guess the water or something condensation had stained the curtain. I said, wow, look at that. She goes, well, you can fix that. We'll wash it. And um but uh that's the idea here to be unstained, not allow don't allow the world to stain me. To get a spot on my testimony, on my Christian character. Keep oneself unspotted from the world. Now, here's the big question. What does he mean by the world? Well, we know from context and looking at other places. Again, this is another subject we probably should spend an extended period of time on. We're not going to in this case, but We know that he does not mean the mountains, the trees, the rocks, the clouds, the stars, all that. We know he doesn't mean the physical world. He doesn't mean people as individuals. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That's people. We're to love people. Individuals and love them for Christ. The love of God is is uh um shed abroad in our hearts But what he's talking about the world, and we can expand on this maybe another time, but he's talking about society, this world's order And uh it I'm going to try and put this in words that maybe we can grasp in our mind, but it's kind of the collective mindset of mankind. The way man in general thinks. Don't let that guard myself against that. Don't let that stain. Me. Um it's soci I like this definition. I kind of work this together. Society's determination the society Let me try again. Society's determination of what is acceptable. In other words, society out here Puts God out of the equation and comes up with its own idea of what is right and wrong, of what's acceptable and not acceptable. And so we look out into the world, the world of mankind, the world of society, and we see that society decides, comes to its own collective opinion of what is right and wrong, of what's acceptable and what's not acceptable. Did you ever notice that what the world considers right and wrong is constantly changing? Never stays the same. Because opinion of the world constantly changes. So they take the majority opinion, and that decides what is right, that decides what's modest, that decides what's acceptable, that decides what's honest, what's true, what's not true And God is out of the picture, and that's constantly fluctuating. And he says, don't let that world stain you. Don't let that world affect your understanding of what's right and wrong, is what is good and what is bad. I say this so often, I'm becoming more and more convinced of it every passing day. This world is expert. At making that which is wrong seem so right. And that which is right seems like it's so wrong. The world, man, the the media world and and all the aspects and everything we look out there in society without God, we look out there, and man, they can make that which is godly seem so wicked. And that which is so wicked, man, they make it look so godly. And they honor and raise up that which is absolutely ungodly. And they put down in trash that which is right and good and pure. And James is saying, you want to worship God? You want to manifest the genuine worship of God. Be very careful in your speech. Make sure that's in line. You serve others. You serve. Serve. Find others. Help others And you keep yourself unspotted from the world. You do not let that world's values and principles and their determination of what's right and wrong, don't let that affect you. You guard yourself from that. Of course, we look to the Word of God for what is right and what is not right. James makes a very, very strong statement a few chapters into the book about this very subject. Come over to chapter 4 with me. And I'm telling you, I'm telling you, the church, the, and I'm talking about indiv I'm talking about our churches, our camp. We are dropping the ball. On this clear instruction about keeping ourselves unspotted from oath. Listen to the words in John in James chapter 4 and verse 4. Man, listen what he says. Ye adulterers and adultresses Now let's stop. Who's he addressing in this book? Christians or non-Christians? Christians! Brethren, brethren, brethren, brethren. Look what he says to them. Ye adulterers and adulteresses. I can see hear them reading this and saying, what in the world is he calling us at? Know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? How many preachers, how many churches do we hear today say we have got to befriend the world? We've got to, we need the world to accept us. We need the world to We need to relate to the world. You know what he's saying? That very thinking is enmity with God. Know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be the friend of the world? Look at this: is the enemy of God Now I don't know about you, that's pretty strong statements. That gives me reason to pause and say, wait a minute. What is my relationship with the world? How am I being influenced by society? How is it affecting my thinking? How is it affecting the decisions I make? If I'm trying to be a friend of the world, if I'm wanting the world to be my friend, the Bible says I'm an enemy of God. One more passage. Would you turn over to 1 John with me? I say this so often, this is a neglected doctrine in the church. 1 John, a few verses back here. And John makes some strong statements on this same subject. John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And verse 15. Love not the world. I put in the margin of my Bible, that's a decision I make. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, look at this. The love of the Father is not in him. Doesn't mean that God doesn't love me Means that my love for others, God's love for others is not being manifest in my life For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world, and the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Man, that's some strong stuff, huh? Say, preacher, I I love God. I really do. He saved my soul. I love the Lord. I would just I want to worship God. Well, we're assuming doctrine's right, you're worshiping the true God, you're saved, all that. Now here's how it's manifest. First of all, make sure my speech is right. Harsh, foul language. Untrue, dishonest. It's not how we worship God. It's not true religion. Pure religion. I've got to serve others Help those that have needs. Help those that can't help themselves. Help those. Invest and care about others. That's worshiping God. God says, I accept that. You're doing that in my Didn't Jesus say you that gives the cold water to a thirsty one because it in my name won't lose their reward? That's what he's saying. Help others, serve others. And last of all he says, you do not let that world stain you. You remain, you maintain, you establish and maintain separation from the world. Jesus said in John 17, don't come out of the world. We're in the world. We need to reach people for Christ. But don't let the world get in you. Don't let the world stain you. I worked, did I ever tell you I worked in a hospital, in the surgery department of the hospital down in Chattanooga? That's amazing, Sarah. So impressive. I worked in the surgery department. I cleaned the floors and all that stuff. How in a service master. Did you know what they made me do? There was a certain door that before you entered through that section, that section was, forget the term, the use, it was sterile. You didn't go in there. Some of you nurses and stuff know what I'm talking about. You didn't go in there. There's a big huge sink there and they have these little iodine scrubs. And uh you had to go through this elaborate process. They all had uh so many minutes you had to do your fingernails, so many do it through this, and they had this foam stuff, and you do that, and you scrub it all down. Then you had to take a sh uh put these little booties on your shoes. They were so cute. And uh then you had to put this little hair net on top of your head. I look so sharp. And uh you had to wear this gown and all this stuff, and then certain things we do, we had to wear the gloves and all that stuff. And uh you know what they were doing? They were keeping us unspotted from the germs that either we would bring into there or that we would pick up from the folks who were in there sick. And it was kind of fun. I'd have all this carbon and become lunch breaker or whatever, and I'd get on the elevator, I'd be standing there, I had the hair net and the garb and the the uh gown and the shoes and all that and somebody get on, they'd look and they'd say, Hi doctor I say, hey. One day uh one we had this little line, somebody says, Well what kind of doctor are you? I'm a garbologist I'm a doctorate of garbology. We had a lot of fun with that. But that's what the Lord is saying. He's saying, listen, you're in the world. I'm not asking you to come out of the world. You've got to stay here. This world needs Christ. This world needs ambassadors. This world needs witnesses. But don't you let that world stain you. You keep your hands pure. You keep your mind pure. You keep your eyes pure. You keep that by you stick to the word of God and don't let this world's values stain. stain you. Keep yourself on spine. God says, that's worshiping me. You know, sometimes the best expression of worship to God is saying no. I'm not going to do that. I want to worship God. I love God. I want my religion to be pure and undefiled. No. Follow what I'm saying? Let's pray. Father in heaven, we want to worship you. We do love you. I think I speak for the overwhelming majority. Dear Lord, we do love you. And we ask that you would help us to keep our speech the way it ought to be, that we would talk in a way that's pleasing to you. Lord, I pray you'd help us to care about others, to serve one another, and people we meet and have needs. I pray you would help us to keep ourselves unspotted from this wicked, wicked world. That our witness would be distinct. And God, it would be effective. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many with me would say, preacher, I really, really want to worship God? In a pure and undefiled religion. I want that to be true, and I need God to help me to follow these three steps of worshiping God in an acceptable way. Any like that? Speech? Service, separation, God bless you, hands all around. Now maybe there's a particular area that the Spirit of God is touching in your heart and life. Particular area where there's just that little prick there. It says, uh. And say, God, I need to address that. I need that put in line. Why don't you tonight just give that to the Lord and let Him make that right? Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.