Appreciate the music this morning. It's been a blessing. The choir special and hymns, that special there, Mark was a blessing to me. I appreciate that very much. I uh Mark said to me before he came up to sing, just up here, he says, uh he's just getting over a bad cold. If you remember he was out last week and he said, Man, I hope my voice makes it through. And uh he did real good Lord helped them there and I said the same thing. I said well I've been fighting it same it's down in there. I know it's there. I've been feeling it the last few days. Just hadn't come out. And so my voice has been uh struggle a little bit. So uh Lord will and we'll get all the way through this. And uh I know some folks are praying, Lord, let his voice go out early tonight. And I have a pretty good idea who those people are that are praying that. Good? All right. What do you call a cow that doesn't produce milk? An utter failure. You need to tell that one to Mary. That's a good one there. That one was a good one. I think I said this recently, but my boys, I'd say it's a stupid joke. We get home for lunch. Dad, that was the stupidest joke in the whole world. Dumbest thing after never say that again. And then that week I'd hear them telling it to all their friends and people, so John chapter 15, I want us to notice verse number two, particularly one word, and I'm probably not even going to get to uh the meat of what what's uh this verse here and dissect it like I like to. But um notice in verse two of John fifteen he says, every branch, of course this is the Lord Jesus speaking. If you have a red letter edition Bible, this is in red. That doesn't make it more inspired. All scriptures given by inspiration of God, all equally inspired. It's all God's Word. But I do think that it's significant When we consider the fact that um uh this is coming from the lips of the Lord Jesus. So notice what he says here. He says, verse 2, every branch in me that beareth not fruit, so that's a fruitless branch What does he do with it? What's he say? Takes it away. He just puts that, here's a branch. Now, getting a little ahead of myself here, but this is a branch that's in the vine. This branch has life. My personal understanding of this is this is a saved person. They're in the branch, they're in the vine, they're branched, they have life, but they're not bearing any fruit. They're not producing anything that God intends for them to produce. And so he takes them away. Now, I want to make it very clear, he's not teaching that God sends them to hell. The Bible is very, very clear. I can give you scripture. You want to sit down with me. I think I can convince anybody with an open mind, very clearly from Scripture, that a saved person cannot lose their salvation In spite of what a lot of people say. The Bible does not teach that. And so when he says he cut he takes it away, and later on he touches on it, It's not saying they lose their salvation and he's sending them to hell. If they're genuinely saved, that they've genuinely have been born again. That doesn't happen. I think what he's saying here is what we might refer to as being put on the shelf. Just set aside. You can't use that. Now this is where it gets interesting. Every branch that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Now look at this. And every branch that beareth fruit. So this is a branch, it's in the vine, it's the saved person, and they're bearing fruit. They're living a life that God intends for them to live. They're producing spiritual fruit. They're functioning as God saved them to function. And you would think, and every branch of me that bears fruit, you would think it would say something like this. He nurtures it, and he takes care of it, and he protects it. But that's not what it says. Every branch of me that beareth fruit, he what? Purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. And that's what captured my attention for this morning, purging the Christian that is what God wants him to be. That's living the life God intends to live. And then God comes in and purges. How many people agree with me? The concept of purging is sounds a little painful. Yeah. Uh uh a little uh I I I hate hate to use it hesitate to use the word, but kind of a negative thing. All right, just kind of purging. I thought if you live for God and you're everything God wants you to be, everything's milk and honey and roses and everything's fine and wonderful, all your bills are paid, you're never sick, everything's wonderful. God says, no There's purging involved in that. So I want to look at this idea of purging. And I hope I'm able to communicate what I believe he's teaching here. Let's pray. Father. We uh just stop for a minute before we um dig into your word here. And we're asking, I am asking you, Lord, to um Fill me with your spirit, and I pray that you would be the teacher through me. Lord, if by chance I've jotted anything down in my notes that I ought not to say, I ask, dear Lord, you'd help me to overlook that and not say it. Lord, if there's something I should say that I did not get in my notes, I pray you'd bring it to mind. And that we would get the exact message that you want us to have today, Lord. To do that, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, and I ask that you would fill me with your spirit so that you can speak through me. I pray our hearts and minds would be open to the teachings that this passage gives us, and that our lives would be changed. Maybe, Lord, you'd help us today to understand Some of the things you allow into our lives. Understand the purpose behind it and what you're trying to do. That we could give you glory and be the Christians you saved us to be. So Lord, I just am asking again this morning, God, that you would meet with us. You'd speak to us and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. From the very beginning of our Lord's earthly ministry, about the time he was baptized, our Lord's ministry began. He was about 30 years old, we understand. From that point until the rapture of the church, God, the Lord Jesus, is seeking to take sinners and develop them into disciples. It's what the Lord is after. Regardless of how sinful that sinner may be. We as humans, we like to categorize. Sin. This is really bad sin. And that's bad sin. And that's well, it's sin. And that's really, really, really bad sin. Now granted, there are some sins mentioned in the Bible that God classifies as abominable to him. There are some sins that God especially hates, Proverbs tells us that. But sin is sin. And we look through the Gospels and we see Jesus' ministry on earth, He's taking centers of varying degrees. And his whole goal, his whole purpose, his desire, what he's seeking, is to take these sinners and transform them into disciples. We noticed here in verse 2, he says, Every branch that beareth fruit, he purges it that it may bring forth more fruit. Did you catch there in verse number 8, where we quit reading? At the end of verse 8, notice that with me just quickly. He says, so shall ye be my what? Disciples. What's he after? He's after disciples. This whole process he's addressing here in the passage we read, the purging and the abiding in him, the asking. All of that is part of the process the Lord is doing in our lives and our response so that we can be the disciples that God intends for us to be. God wants disciples. As I said, from the beginning of his ministry, Jesus was calling men and women to follow him, to be his disciples. To be my disciples. I can tell you this. You say, What's God's will for me? Somebody comes, any one of you may come to me and say, What's God's will for me in my life? What does God want from me? I can tell you very clearly, very simply God wants you to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And all that that entails. And all that that involves. God wants me to be a disciple. First and foremost, above being a pastor, a husband, a father. Any of that, God wants me to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And the same for you. He's calling people to be his disciples. I believe the whole purpose of his min of his miracles. Walking on the water, healing the sick, feeding the thousands, all the miracles recorded in the scripture. I believe the underlying motive behind performing these miracles for the most part, was to verify his message that he is the Son of God And to attract people to him to become followers of Jesus Christ, to be his disciples. Of course, some of his miracles, I have no doubt, he simply did out of compassion. He just loved the person, he was able to, and he healed them or whatever. Many of that uh was the immediate motive. But underneath, I think it was to attract people, verify his message, they would be convinced that he's legit And he's the Son of God, and they would step up and make the decision to be his disciples. So, the Lord wants disciples. We see that in his earthly ministry, he's calling people to be disciples. He laid out very clearly what the qualifications for discipleship is. If you will, you keep your place here and turn with me to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, and chapter number 14. Luke chapter fourteen And I want to notice verse 25, Luke chapter 14, verse number 25. Now he wants disciples, he's calling people. You see it all through the gospels. Follow me, follow me, follow me. Now he lays out the qualifications. What does it mean to be a disciple? What are the qualifications? What are the requirements to be a disciple? Look at verse 25 of Luke 14. And there went a great multitude with him, and he turned and said unto them, Look at this, if any man come to me Now, if we don't understand scripture, this is almost shocking. If I didn't know this was in the Bible, it would be hard for me to believe that Jesus would say something like this But look at what he says, if any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife And children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. He goes on, verse 27. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Come down if you would to verse 33. And he kind of expands on it there, verse 28 through 32. Then verse 33, he kind of summarizes. He says, so likewise Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Wow! You talk about stringent requirements. What does he mean? And I think we've touched on this recently in messages I know we have on Wednesday nights in our study of the Sermon on the Mount, but What does he mean when he talks about hating my father, my mother, my brother, sister, my children, my wife, yay, my own life also? I'm to despise them? No, we're told in other ports of scripture we ought to love. One another. We ought to love our spouse. We ought to love our children. Love our parents. Honor them. So he's not saying we should be hateful to him. He's not justifying unkindness or hatred Towards family members. What he's simply saying is: if you want to be my disciple, your love for me must be supreme above all other loves. Your love for me must completely overshadow and govern all other loves that you have in your life. He says you have to if you want to if you want to be my disciple, you need to take up your cross. Did you catch that there in verse 27? Take up your cross and come after me. That is a deliberate decision To be identified with the Lord Jesus Christ. Taking up my cross sometimes, and and we're all guilty of this, and I'm not trying to minimize uh people's hardships and difficulties, but sometimes we'll make statements like this. Maybe we'll be nice diagnosed with cancer, diagnos or some difficult thing will come upon us That we have no control over it, come upon us, and we'll say, Well this is my cross I have to bear. Now I understand that and I'm not I'm not going to fuss with you about that, and it's definitely a hardship is a trial that God's allowed in your life. But what he's talking about here is a decision I'm making. Taking up my cross in this context here is I can choose to take it or walk away from it. If I'm diagnosed with a fatal disease, I don't have any choice in that. It's not me taking up that cross. What this is talking about, and I'll put a hypothetical situation out here, what this is talking about is suppose America elects a president that starts restricting our religious freedoms And they say you can't live by the Bible, you can't witness to others, you can't preach against sin, you can't live out your Christian life, you have to support this and this If you say certain things that the Bible teaches, then we're going to take you and put you in jail. And so here I have an option. Now that we're in this situation, this hypothetical situation. Here I have the option. Am I going to be quiet? Am I going to disobey God and obey man? Or am I going to take up my cross and follow Christ and do what Christ says and live by his principles and suffer the consequences? That's what he's talking about here. Now that would apply in any number of situations. In the Middle East we see people not denying Christ and I can't verify for all their legitimacy of their Christianity, but I tell ya, I admire people, I my my heart goes out to people who will say, No, I will not deny my Savior. I will not deny Christ. You can cut my neck, you can cut my head off. I'm not going to deny my Savior. That's taking up your cross. You follow what I'm saying? And so he's laying out some pretty Stringent requirements to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Um taking up her cross. Then he says verse 33 as we noticed Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Now, I want to be quick to inject here, he is not talking about salvation. By being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, he is not talking about being a saved person. I cannot be a disciple of Christ if I'm not saved. But I do believe it's possible to be a saved person and not necessarily be following the Lord Jesus like I should. We see examples of that people believed. We're saved by grace through faith. Not of ourselves. It's a gift of God, not of work. So me forsaking myself uh taking up my cross and loving God above uh all else. That's not what saves me. It's putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ that saves me. But When God changes, I make that decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior, and this is the point of the message this morning. Once I make that decision, Then God begins this process of working in my life with the intention I become a disciple. And I get to the point where my love for Jesus Christ is superior to all other loves, governs all other loves. And I'm willing to die if need be for the Lord Jesus Christ rather than deny him. And I'm willing to forsake myself and die to self and No, these are the things I would like, but I'll put them back because I want to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you notice here, I think it's verse 25 in Luke 14, it says there was a great multitude How many people would agree after he preached this little mini sermon here on the requirements for being a disciple, probably thinned the crowd out a little bit? Jesus is not necessarily looking for a crowd. He's looking for disciples. He's looking for disciples. And you find this over and over through the gospels. There'd be a huge number of people, and he'd make some statements, and the people would be like, what? And they forsake him. In fact, in one point it says, all forsook him, except for his disciples. Turn to them, Are you guys going to leave me also? Of course I'm paraphrasing here. You guys are going to leave me also and Peter said, where are we going to go? You had the words of life. Where are we going to go? So the Lord's not necessarily after a crowd. Now, how many people agree with me? We'd like to have a crowd of folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I wish everybody came to this church. I wish everyone that lived in Garrett County, Preston County, Grant County, Mineral County, um Whatever the county is up Pennsylvania, just above us. I wish they all came here. We'd have to start a building program if that was the case. But more than we're concerned about a crowd, more than we're concerned about big numbers is God wants disciples He wants some substance to it. He uh I put it this way, he wants quality over quantity at this point, genuine So, uh, this is a great so he lays out the qualifications and conditions to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Now, let me just stop and throw a little inject the thought here We have a great concern, and we talk about this in some of our meetings and planning of the church here. Grant and I have talked about it, Brother Grant. And uh other pastors and I have discussed it when we get together, and it's a real concern. There's been several books written on this, and that is this, is that we are losing This generation of young people out of the churches and away from Christianity. And it's a it's a widespread. It's across the board. Some churches are more effective than others. We see movement in different places. But and so we struggled with what's the reason for that. What's the answer for that? And I have some books in my library, one I've read recently and suggest some different ideas, and I think there's probably some legitimacy to them. They have a point. But I kind of come up with my own theory. I believe that we are living in a generation, and probably would include my generation, that is so self-centered And so self-absorbed that everything in life is about me. And about my happiness and my pleasures and my plans and me, me, me. I think you can define it with the selfie. Right? I mean every picture is of themselves. It's just me, me, me, me, me, me. And everything is value based on whether it pleases me or not. If it makes me happy, if it's fun for me, then it's of high value. If it doesn't make me happy, if it doesn't please me in some fantastic way, then it's of no value. Abortion is an extreme illustration of that. Here's a child in my womb, but it doesn't make me happy. It's going to mess my plans up. It's going to change my life. And I'm not willing to do that, so I'll murder that child in my womb. That's a self-absorbed, self-worshiping, self-centered mentality. And I see it across the board. Now why would That affects young people, uh all ages really, but we see it in the younger generation. Why would that affect them Christianity? Because Christianity is not about me, it's about Christ And to come to Christ, trusting Him as my Savior, and then being developed as a Christian, means I need to deny myself. I need to die to self. And I think we see a society that says no. I will not sacrifice myself for anything other than me. Me And thus, I think that may be one explanation as to why we are losing so many young people and adults the same Genuine Christianity is Christ centered. Turn with me if you would, just to take this little scripture to support this. Turn to John chapter 3. And I believe all of our verses that we're going to look at are right here in the Gospels. So I encourage you to turn over there to John chapter 3. If you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible and highlighting passages, here's a good one. John chapter 3, and I want us to I want to begin reading in verse number 25. Says there then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness. Behold, the same baptizeth and all men come to him. So who are they talking about? Jesus. They're saying, hey, that uh fellow that uh came to you uh over on the other side of Jordan. Uh he's baptizing people now instead of you and everybody's starting to follow him and not you John answered and said, A man can receive nothing except it be given him from heaven. By the way, that's a good thing for us to keep in mind. Everything we have is gift of God. But he goes on. Ye yourselves bear me witness that I said. He says, You guys heard me. You can testify. You heard me say this. I am not the Christ. But that I am sent before him. He that hath the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. This is my joy this my joy therefore therefore is fulfilled. Now here's this classic statement. And if you want to summarize Christian growth, discipleship, this verse summarizes it. Look at it In fact, let's read that verse 30 together. Would you read it with me? He must increase, but I must decrease. And I'm suggesting to you that we live in a world and we live in a society and we live in a day and age where people reverse that and say, I must increase, and he must decrease. A self-absorbed, self-worshiping, self-glorifying, selfish mentality. And so John the Baptist Stated what I believe is a very clear summary of what discipleship is. So what do we what have we thought? What have we said so far? We said Jesus Christ from the beginning of his ministry went about calling people to be his disciples. I want you to be myself. Come and be follow me. Follow me. Follow me. Here's the requirements to follow me, to be my disciple. You have to hate your family. You have to love me supremely You have to be willing to take up your cross. If it comes down to choosing you or me, choosing uh uh ease or hardship, you're gonna choose Christ. You're gonna take up your cross And uh you have to deny yourself. Get yourself out of the picture, put Christ in the center of your life. So those are the qualifications. Then I notice that Not only does he call people to be disciples, not only does he clearly put out the requirements for discipleship, but he commissions the church. To go into all the world and make disciples of Christ. Turn with me again, if you would, to Matthew, chapter number 28. Now a lot of us are familiar, if you've been around here very long, you're familiar with Matthew chapter 28. And verses at the end of the chapter there, verses 18 through 20. So what we refer to as the Great Commission. In fact, this passage here, along with a number of others, is the basis of our entire missions program here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Our faith promise, all that, is based upon this passage and others. Notice what he says Verse number 18 of Matthew 28. Go ye therefore, or I'm sorry, verse eighteen. Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Now verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Here the Lord is commissioning us as a church, our church and others' churches like ours, they're Bible-believing churches. He has commissioned us, he has given us the instruction, the responsibility to go into all the world, bring people, the best of our ability, bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and do our part in developing them into becoming disciples. Now that he says there, go therefore and teach all nations. Then he says, teaching them. He uses that word teaching. I think it's important to understand that when he says we are to teach them, he's talking about a whole lot more than just imparting information to them. The whole idea behind that word teach is what we're talking about is making disciples of people, giving them the knowledge of Jesus Christ, the Word of God. And then helping them the best we can and showing them what it means to be a follower, to trust Christ as Savior, to follow him in baptism, and then to uh live for him and serve him, be his disciple The whole thing is a process. He's not talking about, oh, we just go out and give people information. Here's the facts about God. Here's the facts about the gospel. No, no, no. It's more than that. It's going out and trying to persuade them to accept Jesus Christ as Savior, teaching them that God wants them to be baptized, and then teaching them that God wants them to be a disciple of His, to live for Him Give themselves and serve and make him Lord of their life. And so the Lord is not simply looking for converts. He doesn't say go into all the world and make converts. What is a convert? A convert is somebody that accepts Jesus Christ as Savior. Sometimes we'll say this, Route Thursday or Saturday, or Uh we said, oh, I was able uh I I was able to make a couple converts tonight. People converted to Christ, trusting Christ. Now that's a good thing, and that's a beginning point But God doesn't just want converts. He wants disciples. If you're here and you've trusted Jesus Christ recently, You've just accepted Jesus Christ. We could refer to you as a convert. That's wonderful. We praise God for that's a tremendous thing. But that's not the goal accomplished. That is the beginning of a process of being changed and molden and made like Christ and becoming a disciple of Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm saying? And so he's not simply looking for converts. Now, if you're that that's good, but it's not complete. If you're here this morning And you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? We're pleading with you. I'll do everything I possibly can To encourage you and persuade you to accept Jesus Christ as Savior, be saved from the judgment of your sin, have a new life in Christ, and be saved from going to hell. I would do all I can to get you to convert to Christ. But that's not the end game. Then it is to develop and grow and be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Lord didn't commission us to simply get people saved. He commissioned us to get people saved and disciple them and help them be followers of Christ. He doesn't say he didn't commission us simply to make church members. Now thank God for folks that are members of the church. Um we want more and we ought to do that. And uh if you're saved and scripturally baptized, you ought to be a member of the church. I think I tell you, what a blessing it was last Sunday evening with Thelma following the Lord in baptism. She said, I want to be a part, I want to do this. This is something she hadn't been baptized, and uh she goes, I want to do this, I want to be a part of the church. And that's a good and right thing. But the Lord didn't commission us simply to make church members. He wants what? Disciples People following him, committed to him, serving him, living for him. He doesn't just want religious people. Lord knows. We got plenty of religion in this world. I suggest to you religion sends more people to hell than perhaps any other thing in the world. Simply religious. People I've said it said about me over the years since the Lord saved me. Oh Letherman, you're a religious man. I think a lot of times they say that out of ignorance, they just don't understand what they're saying But uh I would take issue with that. I don't view myself as a religious man. I view myself, I like to think of myself, as a disciple of Jesus Christ. There's a world of difference. Being a Christian is not being religious. Being a Christian is having a relationship with my creator. My Savior Jesus Christ, ongoing, back and forth, living, live, real relationship. Religion is simply going through rituals. Religion is simply a facade, an out external thing we go through. Talk to people all the time that are very religious. Like the one guy, I like to say this every now and then, I'll mention this, but the one guy asked him, What do you believe? He says, I believe the same thing my church believes. He said, Really? What's your church belief? Same thing I believe. He didn't know what he or the church believed. I mean a lot of people like that. Oh, we go to this like it's kind of soul winning's fun You knock on someone's door and uh hey I'm Pastor Leatherman, this is so-and-so, or whoever's with me, uh we're from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church want to invite you. Oh, I go to church. Really? What church do you go to? Um let's see. It's uh which one is that? Uh it happened just this week. Do you go very often? Yeah, pretty much. What's the name? Who's the preacher there? Uh uh let's see. The preacher there is uh They got religion. But they don't know Jesus as their Savior. If you're here this morning, you're listening to the sound of my voice. You may be very, very religious, but if you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, I hate to be the one to say this, but you're lost as can be. You need to know, you need to make a decision, accept Jesus Christ as Savior. So the Lord didn't commission us to just make converts, and that's part of it. That's the beginning of the process. Didn't commission us just to get church members and praise the Lord, that's important, that's part of it. He didn't commission us to make religious people God hates empty, meaningless religion. What God commissioned us to do is to make disciples. To make disciples. Now I'm beginning the process of getting back to our text. I want to go to one more passage, if you would turn with me to Matthew chapter 4. And verse number 19. And I want to pull a word out of this verse, and then we're going to go back to our text in John chapter 15. Matthew chapter 4, verse number 19. And he, Jesus, saith unto them, now look, watch this very carefully: follow me. First, I'm going to read it the way it doesn't say it. Follow me, and you will be fishers of men. It doesn't say that. What does it say? Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. He says, you make a decision to follow me. Trust in me as your Savior. And as a believer in Jesus Christ, you're making a conscious decision. You're going to take up your cross. You're going to love Jesus Christ supremely above everything else I'm going to put aside my plans, my hopes, my values, and I'm going to submit it to Christ. I'm going to deny myself and everything that's going to be Jesus Christ. He calls the shots, not me. He is Lord of my life, not me. He sits on the throne of my heart, not me. I've yielded everything to Christ. His will, not my will, be done. He goes, all right, you make that decision, then I will make you a fishers of man. He begins working in our lives. to make us productive and that our lives will produce that which He has saved us to produce. You follow me? Now come back, if you would, to John chapter 15. And this is where our word purge comes in. Said all that to bring us back to this, that this word purge here Is what the Lord does to make us fruitful. We're already following him. We're already on that road. You're bearing some fruit. He goes, all right, I'm going to purge you. So you'd be more fruitful. John fifteen, verse two again. Every branch in me that bears not fruit, he taketh away. Alright, he can't use it. It's not useful. But every branch that beareth fruit made that decision, is following him, is seeking to live for him, is showing you know fruit. He purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit. I want to suggest to you that is the making. That purging is making me into that disciple. Discipleship involves a transformation. He says, I'm going to take you from what you are and make you into something you're not naturally that way. Purging has the idea of taking things away, changing things in my life Rearranging values and things in my life so that I can be a fruitful Christian. Adding things sometimes. Discipleship involves purging And this is something God can do. God has to do. I hope you're with me. I hope I'm communicating this correctly. I cannot make a disciple. I'm looking out, I've seen people who have trusted Christ in the last year or so. I see God working in your life. I can't change a person's life. Here's the problem. A lot of times preachers and sometimes Christians, we want to intimidate people. into living for God. We want to we want to twist our arm, we want to do all that. And you know, we ought to be persuasive. We ought to try and influence people. We ought to do all that. But the fact of the matter is only God can change a person's life. Only God can bring into my life what needs to be brought into my life to make me the disciple God intended for me to be. And so if you notice this purging here, God's the one doing it. He's the one working. Church programs cannot make disciples. I think we have some tremendous programs here, the team program, the master clubs program. I think Bible Institute's been blessed of God. Some of the bus ministry, I think the radio was a factor, these programs. But that's not what takes an old sinner Lost on their way to hell, brings them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and then sees their life transformed where they become a strong, productive, fruitful disciple of Jesus Christ God does that. Now He does that through people. And sometimes God will use programs to bring about that spiritual transformation. But it's God ultimately doing it all. And so if you're here this morning, you're saved and you know it. Christ has saved you, God is working in your life. To mold you and change you and develop you into being a fruitful disciple of Christ. God uses individuals. I've mentioned over the years. Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox, two men when I first got saved. I thank God for those two fellows. I mean we've lost c touch with each other years ago But I'm telling you, God used them. I think in my mind, I would not be the Christian I am today. Had it not been for those two men, God using them to help me get grounded in the Christian life and what it means to live for God. So God uses people, God will use programs sometimes, but it's God ultimately that brings this about. So I didn't even get to the verse. And I got a little outline of this verse. I'm not even going to get to that. But I do know this about you. I know something about every one of you sitting here. Looking at me. Some of y'all are catching up on your rest. Praise the Lord for that. But I know something about everybody here this morning. I know this. God is working in your life. I know that's true. Say, well, I don't see it. Maybe not, but it's happening, trust me. God's working. God's working. God's working to accomplish one of two things. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, God's working in your life to bring you to a point where you see how desperately you need Jesus Christ as your Savior. Now you might not think you need it too much. You might not think, oh, I don't need Jesus, I don't need Christianity, I don't need this Bible stuff. You may believe that, but I'm telling you, you're dead wrong. We desperately need Christ as Savior. And I'm telling you, God is working in your life, and God is bringing events in your life, and God may be taking things out of your life to open your eyes and get you to see. How badly you need Jesus Christ as Savior. You've heard my testimony. I can go back. I can see very clearly from this end how God was breaking me down and opening my eyes. And uh letting me have my way like the prodigal scrum until I was in the depths of sin. Until finally, oh wow, I need a savior. And so I know this about you. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. I know this one thing about you. God's working in your life. One way or another, things are happening for God to bring you to the point where you'll open your eyes and see how badly you need Jesus Christ as Savior. If you're here this morning and you're already saved, I know something about you. I know God's working in your life. To develop you into being the disciple God wants you to be. It's called purging. Oh, preacher, I'm saved. I'm trying to live for God. Why is God letting this happen to me? Why is I think I hear a little snip, snip, snip. I think it's God working in your life, in my life. To purge us so that we can grow and become a stronger Christian. This is stuff I wasn't able to get to, but the whole idea of purging is removing stuff that's in the way. Stuff that's no benefit. Snipping off branches and leaves that doesn't help me develop is hindering my development. And sometimes God has to cut things away that we think are very precious. I need that, I need that. And God says, no, not if you're going to be the disciple, I intend for you to be. That's hindering. I need to take that away. And he purges us, and he purges us, and he molds us and changes us. I like to read biographies. Every biography I've ever read of any man or woman that was used greatly of God, that was a great fruitful disciple of Jesus Christ, every one of them went through periods of great hardship. Great heartache. F. B. Meyer said, I doubt God can use a per a Christian very much at all until he thoroughly breaks them. Purging, purging. Where my eyes are on Christ and my confidence is in Christ and Christ alone, then I'm going to bear much fruit. I have a very dear friend of mine. And I've mentioned them here before in other subjects as illustrations, but I want to use them this morning as a subject, as an illustration. Dear friend of mine, his name's Randy Miller. I met him in Bible college, just in school one week. We've crossed pairs. I thank God for that, brother. He introduced me to bus ministry, he introduced me to confrontational soul winning going out. I think I told you before, the first time we went out, he just walked up to a guy and says, So if you died today, do you know for sure you go to heaven? I about fell over. I said, what are you doing? That guy's gonna punch you in the nose. And uh lo and behold, the man trusted Christ as Savior And he taught me how to talk to people and and confront people with the gospel. Thank God. I again I w I don't believe I'd be the Christian uh uh uh that I am today if it wasn't for Brandy Miller and how God used him Randy Miller is a fascinating man. He was in high school, good, strong, godly young man, loved the Lord, going to go to Bible college, going to live for God, but he had his plans. He won souls, he was a faithful witness, had a good testimony, wasn't worldly at all, living for God, reading his Bible. But his plan was to serve God. He's a tremendous artist. I mean phenomenal artist. We'd be in class taking notes. I'm there, I can barely read what I'm writing. And he's over there drawing doodling pictures of sparrows in unbelievable detail. He flunked the class, but he drew really amazing pictures of birds So he wanted to serve God as uh his senior year is winding down and um he was gonna go off, he was gonna be an artist, and he went to camp. And God called Randy to the ministry to be a preacher. Randy said, I knew it. It's clear as I knew anything. God wanted me to be a preacher. I did not want to be a preacher. So he said, I negotiated with God. And I made a deal. Now this is Randy making a deal, not God. He said, I made a deal with God. I will use this artistic gift that God has given me to help advance the gospel, but I am not going to be a preacher. He says, I'll be an artist for Christ uh um child evangelism fellowship and that type of stuff, draw illustrations for children's stories, and and God can use me that way. I'm not going to be a preacher. God said, I want you to be a preacher So he graduated from high school. He was going to go off and take art and develop that. God said, I've called you to be a preacher. Was he fruitful? Yes. He was witnessing, he was living for God, he wanted to live for God, but he wanted to do it his way. God needed to do a little purging. Because God wanted him to bear more fruit. That summer Randy drove for a grain company. He's out in Illinois. And they would haul the grain, the corn or wheat or whatever, from the fields. They'd haul it into the train station, the big silos there you've seen them out west. And he drove the truck back and forth hauling the grain From the field into the train station were the big uh silos, right? That's what they call silos. They're having lunch one day. They had a little shed there, and I've told this here before and different subject, but they had the shed there. They're all in there, a little air conditioning, I guess, going on, and they're eating their lunch. What they did not know Is that there was a gas leak in that little cinder block shed? And apparently it was they didn't smell it, they didn't see it, they were totally unaware. that that room was filled up with flammable gas of some sort. They were winding down, he said, and one of the fellows reached in his pocket, pulled a cigarette out, reached in his other pocket, pour a lighter out The second he flicked that lighter, kaboom, he said the room was engulfed in flames. They tried to get out one way and uh the fellow uh uh one of the fellas fell out, I guess, got out somehow, but the pressure had closed the doors for Andy Told me he grabbed the doorknob. By that point it was so hot when he turned the knob, his skin just peeled off his hands. Finally they kicked the doors in, got him out. They f rushed him into town. He said when he came into the doctor's office in the little town there, the doctor uh went into shock. Somebody eventually called, they brought a helicopter in, flew him out. He ended up, I think, in Minnesota, the big clinic up there Spent months going through a horrendous time. When I went down to college, I met Randy, I noticed that he had scars all over his face. Obviously he had been burned, his ears His arms up, you could see where the t-shirt was where it had the fire had where his t-shirt had ended, his arms were all they had grafted skin from his legs up on his face and his arms. Months Randy decided he'd be the preacher God wanted him to be. What was God doing? Did God hate Randy? Was God being just cruel and torturing them? No. God had a plan for Randy's life. That would bring hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands of people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. God wanted Randy to be his disciple. He was fruitful, yes, but he wanted to be more fruitful. And today, Randy pastors a tremendously successful church out in the middle of Cornfield County, Illinois. Bringing in people all over there, people saved, young people going out serving the Lord. And Randy will tell you this today, God is using him in ways he never dreamed was possible before that But God allowed him to go through that to purge him and change him and redirect him so that he could be used of God. Now I'm not saying if you don't let the Lord have his way, he's going to burn you up. I'm not saying that at all, but I am saying this. God knows what it takes to get you and I to yield to Him and let Him have His way so that we can be the Christians He intends for us to be. I guarantee you, God's working in your life right now. It's not just chaos, just happens things. Why is this happening to me? Nothing makes sense. I'm here to tell you, God knows exactly what he's doing. God is purging, God is working in your life and my life, so that we will trust him and get us out of the way and let him use us and grow on. Does that make sense? We don't have time to get in and really look in detail at the verse, but that's the idea. He's purging us. And we need to trust him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you could use this today somehow. To maybe encourage someone just to trust you and let you have your way. Lord, I think some of us need to make decisions to let you lead us and direct us. We'll just trust you and obey you. But I pray, Lord, that in your love for us, you would not leave us alone. That we would be the Christians who intend for us to be. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've trusted Christ. It's not an issue. I'm trying to live for Him. I'm trying to be that disciple He saved me to be. She said, preacher, I can see God working in my life. I can see God bringing things into my life that from my perspective don't always make a whole lot of sense, but by God's grace, I'm going to let the Lord have his way. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to obey him. I'm going to let him have his way in my life. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I see some areas. It's just struggle. It's hard. But I'm going to trust God and believe that he's working and purging in my life. God bless you. A lot of hands around And what we need to do is like Randy did and say, okay, Lord, yes, Lord. That's your will for me. If that's what I need to do, then I'll trust you and I'll follow you and I'll obey you. Now all that may involve maybe God's trying to get some people to read their Bibles like they ought to, and you're not. Maybe God's work in your life gets you where you just look and give him an opportunity to speak to your heart on a daily basis. Maybe church membership. God's working your life trying to get you to develop that. God gave us the church. That's the per it's his thing. He wants to be a part and active, involved, and growing in it. Maybe God's working your life there. Maybe it's serving him, being a witness. Maybe it's some worldly stuff God's trying to get out that's hindering your spiritual walk and your testimony. I don't know what it may be. Maybe God's calling you into a ministry to serve some capacity here, or maybe on the field. God's working, trying to get us to that point where we're willing to trust him and let him use us in a greater way. Maybe there's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, I can see God working in my life. I know God's trying to get me to that point. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that I'll settle that. God will help me settle that. Is there any this morning, Preacher? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I need God to help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Any around? Any at all? Now Father, I pray you bless. This truth. Give us yielded hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer, we're going to play a few verses.