1 Peter chapter 1, verse number 9. We actually preached on this, I believe, last Sunday night. There's a little phrase at the end of verse number 9. That I want to zero in on before we move on to the next verses and work our way through this book. If you would notice, verse 9, 2 Peter 1, he says, but he That lacketh these things. Now, a little quiz here tonight. We've talked about this quite a bit. What are the these things that he's referencing? And who remembers? These things. Yeah. Yeah, that list, verse number five down through what, seven or eight. He has a list of eight eight virtues or eight uh characteristics That God is telling us we need to diligently add to. We have faith, we add to it virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity. We're to diligently work on adding these things to our Christian life. And he references them all the way down through verse 15. He keeps referencing back to these things, these things, these things. So he says, he that lacketh these things, he that's not working at adding to his Christian life these characteristics, these disciplines. He says he's blind and cannot see afar off and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. If you remember, we said last week the word blind there doesn't mean the inability to see. It means he's allowed things in front, cannot see afar off, allowed other things, cloud his sight. And then forgotten, he's not ignorant that he was purged of his old sins. He's just allowed other things to come into his mind And that's been pushed aside. But what I want to notice here is that little phrase was purged from his old sins. And that little phrase caught my attention. So let's look at that tonight a little bit. Let's pray. Father, we ask now you bless a little bit of time we have to look into your word. Sure been a good day, Lord. I believe you met with us today Lord, I trust that hearts were touched, and Lord, decisions made for Christ. And Lord, we pray that lives would be changed, new creatures in Christ. Now as we finish out today, Lord, I ask you to meet with us once again. Father in heaven, I pray you'd speak to our hearts Lord, overcome our different thoughts and schedules and things in our minds and thoughts. I pray you'd help us put them aside. And let you speak to us, instruct us, and strengthen, and help us. Lord, I yield my will to you and present my body anew. With all my heart I plead with you, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit That you speak through me and help us from your word tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. As I said, Peter is emphasizing these eight characteristics that he says Believers are to diligently add to our faith. Now if you remember all the way back to ch uh to 1 Peter, we first study started our study on that, we pointed out repeatedly that Peter is writing to believers. He's not writing to unsaved. He's writing to folks. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. That's the crowd he's writing to, believers. Now the unique thing about these believers is they were under intense persecution. How many people remember me pointing that out over and over and over through first? Yeah, they're intense persecution because of their faith in Christ. They've been run out of their homes. Many of them have been beaten violently. lost their jobs, so they pushed out into other regions, out away from where they grew up. Now, 2 Peter, they're settling down. The persecution, they're away from the persecution of the Jews, and they're kind of settling down. And as we got to the end of 1 Peter, if you remember, I got the impression they're starting to regroup into local churches there wherever they were were driven to. And they're starting to reassemble back together. You turkey hunters know what that is. You you bust up the flock And then the mother calls and they all come back. Anyone know do I know what I'm talking about? And they come back. That's kind of the way God's people are. They ta they gravitate to each other. So they've been pushed out and they're gravitating back. to each other and are establishing churches. And the persecution has died out a bit, I believe. Now there's a two new dangers. These believers are facing. They don't have the persecution from without. That's died down somewhat. But these two other dangers are this. Number one, the danger of becoming stagnant in their Christian growth. Anybody how many people know what I mean? Stagnant? You just kind of get in a rut. You find yourself just going through the motions. You find yourself not growing in my faith like I did before. I tell you, that's a danger to a church when a church becomes stagnant. Lose its vision, not growing, not not active, just stagnant. It's dangerous to a Christian individually. I become stagnant These believers were facing that. The persecution died off. And then they just kind of get a little careless, maybe No negligence. The other danger facing these believers was that of false doctrine creeping in As they're re-establishing these churches, they're re-establishing the body of Christ, and they're coming together, there's a real danger of false teachers coming into that church and affecting their doctrine. Affecting what they uh understand of the truth of the Word of God. Both of those dangers are what I'm going to refer to as internal dangers. They're within the church. Persecution coming from the Jews and from unbelievers, that was external danger. They're assaulting them from without Of those two dangers, the external danger and the internal danger, which do you think is the most dangerous? The internal. And that's what Peter's addressing. And when he gives the list of these things that he keeps referencing, he's telling them these are vitally necessary. And that's a little redundant. But these things are vital if we're going to avoid stagnation in my Christian life. I have got to diligently keep adding to my faith this virtue, knowledge. Temperance, patience, and the list. And so he's addressing these. And then he says, at the end of verse 9, he makes this startling statement in my mind, and we touched on it last week He says that they that lack these things, if you're not doing this, you're getting stagnant. And one of the consequences of that, you'll forget. That you were purged from your old sins. Now that that's amazing to me that that could even be a play, could even be something that could happen. Three thoughts I have real quick about being purged from our old sins. Number one, I put this down, the blessedness of having my sins purged. The word purge there, I got looking it up, and it means pretty much what you think it would mean. It means to cleanse away. There's some uncleanness, there's some defilement In my life. There's sin in my life. And at some point, I came to some point where that sin was purged That sin was cleansed. It has the idea to be purified. My heart and soul was impure. And I came to a point. I came to a point in my life where I was purged. It was purified. It has the idea to be canceled out. There was something on my record. There was a stain on my record. There was an indictment on my record. And that indictment, that record was purged. That indictment against me was canceled out. That's what the idea of the word purged is. To be eradicated. There were some things true about me. I was a sinner. I was under judgment. I was under the wrath of God as a sinner against God. And that wrath and that judgment upon me was eradicated. It's removed. It was purged. And he's writing to people, saved people, and he says your sins were purged. Now he says you've forgotten that. If you don't develop your Christian life, you can get to the point where you forget that. But the fact is your sins were purged. They've been eradicated. All through Scripture, we're told of sins being purged or sins being cleansed. The word purged is very similar in meaning to the word atonement. You're familiar with the term atonement all through scripture. Referenced our atonement. We're mating the over-simplistic definition of the term atonement simply means at one moment. I'm at one with God. Those sins, that unbelief, that rebellion, that uh sinfulness that separated me from God has been purged, it's been expelled, it's been eradicated And now I'm at one with God. I have atonement with God. Atonement has been made, and I'm reunited. That sin has been purged. That's the idea. And they had this. This was true about these people, but they had forgotten. They neglected their spiritual growth. They neglected these disciplines that we need to diligently work towards And it was pushed to the back of their mind that this was true about them. If you have your Bibles, I want to go quickly, I want to look at a number of verses, and I'd like for you to turn with me to them and see them with your own very own eyes. Isaiah chapter number six. Isaiah chapter six. Would you if you how many if you know anything about Isaiah, you understand Isaiah was a good guy Right? He was one of the good guys. He was one of God's great prophets And in Isaiah chapter 6, what I believe was a dear friend of Isaiah's died, the king Uzziah And if I understand history correctly and biblical history, Isaiah and Uzziah were dear friends. And Uzziah died. King Uzziah died. And when he died, Isaiah went to the temple. Of course, he's probably grieving. And he has this revelation from God. God reveals himself to him. And if you would, notice in verse number one He says, the year that King Uzziah died, I also saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face. With twain he covered his feet. With twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts, is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And he said the posts of the doors moved, the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Now look how Isaiah responds. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Isaiah sees the Lord, and he realizes how sinful he is. I pray often, probably one of the most repeated prayers of mine, is that God would manifest his presence in our services And that when our choir sings and we sing as a congregation, and when we testify, and when we preach the word of God, that God's presence would be manifest Here in our midst. So we sense his presence. And when God's presence is evident, it always affects our hearts. And Isaiah is convicted of his sin. And look at how he responds. He says, Woe is me I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean. My eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Then one flew then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongues from off the altar. Look at this. And he laid it upon my mouth. Now remember, Isaiah said, I'm a man of unclean lips. Apparently he had said some things that he ought not to have said. And it has it was a factor in his fellowship with God. He laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips. Look at this. Thine iniquity is taken away. And thy sins what? Purged. Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. He's in the presence of God. And conviction comes over, and the sins of his lips pressed on him. And the angel comes and touches the coal to his lips, and he says, your sins are purged, they're cleansed, they're removed, they're expelled, they're canceled out. And Isaiah is reunited in fellowship with God. That's what Peter's saying. He's saying that's what you experienced. Would you agree with me? That would be awfully hard for Isaiah to forget that event. Good night. Peter says you're in danger of forgetting that. If you would, come to Psalm chapter 32. I don't know that we'll have time to look at all these. I got 720 verses here we want to look at. Psalm chapter 32. This is David. And we know a little bit about David, don't we? If you've been on Wednesday nights for the last 10 years. And David was a man after God's heart. And I'm telling you, when David was right with God, he was right with God. All wholehearted, all out. But I tell you, when David blew it, he blew it. And David blew it. And Psalm 32, David says this. Blessed. Listen to his terms here. Listen to the words he uses. Blessed is he whose transgression is what? Forgiven, whose sin is covered. Look at this. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned to drought of summer He's under the conviction of God because he's trying to cover his sin. He's not acknowledging it. He's trying to deny it and hide it. Verse 5, I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and my iniquity have I not hidden. No more, I'm dealing with this. I said, I will confess my sin. And I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord. And thou what forgavest the iniquity of my sin. David said, Blessed is the man. Whose sins and guilt is removed, whose sins are cleansed, whose sins are forgiven. They're no longer on my account. I tell you one of the greatest things in the world. I'm telling you from personal experience, many of you could stand up and testify the same thing. One of the most wonderful truths in the world is that God has forgiven me for my sin. Forgiven, cleansed, purged. Oh I can just go on, I got verses here. Hebrews 1, 1 through 3, purged by the blood of Christ, our sins. 1 John 1:7, for the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sins. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. How many people are glad when we confess our sin, God forgives us? But he doesn't stop there. We confess our sins. He's faithful and he's just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. To purge it out of my life. To purge it off of my record in heaven. I tell you, there is a blessing to know that my sins are forgiven. In the Old Testament, They would come to the tabernacle, later the temple, and they would bring the blood of bulls and oxen and goats and sheep. And they would offer that blood up on the altar. Once a year, the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies and sprinkle the mercy seat with the blood of bulls and goats and oxen. All that pointing ahead, pointing as an object lesson, so to speak, of the coming Christ that would die persons. But that blood of bulls and goats, Hebrews tells us, was a covering It would cover sins temporarily until Christ came and shed his blood for our sins. Then our sins are cleansed. Now, this is probably a terrible illustration, but this is what I thought of. The blood of bulls and goats in the Old Testament is kind of like, it's like you get arrested. And you get you're f you're you're about to you're gonna you're gonna go to court, you're guilty, you know you're already going to court, but you can pay bail. And bail gets you out of jail. You don't have to be in jail. It temporarily lets you be free. You follow what I'm saying? Some of you guys know what I'm talking about. Some of the some of the Duck Deacons trustees, you guys know. But then sentencing comes And you're sentenced to whatever the sentence is. But you got an older brother that comes in, he says, I'll pay that sentencing for you. I'll pay that fine, that fee, whatever it is, I'll pay it for you. And I'm not under bail, I'm not temporarily free, waiting sentence. Now the sentence has been carried out. It's just my older brothers Paid it for me. And now I'm purged. I'm free. You follow what I'm saying? It's probably not the best illustration, but that's kind of the way it was in the Old Testament. Then you come New Testament. Old Testament's covered. New Testament cleansed, purchased, poof, going. The other way I like to illustrate, and this is one of my favorite illustrations, you've heard it 75 times in the last 30 years. But when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I got up early, Pastor Matt does. I did similar what Pastor Matt did. I was at church very early. We ran four buses, big school buses in the city I had a bus route, so we got in there. I'd load up in the bus route and go pick up kids. We had about 50, 60, 70 kids ride the bus, sometimes more. Dropped the kids off. I'd run down to the teen building. I'd preach to the teen Sunday school. I did see Sunday school. Came back up. I'd come up on the platform, make announcements, and then I'd go run downstairs and I did the children's church And after that, run back up, get the bus, load the kids up, take them home. So Matt, Pest Matt knows my skip. Can relate. One day I got went did the bus route did the teen Sunday school. I came up, I was coming up to go to the uh on the platform, but I slipped in my office, I had a mirror in my office, so I just always checked And I made sure everything's in order. And I looked, and here was a huge bloodstain on my white shirt collar. I had cut myself shaving that morning. I didn't know it. And I ha I mean it was m huge. And nobody said anything to me about it. And afterward I looked back and people were like looking down at it But nobody said anything. And so I I look in the mirror and say, Yikes! I can't go up on a platform like that. What do I do? What do I do? What do I do? And I'm panicking, I don't have time to go home, I can't change my shirt, I pull up my drawer, and there's liquid white out Ha ha I just painted that thing over. I was on the platform, nobody knew a thing about it. Went through the service, preached, children's church, won the kids home. I got back home. That whiteout covered my sins. My stain there. It covered it. I could get by. You know, I could function. It was covered. When I got home, I took the shirt off, threw it in the washing machine on Monday morning. Kathy didn't use whiteout. She put some tide in there. Took that out. The stain wasn't covered anymore. Now it was cleansed. It was gone. The blood stain wasn't there. It was washed away. It was purged. You and I, the Old Testament, that blood of bulls and goats was white out. It covered the sin temporarily until Jesus Christ came. And his blood chikini chipi jiki and cleanses us from sin And Peter's writing to those believers, he says, you've been purged from your old sins. That is a phenomenal blessing to have my sins forgiven. Can I just say this? I believe this with all my heart. If I didn't have anything else in life, but I have my sins forgiven, I'm a rich man. My sins forgiven. Forgiven. Purged. Cleansed. The moment I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, it's a one-time event. Never done, never redone. My sins are cleansed. My sins are purged. What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Hebrews 9. 22 says, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. That word remission means cleansing, removal, forgiveness, purging. How many folks you're saved and you know it? Say amen. If that's true, it means every sin you've ever committed, every thought I've ever had that violates a holy God. Every word I've ever said, every deed I've ever done, that moment I trusted Christ as Savior, the blood of Jesus had spurged that, canceled it, removed it, expelled it from my record in heaven. And I stand before God as a righteous man. Not because of what I've done, but because of what Jesus Christ has done for me. My first point is this: the blessing of having my sins purged. Second point is very brief. The cause of forgetting that my sins have been purged. Now he tells us here, he says, He that lacketh these things, he that neglects us, lets these things slip away. He doesn't doesn't diligently add to his faith these virtues here listed in 5 through 7 I think there's many causes for a person to forget that God has purged their sins and cleansed them. I mean, it's disturbing to me that that could be the case, but it is. I think the primary reason people a Christian might forget that God has forgiven them all their sins is pride. Just old stinking pride. I replace the Lord on the throne of my heart and I put me back on the throne of my heart. And I become the focus of my life, and I become the center of my life, and I become the purpose of everything. And this whole world revolves around me. My whole life revolves around what I want and what I like. And pride replaces the Lord in my life And I don't add to my faith virtue, I don't add to virtue knowledge, I don't add these things to my life because now it's no longer about growing And being what God wants me. Now it's about me being what I want to be and what I desire. And I forget what God has done for me. I forget this incredible blessing, this horrendous price that was paid so that my sins could be purged and cleansed. And it's all about me. Paul, writing to the church at Corinth, used this term. He said, Ye are carnal. He said it's all about you. You're babe. You're all wrapped up in yourself. Another cause, and the only other there's many, I'm sure, but the only other one that I want to touch on is carelessness and neglect. And I think that's the case for these folks here, that Peter's warning them. Don't let yourself become careless in your walk with God. Don't neglect The things that are necessary to grow in my faith, we tell young couples We say don't neglect your relationship with one another. Don't take it for granted. Don't get careless. Pay attention. Invest time and effort And your relationship with your spouse. Invest time and effort in maintaining that relationship that is so important in your life. And that same thing holds true to my relationship with my Savior. I have got to invest time and effort diligently. I can't become careless. A careless soldier is a dead soldier. I've got a real spiritual enemy out there. In fact, I've got three of them. The world. Would you agree with me? This world's not concerned about me growing as a Christian. In fact, they're diametrically opposed to it. The devil certainly doesn't want me to grow as a Christian. And I've got an old sinful nature that dwells within me. That wants that pride, that wants to be the central focus of my life. And I've got to die to self and apply myself. I cannot be careless in my Christian life. Notice back there in verse 5, he uses the word diligent. So, number one, the blessedness of sins forgiven, purged, the cause of forgetting that my sins have been purged, pride, carelessness, there's probably others you could add to that. And last of all, I want to end with this. What's the result? What happens when a Christian forgets that God has purged all his sins? God has cleansed his record What happens when he forgets? I jotted a few things down. I'll just list them off, a little bullet list here One, I think when we forget what Christ has done for me, I start losing interest in the Word of God. How many people remember when you first got saved, and this book was the most precious thing in the world to you? I got saved. I started carrying a Bible with me everywhere I went. I stuck a little New Testament. I worked in the meat packing plant. I had a little New Testament, smaller than this one here, a little Gideon New Testament, and somebody had given to me. And brother, I carried that thing everywhere I went. Lunch break, I'd want to read that. This thing was the most fascinating book I've ever read in my life And when I start getting careless and I start neglecting my walk with God, self starts taking over. One of the first things to go is my time in this book. I start neglecting the Word of God. I start losing interest in what God has to say. Well, I d preacher, you need to understand I don't have time to read that Bible every day. Listen, if you don't have time for the Word of God, then you're too busy. You need to stop and reevaluate your priorities. Now I'm just telling you straight Most precious thing in our possession. God's word. We forget what Christ has done for us. We forget that we've been purged, what Christ paid for me, one of the first things to glow. is my interest in the Word of God. Another one is prayer becomes unimportant. Suddenly prayer is, well you know. Yeah, prayer I'm I'm telling you, we desperately need the Lord. And we need to learn to pray. I've said this many times. I'm telling you, this is uh I want to say A hundred percent of the time, I want to say that somebody comes to my office that's struggling in their Christian light, they've been defeated, they have struggles. I ask them almost without fail. I ask them, are you spending time in God's Word? And the answer I get back almost without exception. I want to say without exception is no, I've been neglecting my time in the Word of God. And I'll ask him, have you been in prayer? Have you been spending time in genuine, earnest, sincere prayer to God? And the answer I get, I want to say 100% of the time is preacher, I have not been praying like I know I should be. You know what that is? That indicates to me somebody that's forgotten what Christ has done for them. They've forgotten all that God has forgiven and cleansed. Church no longer becomes enjoyable. It's a drudgery. What will people think if I don't go? Singing hymns becomes just a routine, empty, just go through the motions. In fact, sometimes don't even get the hymn book out, just stand there, wait till it's over The joy of the Lord's gone. Miserable. That is a person, I believe, that has forgotten all that Christ has done for them. They've forgotten that their sins have been purged. Church becomes drudgery, no longer enjoyable. Become embarrassed to talk about Jesus. A spiritual discussion. Become very uncomfortable. At work or with the family, and they start talking about the Lord, or you're real uncomfortable, you're embarrassed by the name of Christ. A Christian. Forgotten what God has done for them. The things of the world, money, TV, hobbies, computers, phones, stuff. Becomes a higher priority than the things of God. I want to remind you, we're here on this planet 80, 90, maybe in some cases 100 years, and everything here is left. behind. And we invest all our love, and we invest all our attention and all and all our efforts into something that is temporal, material, and is going to be left behind. And we give no little or no effort or attention. To that which is eternal, to our eternal home. For God, my sins have been purged. I'm just eat up with the stuff of this world. Joy of the Lord, the song in the heart dies out, and a burden for lost souls dries up. A burden for lost souls dries up. Don't give tracks out anymore. Don't come out visitation. Little or no effort to tell lost people of Christ. It's all about me. It's all about here and now. It's all about material, temporal pleasures, and I forgot. That I was purged from my old sins, what Christ did for me. It's home, doesn't it? I read about a museum in Amsterdam. I don't know how to pronounce it, R-I-J-K-S is the name of the museum, but that museum apparently was Very, very famous museum. And they had a painting by Rembrandt. How many people recognize that name? Very famous painter, years gone by. Rembrandt's paintings today are priceless. I mean hundreds of millions of dollars when they are sold, they're for an unimaginable value. Some crazy Came storming into this museum in Amsterdam, ran up to a painting by Rembrandt, it's called Night Watch, I'm not familiar with it, he had a knife in his hand And he began slashing this painting, this priceless painting by Rembrandt, just slashing it. Well, they tackled him and drug him out. Not long after that, short time after that, in St. Peter's Cathedral in Rome, they had a statue by Michelangelo. How many people recognize that name? Great, priceless statues, I mean hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars. Phenomenal artwork. And a fellow comes in with a hammer Some crazed maniac and begins beating on this priceless statue by Michelangelo. They tackle him They haul them off. But the damage was done. In both cases, the damage was done How many people think they took the painting by Michael by Rembrandt and they took the statue by Rembrandt uh Michelangelo How many people think they took those two priceless artworks that are damaged and just threw them out in the dumpster and said, Forget it. No Those things are valuable. They are pieces of history. You know what they did? They brought all the experts in. And they did everything they could to restore that and put it back. Why? Because it was valuable. I tell you, if it was just a poster from sheets hanging up in a store Somebody tore it all up, what would they have done? They'd just thrown it out. But these were much too valuable to just throw away. And I'm here to tell you, you and I may get negligent. And we may get careless in our Christian life, and we may allow some damage to come to our walk with God. We may allow some damage to come to our testimony But I'm telling you, we are too valuable to God. God will not throw us out. He will bring in the experts. That's the Holy Spirit. That's the Word of God, and He will work on us, and I'm telling you, we have a God in heaven that not only purges us of our old sin, but when we mess up He can come back and restore us back to where we need to be. I don't know where you're at spiritually tonight. Maybe you're on fire for God. You've never been closer to the Lord. Your walk with God is alive. Your walk with God is on fire. That Bible is, you're eating it up. Your prayers are powerful. You love church, you're singing, you're trying to be a witness. God is, uh you're walking with God. If that's the case, you guard that You add to that virtue and knowledge and temperance and patience and godliness and brotherly kindness and charity. You keep growing. But if we've gotten careless, if we've gotten cold, how about we come back to the Lord and say, Lord, please bring me back to where I need to be? Bring me back. Remind me, dear Lord. Remind me where you brought me from. I'm telling you, God is an expert at restoring damaged artwork. And you and I are the artwork. Amen? Father, I pray you'd bless now. Stir our hearts. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, or some would say, Preacher, I can I feel a little coldness in there. And uh and and we're all it's personal, it's between individuals and God. So I understand that Chief say, Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to get cold. I don't want to get negligent. I want the fire back. I want the presence of God back. I want to restore it. I want to remember what Christ has done for me And have that removed restored. Is there any like that, preacher? I need that. Maybe your Bible, I don't know. It's between you and God. Your Bible time, your prayer, your witness, the joy, whatever it may be God is tremendous at restoring things and don't forget what He's done for us. Father, bless your invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.