Second Corinthians chapter nine, and we're going to talk about on purpose God wants us to give. But you don't have to. He wants you to. God wants you all to be saved, but you don't have to be saved. He wants you to raise a godly family, but you don't have to do that. Now you can give the church, but you don't have to give the church. You just do what you want. And you'll live a frustrated, half-hearted, basically going nowhere life. All God's people said Now when it c I I'm pretty anxious and get after things pretty much. I said it the other night. I I I I when I do something I'm gonna mow that yard the best I can I'm gonna hunt that deer the best I can. I'm gonna eat that hot dog the best I can. What I don't like doing is going to the dentist office. How many like going to the dentist office? And you have to pay for that Man, how many's ever had a tooth full in here? And you paid for that. You paid them to hurt you. Yeah, preacher, I paid them to numb me up. Yeah, talk to me four hours after the fact How many have ever had a root canal in here? Yeah. How many ever had a dentist do a root canal on you and he did the wrong tooth? Bam! And he made me pay for it. Man. I think some of us come to church like that. We're going to endure just a little bit of preaching, just a little bit of help, but you know, I want to go away kind of happy Kinda numb. I don't want any nerve to be hit on any time. But I want to show you how God wants to bless this church today And I want to encourage you to understand the giving he wants us all to do it. It's not how much you give You've got to have a willing mind and a willing heart. I'm going to unwrap it to you, and we're going to talk about a boy named Titus, but most people don't talk about. But let's take a look at chapter 9, and let's back up to verse 5 Therefore, I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren that they would go before to you and make up beforehand your bounty wheref whereof ye have noticed before the same might be ready, as a manner of bounty and not as of covetousness. What he's saying is, now I'm going to do something on purpose here for you that you need to do your ministry and you need to purpose it on down the road. Look at verse six. But this I say He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he who soweth bountifully shall also reap bountiful. Now Uh there is like uh we was up there yesterday in that uh garage and this guy's got a corn planter. What's his name? Mark? Yeah. He got a two-row corner planter and and if you know what what's in those corn planters, I you know they got uh fertilizer and corn seed. You set those things to how many seeds for every few inches you see. And the more corn you put down, you put too much down, it'll crowd itself out and die. You put the right amount down That one kernel of corn will usually get you three years of corn. And then three years of corn runs between six hundred and a thousand kernels on it So you're making pretty good, amen. How many got that out? You plant one peach, three, you get ten peaches. You plant ten, you get a hundred. Now watch what it says here. It says so uh he which soweth sparingly shall reap sparingly, also reap sparingly But he would sow it bountifully, he shall reap also bountifully. Every man. Now watch this, every person in here, according as he purposeth, there it is. In his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a Say it with a smile. Cheerful. Give her. I did not write this. The Holy Spirit did. I'm just delivering it So doesn't have think well should I well should I could have would I does it want us to give? Are you kidding me? It says right there for you to purpose to give It's not if you want to give a lot, you can. If you don't want to give any, that's fine. But God loves a cheerful giver. Whether you give two cents or two million dollars, let's go closer. Verse 8 And God is able to make all grace abound towards you, that ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. As it is written, he hath dispersed abroad, he hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. Now He that ministereth seed to the sower, both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of your righteousness. You take on these missionaries, you're planting seeds. And it's your righteousness that's going to increase. It's your fruit. I want you to catch this. Now I want you to understand: every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly, nor of necessity. You don't have to do this, but God love. Love with a cheerful giver. God uses people And God uses the whole and the Holy Spirit touches people's heart. And it says there in verse 8, and God is able to make all grace abound towards you that you are always having all sufficiency and all things may abound into every good works. Can I stop here before I get an outline? God's never going to ask you to give more than you got. Or you're able to get in the economy of God Almighty. Alright? Now I just want you to understand that that's right there. God wants to bless you. He wants to increase you. But it's not about you. It's about reaching the lost of the world. And in the middle of all that, the Philippians chapter 4 says Paul said, I've learned how to abound, I've learned how to get poor, I've learned how to eat, I've learned how to starve, and all these things I'm okay. But when you no one's given to me like this church of Philippi, no one has Once and again you met my necessities. And I won't let you know my bank account's full. Is that what that says? No, no, no. He said it shall be added to your account Wow. I'm telling you, and I the bottom line of all this is this, and I've learned this years ago, if you love the Lord, You love God's word and you love God's way, you'll have no problem with this. And I want you to understand on purpose He said we gotta do it on purpose. Now, there are some things I don't do on purpose. I stay out of dentist offices. How many got that? I just don't uh Uh on purpose, I I don't smoke. I watched my dad do that and uh about three packs of lucky strikes a day until I was about eighteen and he had a heart attack And the doctor said you want to leave, you got you gotta stop that and he he quit it. And I was there through he went through all that and then withdrawals and the shakes and stuff like that. And uh I dwalt in ministry, I don't have the draw, I don't I don't drink alcohol. I never had trouble with that. One of my adult nephews last week, I'm in church preaching somewhere every week until December 15th, and I was preaching in Ohio last week and up there preaching a sermon, God Knows You. And he's a Sunday school or he's a public school superintendent of Southeastern Ohio. Very successful, has a company uh uh uh has the lifetime tickets to high state university football and he never took me yet about and he's sitting there and I thought he just come to hear me About halfway through my sermon he lost it. He started crying. Full grown, just like human in here. And he realized, he said, and and afterward he gave me a hug and walked me into the corner and he couldn't stop crying. I said, Zach, what's wrong with you? He said, God's working on my heart. I gotta get some things right. I'm praying for you. I called his mom, she said it's alcohol. The boy's got a maid in the shade with all the lemonade, but there's that one little thing he can't get over, and I'm telling you, I have never, ever been drunk in my life. Now I've done about everything else I don't smoke, I don't drink. I used to write down I don't drive fast. I'm getting so old now I don't I don't walk fast. And I watch every step I go down and up, because I fell down one. Amen. How many's been with me on that type of stuff? You furniture sure uh sure through the house, right? You've learned to adjust things. And when it comes to doing things on purpose, it's a whole different matter. I want to give you four thoughts this morning. Number one We need to on purpose to ask God to change us. Let me say that again. We need to ask on purpose For God to change us. What do you mean uh by that, Brother Delong? Well, join me please in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 5. We're going to stay right there on those two pages. And I just want to encourage you with this first thought. And this is uh And the Bible says, moreover, brethren, that's us, we do you the wit to know of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia, how that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy And their deep poverty abounded into the riches of their liberality. Now they didn't have a whole lot, but they gave basically more than they had. For to their power, I bear a record again, beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. Now I want you to understand this. Praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and Take upon us the fellowship of ministering the states. I've never met a missionary yet that wouldn't take your support. And this they did. This is what this church did. Paul writes uh Luke writes, not as we hope, but first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. Can I challenge you this morning? First of all, we need to ask God to change us. He changes us three ways. By his word. Is that not true? By his word, by his will. And by his way. God's word will never come back void. I've never seen God's will or God's word be wrong. Now I want you to understand this morning that if I ask this thought, make this thought clear, do you want God to change you? Do you want him to guide you? Do you want him to get you that strength and where you are going to do the best thing that you can to honor and glorify God? To do that, you have to change a little bit It's not your way of thinking. You know, the Bible says in chapter 8, verse 5, it says this, and I get this, but they first gave themselves to the Lord. Their own selves, they did it, they made a conscious decision to do that. Nobody made them. Paul says, I do this that I may know him. David in Psalm 23 says, He leadeth me through the path of righteousness for his name's sake. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside those still waters. I mean he knows me, all right? And he says he he prep prepares a table before me in the presence of my enemies. And I don't even know who my enemies is The sheep's enemies is the sun and the vipers below the ground. And the Lord is my shepherd. He said, I'm just going to trust him so I can dwell in the house of the Lord forever You what that means? I'm going to dwell in that house forever because I did the right thing along the way I let the shepherd shepherd me. We need to ask God to change us. Number two, we need to ask God to challenge us. Now, as He challenges us, We want to be challenged. How many of you folks have ever been challenged in an athletic contest? You sure the other night I talked about a track race. I'm so old now, I am challenged by the scale A thing you weigh on. How many of you folks past the age of 40 have been to a doctor? And he's told you, he goes, uh-huh. Well, Doc, what do I need? Well, you don't need any more ham, I'll tell you that. Your cholesterol is about 3,000. Your blood pressure was more than a diesel eight eight-cylinder diesel bulldozer. You know, and you can't hardly walk. You got arthritis in places that you didn't know you had places Am I hitting the nerve here? Doc, what our need. Well let me challenge you, son. Yes, sir, what is it? What is it? A medicine? I take it and poof, my hair will come back. I take it and I'll lose all the uh be no no no. Stop eating what you're eating. Oh, I can't do that. Well, you want to change? What do you mean? Well, your life expectancy is about six minutes. You get on a diet Give you about six years. You roll the dice. How many of you folks realize that God wants to change us? He wants to challenge us because number three, he wants us to be committed. And I'm telling you, a wake-up call, if you've ever had cancer, a wake-up call if you've had a heart attack. A wake-up call, if you've ever lost your hearing, a wake-up call, something personally go wrong with you, tell me who's the first person you turn to to advise. Not your mother-in-law or your father-in-law. You may talk to your wife about it, but I'm telling you, if you're right with God, you'll go to him and ask him, can you change this for me? He said, yeah, I will. But let me challenge you what you need to do. And with you committed that challenge, I am telling you, the blessings of heaven will come. We're talking about missions giving this morning. And I want you to catch this with me. That first thought is this that I want you to ask God to change you And then challenge you. And I want us to take a look at chapter 9, verse 5. This is where this message really gets going here. And I just want you to see it. 2 Corinthians 9, 5 The Bible says that therefore I thought it necessary to talk to you about this. Paul said, I want you to understand this. I want you to have a blessing in this. In verse six he says that so as a man purposeth in his heart, I mean in verse seven, every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Just do that. Don't do more. Don't do less. Don't do it grudgingly. It's not like paying your taxes or paying your dues or buying an airplane ticket. For God loveth a cheerful giver. Now God is able, can I just tell you what it means in the mountains of Maryland and West Virginia? God will pay for it. God's going to pay for it. He's going to take care of it. For my God is able to make all grace abound towards you. How much grace? All grace. You go back to 2 Corinthians 8. 5. But you've got to do something first. You've got to give your own selves unto the Lord. Of course, this is God's will, and God's will is to grace you He has to change you. Then he challenges you. And in that challenge, he wants you to understand he's going to take care of it all grace abound towards you, that ye having you always have all sufficiency and all things may abound to every good work. I was preaching this over in Fairmont, West Virginia And I was saying, you just have to take God's challenges here and trust Him with it. And I give a witness where uh my mom gave me a blueberry pie to take to a b man at a gas station to change the tractor tire and the man witnessed to me for forty-five minutes. The tire was not actually flat. My mom let the air out of it She had uh deputized Jim Beaver who owned the gas station to witness to me for 45 minutes as he acted like he changed the tire and put air in it. As they got to the end of it, he asked me, Would you like to trust Christ as your Savior? I said, No. And I would then I understand, but mom said, thank you for fixing the pie, and I think it was five bucks I paid him and a blueberry pie. The next week, or ten days later, he was the the cook at the camp where I went uh as a junior in high school. And Hal Webb was preaching a message, the Russians are coming, the Russians are coming, and Thurman Babcock was doing the singing, and I got under conviction that night, and they brought the invitation, but I did not get saved. About an hour and a half after that service, eleven thirty at night in that cabin with ten other young men, all public school kids A tornado went through that part of Ohio. Lightning struck, thunder hit. I was next to the roof. I thought God was coming through there reaching to get me. And I jumped off of that third monk, ran across a little rainy driveway about from here to that wall in the the kitchen of the camp and there sat Jim Beaver drinking a sixteen ounce cup of that big old truck's top type of coffee cup and he said, Danny, what do you want? I want to get saved. Oh, good. And he led me to Christ that night. Then he said, yeah, your mama blueberry pie to me. I said, what? Oh yeah. I told that tower wasn't flat. She wanted me to witness to you because you you wouldn't listen to her. I'll tell you all that to say this. I want you to understand. God wants to use us, but he wants to challenge us, and we need to step up to the challenge. I preached this same thought in Fairmont, West Virginia. It was last November, and the woman in the back the next day brought me a blueberry pie. One of the deacon's wives She said, my daddy's name is Jay Shume. My mom died last Christmas. I don't think she had Jesus in her heart. And I want you to witness to him. You've got two more days to preach here. I want you to witness to him since you're the missionary. He won't listen to me, he won't listen to my husband. We don't have a pastor now. Will you do this? Okay She gave me the address. It snowed six inches that night. And I I I got in my car. I had her blueberry, I about ate the thing, but I I had to have blueberry pie. She said, now my dad is different. He don't like preachers. His house looks like a hoarder's would be the number one show on TV of hoarders And he has nine cats in that house. And did I say he is a chain smoker? That kid, that doesn't mean he smokes a steel chain. That means he's just one after another. If you don't know what that means I preached that once and kids didn't know what it was. Do you kids ever see a phone hanging on a wall? Most of them haven't. They don't want that either. I I want you to understand something. I gotta stay relevant here And I I got in his house and and I had my Bible and he let me in and what do you want? Well your daughter sent me. Oh come on in. I'm telling you what took me five minutes to find a couch. He sat down and he put that one out and lit another one and opened the door and seven cats came in. There was cat hair everywhere. Folks, I am not a cat lover. And I'm witnessing to him and I give him the plan of salvation. Well that's good. Who should she? Your daughter did. Huh. She's always saying I'm dying going to hell. What do you think? Well, I think you are too. Well, at least you're honest. I said, Would you please trust Christ as your Savior? Because He gave me that pie and I don't want to face her tonight at that revival meeting and you not get saved Nope, not going to do it. God bless you. They asked me to leave and I left and I went to the revival service that night. And uh she's sitting there so excited, and I walked in and, oh preacher, I've been praying all day. Did he get saved? No, he didn't get saved. Now right here I would say she wanted her blueberry pie back. That's how some of us think. She was heartbroken. I said, if I'm ever in the area again, I'll go again. I finished the service. I left. January 20th, I get a phone call. Hey preacher, I hear you're preaching over this other church. Can you swing by? Yes, I can. Another pie. I've been up the mountain this time. Took her and her husband with me. Walked in the house, cleared the deck, gave him the plan of salvation. And I said, that daughter of yours has prayed for you every day for the last 25 years. She wants you to go to heaven. You need to get saved. And Jay Schumacher trusted Christ as his personal savior Isn't that good stuff? And watch, I was challenged. I challenged her, she challenged me. Round two, we won the day for God. But I want you to understand those things you don't see, these missionaries face things like this in every ministry across this world. I want to not only challenge you this morning and have God change you this morning. I want you to be committed to what this church is trying to do. Reach their community, reach their county, reach the state, but also reach the world. Your theme is to the uttermost. And Papua New Guinea, that's not the end of the world, but you can see it from there. It's a way out there. I'm flying there Wednesday. It takes me about uh twenty-three hours. New Zealand gets you about twenty hours, right? And I'm about three hours north of that, up out there in the middle of the Pacific, but that's where God's called me when I'm in that ministry. I just want to encourage you this morning as we think about these things. In 2 Corinthians chapter 9, and it says in verse 7, this is so key, as a man purposeth in his heart, so let him give. The preacher presents it, the church presents it, but you've got to do what God puts in your heart to do. And God's going to make whatever he asks you to do, he'll make all of it come together. Can I tell you lastly? And then this this commitment that you gotta have. And this fourth thing is God God changes, He challenges, He wants us to commit, and we do this commitment, He wants us to have compassion. Would you join me please in verse 15 of 2 Corinthians chapter 8? As it is written, He that hath gathered much have nothing over, and he that gathers a little had no lack. But thanks be to God which hath put The same earnest care into the heart of Titus. I call it the Titus touch. Titus didn't have a whole lot, but what he had, he gave it to the Lord. For indeed he accepted the exhortation. What's that mean? He needed it. Titus, Paul would say, you need to change some things, boy. Son, I need to challenge you, and you need to be committed to giving and also being in missions. The Bible says that indeed he accepted the exhortation, but being more forward of his own accord, he went unto you. Man, he got with it. He didn't wait to get pushed into it. And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches. And not that only, but who all was also chosen of the churches. See, it's by the churches, through the churches, that God does missions to travel with us with this grace, that's that that that giving that offering that faith promise which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord and declaration of your ready mind. Now avoiding this, I know what you're going to think Paul says that no man should blame us in the abundance which is administrated by us. This is not on us. We don't have side jobs. We didn't win the West Virginia Maryland lotto, okay? Okay, verse 21. Providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. People will see What this church is. And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oft times proved diligent, that's committed with compassion. in many things, but now much more diligent and more compassionate upon the great confidence that I have in you Whether any do inquire of Titus, you asked him. He'll tell you what this is all about. And folks, it takes can I can uh a compassionate Thinking three through it's not just a one-and-done thing. And this is some great stuff that God has led for us, especially The chosen of the churches to travel with us with disgrace. That's what these missions conferences is about. Preacher, I've done over 725 missions conferences in the last 20 years And especially, and but I want to say this, in the last 20 years, I've had 30 churches stop missions program. They just they they said it wasn't important. Just to support me. We talked about that the other day. But that those churches are dying or are dead, I'll be honest, as a heart attack They're not with I've been in churches that was full like this, go back a dozen years later and there's not ten people in them. I'm just telling you, what where did we start going wrong? When you start started not to be challenged. And you would not accept, hey, I need to change on this. And you would not commit it, and you're not compassionate about it in any way because you cannot see the future. If I can encourage you in a strong way today, you need to have a compassion. Because you only get one life to live. You got this one shot at it Make a decision on purpose to change. Make a decision to be challenged. Make the decision to be committed to this. Now watch very carefully. Make a decision to be compassionate. Pray about it. God's going to touch your heart. And when He does, I started over here with my wife and this About we've been married 50 years this next trip. We got into faith promise giving 35, 45 years ago, and I gave a hundred a month. And I didn't have it. But I gave it. And I watched God meet our needs. Then the next year, okay, one five, one ten. I wrote down 110, my wife wrote down 150. I said, good night, girl. You have more faith than I do. She made cookies to make that men's meat, amen. Then it all got up to 200 Then 225. Then 250. And on and on and on. And I felt so bad about I think 13 years ago I stopped counting. I can't keep up with God. Every church, we've done six that we've started or seven. The first Sunday of every church we have a church service, even before we are Licensed preacher, we take on a missionary. They don't even know what his name is. I don't know either. But we're going to have a mission right there. The first missionary we take on, that's his. Boom. Boom. Boom. New Guinea, Australia, Trinidad, Tobacco, Tennessee, Indiana, even wherever I travel, this works. Not me, but this works. Because you're investing and reaching the world for Christ. Your Jerusalem, your Judea, your Samaria, and then where? The uttermost. To close your Bibles this morning, And you supporting of me in New Guinea, I was there about three years. Our auditorium was this size. Our first Sunday we had 12. When I handed the church over to the national pastor, we're averaging 512 per Sunday. God had blessed that thing. About three years in, four years in, that's what Dr. Barron kind of preached for us, but I was preaching, got done, went to hospital visitation that Sunday afternoon And I come to a hospital bed where a lady was laying in the bed, and she is emaciated, or emaciated, just she's about that tall, about five foot tall, and weighed about eighty pounds, and she had two boys on her. One boy was four and one was five. That woman had a disease called AIDS. Now, Guineans use a different term. I didn't know what they were using. I thought it was like polio or cancer or something. And uh I witnessed to her And she listened and she said, ten years ago I'm in a in this bush village. And the missionary John Gray was preaching. John's still there. We're good friends. Had about 500 of us there under a tent and he's preaching salvation. I was mad because he's preaching about my sin, so I get up and walk out the back. I'm waiting on my girlfriends that are in there and and I uh they stayed and two of the three of them got saved, but not me. I'm mad. I'm never going back in that church and The next night they went back and I wasn't going back in there. I had a machete. And I was going to hire a guy to kill him because I I didn't like what he was preaching. But she said, you know, I walked away from that. And I ran away from home. Got in the streets. Sold my body. Made big money. And that boy, the oldest one, is a product of that. And that one, the year younger, is a product of that. And I got this disease, and I'm dying. I need to trust Christ as my Savior. You know, I my wife and I led her to the Lord that night that that afternoon. We're so happy. And we thought she just had some kind of liver disease or something. So we bring her to church the next Sunday and propped her up and place is packed, and her two boys are there, and she stands up and gives her testimony, and she says, I got this disease. To use her language, you could just see the whole church move away from her. Amen. And I preached and got done. Before I could get out of the pulpit, the deacons and a couple of the older women say, You gotta get her out of here. I said, Is she from a bad tribe? What's the problem? Oh, Pastor, you Americans call it AIDS, but this is what she's got. She's gonna kill all of us. Well, that's not the way that works. I'm representing you as a missionary. That's not the way it works. I want you to catch this. I had to take her out of the church, take her to the hospital. My truck had to be washed down with 10 gallons of chlorine, where she was on the back of the bed of that truck. And this missionary is about as wound up as you could get. She doesn't belong here. She's got the disease. She's not worthy of what you're doing. That's not what you commissioned me to do, is that right? I didn't say much of that church. I took her home. I visited her the next day. Within two weeks, she was dying. Took her down to the ocean there by the hospital with her two older brothers, five or six people and those two babies. We baptized her, brought her back up, took her to the hospital. She's gonna die The brother stopped me and said, We need to see you. He said, in two days, we're going to take her out of the hospital, set her in the yard. We're going to take the two boys from her. We're going to hold her down with sticks. She is infectious. We want you to stay and pray with her as we take the boys away. It will not go easy. Will you help us, Pastor? Do you see what it means as a man purposeth in his heart So I didn't give. If I would have ran from that situation, you would de-deputize me. And I said, sure I will We met the next two days. My wife's over here, but she don't see it coming. One of the brothers puts a fork on her neck and holds her on the ground as a stick. Two other men hold her arms. With all her worth, less than a hundred pounds, she's going crazy, because they're taking the two boys from her. They said, Preacher, you bury her. We'll settle up when we come back to town. I wait until they got out of sight. She's writhing. She's screaming. The men take the sticks off of her She sits up against the tree, tears and sweat and dirt and pours all through her body. She looked at me and said, Now what do I do? We loved on her for the next two uh two days. She died. They wrapped her up in plastic and said, She's yours. Took her out to the prison cemetery, dug her own hole, buried her. Eighteen years goes by. The boys are men now. They show up with their uncles in my hotel room and say, thank you. Thank you. You let her to Christ. We've gotten saved. We want you to come back. We're giving you 1,000 acres of land for doing this for us to start a church in our village. Whoa. Now, on purpose, God speaks to us. And on purpose, as a man purpose, Paul said, well you don't ask. The Holy Spirit's going to on purpose touch you. I want to encourage you as a church, because you are a good church, that you'll take the challenges of God in this, and you'll ask him to change your heart and thought process. You're not there yet. Then commit to it with a compassion that, you know what? I'm going to do this. See, we don't see the Jay writes We don't see these dying Priscillas. We can't see any further any future than out those back doors. But God has a plan. And you want to know something? It didn't start with me, it started with the local church, with people just like you. If God's calling you into the missions or church planning and you're part of this church, You need to get go s c get down here and give that to God and give that to the preacher and get that started. Because this is where God works in people's hearts And if you're not giving into this, you need to, because I've told you once, I've told you three times this morning, it's going to be added to your account. If he asks you, he And you just give as he purposes. This kid can't purpose over five dollars a week. This guy can purpose five thousand a week. This guy can do five thousand. You can do fifteen. It's not what a man has or doesn't have. It's what God puts in your heart to give to him. That's what he's been saying. And then at the end of the day, woo! Read that last verse of chapter 9. You will be a witness and a testimony of the most amazing gift. That God can give us. And that's a peace that passes all understanding. All God's people said, Pastor.