Take your Bible to go to uh Matthew, excuse me, Ephesians. Ephesians chapter number three this morning. Ephesians chapter number three. And I'm going to do my best to get us out of here quick. And uh you some of you are like, no, I came to church to be in church. Oh, I understand that, but the the the food may be on the oven waiting on you And I don't want to compete against that. I want to honor you and your time. But I want to give you something from God's Word that I hope will be an encouragement to you today. And I want to be an encouragement. I want you to walk out today thinking, boy, God is good. I am so glad he's my Savior Because God is good. And before I get to the Ephesians chapter 3, I I can't help but do this. And y'all, you're probably used to this. I met today a World War II veteran, 98 years old. I didn't even get your name. Please forgive me, but I want to say thank you for your service for our country. And uh I applaud you. God bless you. What a blessing. And uh God bless you. And uh that that is a that is a treat for us. That really is. Thank you. Thank you for your service. Battle of the Volts, is that correct? That on the bulge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What a blessing. Ephesians chapter number three. We're going to look at this passage of scripture here. Ephesians chapter number three. And I want you to look at starting in verse number nine. Starting in verse number 9. Ephesians chapter 3, starting in verse number 9, the Bible says this. And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery. Which from the beginning of the world hath been hidden God, who created all things by Jesus Christ, to the intent that Now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. If you mark in your Bible I'd like for you to circle the words in verse 11, he says it twice, the word purpose. According to the eternal purpose Which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations, for you, which is your glory For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. We're all named after Jesus Christ as Christians Of who uh verse number sixteen, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit. In the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory In the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Here the Apostle Paul looks at the church at Ephesus, and the Apostle Paul, by inspiration of God, looks at the church at Ephesus, and he says to the church of Ephesus He says this basic thought. He says, God has a purpose in your life. I love that The title of a message today, if I had to put a title on it, was this Purpose in Life. God has a purpose in my life. God has a plan in my life. God knows what he's doing in my life. And in this passage of Scripture, you say, Brother Kurt, how do you get that out of this passage? I I I had the privilege when we moved into evangelism. God gave me the opportunity to do a couple side jobs along the way. I turned in my resignation and went into evangelism in January of 2020. I sure planned that one well, didn't I? Here I had a set income, a set job, working as a full-time staff member at a church, and I I could have ridden that COVID wave on staff, getting a set paycheck every week, but God had different plans. I look back on it now and I think Well, I don't know that I liked his plans. So we we went into evangelism January. COVID really hit pretty strong, you know, March, April that that time frame And churches were closing their doors and no one's calling evangelists to come in and I'm wondering how in the world gonna feed my family And and God gave me some opportunities. I worked as a as an excavator and uh got to get out and play with big old Tonka toys, you know, and and have a good old time. I was I was preaching in West Virginia last week and and and one of the men in the church said, Oh, you operate that, can I get you to help me in my house? And I went over one afternoon in between preaching in the morning and the evening in revival services, I went over to the house in the house and ran a mini-ex and dug a trench for him so he could lay some some drainage lines. And I I love doing that kind of stuff One of the other things I got to do was I got to I I I I signed up to drive lift or Uber. You all know what to talk about when you know you the rideshare programs. And I signed up to drive for lift. My wife calls it uplift. And uh I I I was driving Lyft and the reason I wanted to drive Lyft, not really to make money, because you really don't make a whole lot of money doing that. You spend it all on gas. But uh but I wanted to be able to be a witness to people And so I get people in my car, my truck actually. I drive a Tacoma, uh uh an 08 Tacoma, and they get in the back of the back seat of the truck and and they're kind of a captive audience for a few moments You you can have you can have a little bit of fun. I I I shouldn't say this. I probably shouldn't even mention the name of the company I drive because I could get fired, I guess. But but I I I get them in the back. You you can be a good witness to someone sitting in your car. You know that, don't you? I get somebody in the backseat of my car and I just introduce myself and say, hey, my name's Kurt. What's your name? And I already knew their name because it was on the app. And we start a conversation. And I'd usually say, hey, what do you do for a living? You know, and they'd answer, and typically, good old Southern hospitals, how do they reciprocate that question? So what do you do for a living? Is this your main job? And I uh they just opened the door No, no, I I do this on the side. My main job is I'm a preacher. You know, honestly, as soon as you say those words. People either shut the door, slam it shut, or they like, oh cool, well I see. And you knew immediately, do I have an in-road to talk to people about Jesus or are is the door shut? You know, if if you get on an airplane and you don't want some someone to sit next to you, open your Bible. That's all you have to do. They walk by, they look at you like, oh, that's one of those. Yeah, I'm not going to sit next to them. In the car, say I'm a preacher, and they're looking at you like, oh great, I got a preacher driving me. And then you you know the conversation progresses. And you know, you you you have power. You're behind the wheel And I can turn around and say, hey, do you know if you died today you'd go to heaven and hit the accelerator, get in the other lane, and no what did you say? I never did that by the way. I'm just joking. I didn't do that I had one young man get in the car, he's 21 years old. This young man he wanted to go to a football game in that area and so I I loaded him up. He was going to a high school, Friday night high school football game, and I loaded him up and while we're driving the car. I told him I was a preacher. This young man, he started crying in the back seat. And I thought, sir, I'm not I really I didn't mean to offend you. I'm sorry. And he said this. He said, he said, he said, Brother Kurt, he said, Kurt. He said, if you're a preacher, can I ask you a couple questions? This young man asked me, I've had a lot of random questions come from people in the car like that. This young man said, Why'd God put me here on this earth? His next sentence, he didn't even let me answer the question. He said, I know it's kind of odd for someone to ask you these kind of questions, but he said, What's my purpose in life? Why am I here? Hey, you ever stop and think in your mind, why did God put me here? Why am I in Oakland, Maryland? God, what are you doing? God, why am I at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? God, what are you doing in my life? And I'm standing before you today, and I want you to understand, God Almighty in heaven has a purpose in your life. God knows. Hey, do you understand? God has never looked down from heaven at your life and said, oops. How'd that happen? A teenager, God's never looked at your life and said, Oh, how did they get those parents? God's never done it. God's never looked down at your marriage and said, How'd they end up together? God has a purpose. God has a plan. God is working out his purpose and his plan in your life and in my life. Nothing happens in our life by accident. God has a purpose and a plan. And here Paul looks at these believers, this church, this local body of believers in a city called Ephesus. By the way, many of these people, Paul probably had the privilege on one of his missionary journeys of leading them to Christ himself. And now they're in this church, this established church. By the way, the Bible is not a textbook The Bible's a living book. We read the book of Ephesians. Paul's writing this book to a body of believers, and he's saying to these believers, this local church assembly. No assembly. Assembly. He looks at this church just like he looks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You say, Brother Kurt, this book was written to other believers. No, this book was written to us. All scripture is given by inspiration to God and is profitable for October 2nd, 2022. God wrote this to you and me today. What's it say to us? God says this in Ephesians chapter number 3. He says number 1, verse number 13, he says we all face trouble in life. He says in verse 13, Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you, which is your glory. What's Paul talking about? He's talking about those trials in life. We we gather together today. If we were to take the microphone around and we were to say, hey, what's the biggest trial you've ever faced? I'm not talking about a court trial. What's the biggest turmoil or issue or problem in life you've ever faced? Well, we got time. Why don't we just do it? We're going to go around person by person and you're going to share. I'm just kidding, we're not going to do that. We could be here a while, couldn't we? Some of you in the audience worked, you'd have to stop and think, wait, which trial should I share? Man, I've got this trial, I've got that trial, I've got this issue, I've got that issue. Job said, man born of woman is Full of trouble, full of trial. Man, we have trouble on every hand, don't we? You say, Brother Kurt, I thought you said we're going to be an encouragement saver. I'm getting there. We're going to start by taking us down, then we'll build us back up. Hey, we all face trial. We all have issues in our life You know when you got married, my wife and I we do a lot of couples retreats and family conferences. I love talking about stuff like this. When you got married, do you remember when you were engaged to get married? And you just couldn't wait for that day when she said, I do, and then she was trapped with you for the rest of her life? Do you you remember that excitement that you had before you got married and and you just couldn't wait? I remember my wife and I we went to a college where you couldn't touch, I mean you literally there was no touching I went to a Christian college and if I wanted to get my wife's attention, I had to if I if I wanted to tap her on the shoulder, I would literally get in big trouble just touching her on the shoulder to get her attention. I was I mean it was a zero-touch policy at the college I went to Zero touch. So if you want to get the attention you said, Hey, woman Yeah, you don't say that I remember I I just couldn't get enough of her. We were engaged to get married. And I will I'm I'm just telling I'm I'm confessing some sin, okay? I'm confessing. Don't hold it against me Don't kick your pastors when invited me to preach, so it's his fault that I'm here, okay? So blame him. But I remember we were in college, and I remember the song leader, Brother Mark, where'd Brother Mark go? You're still in here, aren't you, Brother Mark? He's out smoking a cigarette too. I'm just kidding. Down with the children's service. Brother Mark, get up here and you say take your songbook and turn to my this was my plan all the time. I I I wouldn't reach and grab the songbook You say, well, that's not very gentlemanly like of you. Oh, I had a plan. I'd wait for Chrissy to reach down and grab that songbook. But I wanted to be the gentleman to hold the songbook So she grabbed the songbook and she would hand it to me. And as she handed it to me, as she as she put her hand under that songbook to hand it to me, my plan was to reach under that songbook. Grab that songbook, sliding my hand across, you say, you rebel! I'm a rebel. I'm a rebel. I couldn't get enough. Do you remember when you were dating it and you you couldn't wait to get married? And you, you, ladies, you thought he's going to be my knight in shining armor. We're going to ride off into the sunset together and live happily ever after. And then he became your rusty bucket of bolts. And those muscles that were up at his chest, they've all gathered a little lower And you thought you would never hear rude and gross sounds coming out of him, and that's all you hear now And he goes to bed and he's like Darth Vader. You're like, who by the way, ladies, I'm not going to turn this around, men. I'm sorry I'm picking on us men. I'm not going to turn around to the ladies, because the ladies are all perfect. I'm not going to say anything about that. But do you remember how, and then you got married and things weren't what you thought they were going to be? And then you thought we're going to have our children, and they're going to be the greatest things, and our bundles of joy, they'll never disappoint us. They're the most wonderful things, and then they turn into a teenager. You're like, nah! What do I do with this child? There's so much I can say. I'm not going to. I heard it said that when a child turns 13, you build a box. Put the child in the box, screw the lid on the box, and drill a hole in the box so you can feed them and they get air. Leave them in there. When they turn 17 Plug the hole. How can something so precious that you held in your arms, you're like, whoa, these are the greatest things? How can something so precious Cause you such turmoil and strife and like ah my pastor is Dr. Bob Kelly. He used to say this from the pulpit. He would say, The greatest joy I've ever received out of my life, I got from my children The very next sentence he said this, the greatest hurt and disappointment I've ever gotten out of my life, I got out of my children. How out of the same person can you have such joy at one moment and such, oh, I'm gonna hurt that kid? At the next moment. Because we all face trial. We all face trouble. Hey, you didn't know the doctoral report you were going to get when you went to the doctor? You went to the doctor and you thought, man, everything's great. My health is wonderful. And the doctor uses you like a pincushion. They take this amount of blood and they they test this. And before you know it, you walk out and you're like, wow, I feel horrible. And then you get a phone call the next day. Hey, we need to see you. You didn't ask for that. Hey, you didn't ask when you went to the job site? And that person at the job site, that that supervisor started riding you, started jumping you. You thought everything was great. You've been faithful, you've been working, you've been doing everything you're supposed to do. And trouble comes. You go to your mailbox. You open the mailbox and like fifty bills in there. Not dollar bills. You think, how in the world am I going to pay this? Trouble comes. Every one of us face trouble and trial. Every one of us, under the sound of my voice, baby watch our life. We face trouble and trial in our life. And Paul, in this path in the scripture, he declares to the church in Ephesus Hey, there's gonna be problems. You're gonna face. Why do we face problems? I'll tell you why. Because of sin You ever heard someone who wants to blame God for bad things that happen? It's not God's fault. It's our sin. Well, what about this bad thing happened to this? It's sin. It's the curse of sin on this earth. Here, Paul says to the Church at Ephesus, he says, hey, we all face trouble in our life. But he says, number two, verses 12 and 13, and verse number 16, he says this: hey, keep pressing on through the trial. Hey, yeah, some bad things happen, but don't quit. Keep pressing on. Verse 13. The Bible says this, 12 and 13, he says, in whom we have boldness and access. with confidence by the faith of him. Wherefore I desire that ye faint not Hey, don't quit! Verse number sixteen. He says this: that ye that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. What's Paul saying to the church? Paul looks at the church at Ephesus and he says, Hey, we're all facing trial, but don't quit. Keep pressing on. God wants to strengthen you. God wants to fill you. God wants to help you through the trial. You ever seen that footprints poem? Footprints in the sand? I remember a mom reading that over and over when I was little. She kept reading that. I I think it was because she had four boys under the age of five at one time. It was her own fault, by the way. That was her choosing. She would read that poem. Usually it was after she had to punish us four boys. For something that all my brothers did that I didn't. I'm the youngest. I never did anything wrong. It was always them. You know what I'm talking about. Amen. And I remember my mom quoting that poem, Footprints of the Sand. Those times that life was hard, those times that you you turned around and looked at the sand. There was only one set of footprints of the sand, and the poem goes on to say, It was then that God carried me through my trial. Hey, can I tell you? That's a Bible principle The Bible says this, Galatians, be not weary in well-doing, for in due season ye shall reap. If you faint not. You know what God tells us? Don't quit. Oh, Brother Kurt, man, building a building, that's excuse me, building a building, that's tough. That's hard. I mean that building over there is wonderful, but man, that's hard. And the the the money pastor saying give by the way can I can I this has nothing to do with the message, can I tell you? And Pastor, you can correct this later if you need to You can correct it immediately if you need to. Your pastor doesn't ask you to give in an offering because he wants your money. Do you understand God does not need your money? Well, why does he keep asking for it? Here's why. Because God wants to bless you. It was a revolutionary day in my life. When I understood, I'm not giving because the church needs my money. Does the church need your money to pay bills? Sure, sure, yes. But the Bible says God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Well, I'm not going to that church because the pastor always just wants my money. I was a youth pastor in a church down in Florida before I moved to Tennessee, just just two years. And uh and and that pastor used to get up to service and he'd say this. He'd say, Welcome to Church, St. Calvary Baptist, we're so glad you're here. It's time for our offering. And he'd say this. I I almost verbate him. My wife's here, she's my witness. She'd say this. Or he he would say this He'd say, if you're a guest with us today, don't you dare reach for your bill fold or your wallet. We don't need your stinking money. Literally, he would say it just like that. You're like, oh, okay, sweet. And then you say, members, you say this: God's been good to you, you give, and watch God be even better to you. You give because it's God blessing you. That's the purpose of giving. Has nothing to do with the message. But you say, uh sometimes life gets rough and we say, I'm just gonna quit. I'm not going to go there. That church is full of hypocrites. I'm not going to go there anymore. I go to church and Pastor Lenin gets up and when he's preaching, he points that finger, and every time he points that finger, he's pointing right at me. My wife must be telling him all the things I'm doing wrong Hey, can I tell you we as preachers we don't sit back and and and and search for things that people are doing wrong so we can oh well we we need to preach on that one. I saw so-and-so, he was down at the bar last night, I'm gonna preach on drinking now. Can I tell you that's not what we do? So what do you do when the trouble comes? Quit No. Paul said, be strengthened in your inner man. Let God fill you. Let God work through you. In other words, don't quit. Keep passing on. God has a purpose and a plan in every one of our lives. I've got to hurry along. Number three, he says in verse number verse number six, verse number fourteen. He says this, for this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. How do I get strengthened in the inner man? Here it is: bow your knee in submission to God. God, I'm yours. God, I don't like what's going on, but I don't want to quit. So God, in in uh in opposition to quitting, God, I'm just going to bow my knees to you and God, I just want you to know I'm yours. God, whatever you want out of my life. God, I'm yours. God, you want my children, they're yours. God, you want my marriage, it's yours. God, you want my job. God, it's yours God, you are in control. Paul said, submission. Submission is not a fun word, is it? None of us, my brother Kelly, you got a girl's name. My brother Kelly. He he was bigger than me and much much meaner than me, and my brother would torture me. And sometimes I told the teenagers this yesterday, sometimes he'd hold me on the ground and he'd pin me on the ground, sitting on my stomach, holding me down. And my brother would look at me and he'd say, Who's your daddy? I don't really quite understand why he asked me who my daddy was, because my dad was his dad. He knew who my dad was. But he would ask me, Who's your daddy? Do you know what he was saying? Submit. My brother was looking at me and saying, I will make you do what I want you to do. You're either going to do it the hard way, or you're going to do it the easy way. And I was smaller than him. I couldn't defend myself. And so I had no choice eventually. And it the key word was eventually, because a little slow here He would torture me and I'd I'd say okay okay and I'd get up and I'd do the same thing again not what he wanted me to do and he'd torture me again and I'd I and it was like this cycle I'd get beat up like ten times in a day and finally I said okay you're my daddy which is weird You know what it is? It's submission. You know what God wants from us? God wants us to stop doing it our way. And submit to him. Hey, salvation. If I ask you how many want to go to heaven someday, I think every hand would go. If your hand didn't go up, there's something not right. I'm just saying We want to go to heaven. How do we go to heaven? Well, I'm going to be a good person. I'm going to give money in the offering. I'm going to get dunked in the water in the baptistry. I'm going to do those things. If my good outweighs my bad, then I get to go to heaven. Well, no, not according to the word of God. According to the Word of God, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. In other words I can't get to heaven. I can't get to heaven on my own. If I died in and up myself trying to get to heaven on my own, guess what? I'm going to burn in a place called hell So I've got to submit my knowledge, my thinking, to God. Submission. And Paul says to the church at Ephesus: he says, hey, submit yourself Stop doing it your own way. Stop trying to figure out how am I going to pay these bills? Stop trying to work out I'm going to make my marriage happen. Stop trying to Force those kids in. Oh, you will do. Hey, what is it? It's me saying, God, you're in control. God, I want you to flow through me. I wrote down my notes number three. Paul said verse number 14, bow your knee to him. Submit. God, you know best. By the way, that takes the pain away. When you go to the doctor and the doctor calls you back and says, hey, we need to see you. God, you know best. We were on a missions trip 2010 to Thailand. I say we, me and the business manager at the church. The missionary in Thailand had called, Rick Horn was his name, Rick Horn's in heaven now. He's a former Marine And uh he's about five foot four both ways, and is all muscle. I mean this guy was he was as mean uh he's as mean as a junkyard dog. I'm telling you, this guy was he was he is mean And uh he's a missionary to Thailand because no one in America could handle him. And uh and and he was over there, he called me and asked me to come preach a missions conference for him. So I went to Thailand Did it three or four years and uh my second year there, my my second or third year there, stayed in the same place, did the same routine, preached the same number of times, went through interpreters, three different interpreters So I'd say something and someone would interpret it to another language, they'd interpret it to another language, they'd interpret it to another I a fifteen minute message was an hour long. Thankful we're not there today, right? Amen? And uh and uh that first night I got there and got in bed I I went to sleep and middle of the night spider came through and bit me underneath my ring on my left hand and halfway up my middle finger and all the way up the tip of my pointer finger. And I guess I was sleeping with my hand near my face because I got bit under my eye on on my face too. I went down that next morning like at four in the morning for devotions. By the way, can I just say you can meet with God at eight in the morning too? It doesn't have to be four in the morning. But anyway, there was four in the morning there and and uh went down for morning devotions Got down there and I looked at Brother Horn. I said, Brother Horn, that was real nice of you. Put me in the room with the spiders in the bed. And uh and and he was just a mean old guy. I I say mean, he he loved me. We had a great relationship, but I was just teasing him He looked back at me and he said, Copeland, shut your mouth. He said, Don't you complain and gripe about a thing. Don't you ever do that around me. I don't want to hear complaining. He just started to give it to me. I was like Brother Horny, I was just kidding. I'm just kidding. It's okay. Put me in a bed of spiders. It's okay. I'm all right with it. And he says, all these kids right here, they're gonna hear you complain and they're gonna think that's what all Americans do. And he said, You don't you don't complain? I said, Yes sir, yes sir, I'm not complaining Ten days later I was back home in Nashville. Got sick. It wasn't a spider who bit me. It was a mosquito who bit me. I contracted malaria. Went to Vanderbilt, spent four or five days in the infectious disease hall of Vanderbilt. They told my wife I wasn't going to make it. She's like, ooh, did we get the life insurance policy paid up? Check that real quick. She didn't say that. Can I tell you, because I know God has a purpose and I know what He's wanting to do in my life is best. I can say honestly, I didn't lay in that bed thinking, God, why? God, why'd you do this to me? God, why what can I there's other things in my life that happened that I did do that. I'm not trying to paint myself as a saint. What I'm saying is this. God has a purpose and a plan for everything that takes place in our life. That's why God says this In everything give thanks. Amen, teenagers. Can we practice again? Can you say it? Can we say it together out loud? We learn it in Sunday school. Can we say it together out loud? Y'all look at me like, please don't make us do this We practice saying thank you in Sunday school. Amen. God says, in everything, give thanks. When the illness comes, give thanks. How do you do that? When we submit our will to God. God, you know what's best in my life. So God, I'm willing to do it. So Paul says, number one, we all face trouble. Number two, you've got to keep pressing on. Number three, in that pressing on, bow your knee in submission to God. Number four. When you bow your your knee in submission to God, you know the love of God. The result. Look at verse number 19. He says, verse 18, that we may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height. In other words, what God has planned for our life. And he goes on, it it's a semicolon there. The thought continues on. And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge. In other words, we don't understand why we're going through it But we know God still loves us. God still has a plan. God has it messed up in my life. Man, God, the trouble's there, the trials there, the issues are there, but God, I'm going to keep passing on. I'm not going to quit going to church. I'm going to be faithful to church. I'm not going to quit raising my children the way they're supposed to be raised. I'm going to be faithful in raising them. I'm not going to give up on my marriage. My marriage is God ordained. I'm going to live for God. More keep pressing on. And how do you keep doing that? Well, you bow the knee in submission, and when you bow the knee in submission, God gives a peace. The love of God, which passes understanding. It doesn't make sense to us as humans. But there's peace. There's peace. I've stood by the bedside of a number of people who've taken their last breath And there's something about standing next to someone who knows the love of God. And there's a peace. They know where they're going. My grandma hacked me. She used to say to my wife and I, she'd say, she she had gotten in in her nineties and she was like, I just want to her husband had been in heaven for a a number of thirty-five, forty years. Her health was declining, and she kept saying, I just want to go to heaven. Why won't God let me go to heaven yet? I just want to go to heaven. I just want to be in it. I want to see Jesus. What is that? That's peace. That's peace. That peace comes. From the love of God, when we bow our knee in submission to His will, not doing it our own way. Lastly, it brings glory to him, verse number 21. The Bible says in verse 21, unto him be glory. How does God get the glory out of our life? God gets the glory out of our life when we bow in submission to Him. When it's not about us. When we're not fighting to make our agenda done. It's all about following Christ. Hey, can I ask you today, what struggle is it you're facing? We all face them. We all face them. What is it that's starting to derail you spiritually? What is it that you're some of those trials come in and we get to the point where like, this isn't worth it. Why am I doing this? Hey, can I tell you, today as a Christian, as a believer in Jesus Christ, if you know Christ is your Savior, Can I encourage you today to bow the knee of submission to Christ and know the love of Christ which passes understanding? When we do that, God Almighty up in heaven looks down and he gets the glory God Almighty up in heaven says, wow, thank you. You're bringing glory to me. What an amazing thing to think that we as human beings can give glory to God. By the way we bow in submission to Him. Can I tell you the message this morning is completely opposite of what you're going to learn in society in 2022? This is a dog-eat dog world. We climb, we kick, we spit, we cuss, we do everything we can to climb that ladder of getting to the top. It's just the opposite with God. God says, submit to him. How does that start? It starts with salvation. Maybe you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Can I tell you you're in the best place you can be? There are people around you who absolutely love you and love to take the Bible and show you from the Bible what it means to be a Christian. Well, I'm not here to join the church. Well, good thing, because joining the church has nothing to do with salvation. I don't want to get dunked in that water up there. Good thing because baptism has nothing to do with salvation. I'm going to heaven because I put my faith and trust in Christ, not because someone put me under the water. My brothers put me under the water a whole bunch. I'm going to heaven because as a 10-year-old boy, I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm not scared to die and go to a place called hell today. Well that's because you're a preacher. I was ten years old. I wasn't a preacher then. Matter of fact, I was probably called a whole lot worse. I mean a whole a lot of bad things then. I'm on my way to heaven because I put my faith and trust in Christ Stop trying to get to heaven your way. Let's bow our knee in submission to Christ and let's get to heaven his way. By faith in Him. You're here and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Today would you respond? Would you let us take a Bible and show you from the Bible what it means to be a Christian? You can know that today. And today, if you are a Christian Can I challenge you with this? If you're a Christian, whatever trial you're facing, why don't you lay it on the altar? Submit to him, God. It's yours. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. No one looking around, no one talking for just a moment. By the way, if you're sleepy, try not to take a nap right now. Just listen for a few moments. Can I ask you today? Just a couple personal questions. You say, well, it's none of your business. You're right, it's none of my business. But I'd sure love to pray for you as my friend. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to point you out in any way whatsoever. But I'd sure love to pray for you. As a friend. I won't approach you. I just pray for you. You're here today, you say, you say, Brother Kurt, I am a Christian. That's been settled. I know, listen, I know if my life ended today, I'd go to heaven. I'm not perfect I'm a sinner, but I know I'm saved. And if my life ended today, I know I'm on my way to heaven. I I I'm a Christian. I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm on my way to heaven. I've got confidence in a biblical reason why I know I'm going to heaven. If that's you and you know you're saved, would you just slip up a hand as a testimony of the fact that Jesus Christ has saved you? God bless you. Praise the Lord. Thank you for your hand of testimony there. God bless you. Thank you. You put it down. Thank you. Majority of hands went up. Praise the Lord for that. Can I ask this question? Maybe you're here today and you say, Brother Kurt. Truth is, I I didn't raise my hand. I couldn't raise my hand because I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. But I want to know. I'm not sure I'm on the way to heaven, but I know this. I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. Brother Kurt, would you just pray for me as you close the service? I want to know I'm on my way to heaven I don't want to join the church. I don't want to get dunked in the baptistry. I just want to know I'm going to heaven. If that's you, and you'd let me have the honor as a friend, as a gentleman, to pray for you, I promise you I won't embarrass you. But I'd love to have the honor of praying for you. If that's you today and you say, I'm not sure I'm on the way to heaven, but I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell, if that's you today and you'd let me have the honor of praying for you with no one looking around, would you just slip up a hand? I'll pray for you. I won't embarrass you, I won't point you out But I'd love to have the honor of praying for you as a friend. Anybody, I'd love to pray for you. Hey, Christian, then, can I ask you this? What trial are you facing? Would today you be willing to kneel in submission to God? I'm not going to give up. I'm going to keep pressing on. I'm going to kneel in submission to God and I'm going to give this problem, this trial to God. God, I need you to take it. God, would you help me? Let's bow that knee of submission to God. I'm not going to have you raise your hand because truthfully all of us could raise our hand. This morning I'm going to pray. After I pray, we'll all stand to our feet and the instruments will begin to play. And as the piano plays, if God has spoken to your heart this morning in some way about that trial you're facing bending that knee of submission to God. Maybe it's for a child that's gone astray. Maybe it's for a marriage that's that's that's struggling. Maybe it's for a bill you've got in the mail. You have no idea how you're going to pay it. I don't know. Maybe it's a medical condition I don't know what the trial is you're facing, but today, would you be willing just to kneel in submission to God and say, God, you've got to take this? God, it's yours. Would you today, if God has spoken to your heart, would you just come and kneel and leave that trial at the old-fashioned altar today? Lord, I thank you for your love. God, I thank you for your word. I thank you for Ephesians 3. Lord, the admonition from Paul for us, although we face the hard times in life, God help us to press on. Help us not to quit. God help us to bow the knee of submission to you so that we can know the love of Christ. And God ultimately bring you glory. Because of what you do in our lives. Lord, I pray for this dear church family. No doubt there are folks that are gathered today that are bearing heavy, heavy burdens. Some of them may be at the point where they're ready to say, I'm done, I quit. It's too much. God, today, would you help us to kneel in submission to you and lay it at the altar? To know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. God, help us to dwell in you. Help us to walk with you. Bless this dear church family in a special way today. Work in this invitation time For it's in the precious name of Jesus I pray with every head bowed never