Turn to First Corinthians four. First Corinthians chapter four. First Corinthians chapter four. All right, let's begin reading in verse one, please. And verse 1 says, Let a man show account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. I want to speak to you this morning on this subject, qualities of faithful men. Qualities of faithful men. So keep your Bible open there, please. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us, and then we'll continue on. Our Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your goodness and love and mercy. Thank you, Father, for our wonderful Savior. We are here today and looking forward to hearing about the Savior. and what the Savior can do in our lives and in our hearts. And Father, I pray that you will bless what goes on here today. You knew every heart that would be here, and you knew how you could use each one of us who have a part in the program uh with the songs that are sung, with the uh messages that are preached, the prayers that are offered, and Father, you knew exactly what all of us need. And so I pray that you will help us to uh to have needs met in our lives. May we go from from here today And be more determined than ever to be a faithful servant for you in these last days. So Father, bless. Help us. We need your blessing. Uh i i i if we just depend upon uh upon what I uh say or uh if we just depend on what Brother Harding says or just depend on uh on the uh brother Leatherman then father we're we we're just we're just wasting our time But we need to hear from you. And so, Father, I pray that you will bless and empower, and may the Word of God go forth and make a difference in our lives here today. In Jesus' precious name we ask it. Amen. You know, as a Christian, God sees us in different ways. For instance, you know, God sees me in different ways. He sees me as a son. Uh my dad is 92 years old, still living, uh so praise the Lord for that. And uh he still has uh his faculties, he's a little uh hard of hearing and a little uh uh dim with his vision, uh but he still wants to drive his car. But um uh but nonetheless uh uh God sees me as a son Uh God sees me also as a joint heir. Amen. Boy, I'm looking forward to the millennium and eternity. I'm a joint heir with Jesus Christ. Man, what a privilege that is. Uh he sees me as a priest. Yeah Yeah, I I I you know, um uh I heard somebody say the other day asked the question, you know how smart elects can be? And they said, Well is the Pope a Catholic? And I said No. He said, well, what do you mean by that? And I said, Pope's not a Catholic. What's a Catholic? That's somebody that goes through a man to get to God. Right? Alright, so you either go to a priest in a confessional booth or to El Papa. And by the way, there's no hope in the Pope, just so you know. All right. Alright, well, if you know Christ is your Savior, you have a direct line to God. Alright? You don't need a priest, you are a priest. Uh I had to have surgery uh one time. I had a tum I didn't try to slip my wrist, by the way. Uh I had a tumor come up on my ulna nerve, which is right here, going through your at your funny bone. All right. And I woke up one morning and I had funny bone pain, like I had banged my elbow somehow. And as the day progressed it just got worse and worse And so I couldn't stand it after about a week, and my wife said, Are you going to go to the doctor? And I said, I guess I have to. I hate doctors, don't you? I mean, I don't hate doctors. I hate going to doctors Um doctors have saved my life a couple of times, but uh don't hate doctors, don't take that the wrong way. Uh but I went to a doctor and he said uh We'll do all these tests and they did and he came back and said I had a a um uh tumor, it was benign, but I had a tumor on my ulnar nerve and they had to take it out So I went to the hospital and they did all these pretests and the little gal came in. She said, Would you like to have a priest? to come before your surgery. And I said, oh no, I don't need a priest. And she goes, Oh. I said, I don't need one. I am one. She went, Oh, father. I said, no, I'm not your father I'm not your father. I only have three children. They're the only ones allowed to call me father And uh she was as confused as she could be. It was hilarious. Uh but anyway, uh God sees me as a priest. God sees me in a lot of different ways. He sees me as a soldier. Yeah, I'm a I'm a soldier in his army, and God sees me as a servant. A servant And you know, God sees you uh i i i in uh through those lenses as well. But regardless of which arena God views me, there is one thing that God demands of me and of you, and that is God demands that you and I be faithful. He did not say be successful. He said be faithful. And we can all do that if we'll purpose in our hearts and in our minds to do it. Now, uh success is not what I am to strive for as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Success should not be my goal. Because you see, success is something that one man may look at and have a view on that another man would look at and not see it in the same light. But so God does not demand that I be successful. No, I am to be faithful. A servant is to be faithful to his master. And I'm to strive daily to be faithful to the Lord You know, the Bible tells us that God is always faithful to us. Man, that's comforting, isn't it? Always faithful to us. We never have to worry that God is going to be unfaithful to anything He has promised in His Word. Every single promise will be executed and carried out just exactly as it is written in the Bible. So God's faithful, and all he asks of us is that we also be faithful. You know, it's a shame, though, that the same cannot be said of us. We're just not faithful, are we? We're just not. And uh uh God said that Abraham was faithful The Lord said to the servant who had done well with the with what the master had given him, Well done, thou good and Faithful servant. Yes. Uh so uh faithful, faithful, faithful. God loves faithfulness among his people Now, I want to share a few things with you this morning that I'm going to simply entitle Qualities of Faithful Men. It's probably a a a safe thing to assume that all faithful men have several uh uh uh qualities, uh several of the same qualities uh uh which characterize their lives. Faithful to God, faithful to your wife, faithful to your family, faithful to your job. Faithful to your church, faithful to your friends, faithful to your Bible You see, there are several areas where we must be faithful to the Lord And um I I I don't have time to preach on all of these, of course, this morning, but I think there are a few common characteristics that can be found in all faithful men. And so I think it would be good for us to find those qualities. First of all, a faithful man is dedicated to God. Dedicated to God. You know, in our world today, folks are dedicated to a lot of things, aren't they? I mean dedicated to a lot of things. I've had people say to me, uh Pastor, I can't go uh come to church Sunday, um uh uh our uh the motorcycle club that I'm in Uh i uh I have to be at the at their meeting. And I I think, wait a minute, wait a minute. You have to be? Somebody's got a gun to your head? I mean you're going to put a motorcycle club ahead of God? You know, and it just bothers me that people say I have to Think about that. You don't have to do anything but be faithful to God. All right? Dedicated, dedicated. The scriptures tell us, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you And I think this must be the foundation upon which any and all faithfulness must be built. How how can any man be faithful to uh to all the other people uh that that that are are out here in this world who are demanding our attention. No, be faithful to God Put the Lord first in all things. And I think if we did, that we would realize uh just what a joy it is to be dedicated to the Lord. So what we need to be are our faithful servants. Take your Bible for just a minute. And go back to the Old Testament, to the book of 2 Kings, chapter 4. 2 Kings, chapter 4. And let me just read you a little verse here. A little verse that I want to um uh kind of take some things out of, please. So uh chapter four And I would like for you to look at verse 8. The Bible says, and it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunam. Where was a great woman and she constrained him to eat bread In other words, she wanted him uh she wanted the the prophet, the man of God, uh to sit down for some food. And so it was that as oft as he passed by He turned in thither to eat bread. And she said unto her husband, Behold, now I perceive that this is and holy man of God which passeth by us continually. Now watch this, verse 10. Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee. So she is asking her husband uh uh uh to to uh to to make a little a chamber, a little ad add-on to the to the house, a room. And she said, uh, on the wall, and let us Set for him there, watch this now, a bed, number one, and a table, number two And a stool, number three, and a candlestick, number four. And it shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn in thither. Now, this is a a simple little story And uh uh and I was uh reading this one day and I tried to figure out uh why the the details here Why put in verse 10? I mean, why do we have to know that she was asking her husband to put a table and uh uh uh or a bed and a table and a stool and a candlestick. Why is that in there? And so I thought about it, thought about it, and I turned around and pulled some commentaries off, and you know, just about everybody I looked at ignored that pa that uh uh that that what I was looking for Nobody dealt with it. And I thought, um, well, well, I guess um if nobody is dealing with it here, uh there must not be an answer to it. Well, I think there is an answer to it And I and the more I thought about it, the more uh i it it dawned on me that uh that these things are here for a reason. Now she said uh to her husband, put four things in that room. A bed, a table, a stool, and a candlestick. These four things are illustrative of four things that each one of us needs in order to be dedicated to the Lord. First of all, there's the bed. The bed. Now, the bed is a picture of the rest That we find that is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Question: Where in Christ do we find rest? Where do we find that? Well, do you remember Matthew eleven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine? You remember where uh where the Lord uh tells us that um let me get the exact wording here for you so that um so that I don't mess it up. Alright. So it's chapter you don't have to turn to it. I'll read it to you. Matthew 11 And here's what the Lord Jesus said. Now watch this. Come unto me, all ye that what? Labor, yes, labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you Rest. We all need to rest in the Lord. We all need to get aside, to get alone. with the Lord and allow the Lord to unburden our hearts. You know, as we are servants for the Lord, burdens are going to come upon us, aren't they? I mean, Pastor, you know that's true. I often uh say that uh every Sunday morning and every Sunday night I cannot get from my office to the pulpit without hearing, Pastor Pastor You know, I I I almost want to sneak in a back door, you know, so I don't have to be pastor to death before I get to the pulpit. You know, there's nothing like walking into the pulpit ready to preach, carrying the weight of the church upon your shoulders You know, just uh and I've uh uh I have actually said from the pulpit, don't bother me when I'm coming to the pulpit In Christian love. But don't follow me around and unload on me before I get in here. Wait till after, church And then you can just do what say whatever you want to say. One guy walked by me one time. This was not long ago. And uh I was on my way to the pulpit Sunday morning, and he said to me, Pastor, I don't care what they're saying about you. I'm behind ya. Well, I just stop mid I mean, you stop mid step, you know, I took what they saying. You know. Man, we need some rest sometimes, don't we, guys? We just need to get alone and let the Lord uh minister to our hearts. And so that she said, put a bed in there. Why? The man of God needs rest. That's why And our rest is in the Lord Jesus Christ. We find our rest in the Lord. Rest is found as we are serving Working, fighting, uh being that soldier. I mean, rest is found. Uh uh and here's the good part. We don't work alone Alright? We don't work alone. Listen listen to the rest of uh verse 29. He said, uh take my yoke Look upon you and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Now listen, your church's burden is heavy. Do you hear me? But the Lord's yoke is light. And we all know that when you are in a yoke, you've got to have somebody else over here on this side pulling the same way you are, or you're going to go caddy wampus in a minute. Right? Well who's in that other yoke? The Lord. The Lord. And he'll he'll bless. and he'll help you. Alright, second thing. There is, secondly, secondly, there is a table. Well, what do we do at the table? Well here's what we do we fellowship We fellowship. You want to be dedicated to God? Listen, guys, you've got to have fellowship with the Lord. You've just got to. Oh, we get so busy. Uh uh we'll say uh on Sunday, yes sir, I'm gonna I'm gonna start reading my Bible I'm going to get up tomorrow morning early and I'm going to read my Bible before I even start my day. I'm going to fellowship with God. And what happens? We don't. And then the day is on and we f uh you know, I don't know about you, but I'm so busy I pass myself going. Huh? That's right, isn't it? Man, how did we get so busy? Remember when we didn't have cell phones? That was awesome, wasn't it? Huh? I mean that was just amazing. You say what? How'd we get anywhere? We had roadmaps. They were so much cheaper than a cell phone. Yeah. Uh uh what how did we how did we go throughout the day without twenty-five hundred people testing us? My wife says, would you put that phone down? I said, well, it's going to go off if I put it down, and it's going to go off if I hold it in my hand. But that's the way we are, isn't it? And before you know it, the day is gone and you've not fellowshipped with the Lord one time Oh my, we've got a fellowship with the Lord. The psalmist tells us in Psalm 23: Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Uh uh John 21 in verse 12, the Lord Jesus bid his disciples to come and dine. and enjoy uh uh that that that uh uh his presence and enjoy his fellowship and I dare say that all of us like to enjoy a good meal with friends and with family. We all enjoy, for example, that Thanksgiving dinner. We all enjoy that Christmas dinner. We all enjoy that time. I tell you, I've got eight grandkids. Oh, they're so much better than your own kids Aren't they so much better than your own kids? Yeah, and and and they come over and uh you can take 'em and love 'em and and give 'em money and uh and your kids are sitting there going, Where's mine? Oh hush. Go go go do something. I'm you know, I'm busy And uh you can shake 'em up and then give them back right before they go. It's awesome. I love ha uh and to have 'em set around the table We uh the rolls w uh couple of a couple of months ago, the rolls were sitting right beside me. Sunday after church dinner, and they all come over And Sunday after church dinner, and one of them said, uh, uh, hey Papa, can you pass me a robe? Oh my, it was on We had a blast. Yeah. And my daughter looks at me and says, You would have killed us if we had done that. I said, yeah, I know, but look how you turned out. It's not my job to discipline your children, it's my job to spoil them You discipline them. And my daughter looked at me and said, We need to discipline you. Oh my. There's nothing nothing like that fellowship, is there? There's a song we sing. Jesus has a table spread where the saints of God are fed. He invites his chosen people. Come and dine. With his manna he doth feed and supplies our every need. Oh, tis sweet to sup with Jesus all the time. Come and dine Uh come and dine, the master calleth, come and dine. My friends, listen, there is nothing better than just to sit down with your Bible and open the Word of God and you fellowship with Jesus and Jesus fellowships with you. That is the greatest thing that any Man can do for himself, his family, his church, his pastor, just come and die. Come and dine. Then thirdly, there's a stool. Now why why would they put a stool in there? Well, the stool has the idea of instruction You sit and you listen. You know, uh reading the Bible, reading the Bible, that's awesome. But when the Bible speaks to your heart, oh my, there's nothing like that, is there? There have been so many times in in uh in my ministry in my life I'll uh you know sit down and start to prepare a message and then see something that I'd never seen before. And uh And just uh uh uh just know that the Lord opened that for your understanding and your Given it so you can give it out the next day in church and then to realize, wait a minute, this was a God thing God was speaking to my heart. Man, you can't beat that. I've gone into church so excited I mean couldn't sleep on Saturday night because I knew What the Lord had given me on uh to preach on Sunday morning. There's nothing like that fellowship It's awesome is what it is. It's just absolutely amazing. And so the Lord tells us in the book of Deuteronomy, uh the uh uh uh uh verse uh chapter 33 in verse three. Yea, he loveth the people. All his saints are in thy hand. Watch this now. And they sat down at thy feet. Every one shall receive of thy words. Folks, God wants us to sit down at his feet and learn of him. Just learn of him. Several years ago, uh uh I met Dr. Curtis Hudson I was pastoring a church uh down in West Virginia, down in the Charleston area, and um and uh uh uh I called um a friend of mine who who uh uh worked for Dr. Hudson and I asked him, I said, uh, do you think that Dr. Hudson would come and preach a sword conference in our church? And he goes, Well I know he would. I know he would He said, uh, I'll have him call you. And I said, oh, okay. That'll work. So uh so he called and we set up the meeting. And uh he came and uh uh uh and in the conversation uh that that that morning, that Sunday morning, uh in the conversation, he informed me how much he liked to play golf. Well, I love to play golf. Amen. That's God's in that, right, brother? And uh so so Dr. Hudson said, Well, why don't we go play tomorrow? And I said, do you have your clubs? He said, oh, don't leave home without them. Don't leave home without them. That was his exact word. And so we went and played golf. Now, we just hit it off. We just, you know, had a blast playing golf And uh we were uh both equally about the same uh on the golf course, except for the fact that he would hit a shot if he didn't like it He would throw down another ball and hit it and it would go where he wanted it to go and he'd say that's what I meant to do Well you don't question Shell uh uh doc Dr. uh Curtis Hudson. You just don't you don't question him. You say, Oh, that was a good shot, Doc Yeah, but then you get on the green he he didn't count the one he hit over in the woods, you know. And uh but anyway we we got to be friends And for the longest time, if he was within uh 200 miles of me, uh he would call and say, hey, there's a golf course uh here on this highway It's about a hundred miles from you. I'm going to drive a hundred. You drive a hundred, and uh we will uh meet on that golf course and play golf together. I say, okay. He said tea time's at at uh at uh 745. I said, Doc, don't you sleep? You know? He said, Oh, we'll sleep when we get to heaven And I said, no, you won't. There's no more no more night there. You not you don't he said, you know what I mean. Okay. So we got to be friends. We got to be friends. We would uh fellowship together. We would uh sit down and and just enjoy our time together and playing golf together And one time, he he had just got his new book, one of his new books, uh Salvation Crystal Clear. And he gave me a copy of Salvation Crystal Clear. And he said He said, uh uh here, I want I want I want you to have a copy. I said, thank you, thank you. So we got to talking about one of the sermons in there, and he said, he said, uh uh he said, it might be a little difficult for you to to to get the point here. But let me tell you what I meant when I said this. And he and he sat there and told me, explained it to me. And then when I read it, I thought, well I can see how somebody could misinterpret that. But I got it from the person who wrote it. Hey folks, there is nothing like setting down with the person who wrote it. And have him teach you what he meant. Amen. Just just Go for instruction and let the Lord bless you. You remember Martha was cooking in Luke 10 And uh she is busy in the kitchen. But she looked in and Mary was sitting at Jesus' feet. She was sitting on the stool listening. She was getting instruction. And Martha came in and complained. And Jesus said, Martha, Martha, you worry too much. You fret too much. You're too anxious over things. You you you're too much concerned with the temporal things. Folks, eating is temporal. I mean you eat, you're gonna have to do it again after a while. That's temporal. But spending time with the Lord, that's eternal. That is eternal. So, so fellowship, fellowship. And she said, Mary hath chosen the good part The good part. What's the good part? Fellowshipping with Christ. You go over into 2 Corinthians chapter 6, and you will read that we are to Fellowship, we are to have communion, we are to be in concord, and then finally we are to have part. With the Lord Jesus. What is that? That's fellowship. All those words mean fellowship. And then the last thing, the last thing was the candlestick The can why do you why did he need a candlestick? Well, I think the picture there is pretty clear. I mean, I I think that this candlestick is our uh a picture of our testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ. We we um we train soul winners in our church We trained them. 12-week training program on Wednesday night while I'm teaching the adults in the auditorium There are adults down in the basement for a 12-week period learning how to win people to Christ. We train them to do that. All right, um we have we have uh at last count, I think it was something like 1400 trained soul winners. Many of them, many of them, they have and they live by what they call the three foot rule Which means if you get within three feet of them, they're going to ask you, if you died today, do you know where you'd spend eternity? Alright? Uh I mean th we see a lot of people saved every week. Every week A lot of people come to know Christ as their Savior. And one of the things that we teach them, matter of fact, the first thing that we teach them in that 12-week period Is this get a testimony? Sit down and write out And briefly, all right, doesn't need to be an epistle, but sit down and write your testimony And memorize that testimony because you want to share that testimony everywhere you go. Before you ever get to the Romans robe, before you ever get into Romans 3. 23, start by sharing your testimony. Your testimony is a light for others to see. You are just turning a little bit of light on before you ever get started in An attempt to win them to Christ. And so this is our testimony. Our testimony. That candlestick was a picture of our testimony. Did not our Lord say that we are the light of the world? Yes, he did You see, Christian, the Lord is depending on each and every one of us to witness and to testify of him If we're going to be faithful men, we are first going to have to be dedicated men. And if we're dedicated, the only way to be dedicated is to guard these four areas in our lives. And notice that the order here is just as important as what is mentioned. Daily in the Word, daily growing in the Lord, daily allowing the Lord uh the opportunity to work in our lives. And listen, folks, how can we ever expect to be men of faith if we're not daily in fellowship with the Lord? I was coming out the road this morning and I got you know uh when you're coming west on on sixty eight And you get out there, there's a sit-go station on the left, but it's kind of sitting back up in the hill, you know. Can't really see the sign. So I'm coming down through there, and as soon as I get past the exit, that little light kicks on and it says, You're out of gas, dummy. You know, that never even crossed my mind this morning. I never thought of it a bit. And just as soon as I get past that gas station, Well, there's not another one until you get out to Cumberland almost. And I'm sitting there going, oh man. Now I ran out of gas one time in my life. One time will break you. You know? One time will break you. And um my wife looked at me and said, I ain't walking. I said, I know. I knew I knew that So, anyway, I made it to the gas station just so you know, I had two miles left Two miles. That's what the little thing on the car said. Two miles. Had two left. Whew. But I ran out of gas one time. I started walking. I didn't really know what was ahead. And I came around the corner, and there was a straight stretch, looked like it was a mile long. And I thought, wow. It's hot. I mean it was it was you know in the 80s and it was hot sun was shining middle of the day And all of a sudden I heard some uh a what uh a 18-wheel truck gearing down. And the guy pulled off onto the berm And I came along beside him. He rolled his window down on the passenger side. And he said, Are you out of gas? I mean they were rolling through my mind, just you know, sarcasm. And I smiled and I said, Yes, sir. I wanted to say what was your first clue? But I didn't. I refrained because this guy might help me And uh so I said, yes, sir. He said, well, get in and I'll take you to get some gas. And all kinds of flags started waving, you know But then I looked back and I couldn't even see my car because it was around that corner and I thought I don't want to walk all day And so I got in the car and he started down the road. We went to the first exit. He turned around and came back the other way because There was an exit about a mile and a half from where I ran out of gas. And there was a station there. And I didn't know that, but there was. And I said, Why are we going this way? He said, There's a station down here at the next exit. I went, Oh You mean I drove past the exit where I could have gotten gas? He said, Yes, you did. He said, I I think though that there might be a reason for this. And I thought, oh, oh no. He's gonna kill me. This guy's gonna kill me. Just sure as I'm sitting here, this guy's gonna kill me. And so he looks over and he goes He says, um uh uh you know, um uh can I ask you a question And I thought, I'm dead. This is it. And I'm waving at my family as they go by. And I said, sure. He said, um, you know, um, you know I'm not very good at this, he said. You were to die right now, do you know for sure you'd go to heaven? I said, Yes. He said, You do? I said, Yes He said, How do you know that? And I said, Because I heard the gospel and I believed in Jesus Christ and asked the Lord to save me. He said, that's the right answer. I said, yes, sir, I know it is. He said, I knew I was supposed to stop and help you. You're a believer. I said, better than that, buddy. I'm a pastor of a church He said, You're a preacher? I said, Yes, sir. He said, Well, what kind of preacher are you? I said, long and loud. He started laughing, he said, My favorite kind. And so we pulled off, he bought the gas, five-gallon can, bought the can gave me the can, drove me back, got out of his truck, went over, put the gas in my car for me I thought it was a dead man. Here's my point, folks. That man was dedicated. He was scared to death, but he was dedicated. And hits the first time. Now listen to me. The first and the only time in my sixty-eight years of living That I have ever been witness to. Now if we don't do it Who's gonna do it? Do you think the the the Lutherans are gonna do it? Has a Luther never knocked on your door? Jehovah's Witnesses have, haven't they? And the Mormons have, haven't they? One time I've been witness to. And every time I think of dedicated men, that man pops into my head. I'm telling you folks, if we just rest a little bit in the Lord. If we would just rest a little bit, just realize that God wants us to fellowship with Him. Be faithful. Serve. Love. Walk. Stay in the book. Just stay in the book. God bless. Can we be faithful men? Let's go from here and make up our minds we're going to be faithful men. Let's pray together.