For if you would notice with me, verse number 10. 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 10. I just want to read the first half. of this verse, the first statement here, says this, for Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. Demoth has forsaken me, having loved this present world. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that, I put Demas quit, exclamation point. He quit And the title of my message this morning is this, and you've heard this statement before: Quitters never win. Quitters never win. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this portion of the Word of God. I pray, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be here in a very evident way. And I pray you'd speak to our hearts and you would challenge us Lord, I pray that you would just move in our hearts and minds in such a way that all of us would stop and consider our spiritual well-being, where we're at spiritually, what our standing with you is, Lord. There's nothing more important in this world than our spiritual well-being. So we ask, Lord, that you would challenge us, encourage, instruct us. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray and ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I pray that you would speak, just speak through me, that I would just be a conduit. And you speak through me to the hearts and minds of each and every one of us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Of course, 1 and 2 Timothy are penned to this young man named Timothy. Timothy had been a faithful assistant to the Apostle Paul for over ten years at the time of the writing of 2 Timothy. He had worked by his side. He had been on his second and third missionary journey and had been to cities all over that region, part of the world there. Timothy had seen with his own eyes what God could do He saw souls saved by the thousands. He saw lives changed. He saw miraculous things done and people that were possessed with devils and how God would deliver them. Peter saw firsthand the power of the gospel in those early days of the New Testament church. He had experienced persecution with Paul. Timothy saw how the world responds to a preacher that is filled with the Holy Spirit and is preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in the power of the Spirit. He saw how the world responds with stoning and rejection and imprisonment. Timothy was a faithful assistant to the Apostle Paul for ten years at this point in time. He was raised spiritually by his grandmother, if you would, come back to chapter number one, and notice with me, if you would, verse number six. 2 Timothy 1, verse 6, he says, Wherefore I put thee in remembrance. Now, this is Paul writing to Timothy. And he's saying this, I just want to remember you. I just want to remind you I put thee in remembrance that thou oh verse 5, I'm sorry. Uh when I call to remember let's go to verse 4 I have no idea where we're going. Let's just read till we find it. Verse 4. He says, I'm greatly desiring to see thee. Be mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. So Paul loved Timothy. Now look what he says in verse 5. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Question: What does he mean by unfeigned faith? What's he talking about? It's genuine. It's for real. It's not phony faith. Timothy's faith in God was genuine. It wasn't just a show he put on Sunday mornings. It was for real. So he says, I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Now, where did that come from? Where did he learn that? Look at this. Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice. And I'm persuaded that in thee also. Timothy saw his grandma's faith in God. Timothy saw his grandma live for the Lord through thick and thick. He saw that what she had was real. It wasn't just talk. It wasn't just a show. It wasn't just a facade. She knew the Lord. And she knew the word of God. And it had an impact on young Timothy's life. And then his mother also. I just want to stop and say, thank God for godly Christian grandmas. Thank God for godly Christian mothers. Now we understand in studying the scriptures, Timothy's daddy was most likely an unsaved man. He was a Greek and very real possibility. He did not know the Lord as Savior. But Timothy saw that what grandma and what mama had, what they had, was real And he got a hold of that. And he got a hold of that as a young child. In fact, if you would come over to verse to chapter number three, 2 Timothy. And verse 14, he says, but continue. Again, Paul writing to Timothy, this has been his assistant for 10 years now. They knew each other dearly, they loved each other dearly. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And look at this. And that from a child Thou hast known the holy scriptures. Now, from what we read in chapter 1, where do you think he learned those holy scriptures from? Grandma and mother. Grandma taught her grandson the word of God. Mother taught her son the word of God. And from a child, thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. I tell you, children must be taught the Word of God. I thank God for our Sunday school teachers. This morning down there, whether it's a full classroom or just a handful, you know, it's weather and different things affect it. But I thank God for Sunday school teachers that get down in front of children and teach them the Word of God with all their heart. And it makes a difference. And so here we have Timothy. He'd been assistant with Paul, very close, right-hand man, for a good ten years at this point. He was raised. By godly grandma, a grandly grandmother, and a godly mother who taught him the word of God. He traveled with Paul on his journey seeing what God could do At this point, when Paul is writing this letter to Timothy, at this point in time, Timothy had been the pastor at the church at Ephesus for about four years now. So he's in the ministry at this point. He's serving God. He has a little bit of experience in pastoring a church and being a part of the work of God. And so Paul's writing this letter to him. Now, as I mentioned, this letter is written by the Apostle Paul. He is in a prison in Rome at this point. Now, I don't know what you may be aware of prisons at this time of history. Particularly Roman prisons, but I'll tell you, they are nothing like the prisons that uh are in America today We have folks that work in prisons and um uh I've never been there, but our deacons have told me that uh But uh uh you know they got it pretty good, to be honest. Pretty good in the in the prison state. Now I'd rather not be in prison than in, but it's nothing like what it was back then. How many people understand what I'm trying to say here I mean it was nasty. And we could go into the gritty, nasty details. But Paul is not in a marriage. He doesn't have a weight room. He doesn't have television to watch. He doesn't have a mattress to sleep on. It is a nasty, nasty situation. And Paul is writing this letter He's penning it out on some sort of parchment, and he's going to have it sent to Timothy, his assistant, this young man that Paul has invested so much time in. Paul has invested so much of his life. Into this young man that loves God, that was raised right, that is serving the Lord, and he's writing from a prison, a nasty place. Persecution of Christians at this time in Rome particularly was intensifying. Now they got hit hard in Jerusalem. Those Jewish leaders, those Pharisees, man, they came down on those New Testament believers with violence and hatred and bitter persecution. Now in Rome, there's believers in Rome as the message of the gospel is spreading through that part of the world. More people are getting saved. In fact, people are getting saved by the thousands. Churches are being planted and and popping up all over that part of the world. Now in Rome there's a community of believers. Churches are being established there, and now the Roman government is getting in on this persecution of these believers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Nero is king at this time, is a ruler at this time. He is going insane. He's becoming more and more irrational. And he is ratcheting up his persecution against believers. He sees it as a threat. I think we've talked about this recently He sees the church uh uh of Jesus Christ, he sees the disciples of Christ as a threat uh to his position and his authority. And so the persecution is intensifying. Um this is the last letter that we have that's penned by Paul that's preserved for us in Scripture. Now, he may have written some others that were not inspired, but this is the last one that we have. In fact, Paul's not going to live very long after this letter is written. And he's aware of that. If you would come back to chapter 6 or chapter 4 and look at verse number 6. We're in 2 Timothy. Notice what he says. Now, Paul sees, he sees the handwriting on the wall. He sees it coming. He knows what he's about to face. Look at verse 6: For I am now ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. What's he talking about? My departure is at hand. Departure for where? For heaven. He sees it. He's leaving this old earth. The time he says, I'm ready to be offered. He's talking about being offered up as a martyr to God. I read this And with the understanding that Paul knows he's about, by the way, he was beheaded. It was a violent death. He didn't die of natural causes. He was martyred. And Paul sees this and he knows this and he picks up from the what's happening. Alright, it's not long. And I'm going to be killed. My head's going to be taken off. And I read 2 Timothy, and you know what I find? I don't find one hint of fear on the part of Paul. He faces his martyrdom in full confidence, full faith, full assurance that this is not the end of his life. It's simply a transition from this world into the presence of Christ. In fact, he said earlier in Philippians, he says, I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. He said to die is gain. I tell you, Paul wasn't afraid of death. Paul wasn't doubtful about heaven. He went into it full faith, full confidence, anticipating his arrival in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's writing to Timothy, this young man. Paul loved him. Paul knew him very well. Timothy knew Paul. They had worked side by side. They saw God do powerful, great things. Paul's now in prison. He says, my time of my departure is at hand. By the way, look what he says there in verse number 7. You talk about confidence He says, I have fought a good fight. Now he's talking about the spiritual warfare. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I have what? Kept the faith. Paul was faithful. Paul was faithful. You could write this down. Paul did not quit. Now you study the life of Paul, you read the book of Acts, particularly chapter 13 on, when Paul gets saved, almost from the get-go, when Paul trusted Christ, he faced opposition. Pharisees turned on him. Uh the worshipers of Diana turned on him. Um uh Some of the disciples were very skeptical when he first got saved. And they, I don't know about that Paul. We heard about him. But Paul stayed faithful. Regardless of how he was treated, regardless of what he went through, regardless of his conditions in this world He fought a good fight. He finished his course. He kept the faith. He did not quit. So Paul's writing to Timothy. Young preacher, four years in the ministry, pastoring this church. Paul's writing this last letter to him, knowing this is probably uh maybe very well the last time he communicates with Timothy And he's writing them. He knows that his time was limited. If you would, look at verse number nine of chapter four. Notice what he says. Now, with all that in mind that I just gave you, look at verse 9. He says, Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. What's he want? What's he want here? He wants to see Timothy before he dies. Timothy, if you can get up here to Rome, that's that's a not just a sho that's quite an endeavor. Timothy, do thy diligence. Come up here. Paul knows he doesn't have a long time. I want to see my son in the faith one more time. I want to come and be with you. I want to fellowship with you. If you would, look over at verse number 21. He says again, the first part of 21, he says, do thy diligence to come before winter. I don't know about you, but I can almost hear the the emotion in Paul's voice Maybe he felt in his heart as he's pending that. Timothy, come up here. Do everything you can. Do your diligence. I want to see you again. Before winter. I don't have a long time. Timothy, come on up here and be with me. I believe Paul loved Timothy very much. Paul had great confidence in this young man He's writing to Timothy, this letter, he's writing to Timothy to remind Timothy that hardships are part of the Christian life. Paul didn't present this idea that the Christian life is a life of wealth and health and luxury. Paul knew the truth. The Christian life is a spiritual warfare. He says, whether I am abound or if I'm in poverty, I've learned just to trust God through all of it. And he's trying to encourage Timothy, and he's reminding him. If you're going to serve God, you're going to live for God. There's going to be opposition. There's going to be heartache. There's going to be hardships. But you stay faithful. You stay faithful. He finishes out his letter here in chapter 4 that we're looking at, the part we're looking at here. He finishes out his letter and he mentions a number of people. If you notice there, he says. He mentions Demas in verse 10. Then he comes down and uh he sa he mentions um uh another fellow, Kreskins and Titus and Luke and Mark He comes down, he lists these group of people, and on some of them, he makes a statement about that person. He just kind of gives a summary of his of who they are and what they are Now, some of these people he lists here were helpful to him. Look what the wood at verse 11. Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is what? Profitable. He says that guy helps me. That guy helps the ministry. He's profitable to me for the ministry. Now, what do we know about Mark? Do you know Mark was a quitter also? We could spend a whole message on Mark. Mark quit early on when Paul went out on his first missionary journey. They got that first city there, and John Mark turned back and went back. In fact, it was such an issue, we don't know why he left, but apparently it was unjustified And apparently it damaged their ministry to some extent that Paul, later on, when they go on their second journey, Barnabas wanted to bring Mark along with them. But what did Paul say? Paul said No, he ain't coming with us. He turned back. We're not trusting him again. Barnabas felt like he should be given a second chance Paul said, no, this is too important. It's not worth the risk. And they got such contention between them, they went their separate ways. Mark was a quitter. But here's the thing, he got back in the fighting. He got back up. And now later on at the end of Paul's life, he says, you know what? Mark's profitable to me. So some of these people were helpful to Mark to Paul, but some of them not so much. Look with me if you would at verse number 14. He says, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works. Of whom be thou aware also, for he greatly withstood our words. Here's a fellow, Alexander the Coppersmith. Stood against Paul, did him much evil. And he warns Timothy, you watch out for that guy. You be careful. He's a troublemaker. He's going to fight you. He's going to oppose you. He's going to make the ministry difficult for you. You be careful of him. And then back in verse number 10, he mentions his fellow Demas. And this is who I want us to consider this morning for a few minutes. He says, For Demas Have forsaken me. Having loved this present world. You know, I think sometimes we think of the Apostle Paul And some of these great men and women in the Bible that God used in great ways, sometimes we think of them as being people bigger than life. How many people know what I mean by that? Bigger than life. Oh, they're just different. They're uh they don't have the struggles you and I have and they don't deal with the issues you and I have. Oh they're bigger and all that. They don't They don't struggle with doubts and with fears. They don't struggle with insecurities and that. Oh, they're bigger than life. I'm here to tell you, none of these people were bigger than life They were men and women like you and I. Paul struggled with fears. He says back in Corinthians, he said once he's describing his experience in one place, and he says this. Inside were fears. He says fears were within. Paul got in situations where he was scared. Fear was an issue that Paul had to face and deal with. Paul got discouraged. He got cast down. He struggled with doubts Loneliness. And what I read here, he struggled with when people hurt him. People said and did things that hurt Paul. He was a human being, just like you and I. He wasn't bigger than light. I read verse number 10. Paul says, demons have forsaken me. Those are sad words. This is somebody that worked with Paul. This is somebody that was part of his life's ministry. He forsaken me. He quit. He walked out. I I sense the sadness In Paul's words. Now down verse 10, Alexander, I read that, I kind of sense frustration. This guy, Alexander got under his skin. This guy did me trouble. But when I read about Demas Quitty. Quitting. I sense a sadness here. By the way, look at it says, look at the words he uses here. Demeth ha what? Forsaken means. That's a strong word. That word forsaken there means to abandon. It means to desert, walk away from, turn his back on. Now I thought this was interesting, and I'm not sure all the ramifications of it, but it's the exact same word that Jesus used when he was on the cross and he said, My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? When Jesus was on that cross, he took your sins, my sins, all the world. He took responsibility for all of them. And our Creator God, a perfectly holy God, could not look even on his own Son. When he stood responsible for sin, and God, so to speak, turned his back on Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ suffered hell for your sin and my sin. Now, Paul's using that same word. He says, Demas turned his back on me. Demas walked away from me. He deserted me. He left me. By the way, that is the exact same thing that Jesus promised he would never do for you and I. Keep your place here if you would, and come with me to the book of Hebrews. Now we're in 2 Timothy, you're going to hit Titus, and you hit run into Hebrews. Come all the way back to chapter 13, last book of the book of Hebrews. Last chapter, I should say, of the book of Hebrews. Now I hope my preaching isn't that boring that people will lay down on the pews and fall asleep while I'm preaching. If it's that bad, um, you know, we'll have to do something. But just uh let me just explain, just out of respect, not for me, I wouldn't blame anybody for going to sleep or disregarding anything I personally have to say. But I believe this book is the most important message in all the world. The president gets up and gives speeches and does things. I'm saying what's the when the word of God is when the word of God is being preached, it's more important than anything even the president has to say. Amen or not. And so I don't ask, I don't say this because of any that I'm something. I say it because this message is something. Hebrews chapter 13, verse number five, the Lord promises that he would never do to you and I. What Demas did to Paul. Look what he says there in verse 5, chapter 13. He says, Let your conversation be without covetous, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, look at it. I will what? Never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I'm glad when I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, He's never going to desert me He's never going to walk away from me. He's never going to abandon me. He's never going to turn his back on me. You say, preacher, you don't know what I've done I don't know what you've done. It's not important that I know what you've done. But I know what God has said. And He said He will never forsake His own. He will never abandon his children. Now, what he will do if we start acting the fool, we start getting involved in sin and disregarding what he says, he'll come down, he'll chasten us. He'll work, he'll convict, he'll work in our life to get us back in line, get us back in his blessings, but he will never, ever abandon us or walk away from us. And that's where I say, Amen. Praise the Lord for that. Because I've certainly given him opportunity many times over the years to do just that. And he will never do it. Now, if you don't know Jesus Christ the Savior, Then that promise does not apply to you. According to Ephesians, you're without God, without hope in the world. You might be religious, you may have convinced yourself. that you can get through this life without God and without Jesus. You may have convinced yourself that your spiritual well-being is unimportant. I tell you, there's a day coming when this old ticker stops and we stand before a holy God, we'll wish we had considered our spiritual well-being. Because eternity is a long time to suffer the consequences of foolishness now, amen or not. And so the Lord says, I'll never leave thee. I will never forsake thee. But Demas forsook Paul. The very thing that Demis did is what the Lord promises not to do to us. Demas quit. Now, what do we know about this fellow Demas? Come back here to Timothy, if you would, with me. What do we know about this fellow demons? Well, we don't know much. The Bible gives us very little information. What from what I can tell, it seems like he was most likely out of the church at Thessalonica. Now, bear with me, I'll get here to some practical in a bit, but What do we know about Demas? Demas was probably saved in Thessalonica, probably out of the church there in Thessalonica. What do we know about the church in Thessalonica? Good or bad? Somebody help me Anybody? It was good. Study 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians. Man, what a powerful church that was. They had a witness into all their community, all of their region. They had shared the gospel. They were a church of faith. They were a church under intense persecution, but stood faithful to God. Demas was out of a good church, a strong church, an active church, a soul-winning church, a missions church. But he quit. But he quit. Did you know? I think every Christian ought to have a good church to attend. I think every town, every city ought to have good churches, Bible preaching. My thinking is a good, independent, fundamental, hellfire, and brimstone, King James Brian. Bible window rattling, shingle pulling, hell, hellfire, devil kicking, preaching church. That's what I like. But every every every town ought to have a good, strong Bible preaching church, amen or none. Demos is out of a church like that And he still quit. He still quit. You know, you can be in a good church and still be a quitter. Still be a quitter. I've been here twenty-eight coming up on twenty-nine years. You know what? I've seen some people quit. I feel like we got a pretty good church. We're not perfect. We got growing to do. We've got some improvement we can make. There's no doubt about it. But I've seen people, heard some of the best preachers in this country come through this pulpit. I'm telling you, I've seen people quit out of a good church. Demos was from Thessalonica, out of a good, strong church. He served with Paul, just like Timothy did. He had served side by side with Paul. He was a fellow laborer with Paul, but he quit. He had a good mentor. But he quit. I hate to say this. I wish this wasn't true. But I know preachers, evangelists, been in the ministry for years And they walk away from it. I'm thinking of a fellow preached behind this pulpit, early years of my ministry here, preached behind this pulpit a number of times. Now, out in the world. Out of the ministry. Quit. Forsook it all. Walked away from it. Demas was out of a good church. Demas had a good mentor, a good man he worked with. What else do we know about Demas? He's mentioned only three times in the Bible. And Philemon, in fact, we're right there, Titus Philemon. Come over a few pages if you would. If you're in 2 Timothy, go to your right, you'll run into Titus, and you have this little tiny 25-verse book called Philemon. And in verse 24, Paul mentions Demas. Now, this is written significantly time earlier than 2 Timothy. He says, verse 23, there salute the Epapyrus, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my what? Fellow laborers said, these guys are working with me. Demis is right in there in the work with me. He's one of my associates. He's a fellow laborer. So we pick up from here that he worked with Paul back in Colossians for sake of time. We won't turn there, but Colossians 4. 14. All he does there, all Paul does there, and this is written a little later then, all he does is mention Demas. He doesn't say anything about him. He just includes his name in a list. And now, the end of his life, he says, Demeth has forsaken me, having loved this present world. I see a progression there. And this is significant. First, he's laboring, he's a partner with Paul, he's working, he's active, and then he's just there. And then he walks away. Anyone see a progression there? Something happened. Something took place that began this change. By the way, Demas isn't the first to quit. There was others before him, and Demas wasn't the last to quit, but Demas was a quitter, a quitter. Couple thoughts. I got a few minutes. Let me give you a few thoughts about demas. About quitting. Number one, what's the cause of quitting? I want us to consider the cause of quitting. Look here in Timothy, real quickly with me. Everybody doing all right? All right. I know it's a little warm in here. We're having trouble with our heating. But some people are very happy about that, Carolyn Some of the people that complain a lot are finally happy Look at verse number 10, 2 Timothy 4. He hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. Love is an emotion. It's a decision, but it's a decision that comes from the heart. Something happened in Nemesis' heart That changed his whole perspective. Um it's a heart condition, having loved This present world. What I'm trying to say is this. Demas quit in his heart a long time before he quit with his feet. And I've noticed that to be true over the years. When someone walks away from the church, when someone walks away from the ministry, when someone forsakes Their walk with God, I found it begins in the heart a long time before it's ever displayed outwardly. In fact, a lot of times they quit in their heart and they're just looking for an opportunity, just watching for that excuse where I can quit with my feet. Demas quit in his heart a long time before he walked away from Paul. It's a heart condition. Someone said this: our feet will walk in the direction our heart is going. The world won Demas' heart over long before he walked away from the things of God. What is the cause of quitting? I put a few things down. Number one, I put this: lack of communion with the Lord. When I get away from spending time with the Lord, my heart grows cold and that world becomes awfully attractive. 1 John 2. 28, the Bible says, our memory verse, he says, abide in him that when he shall appear, we shall not be ashamed. I tell you, we need to maintain a close walk with God. John chapter 15, verse 16, Jesus says, You've not chosen me, but I've chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit. In the first part of that chapter, the first couple verses, he says, abide in me. Abide in me. We need to keep our communion with the Lord. I found that couples that quit on one another, marriage falls apart, they walk away, they go their separate ways. And what I found? I found that that begins early on when they start drifting apart. Spend less time together, little talking, little communion with each other, and they develop their own worlds And they develop their own set of friends, and next thing you know, they forsake one another. They walk away. That's the exact same thing that happens to Christians with the Lord. You and I lose communion with the Lord. We don't spend time with God, and our heart grows cold, and the world becomes awfully appealing. Before we know it, we're out there in the world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? When I say the heart grows cold, anybody here know what I'm talking about? I hate to say it, I've been there. You go through the motions. Just doing things and I'm not in communion, close walk with God, the old heart grows cold. That's why we have revival meetings. And that's why we give invitations, and that's why we try to preach straight up in heart, so that we stay close to God and we keep our heart warm and we keep our heart in tune with the Lord. I'm telling you, that daily devotions is so important in the life of a believer. Spending a little bit of time in God's word, let God speak to me, a little bit of time in prayer to God. Speak to God, pour my heart out to him, and God works in my heart, and I see what God is doing, and God keeps me close But I let that daily devotions, and it goes a few days, and then a few weeks and a few months before I spend any time with God, and the old heart grows cold. And I'm in danger of quitting, being a quitter. By the way, I think families ought to have family altar time. And I'm telling you, I'm going to preach this till the day I die. If I've got any sense in my head, I'm going to challenge families to have family devotions on a daily basis. Get the kids together, husband and wife together, whatever the household is. You all get together on a daily basis. Spend some time in God's Word. Spend some time in prayer Every child ought to hear their daddy pray on a regular basis. Every child ought to hear mama pray on a regular basis. You imagine growing up and saying, I never heard my daddy pray. Never heard my mama pray. I never saw my daddy read the Bible. We wonder why this generation is in the mess it's in. We wonder why kids are abandoning the house of God and forsaking the things of God in droves. Why? They never saw anything real at home. They never saw anything genuine. They never saw the presence of God. They never saw the Spirit of God there. I'm telling you, we got to keep close communion with the Lord on a personal level, on a family level, on a church level. We need to stay right with God. So, what are the causes of plitting? One is lack of communion with the Lord. Let me give you others, real quick. Lack of commitment Romans chapter 12, the Lord said, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, do you present your bodies, a living sacrifice? What's he saying? He's looking for commitment. Never really, folks that never really fall in love with the Lord, never really commit themselves to the Lord. I put this down, lack of courage. People walk away from the things of God because fear controls them. We got this virus going around. I'm telling you, some people are absolutely controlled. I fear belies. Now don't misunderstand. I'm not saying we shouldn't be careful. I'm not saying we shouldn't be care uh be uh uh clean and and do right by this, but I am saying this There is a cause bigger than not getting a virus. I hope I'm not sticking my foot in my mouth this morning, but what I'm trying to say is At some point it takes a little bit of faith, it takes a little bit of courage to step out and do what God's told us to do We're going to face persecution. We talk about that a lot now. And so there needs to be some courage. There needs to be some faith, or we walk away from it. The Christian living, Christian living is not for cowards. If we're going to take this book for what it says, if we believe this is the Word of God, and we're going to live by this book, it's going to take a little bit of courage in this whole world. I want to take a little bit of faith. If we run and cower for every time the world raises its head, every time somebody barks at us, or we're going to quit and calier and hide. I'll tell you what, we'll forsake the Lord, we'll forsake the things of God. What this old I'll tell you what America needs today is some some independent fundamental Baptist with a little bit of courage to stand up and preach the truth and live the truth in front of a world that despises the truth. Courage We get cowardice and we'll quit. We'll walk away. I tell you, uh how I tell you, um, how many nations of the world would be without the gospel if there wasn't some missionaries that had some courage to go into dangerous situations, to go into life-threatening situations and yet come in in the power of the Holy Ghost and with the power of the gospel and preach and souls get saved and lives are changed. Take some courage. Are you with me? Little courage. Sometimes it's lack of courage. Sometimes lack of compassion Just don't care about the well-being of others, and so I quit. I tell you the most disturbing truth I know. Well, you get if you don't get anything out of this message this morning, I hope you'll get this The most disturbing truth I know is the fact that there are people dying and going to hell People without Christ are dying and going to a devil's hell for all eternity, and you and I have the truth. That is the fact. That is reality. And we don't have the compassion to reach these people with the gospel and we just walk away and forsake all of it I tell you, part of the problem is compassion. You say, preacher, it's tough. Yeah, it's tough, but people are dying and going to hell. Can you imagine a firefighter? The house is on fire, and there's people in there, and you know they're in danger. And they say, well, you know, it's kind of tough going in there. I don't know. Listen to me, if you have any ounce of compassion in your heart and soul for people trapped in that fire, you'll figure out a way to get in there and get them. Amen or not. People that don't have compassion just walk away. Let this world go to hell. And don't lift a finger. No one ever got saved because a believer quit. Nobody ever came to Christ because a child of God loved this world and forsook the things of God. Lack of compassion. And then maybe it's a lack of conversion. Here's the question, as I studied Demas, the question came up, was Demas genuinely saved? I think it's a legitimate question. Personally, I think he was. I believe he was genuinely saved and he just walked away from Paul. But not everybody that claims to be a Christian is a Christian. You take your Bibles real quickly with me and come over to 1 John. Not too far away. Over in 1 John. Go to Hebrews, James, 1 and 2 Peter. Then you run into John. And look with me if you would at chapter 2 and verse number 19. 1 John chapter 2 and verse number 19. John, of course, is writing under the inspiration of God. And he says, um, verse 19. Look what he says. They went out from us. Sounds like they forsook them, right? They walked away. That's what Demas did. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that it that they might be made manifest that, look at this statement, that they were not all of us. What's he saying? He's saying some people that walked away never were saved in the first place. They never were part of the family of God. They never were born again. Anybody recognize the name Judas? Judas played the part. Judas put on a show. When Jesus said at the upper room, he said, When are you going to forsake me? Not one of the disciples suspected Judas. But he was never saved. He was a phony. He was a sham. He put on a show. He walked away and forsook the Lord. Sometimes people walk away because they've never been converted. They never got saved. Jesus said in Matthew 7. 21, not everyone that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall inherit the kingdom of God. Matthew chapter 13, he warns of tares and wheat. He says, a sower went out, a farmer, a husband went out and planted wheat. And the enemy came and threw in the wheat with the wheat some tares. And the thing about a tear, T-A-R-E, is it looks just like the wheat. It blows in the wind, just like the wheat. Just very slight differences. But it ain't wheat. The Lord said that in his harvest field there are tares and there are wheat. Just because someone may talk like a Christian, just so someone sings Christian songs, doesn't make them a child of God. Sometimes people walk away, quit because they never were in the family of God to begin with. I had people that believe you can lose your salvation. They asked me all the time, they say, Well, what about this guy? I knew this gal. She left it all. She lost her salvation. My saying is she probably didn't have it in the first place. Probably didn't have it in the first place So the causes for quitting are many. Consequences, I've got to quit. The consequences for quitting, what happens when I quit? There's no fruit in my life Jesus says, You've not chosen me, I've chosen you. You should bear forth, bring forth fruit. God wants us to win others. God wants us to reproduce ourselves, and we quit. We don't do that. There's no influence for the Lord. It's the disciple that refuses to quit that has an influence in this world. The soul winner that refuses to quit is going to win others to Christ. The busworker, the preacher, the Sunday school teacher. Quitters have no influence for the gospel, but those that refuse to quit. Daniel didn't quit. They said, you better quit praying, or we're going to throw you in the lion's den. Very first thing Daniel did, went out there, I ain't quitting, and he prayed. They threw him in the lines then, and God took care of them. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego didn't quit on their Lord. They had a powerful influence in the nation in Babylon. The king got saved as a result of it. I tell you, quitters have little or no influence on this world. Paul didn't quit. I thought about a Sunday school teacher I had when I was in third grade, Thelma Felton. She was widowed. She was elderly. She had every reason in the world. She could have said, nah, I'm done. But she sat down and taught that little class. I was in there. And here I am, 60 years later uh 55 years later. And what she said about you kids need to get saved, she would tell us that in the Mennonite church, she would say, you need to be saved. You need to trust Jesus as your Savior. And that planted seeds in the heart and mind of me as a young boy. Those seeds later on bore fruit when I come to Christ as my Savior. I'm glad Thelma Felton didn't quit. Think of my daddy, all he went through, and he stayed faithful. He didn't quit. And his influence on my life brought me to Christ. When we quit, consequence, we do Satan a great favor. We do Satan a great favor. You quit on your ministry. You quit on your walk with God. You quit on your Christian brothers and sisters. You forsake the things of God. You're doing exactly what Satan wants you to do. 1 Peter 5, 8 and 9 says, be sober, be vigilant. For our adversary, the devil, as a war as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. He wants every Christian to quit. He wants you to quit your Bible reading. He wants you to quit your church attendance. He wants to quit your witnessing. He wants you to quit your convictions Then your standards He wants you just to love the world because why? Then you have no influence for Christ. Quitters never win. Quitters have no influence, bear no fruit, and do exactly what Satan wants them to do. What's the cure? I am with this. How do we recover From quitting. You say, preacher, I'm right there. I don't know how much more I can do. I don't know. Man, I got this opportunity out there. I just have to compromise my convictions How do we recover from that? Let me give you very, very quickly. Get back in the book. Get back. Get your nose back in this book. Every person I talk to that's going through a hard time, I ask them. Are you reading your Bible every day? And without exception, not like I should. You want to get back in the game? Get back in the book. Get back with your walk. Get back to the basics of the Christian life. Get back in the work. Get serving God. Get something in the church here. Get active. When Peter quit on the Lord and he denied him. Later the Lord comes to him and he says, Peter, feed my sheep. Feed my lambs. Get back in the work. Get back up and get going. And then get back in the worship. That's what I put down. Hebrews 12. Let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus. Get our eyes off the world and look back on the Lord. You know what do some of us a heap of good? Turn that stupid television off. You know what do some of us a heap of good? Turn that stupid computer off And get your eyes back on Christ and off of this world. Get back in serving the Lord and get back into your daily devotions and get back into the church life and get back up again. And recover from this quitting mentality. Quitters never win. I was reading about the French Academy of Science. And in the French Academy of Science, they have a in display there, they have a An awl. Now this is just a little screwdriver, but you know what an awl is? And that it was a shoe leather awl. And it's on display there. And you say, why in the world would they have this several hundred year-old Awe that's from a shoemaker's awe. Why would that be on display? I'll tell you why. Because that awe was on a shoemaker's table years ago, several hundred years ago And while the shoemaker was working, he bumped that aw and he it rolled over off the table And his nine-year-old son was on the floor, and it fell down and hit his nine-year-old son right in his eye. And blinded him. Something happened a year or two later, he lost sight in his other eye. His nine-year-old son was blind. Say, well, why would that I have that all in there? Because as that boy grew up, he tried to figure out a way that he could read. And he took that very same awe And he began poking holes in paper in certain patterns. And for the letter A, he would poke holes. And the letter B, he would poke holes. And that young man, with the very awe that took his sight from him, developed the system of rail. Let me tell you what his name was. His name was Louise Braille. Braille. Now, I don't know about you. Nine-year-old boy loses his sight. Looks to me they have every reason in the world just to give up. He says, I'm not going to give up. I'm going to take the very thing that harmed me, and I'm going to use it to turn that around and bring good out into the world What I'm saying to you is whatever you've got under your crawl, whatever you think the Lord disappointed you, whatever you think that this world has better to offer you than the Lord has to offer you, you take that very thing. And you turn it around and you use it to stay faithful to God. And don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit on God. Don't be a demon, because quitters never win. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us stay faithful. I pray you'd help us stay faithful in our Bible reading. I pray you'd help the young people stay faithful in their living for you. Help us older folks stay faithful. Lord, help us stay faithful in our ministries you've called us to, the responsibilities you've given us. Help us, Lord, not to be a demus. Help us not to be a demus. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say this morning, preacher, I want to stay faithful. Maybe you're not reading that book like you should. Maybe you're not spending time in the Word of God. Maybe church hasn't been attending church like you know you should. Maybe whatever it may be that contributes Walking away from the things of God, and you need to address that and get it back. How many say, Preacher, I've got some areas in my life I need to address? Any like that by the uplifted hand? I've got some areas I give need to give attention to. And let the Lord have his way, but don't you give up. You've stumbled, you've fallen, get back up and go on. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. There's too much at stake. Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask now. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed.