Joshua chapter two. I want to read verse number three. We looked at verses one and two uh in uh in depth the last several messages from Joshua uh from Rahab's life And I want to pick up in verse number three, if you remember the story, uh the uh the the context I should say, the spies are in the land. Uh Joshua sent these two fellows out They've crossed the Jordan. They traveled upwards to 18 miles from their camp in Shittim over to Joshua, the city of Jericho, I should say. And uh they're scoping it out. They want to get the feel for the landscape and the travel routes and the the the saddles there in the hills, best place to go. And anyway, we looked at all of that They end up in the house of a harlot. Of course, we know her to be Rahab. And then the king finds out. And by the way, he's aware the whole time. And anyway, he approaches Rahab is where we're picking up. The king's men are approaching Rahab about these spies. Look at verse three And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house, for they become to search out the country. So the king's men show up at Rahab's house and make that statement. Verse four. And the woman, Rahab, took the two men and hid them and said thus There came men un there came men unto me, but I wis not where they were. And it came to pass, about the time of the shutting of a gate when it was dark, that the men went out. Whither the men went, I wilt not. Pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks of flax which she had laid in order upon the roof. And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan. They believed what she said. Now they're out looking for these guys that are actually up on her roof. But they're looking, pursuing after them, believing that they were ahead of them heading back to the Jordan. And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan unto the fords where they crossed the river And as soon as they which pursued after them were gone out, they shut the gate. Let's pray together. I've entitled it Rahab and the Spies. Last message was Contact. Making contact with the spies. Tonight, Rahab and the spies, we're looking at her cover-up for the spies. So let's pray. Father, bless our study tonight. I ask again As always, and Lord, I earnestly ask that you would please fill me with your spirit. And I yield my will, my mind, that you guide my thinking, and as always, I present my body anew for you to fill and use and speak through me. And so, Father, I'm asking you to speak to our hearts, help us to learn from this unusual event here, and maybe some hard lessons here. So I pray that you would speak to us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Jericho, as we pointed out before, is on red alert. They're this huge nation coming out of Egypt. They've been traveling for 40 years. The stories, the accounts, the reports have been pouring into Jericho and all through Canaan of what God had done in Egypt and how he had delivered them. They've been hearing these people are traveling. They're making their way closer and closer and closer to the Jordan River. There's no doubt that Jericho, along with all the other cities of Canaan, especially those along the border No doubt they are all on red alert. They are sending probes out, finding out where Israel is, where their camps are They know about the pillars of fire. They know about the pillar of cloud during the day. I mean they've got they have this information. They're not stupid. They've been warring the cities for many years. They fought many battles. So they know uh what to do. I got looking up, we were talking last week, what is the highest level of alert for the military, and I found out. The term is DEF CON 1. That's the highest level of alert for the military. And what that means is when the military goes on DEF CON 1, it means that they are prepared for eminent conflict. I mean it's not maybe common, it's not a year or two down the road, might have to deal with it. No, it's here, it's eminent, we're going to have conflict. DEF CON 1. It means full mobilization of all armed forces. Everybody's on red alert. Conflict is eminent. Everybody is fully mobilized. And it means, DEF CON 1 means full readiness for immediate action. Now I don't know about you, but that's way I imagined Jericho was. They know, they see what's out there, they see the size of these people camped 18 miles from their walls. And they are on red alert. And as we pointed out last week, the king of Jericho, he knew a lot of what was going on All right, they they're they're not being caught off guard in any way, shape, or form. Now how it plays out, they didn't anticipate. I don't think anybody did But the fact that they were going to be attacked, they were very much aware of that. Several things, as I mentioned last week, what the king of Jericho knew. He knew Israel, some Israeli men had entered the city. He knew that. He knew there was some. He knew there were two of them. They were in the city. Here's interesting. He knew they were together. He knew they weren't they didn't split up. They were together. He knew the exact time of their reviv uh their arrival. Did you notice there in verse 2? Um he says, um, behold, their came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel. He's getting real-time information I mean the people are reporting to him. They're entering in. They come in tonight. Just now. These guys came made it into the city And so he knows their exact time of their arrival, and just as importantly, he knows why they're there. They're searching out the city. They know what's up. They know what they're facing. And so he sends uh his security team And we have reason to believe that Jericho, along with other nations that were used to warring with one another, it wasn't uncommon, they had a pretty elaborate security system I was reading about Jericho a little bit in this whole encounter of some historians. And they were suggesting that Jericho actually probably had their own spots. That they had sent out to the camp and had uh if they had binoculars, they'd have been binocularing the camp They'd have been checking out, but they had their own spies. Very real possibility they had guys shadowing These two spies, as they're making their way that night through the city, checking the layout of the streets. Now, at this point, uh Uh these spies, I don't believe they know how they're going to take the city. They're anticipating just inva uh uh invading, overrunning the walls, getting in there. They're not anticipating trumpets and and the walls fell down, marching seven times, all of that. And so they're in there checking out the layout of the city, the main roads, entrances, weak spots, whatever, where their stations are where their men are stationed and positioned And there's reason to believe that Jericho may have actually had their own men shadowing these two spies. And they see them slip into the harlot's house. And my thinking is they say this, ah, we got them. They're in the house. We know where they are. There's only so many entrances, there's only so many exits. We got them. We got 'em. And so that's the setting. That's what we're at in this uh um situation with Rahab and these spies. Now I've got three thoughts tonight. Number one, we're gonna notice the king's demand. Number two, we want to notice Rahab's deception, and then we're going to just briefly notice the spies' deliverance. So the first, the king's demand, verse number three He says to the king of Jericho, send unto Rahab, say. Now notice what he says. Another thing is, notice some things he doesn't say and doesn't do. They show up at Rahab's house, and this is what they say: Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house. They knew they were in there. For they become to search out all the country. Again, I I think they were thinking, oh, we got 'em. They're stuck. They're they're like Rats trapped in a corner. We're gonna get him. Notice his instructions under his demand. He gives some instructions. He says, bring forth. Got looking that up, and it means pretty much what you think. It basically has this idea. Hand these guys over. Bring forth those men that went into your house. Now if they're if they're making this demand and they're giving uh this instruction, bring forth the men that are in their house Where are these representatives of these kings, the messenger, the secret service, whatever they are, where are they probably positioned at when they are making this demand? They're giving these instructions. Probably outside the front door. Now, probably they got guys if there's a back door, they're not stupid. They probably got guys positioned. But what caught my attention and what surprised what I thought was interesting. Now these are spies. This is a huge nation that is intent on destroying them and occupying their city, taking over. I mean th these people are going to be dead Everything if they happen to live, everything they have is going to be taken. Would you agree Jericho's in a life and death situation here And I thought it was kind of interesting that representatives of the king, no doubt military men of some sort or uh whatever, they go and it's almost like they're politely approaching the door And saying to Rahab, bring those fellas out. I would imagine if there's spies in there and they're giving up our secrets and they're gonna help conquer us You'd be knocking the door down, barging in there, rampaging through the house, ransacking the house. We're going to find these guys. But they don't do that And I found that, as I said, very interesting. They don't bust the door down. They don't barge in the house. They don't ransack the house. You ever see videos of that sometimes to make a drug raid? And man, they'll just borrow. They don't stand out and say, all right, bring all your drugs out. Bring your illegal aliens out. Bring your N13 gang members out. They don't do that. What do they do? Boom. They're going in after them. These guys don't do that. It's almost like they're showing Rahab the harlot respect. Bring them out. It's almost like They uh believe that she is on their team, that she's supportive It may, I got thinking about that, why would they be why would they do that? Why would they approach it this way? Why don't they just go barge it in there I'm wondering if maybe Rahab, and I'm starting to get a little different perspective on Rahab as we're working our way through here, I'm wondering if maybe this is an indicator of Rahab's standing. In society, maybe Rahab standing with the king. It appears that they have some respect for her They're not just busting the place down. And so they make they give these instructions, bring the spies out to us. So we have the king's instruction. Then the second thing I notice in verse 3, in the last part, the king's assumption. He makes two assumptions here. Look there at the last part. It says, Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thy house. And then they make this statement. They're giving her some information They say to her, For they are come to search out the country. So the first assumption I see here is they assume she's ignorant of who these guys are and why they're there. Send those men out that came by. They're here to search out the country, assuming she doesn't know that. Question, does she know that? Yeah, she knows that. Very clear. But they don't think she does. They assume she doesn't. They're thinking these are just a couple fellows showed up at a harlot's house. In her mind, they're thinking that's the way she sees it. And uh, you know, the they maybe are assuming they're going there for purchase her services. Whatever the case is, they feel obligated to tell Rahab why these guys are in the city. So I see an assumption here That she does not know that they're spies or why they're there, so they feel obligated to explain that. But there's another assumption I see here, and they make this assumption that Rahab is loyal to Jericho. They're assuming that she's going to cooperate with them. They're assuming that she has the same objective uh in protecting the city and getting these keeping these guys away that they have. I don't see any hint that uh they suspect Rahab of being disloyal in any way, shape, or form. Hey, Rahab, send those fellows out that came in here. They're here to search out the country. They're spying on us. They're with Israel. They're our enemies. And I imagine they're thinking that Rahab's going to come out and say, huh? Okay. I'll get them And so they give these instructions and they make these assumptions. At no point in any of this narrative does anybody suspect Rahab of being disloyal to Jericho. Nobody suspects her, and all the way through until the walls fall down, we see no indication Then anybody suspects Rahab of being disloyal to Jericho. And so and uh so all through there I think there's two spies made their way in. Here's the thing. Jerek, here's the thing. Israel had one friend. In Jericho. They had one friend, they had one ally, and it would be the most unlikely person Of all the citizens of Jericho, who in the world would suspect that Rahab the harlot was an ally with God's people? That she was a friend to the people of Israel. That she was a believer and a worshiper of Jehovah. Now, obviously, it wasn't always that way. Something at some point happened, and she'll tell us a little bit about that probably in another message. So the king comes and he makes this demand: give the men over that are in your house, they're spies, they're searching the land out, they're with Israel, and uh hand them over. Little did they know they were talking to a friend of Israel. So the king's demand. Second of all, I notice here, in this passage I read, that I notice Rahab's deception. Now let's read verse 4 and 5 again. And the woman took the two men and what? Hid them and said thus She's talking to these Secret Service guys outside her door. They said, bring these men out. She opens the door And this is what she says to him. I wish not where they were. I didn't know where they were from. I had no idea. They're searching the country out. Are you kidding me? I would have never dreamed. I was not whence they were. I didn't know where they were from. And it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate when it was dark And that's what they did, especially when you've got a million enemies 18 miles from your gate, you shut it when it's dark. And it came to pass about the time of shutting of the gate when it was dark that the men went out. Whither the men went, I wought not, I don't know, I have no idea where they went Get out, go, pursue after them quickly. Hurry! Ye shall uh for ye shall overtake them, you'll get them. If you hurry up and get out there after where they're going, you'll get them. In these three verses, we see several things. We see the strength of her faith. She is absolutely convinced. That Jehovah and his people are going to conquer their city. She is absolutely convinced. Jehovah is not going to fail in her mind. The strength of her confidence in God's power and in God's purpose. And she'll express that a little bit later. She's not talking, here's an important lesson I think from this. She's not talking about Jehovah at this point. She's not talking about what she knows is coming, what God is going to do. She's not talking about that. But her actions, what we know now, and those spies inside there They're hearing what she's saying. They're seeing what she's doing. And she is displaying her faith by her actions before she ever said a word about what her faith was in. You follow my thinking here? Our behavior displays the sincerity or the hypocrisy of our words of faith. Follow what I'm saying? I can talk God all day long, but if my behavior doesn't back up what I'm saying, And all my work all my all my behavior is doing is telling people I am a hypocrite If I'm quoting verses to people and I'm telling people how wonderful God is and I'm telling people how great the Lord is and how much I love Jesus then I'm out there cussing and carrying on and cheating on my boss and and uh uh lying and going on. If I'm out there doing all this stuff and then saying one thing, would you agree with me? My behavior betrays the hypocrisy of my words. Now, reverse that. She hasn't said a word about Jehovah, but all her actions are saying, I fear Jehovah, I fear Jehovah, I believe what God has said, I believe what God told Israel. And so, her actions here, these verses, we see, we don't hear about her faith at this point, but man, we see it. The strength of her faith. That is the point that James is trying to make in chapter two. If you would, keep your place here, come back very, very quickly. And I know we just touched on this the other week in a previous message. James chapter 2, the second time, or the third time Rahab is mentioned in the New Testament, James chapter 2. And James is illustrating, he's using her as an illustration, as we pointed out previously As a testimony or an illustration of what faith produces. Look at verse 18, first of all. And I know we've gone over this before, but this is, I think, one of the primary lessons from the life of Rahab. Verse 18, James 2. Yea, a man may what? Say, I circled the word say, thou hast faith, and I have works. Okay? You say you have faith? Show me thy faith without thy works. The implication is what? You can't It's impossible. Show me thy faith without thy works. I will show thee, and the key words there, show, show, testimony, display. I will show thee my faith by my works. In other words, he's saying I say I have faith in God. I say I believe the Bible. I say I believe God is right. I say I believe God's will is perfect. I say, say, say, say Alright, how do I how do you know that I have genuine faith? I really believe it? By my works, my behavior, my actions, uh they line up with what I say, I believe, is seen in how I What I say I believe is seen in how I behave. That's a simple point. I know I'm I'm beating that. But that's the lesson of Rahab. And we see that here in Joshua chapter 2, verses 4 through 5. She is displaying she is putting her life on the line she is betraying her people because she believes God But she believes in Jehovah and what he said and what he's going to do. And so, then come over to verse 25. Likewise. Alright, you say you have faith. I don't see it. You don't have any words to show it. I say I have faith, let me show you my faith by how I behave Now we know from other passages of Scripture our works don't save us. Our faith saves us, but faith produces works It gives at works verify my faith. They certify my faith. Verse 25. Likewise also Was not Rahab the harlot justified by works in the eyes of the spies? Oh wow, she does believe in Jehovah. When she received the messengers and had sent them out another way. So her deception here, come back to Joshua, I see tremendous, I see the evidence of faith, I see the works of faith in what Rahab is doing right here, right now, and then later on. It carries through through the rest of her story here in Jericho. In this case, Rahab displayed her faith before she ever explained her faith. Do you agree with me? Those two spies, they're in the house, they're hiding. Man, just through that door, those men will kill them. They get a hold of them. Their life is over And standing between those men and the people of God, these two men of God, spies for Israel, standing between them is this harlot. And whatever she says and whatever she does is going to determine whether they live or die. Whether they ever see their family again or not, she's in between. And they hear what she's saying Huh. She sounds like a believer. She's defending us She's protecting us. Her behavior is communicating, not all the information, but it's communicating to the two spies, something's up. This is, she's unique So, she her deception is my thought here. Now let's look at the text. Are you back in in Joshua? Look at verse 4, the first part. Her deception is what we're looking at. Verse 4, first part. And the woman took the two men and hid them. The woman took the two men and hid them and said thus her actions. Her deceptive uh she is deceptive in her actions. She hid the men, hid the men. There is no threat on the part of the spies telling her you better hide us or you're dead meat. You better cover for us. Or you're going to be sorry. Nothing of that at all. This was a free will decision on the part of Rahab. She's saying this of her own accord She's not being coerced, she's not being threatened. The only thing motivating and driving her to deceive. The king in her city by hiding the spies is her faith in God. Her faith in God. So she was deceptive in her actions. She was also deceptive in her words. Now, here's where it gets interesting. This is where it gets a little difficult. Rahab lied. Flat out. There's no other way to say it. There's no other way to put it. She lied. She said they were here and they left. They just left. Whenever you close the gate at dark, they're on the way down there. Flat out lie. Not a bit of truth behind what she said. And the interesting thing is, there's no rebuke in the Bible from God about her lying. There's not even a comment about it in Scripture. She lied. Nowhere in the Scripture is the fact that she blankly lied addressed in any way, shape, or form. There's several instances in scripture where good people lied. And they never were rebuked for it. They never were chastened for it. They just flat out lied. In every case, and I was going to take time to go through it, but we we wouldn't get through this till I turn 72. But in about every case, if you'll study it, nearly every case or every case where good people, God's people, lied. Blantly lied, and God did not address it. Now sometimes certain situations he did, but there's a number where God never addressed it, never rebuked him, no consequences, no chastisement, just nothing In every case, it was somebody protecting a life or resisting tyranny. Or advancing God's purposes. Now, here's my question. Here's an ethical question for you and I, as Bible believers. Is it ever right to lie? Good question. Good question. Does God ever condone lying? Now you can try and answer that out loud if you want. I tell you, this is, and I don't think it's an easy question to answer. It should be, it can be I put a few thoughts down. Number one, all lying is sin. Period. What does the ninth commandment, Exodus 20, verse number 16, say? Thou shalt not Bear false witness. You know what God is saying? Don't lie. Thou shalt not lie. Now I looked that up a number of times just to make sure I was reading it correctly, and that's all it says. There's no conditions, there's no qualifications, there's nothing like except in this situation or under these circumstances or in this scenario it might be okay. No, he just says flat out, point blank, black and white, thou shalt not bear false witness. In fact, Jesus took it to a whole nother level. In John chapter 8 and verse 44, he says, Satan, the devil, is the A liar and the father of it. Satan is the father of lies That's what Jesus said. It's not Dennis Leatherman. It's not Mountain Lake. It's not Baptist denomination. It's Jesus. God says, thou shalt not bear false witness. Period. Jesus says Satan is a liar and the father of it. Question, is it ever right to lie? Lying is sin. Now, let's back up. Rahab. All through Scripture, she's commended for her faith. Numerous times we looked at them. Hebrews, all faith. She's in that list. She made the list. Who's who in the world of faith? She's commended for her faith. Nowhere is Rahab ever commended for her dishonesty. Not once. It's just not addressed. I think this passage isn't praising her for lying. It's not commending her for lying, it's simply recording the fact that she lied. That she lied. It's just an account, a record of it. And you have that numerous times throughout Scripture. However, I said all that now. How many people are thinking with me? How many people your mind is going right now a little bit? Three. Good. Sometimes doing right conflicts with itself And uh uh for instance here, if she tells if she tells the king's Secret Service the truth What happens to Israel's and what happens to these two good men? They're men of God. They're men of faith. What happens to them? They're dead. They're not coming out of the house alive, I guarantee it. If she tells them the truth. So she's an accomplice to murder. She's accommodating, she's facilitating the murder of two good men, men of God. However, if she protects their life Then she has to lie. Would you agree? Facilitating the murder of good men is wrong. Right? Being accompliced of murder is wrong. However, telling a lie is wrong. So sometimes doing right conflicts with itself Let me give you a little more contemporary illustration. How many people recognize the name Cori Tenboom? Does anybody tell me what did Cori Tenboom do during World War II? She hid Jews in her house, hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands. She saved their lives from a devil-possessed Man and an organization, there's no doubt in my mind, he was possessed of the devil. Hitler was possessed of the devil and his henchmen, there's no doubt in my mind And so she's hiding these Jews, God's people, saving their lives by the hundreds, maybe thousands. And every time the Gestapo or whoever or no Gestapo was Russia, wasn't it? Was that Germany? Okay. Who was Russia? KJB. So every time these Nazis show up at her house She's lying to him. I mean through her teeth, flat-out, blanton lie. And her and her family were Christians. They loved God. They knew the Bible They love God. Would you see do you see a conflict? If they'd have told the truth, all those uh those they would have been killed along with all the others. And so sometimes doing right conflicts with itself. Come with me, if you would, just quickly. I don't I want to get through this, to Matthew. Now I don't know if this is The best passage to try and point out the principle I'm trying to make here, Matthew 23. Jesus is speaking. To the Pharisees, Matthew chapter 23. And then when you get there, find verse 23. Matthew 23 and verse 23. Now he's rebuking these Pharisees Now they were hypocrites to the core, legit hypocrites. Genuine for real, legitimate hypocrites. Now notice what he says in verse 23. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Now look what he says. For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin And have omitted the what weightier matters of the law Judgment, mercy, and faith. These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Question: Did God instruct them to pay tithes? Yes, absolutely. I can take you to passages, both Old and New Testament. God clearly instructed them. If they didn't do that, they would be disobeying. But Jesus makes an interesting statement here, and again, I want to be very, very careful that I'm not reading too much into this. But he says there are some things in the law that are weightier than others. Says you ought to pay your tithe and all that, but you're leaving off this, and this is more important, this is more significant. This has higher weight, this has more significance This carries much more influence than these do. You're doing the simple, easy thing here, but these others that are are are weightier matters you're neglecting. So that implies to me. That some aspects of the law are weightier than others. You follow my thinking so far? Are you with me? And so there's a conflict here. Is protecting an innocent life A weightier matter than telling the truth to evil people Is protecting a Jew's life, thousands of them perhaps, a weightier matter than lying to a devil-possessed Nazi? Rahab protecting two of God's people? Innocent? A weightier matter than lying to these pagan people who would slit their throats as second they got a hold of them? I'm telling you it's it's you have to think. You have to think Is it wrong? Let me try and approach it from a little different direction. Let me ask you this. Is it wrong to murder? Yes or no? Yes. Thou shalt not kill. Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not kill. Very clear, cut and dry. Oh, throughout Scripture, that's taught over and over, thou shalt not kill. It is wrong to murder. If I would go out here and uh find somebody get in a fight with Dave Heath and I murdered him, I would sin. Right? Or anybody else? Derek said, eh? There you know who your friends are, Dave Yes! That would be a horrendous sin. That would be awful sin. Let's suppose tonight at two in the morning I hear a window shatter in my house. Two guys with masks on kick the door open. They come in and they get my wife and they're gonna kill my wife and I get my gun out and I shoot them, kill them, for the purpose of protecting my wife. Am I doing wrong? No. I think scripture supports that Self-defense is legitimate, uh legitimatizes violence in protecting myself and my family. China invades America. They're going to take over our country, they're going to destroy our people, they're going to kill. And our military mobilizes and we fight them and we shoot them and we kill them. Are we doing wrong? No, we're defending our homeland. We're defending our country. Now you can argue the ethics of some of the wars we fought. That's not much, don't miss the point. The point is, there are circumstances where, though God says thou shalt not kill, there are circumstances where killing is legitimate. Killing is justified. In fact, in Timothy, he says, speaking of the government, he says, they bear not the sword in vain. The government has authority from God for capital punishment. Now it has to be within the correct circumstances, not arbitrary. But in those cases it is legit. So here's my question. In a situation that Rahab finds herself in, where it's either these men die or she tells a lie. That's the choice. Is that the same principle? Is that the same principle as me defending my wife from somebody coming in wanting to do her harm? I say yes. I say yes. Lying is sin. Lying is wrong. We cannot get around that And I want to suggest to you that 99. 99% of the lies people tell are absolute sin. Overwhelming majority of lies that come off the lips of humanity are absolute sin. Violating God's clear holiness, God's clear commands, God's clear demands. We are not to lie. 99%, I would say the overwhelming majority of lies that are told in our day and age, in our country, in our communities, in our churches. Are sin. Absolute sin. So if if a person lies to avoid inconvenience, that is sin. Right or wrong. If I lie so I can save a little bum bit of money, or if I lie to get some money illegitimately from someone else, if I lie to advance my own uh pleasures or my own uh finances or my uh trying to advance my own agenda. If I lie to advance myself or benefit myself or Please myself in any way, shape, or form. It is absolute sin condemned by God. In fact, Revelation says all liars shall have their part, which burneth the lake of fire. That's how serious God is about telling the truth. If I lie to avoid consequences, I do something wrong and there's consequences as a result of it, and then I lie to cover up the wrong I did, I lie. to avoid the consequences that come because of my actions, that is sin. I hope you uh you get the point? Lying is wrong. Lying is sin. We ought not to lie. Truth should be our default setting. First thing that comes off our lips should be truth. Without thinking, without hesitation, without debate, without negotiation, I tell the truth. Now, having said that, there are certain situations where doing right conflicts with doing right. And I have to I need the wisdom of God, I need to walk close to the Lord, I need to have faith and be able to distinguish, all right, this situation And I'm here to tell you, of the thousands and thousands of events recorded in Scripture, we have about three. Where they were in a situation like this where they told a lie, God doesn't praise it, He doesn't commend it, He just doesn't address it. So we have to be very careful. Integrity should be our default. We do right. And last of all, I gotta end. Come back if you would. So I mean you can come to your own conclusions there. It's not an easy thing. Some situations in life and in the Bible require some wisdom. The thing that as I was studying this and putting this together, the thing that kept coming in my mind, the caution, the red light keeps coming in my mind, I do not want to convey in any way, shape, or form that it's okay to lie All right, did I make that clear? Under no circumstances other than these very few here Where you had a weightier matter. Now, last of all, quickly, let me move on, and I'll end with this: the spies' deliverance. Look at verse number six, back there in chapter two. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house. This is after she sent these Gestapo gone. She brought them up to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks of flax. Which she had laid in order upon the roof. Now that's interesting. Let me just make a few statements and I know I need to end. But flax Oh, by the way, let me just back up a bit. I thought this was interesting. The men from the king took her at her word. They didn't question her. They didn't put a polygraph test on her. She said they were here, they left, they're going, hurry up. Okay. Something about Rahab. They treated her with respect and they believed her words. Tell you, the more I'm studying Rahab, the more I'm realizing she is quite a unique gal. This is a harlot And the king's men respect her enough, not the barge in her house. The king's men believe her word She has some sort of reputation that she could be trusted and she should be treated with respect. I know very few situations where harlots are treated with respect. And believed. But Rahab. Something about her. And here's something else. As I'm working my way through, I'm learning stuff about her. Notice it says, she had brought them to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks of what? Flax, what do we know about flax? I didn't know nothing about flax until I started studying it. Flax, I thought, well, that's something you put on your cereal in the morning, you know, you sprinkle flax on it Spring on your ice cream at night. No. Flax was extremely valuable Flax was very, very expensive. It was a commodity of the rich and wealthy. It was used to produce linen, very fine, ornate clothing. Flax was used to produce to make produce expensive clothing. For kings and royalty. It was used to make ornate curtains to hang as tapestry in expensive homes and places. Blacks. Um flax was not something you would find in a common household. Tack and I were living in Jericho, and during this time, we would not have had any flax in our house. Polyester, maybe. Flax? No. And apparently she had a large quantity of it because these guys could hide under it. Well, just a little bit. Oh, look at this fax we got. I inherited it from grandpa I mean she's got a bunch. Notice she has it, it says she laid it in order upon the roof. I mean it's lined up. She has a large quantity of this highly valuable commodity. At her house. So apparently she has this large quantity. Maybe. So you start thinking, what in the world is this harlot doing with all this flax? Maybe she was a supplier. Maybe merchants would come through. She would buy and sell. She used it as a means of income. Maybe she was a merchant herself in the sale of flax. Maybe she sold it on Amazon. I doubt it. But the conclusion you almost have to come to here. With flax being on her roof and a large quantity where she can hide grown men in it, is she apparently was a pretty wealthy gal. Now let's take all these little pieces and put it together and get this picture of Rahab we're trying to see here. She's a harlot. And all that that tells us, all that that comes to mind with that But yet, on the other hand, the king's men treat her with respect. They believe what she says without question. And she's got this tremendous amount of wealth in the form of flax on her roof. Would you agree with me? She's a little bit of an enigma. She's unusual. Hard to figure out. Anyone with me on this? She's unique in so many ways. The king's men took her at her word. They went running after these guys that were up on her roof underneath the flax pile. No suspicion of dishonesty on their part from her. Apparently they considered her trustworthy, and apparently they considered her word. Sound enough to trust the safety of Jericho on her words. They knew the men were in there. They knew they had gone to that house. They knew that. No doubt, fact established. She says they took off and left without questioning. They took her at her word and acted upon what she said. Something about her communicated, you can trust me. You can trust me. I wonder, and this is, I'm trying to make application, but I wonder for us, how many people In our realm, in our family, in our place of work, our circle of friends and associates, our neighborhood, how many people would say you can trust her? You can trust him. If they say it's so, it's so. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from Rahab. Unusual woman, uh, and in uh uh difficult circumstances. But I pray that our faith would affect our behavior and our loyalties to the Lord would supersede all other loyalties. And I pray that our testimony and our word would be so sure that people could trust us. God forbid have mercy on us for lies. I pray you'd help us to be men and women of integrity and be honest and tell the truth. Heads bowed, eyes closed, I don't know how God may have dealt with your heart tonight, but you say, preacher, God did speak to my heart tonight. Some way in some what. You say, pray with me that God will help me respond properly and and and and uh make adjustments as God addressed it. Any any like that at all? God spoke to my heart tonight. God bless you. Number hands around. Let's let the Lord have his way. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads up