Chapter six is where we're at and then Hebrews chapter eleven if you would and mark both those places. We're gonna Lord will and I believe we're gonna end up jumping back and forth. for just a bit between those two. And actually we're going to be looking up a number of verses, turning to a number of verses. So you want to keep your Bibles handy. We're studying the life of Rahab And uh we've uh so far what we learned about her, we're not told a whole lot in the Bible about her, so I'm f I feel like some of the My uh message is some of the statements are a little repetitious because we just like I said, there's not a whole lot given to us about her. We don't know how she ended up Um this in this occupation, uh the harlot. Uh we're not sure uh some other questions came up as we study through this, and apparently a woman of wealth uh uh maybe some influence there as far as the government and leadership authorities in Jericho, we're not sure We speculate a bit, but nevertheless, the uh spies have been sent out by Joshua. They're checking out the landscape. Uh we're assuming entrance and exit routes for Jericho when they make the assault. At that point in time, I don't believe they knew exactly how Jericho was going to fall. Uh all they knew is they were going to attack it and they were going to win. God had given them that assurance. So uh probably out of precaution and preparation, they're spinning out. They come across Rahab Somehow, again, we don't know exactly. They she they come to find out she has tremendous faith in Jehovah. And she um and makes a plea for her life and for her family. Um and uh they get this covenant together of sorts, and uh the spies agree that they will spare her life. And she needs to hang this scarlet thread uh in the window uh at her house on the wall. And then the spies go back to Jericho. So that's where we left Rahab. We don't read any more about Rahab in Joshua in the scripture until we get to chapter 6. And that's what we're going to look at tonight. Now, Jericho is about to be invaded. They're about to be destroyed. And Rahab and her family arise here in the In the um account. Look at verse 17. Joshua 6, verse 17. Joshua is speaking to the people. And he makes this statement. He says, And the city, Jericho, shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord. So the city, all the people are cursed to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent. So the spies came back, they gave a very clear report to Joshua, convinced him that she needed to be spared. But Joshua is now, it's before they go into battle, he's communicating that to his military, to his people. Verse 18, and ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing. That's the whole city. Lest ye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel accursed and trouble it But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord. They shall come into the treasury of the Lord. So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets. And it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the people shouted with a great shout that the wall fell down flat. So the people went up into the city, and every man straight before him, and they took the city, and they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old Ox and sheep and ass with the edge of the sword. They slaughtered everybody. But Joshua said unto the two men that had spied out the country Go into the harlot's house, and bring out thence the woman, and all that she hath, as ye swear unto her. And the young men that were spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and her mother and her brethren and all that she had. And they brought out all her kindred and left them without the camp of Israel. And they burnt the city with fire and all that was therein, only the silver and the gold and the vessels of brass and of iron they put into the treasury of the house of the Lord. And Joshua saved Rahab, the harlot, alive and her father's household and all that she had, and she dwelleth in Israel even unto this day, because she hid the messengers which Joshua sent to spy out Jericho. So, Hebrews chapter 11. Now keep your place there. Come back to Hebrews chapter 11. And notice with me verse number 30. Hebrews 11:30. Hebrews 11. 30. Alright. Says, by faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about seven days. By faith, the harlot Rahab perished not with them that what's the next two words? Believe not. The reason that's the reason they perished. They believed not. When she had received the spies with peace. So I entitled it, Rahab and Her Family Are Spared. Let's pray together and we'll look at this tonight. Father in heaven. Lord, I pray that you would use our study of this dear woman and her tremendous testimony of faith. I pray you'd help us that we would grow in our faith, that our faith would be strong enough to stand I pray that you would fill me with your Spirit. I yield my will and my mind. I ask your Holy Spirit to take over my thinking as I teach and preach here for the next few moments. I would present my body anew to you and pray that you would be our teacher tonight, Lord. And please have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Both the Old Testament and New Testament, as we've noticed numerous times in our study. They treat Rahab very well. In fact, if you pay close attention to everything in the Bible that's said about Rahab is pretty much, if it's not just straight fact account of what happened, it's pretty positive. I can't find any statements in the Word of God about Rahab that's negative or critical, other than if you want to, she's referred to as the harlot. It's a title or description of her. But as far as herself, her as a person, the Bible is very positive about her, particularly About her faith. And I'll be honest with you, I'm studying Rahab. The thing that's standing out head and shoulders above everything else about her is her faith. That's what Hebrews references, the faith of Rahab. James makes reference to her faith, and it displayed itself in her works. And so Rahab is spoken of very highly in Scripture, really, particularly concerning her faith. Now just a few statements about her faith, and again, I know we're being a little repetitious. But her faith was a very limited faith. It was a limited faith. Come back to chapter 2, if you're back in Joshua Again, keep your place in chapter 6 here, but notice chapter 2, and we touched on this previously, and verse number 8, Joshua 2, 8. These are the spies. They're on the roof. She's hiding them. Before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof and said unto the man, She wanted to communicate something to them. She had something she wanted them to know. And she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. The Lord. She refers to not your God, but the Lord. The Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard How that the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Shihon and Og whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Now, as far as we know, that's all she knew about the Lord. She had a very, very limited faith. But her faith, as limited as it was, was in the right thing. It was in the Lord. And it is not, and we've said this often over the years, it's not the amount of faith that a person has that is important, it's the object of the faith. A person like a woman like Rahab may have very, very limited faith. She doesn't know a whole lot about Jehovah She doesn't know a whole lot about his attributes maybe and his ceremonies, his laws and all that. She doesn't know a whole lot about any of that But she knows who he is. She knows he's the true God. She knows he's the one that can save or destroy. And she's trusting him to save her. And so she has a very limited faith. She's not the only person in the Bible that we read about that had limited faith, but nevertheless, it benefited them in great ways. Anybody familiar with that one thief on the cross? Remember the two thieves. And for a while they're both reviling the Lord. Finally, one, I guess he gets under conviction or whatever. And he quits reviling the Lord, and he makes that tremendous statement, very simple: Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. Now, as far as I can tell, that thief knew maybe nothing about the inspiration and preservation of Scripture. We don't know what he knew about that. I doubt he had very in-depth knowledge of Scripture. I doubt he had a whole lot of knowledge about the Trinity I doubt he had very much understanding about what all's involved in atonement or the rapture of the church or all these types of things. He is very livid. He was a thief condemned to die. He wasn't just a petty thief. He was a serious thief. Bad m bad boy. And yet he takes that little faith he has, very limited understanding, and he puts it in the Lord Jesus. And what does Jesus say? Today you'll be with me in paradise. Even though his faith was very limited, no doubt, yet he put it in the Lord Jesus Christ and it saved his soul. Isn't that something? I got thinking about, and we were going to turn there, but for the sake of time we won't. I got thinking about that blind fella that Jesus healed in John chapter 9. And um uh they press him, who was this fellow that healed you? And he goes, I don't know. And they keep pressing him, pressing, oh, were you really blind? Yeah, I was blind. They get his parents Say, was this guy actually blind? Yeah, that's our son. He was born blind, but how he sees, I don't know. Ask him. He's adult. He can tell you. And they press him and press him and press him. And finally he makes this statement They asked him about Jesus, and he says, whether Jesus, oh, they asked him, they said, How can a sinner make a blind man see? Now, this was his limited understanding of Jesus. He said, whether he's a sinner or not. I don't know. But this one thing I do know. I was blind, but now I see. And Jesus approaches him later and he said, Do you believe in the Messiah? He says, Who is he? He says, I'm the Messiah. He says, I believe. I believe. He had enough faith. Again, it's not the amount of our faith. It's not how intelligent our faith is. It's what our faith is in. Rahab's faith was very limited, very limited. She knew nothing of the law of God that had been given to Israel. She knew nothing of the ceremonies and sacrifices, as far as we know. She was ignorant of all of that. But her faith She had enough information, enough knowledge about the Lord, she could put her faith in it and God saved her. Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. We do have to have a certain level of understanding of the gospel and Jesus Christ to be saved Romans chapter ten says, How shall they believe on whom they have not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? And we know the only the gospel is the power of God into salvation And the gospel is that Jesus died for our sins according to scriptures, was buried, and rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. Galatians chapter 15 tells us that's what the gospel is. So there has to be a certain level of understanding. However, I'm afraid a lot of times we think people have to be theologians before they can understand enough to be saved I did a Bible time rally years ago, back when I was still in college, and uh the pastor he he nobody was getting saved. The little kids would come forward to get saved, young people come get saved They go, he'd counsel them, he'd send them back. No, they don't under they don't have enough. Man, he wa they needed to know the Trinity and the doctrine of incarnation and good night Listen, if they can understand that they're a sinner, that there's consequences of their sins, separation from God, Jesus loved them, died for their sins, buried, rose again And if they'll trust him, call on him in faith, God will forgive them and save them. It's a very simple truth. It's not always easy for people to accept. But salvation in itself, you don't have to be a th theologian to understand and be saved. Uh Brother Charles Holmes here, we're coming up, I'm thinking Bible time because uh Bible time's only about six weeks out, not even probably. And I got a Bible time ribbon right here, so I'm gonna think about Bible time But um he used to say that people would ask him, I mean he saw literally millions of young people come to Christ over 70 years of Bible time history And um and uh the people used to ask him a lot. They would say, how old does a child have to be before they can be saved? Now a lot of denominations will say that a child has to be twelve years old before they can be saved. You can't find that anywhere in Scripture. It's not there. Brother Holmes sure said, no, I'm just I don't I don't know. I'm just saying what he said. He believed that if a child can tell the difference between their right hand and their left hand They can understand enough to understand the gospel and be saved. And he got that from Jonah, where he's mentioned there's children there that don't know their left hand from their right. So Rahab's faith was very, very limited, but she put it in the right thing. You may say, well, preacher, I don't know how strong my faith is. I'm afraid my faith is too weak to save me Listen, it's not the strength of your faith, it's the object of your faith that makes the difference. And so that's that's not a justification for ignorance And that's not an excuse for ignorance, but it is saying our God is a gracious God and uh He's anxious to save people. So she had a limited faith. I put this down. She had a living faith. And again, we noted that in chapter 2. as she lived out her faith is evidenced by her works. And that's what James is references in chapter 2 verse 25. He says she's justified by her works. In other words, her works may her works verify the reality of her faith. Her faith produced works and her works verified her faith. And so it wasn't just something she said she believed, it wasn't just some head knowledge. It was actually a faith in God that affected the way she lived, affected her behavior, affected the decisions she made. And so it was a living faith. It was alive in her life, producing results. And then I put down it was a life-saving faith. And that's where we're at tonight Her faith in Jehovah saved her life. Saved her family's life. Do you remember when back in Acts chapter 16, Paul and Silas are in prison? And at midnight there was an earthquake. How many people remember that account? And the jailer thought that everybody escaped, so he was going to kill himself because they were going to kill him anyway, the authorities. And Paul says, no, no, do yourself no harm. We're all here. And then the jailer asked that profound question. What did he ask him? What must I do to be saved? And Paul gives an interesting answer. He says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And we stop there often, but that's not where Paul stopped. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved, and what? Thy house. Your whole household. They believe in the Lord. And I think that what we have here in Joshua chapter 6 is a perfect Old Testament illustration of that point. Rahab's faith affected her family. They believed And their whole whole family is saved, is spared from judgment. So here's my outline. Joshua chapter 6, if that's where you're at. Notice verse 17, 18, and 19, we have Joshua's declaration. Again, look at verse 17. The city shall be accursed. Now he's speaking the message of God. And he's telling his people, he's telling his men as they're about to go in and they're going to bring destruction. He says, this city is accursed. Now that word accursed It means appointed to destruction. I mean, they are doomed. It is pronounced by God through Joshua, this city is duped. They are going to be destroyed. They're appointed to it. Total destruction. Annihilation. Now, you say, what in the world did Jericho ever do to deserve that treatment? Why in the world would God totally annihilate the entire city? Well, I did some looking up on some what Jewish historians have said and different things. And I mentioned this, I think, last week, probably several times in our study. It is hard for us to grasp How ungodly these people really were. Warren Wearsby, who I'm is uh was a Bible teacher, I heard him preach numerous times down at his college, he said that they were unspeakably wicked. What he meant by that was their lifestyle and their behavior and their practices and the thing they did things they did were so vile That he was not comfortable recording them down in his in his books he wrote. I mean these are incredibly wicked people. They were uh unspeakably wicked. And it's hard for you and I to grasp that. And we look in our society, we say, well yeah, I tell you, we're we're we're not we're approaching it, but we're not there yet And I'm afraid we fail to realize, and I say we, I'm afraid we we fail to realize how devastating sin really is. And the progressive nature of what sin is. Um, God is holy And God created mankind to be holy. He designed us to function. And I hope you You get this, because this is so important, I believe, to understand why uh sin and why it's so devastating and why it's so condemned by God. God is holy, and He created us, Adam and Eve, an intention for all of mankind. He created us to function as holy beings. It's the way we're designed to function. We are not designed to be sinful beings. We're not designed that way. And when something, and we use the illustration of machinery often, but if machinery is being used in a way it's not designed to be used, what happens to that machinery? It breaks down. It fails to function properly. And in many cases, it becomes very, very dangerous. God is holy. God has created you and I mentally to think holy. When we don't think holy, when we think sinfully, selfishly, carnally. Our mind is not functioning as it's designed to function. We may be very, very intelligent But there's more to being what I should be than just intelligence. There's this little thing called wisdom that is necessary if we're going to function properly. And sin destroys wisdom. Wisdom and sin are the antithesis of each other. And so our minds, our minds were created by God to function in a holy way. Our emotions are physically, spiritually. And when sin entered the world, it immediately began to break down the way we were designed to function. And sin is of such a nature that it becomes progressive. And a little sin gets in there and it's tolerated, it's not dealt with, it's not corrected, it's not repented and cleansed and dealt with correctly, it stays there, it progresses to something worse. And to something worse, and to something worse, and to something worse. Psalm 19 talks about that. Secret sins and then presumptuous sins and then the great sin. And this is what has happened to mankind over the years, and where you find people who let sin go unchecked. It just progresses worse and worse and worse. And that is where Canaan is at. And God's people are coming into this land. And they cannot, listen, they cannot be assimilated With that society, with that mentality, with that morality, they cannot assimilate with that because it will corrupt them And God has a plan for Israel. Two very, very important things that is going to come out of Israel. One is the scriptures. Romans tells us that the scriptures came through Israel. And number two is the Savior. Savior is going to come from Israel. So Israel has to Maintain that holiness, that godliness, so that God can accomplish what his intention is for that people. Now, they struggle with it all the time, and God chases them, and God rebukes them, and God sends them into captivity, send prophets, and and uh and trying to keep them holy Till finally Messiah comes and he has to set them aside. But someday they're going to be holy as God intends for them to be. And so God completely instructs Israel wipe this city out, destroy it, annihilate it. The wickedness was so ingrained and had progressed to such a point. That it was certain judgment. All through the Old Testament we find Satan seeking to corrupt God's people And what he attempted to do with the nation of Israel, I see very clearly, he's attempting to do with the church, is to corrupt us. Get us to live sub-holy lives. Get us to function as a body sub-holy so that we cannot function as God intends for us to function. And He tries to corrupt us I'm convinced, there's no doubt in my mind, and particularly coming out of this study of Rahab, I am convinced that Jericho could have been spared. Had they responded the same way Rahab did? Remember I pointed out when we read Hebrews, it says they believed not. That's why they were judged. That's why they perished, because they believed not. I'm convinced that entire city, every person living in there, could have been spared had they responded the same way Rahab did. Anybody remember Sodom and Gomorrah when uh the two angels appear to Abraham? And they're going to go down, check the city out, and then he says, I'm going to destroy them. And Abraham gets broken, particularly for Lot, I'm sure. And he says, Lord, would you destroy the city if there were 50 righteous people? And he says, No, I would what? I'd spare it if there's 50 people there. What about 40? What about 30? What about 20? Lord, with there's 10, he says, I'll spare that sea. Sodom and Gomorrah. If there's ten righteous people there, I'll not judge it. So would you agree with me, Sodom and Gomorrah could have been spared if there had been ten righteous people? Ten people who would have believed in Jehovah, ten people who would have put their faith in Jehovah. It could have been spared. So I'm convinced Jericho could have been spared. If they would have believed, like like Rahab did. Anybody remember Jonah going to Nineveh? And we referenced this in the previous message. Nineveh was already condemned. Forty days, and Nineveh shall be what? Destroyed! That's the exact same thing they're saying about Jericho. But what did Nineveh do? They repented at the preaching of Noah, Noah, uh Jonah. It's one of those sailors in the Old Testament. They repented at the preaching of Jonah, and God spared them. And so the level of wickedness here had progressed to the point where God says they need to be judged. That whole nation needs to be judged. I can't have my people mingled in with that, affected by that. Which they eventually they become corrupted a lot of ways. But they could have been spared, there's no doubt in my mind I am absolutely convinced anybody in this world, no matter how wicked they may be, no matter how perverse their past may be, they can be saved. Rahab's a testimony, Nineveh is a testimony, all through Scripture. And so the destruction of Joshua's declaration of their disruption. The second thing I noticed very quickly, verse 20 through 23, is Rahab's deliverance. Joshua's declaration, Rahab's deliverance. Look at verse 20. So the people shout. Now pay attention to the wording here. See if you pick up what I picked up. So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets. So here's a society, here's a people that are about to face judgment. And what initiates the judgment is a shout and a trumpet blast. Huh. Does that remind you of any other event in Scripture where there's going to be horrendous judgment and it's initiated with a shout and a trumpet sound? The rapture of the church, the tribulation period. Thessalonians chapter, 1 Thessalonians 4:16 says this: for the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. With the voice of the archangel with the trump of God. Now, I don't say that this is a prophecy of that, but I find it interesting That judgment on Jericho and judgment on the world are preceded by a shout and by a trumpet blast So notice Joshua a couple of things I want to notice here. So the people shouted, verse 20, and uh the trumpet and the great shout and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city. And they just come pouring in, and every man straight before him, and they took the city, utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, ox and ass uh ox and sheep and ass with the edge of the sword. But Joshua had said unto the two men, spied out the country, go into heart the harlot's house Bring out thence the woman all she hath, as she as ye swear unto her. My first observation here is Joshua and the spies kept their word to Rahab Now in some people's minds they could have said, listen, you guys promised her that she's a harlot for crying out loud We need to destroy this whole thing. We don't have time to mess with this. We don't have time to fool around with these little rabbit trails, go in there and wipe everybody out. Could can anybody here imagine them saying something like that? Sure. But they had something. Joshua and the men of Israel at this point, they had some integrity about it. And they had made a promise. They had made a covenant with this woman. And Joshua is making sure that they keep their word. So Joshua and the spies kept their word. It is impossible, I believe, it is impossible to overstate the importance of God's people keeping their word. Doing what I say, keeping my vows, keeping my promises, keeping my word. When God's people keep their word, they do what they say, they are giving a testimony as to God's character. We are, we don't refer to ourselves this way, but we really are, we are the people of God. Right or wrong? We are. And I trust that each of us as individuals have a testimony in our community, in our realm of influence, that we are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when we keep our word, when our when people know that we as individuals, when we say something, we're going to stand behind it and we're going to do it. Even if it is an inconvenience, even if it requires going out of my way or it's costing me more or whatever, I am going to keep my word. You do what you swore to that harlot you would do. They kept their word. It's a testimony to God's character. It's Christ-like to keep our word. It's godly to keep our word. Now keep your place here. Come back just a few pages to Numbers. Just two books earlier. Go towards the front of your Bible. You'll hit Deuteronomy, then you'll run into Numbers. And notice Numbers chapter 23. And I had this underscored in my Bible and in red letters and bracketed, and I want this verse to stand out. Numbers chapter 23 and verse number 19. Notice what this says God is not a man that he should lie. Neither the Son of Man that he should repent. Now look at this. Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or has he spoken? Shall he not make it good? Would you agree with me? God keeps his word. God says something so, you mark it down, it's so. If God says he's going to do something, you mark it down, he's going to do it. And when we keep our word, we are being godly. We're doing something God does. We're being Christ-like. In fact, the assurance of my salvation is based upon God keeping his word. I was talking to someone this week, and uh sometimes, you know, sometimes Christians get where they start doubting their salvation And the problem is when I start looking at myself and I start looking at my behavior or maybe my attitude or my failures. And if I'm depending upon me doing something to keep me saved, I will lose it for sure. But the assurance of my salvation, the security of my salvation is not based upon my behavior or my attitude or my success or my failures. The assurance of my salvation is based upon God keeping his word. You say, well, I wonder if I'm saved or not. You go to the Bible, what does God say? Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, help me, shall be saved. Period. And so they kept their word. Tremendous testimony for you and I, a tremendous example for you and I, as God's people in 2025, keep our word. Keep our word. We shouldn't have to sign 25 legal documents. Just i ideally we should just give our word and that should be enough. Amen or not. But it's not. So they kept their word. It's a testimony. Keeping their word was a testimony of God's character. When we keep our word, it stabilizes relationships. Healthy relationships are built upon trust. And trust requires keeping my word. If somebody's gonna trust me, if I want someone to trust me, I better keep my word. Amen or not? Yeah, trust is based upon assurance that what they say is so. If they're not keeping the word of what they're telling me is not true, would you agree? It's difficult to trust that. And so it builds healthy relationships. Rahab and Israel are going to have a tremendous relationship. She's going to be one of the key people in the lineage of Jesus Christ. She's going to be King David's great-grandmother. Right? Grandmother or great grandmother? Boaz. Salmon and then Boaz and then Jesse and then great grandmother. Trust requires keeping my word. Trust requires being trustworthy. Produces security in a relationship. It produces respect in a relationship. So they kept their word. Keeping our word will strengthen our spiritual well-being. It's hard for a person to grow spiritually if they're unreliable. So, number one, I notice here under Rahab's deliverance, the spies, Joshua and the spies kept their word to her. That was vital. That's how she's going to survive. Second thing I notice here, Rahab is in her place. Look at verse 23 back here in Joshua. Says um Verse 23, and the young men that were spies went into her house there and brought out Rahab and her father and her mother and her brethren and all that she had And they brought out and they brought out all of her kindred. So she was where she said they would be. She was where she needed to be. She was where she was supposed to be. She was faithful to her word. The greatest testimony, I think, of genuine faith is faithfulness. She really believed that Jehovah was uh who he said he was and who she heard him to be and if these guys were his people then she's gonna be where she needs to be. Faithful, faithful It's obvious her family trusted her. There was something about her actions, about her words, maybe her tone of voice that the confidence she instilled in Jehovah and his people that it convinced her family that they could trust her, that they could trust God. I think one of the greatest testimonies to our family is just being faithful. Just being where we should be, when we should be there, doing what we should do. She was in her place. I'm telling you, and they told her before, listen, if you're not there when we show up, we're not obligated to do anything for you. She'd have been out horsing around or stopped at Sheets and got gabbing and wasn't there when it happened. She'd have missed out. She'd be dead But she was in her place. She was in her place. I think one of the best things for God's people is just be faithful, be in our place. We're supposed to be home, be home. Supposed to be at church, be at church. If you're supposed to be at work, be at work. Whatever it may be, just be faithful. Be in our place. So she learned. That she could trust Israel. She learned that Israel learned they could trust Rahab. They've got a pretty good relationship going here. Then she followed instructions. Look at the last part of verse 23. And they brought out all her kindred. Now notice where they put her and her family. They brought out all her kindred and they left them where? Without the camp, wait a minute, I thought she was this great woman of faith. I thought she was so confident enough They put her out without the camp. Why in the world did they put her out here? They got her and said, You guys need to stay out here. You can't come in the camp of Israel. You've got to stay out of the camp. Why would they have to stay out of the camp? Because the law of God had told them they were considered unclean. There were certain things had to take place for them to be part of the nation of Israel. For instance, the men had to be circumcised before they could be part of the Israel. They had to take part in that ceremony They had to submit to the law and to the sacrifices and the ceremonies that God had established She was a believer. She is. I think she's no doubt she's saved. New Testament verifies that. But to be a part of the nation of Israel, to be part of the people of Israel She had to follow instructions. She had to do what God had instructed his people to do as to be a part of that nation. To me, it's very similar to a person getting saved. And then if I want to be a disciple, if I want to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, there's some instructions I've got to follow, right or wrong. Take up your cross daily. Deny yourself. Follow me. Love me supremely. Now, a person can be saved and not be a disciple. I think they come under the chat chastening hand of God and they're not what they should be. But God saves people in order for them to become disciples. And if I'm going to become a disciple as a believer, once I'm saved, I need to follow God's instructions. The first instruction to a believer is be baptized. Read the book of Acts. They got saved by faith. Then they said, all right, be baptized. They followed instructions. And there there's many, many others we could look at. So Rahab, she's in her place. The spies kept their word. Rahab's in her place. She does what they tell him to do. You've got to stay without the camp. Eventually they're in uh They're uh brought into the family of Israel, so to speak, eventually, but they're not there yet. And then I notice in verse 25, she remained committed. Now this is what stirred me Verse 25, and Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father's household, and all that she had, and she dwelleth in Israel even unto this day. This is penned years later. And Rahab is now part of Israel. She's living in the camp, quote unquote She's part of the nation, and she's there to this day. In other words, she remained committed. Her faith was more than just a fire escape from Jericho. It was a lifelong commitment to the Lord and to his people. Her faith was more than just get out of Jericho free. It was a commitment to Jehovah and to his people. And years later, she's right there among God's people, loving God's people, loving God. And right exactly where it should be many, many years. Faith, I put that down, and this may seem a little crude, but we're talking about a harlot here, okay? Faith in the Lord is not a one-night stand. A relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ is a lifelong relationship. And that's what Ray have established. Once they got her out of Jericho, she became part of the people of Israel and she was committed. She stayed there. I tell you, one of the blessings As a pastor, see people in the church that got saved, committed themselves, Lord, and are living for God year after year. uh uh decade after decade just going on for God because it is a lifelong relationship. That's what Rahab established. She went from being a harlot to being a committed child of God. So what what's happening here? She's in Jericho. That whole lifestyle, that whole society, that whole culture is so vile. I mean, her title tells you And yet she hears of Jehovah, she believes. She knows enough that God can save her physically from destruction, and we find out in the New Testament, justifies her. Spiritually before himself. So what's happening here? I'll tell you what's happening. Her faith completely transformed her nature. She is a different woman than what she was before. Everything about her, her values, her priorities, her perspective on things, her love It's totally different from what it was before. She has a new nature. She's transformed. What does 2 Corinthians 5. 17 say? If any man be in Christ, he is a New creature. Old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become what? New. Now that's a New Testament concept, but we see it played out in the Old Testament. And I think particularly in Rahab's lion. The power of her faith. And then we have Jericho's destruction, verse 24 and 25. Jericho's destruction. Oh, by the way, this is just a little trivia. I kind of picked up one here. It appears to me that one part of the wall did not come tumbling down. I mean we always you know we always picture they march around seven days one time, march around quiet next day they do that seven times. The seventh day they march seven times around, then they shout, blow the trumpets and uh and the walls came tumbling down. We look at the place as if it's just level level flat. Well it was all apparently all except for one part of the wall that did not come down. Look with me at verse 15 of chapter 2. Chapter 2. This is when they're making this covenant or this deal with Rahab. And in verse 15 it says, Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town, what? And she dwelt upon the wall. Now come down, verse 18. When we come to the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by uh uh down by, and thou shalt bring thy father, mother, brethren, household, and it shall be set, Whosoever shall up go out of the doors of the house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head. and we shall be guiltless before thee. In other words, they're supposed to stay in that house which is on the wall And when they show up, the scarlet thread is there and they're all in the house. So apparently part of the wall did not go down. I mean, I d how many people I never really noticed that before So your pastor is learning. So Jericho I think one of the great observations, we get all caught up in the destruction of Jericho and the miraculous supernatural destruction of this city. You know what I think one of the great stories of Jericho is? Even greater than the supernatural destruction of the city. I think it's the supernatural salvation of a sinner This gal gets saved and her family. What a story of Rahab. Got one more message I want to bring on Rahab and her lineage in the line of Jesus Christ. And and uh her part of that bloodline. Father, I ask you to help us to see some of these things in Rahab's life that we can incorporate into our life, some principles and Keeping our word, being in our place, trusting you, having faith, and letting that faith affect us I pray you would help us. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder if the Biannie say, Pastor, there's some things in Rahab's life I really need to work on in my life. Maybe it's the keeping the word, being your place, whatever. I don't know how God might apply this. But is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preach or pray. There's some things there. Sure. My hand's raised. What amazing, what amazing account. Father, bless our imitation now I ask in Jesus' name a