Matthew chapter number one, if you would, uh verse number one, we're going to start out here. Matthew one, verse one. The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham And Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judas his brethren. And Judas begat Ferez and Zarah of Famar, and Ferez begot Ezraum And Esram begot Amram, Aram, and Aram begot begat Aminadab And Amenidab begat Nasan, and Nasan begat Salman. Take note of that name. And Salman begat Boaz. How many people are familiar with that name? Boaz. Salmon begat Boaz of Rakab. That's Rahab, the harlot. And Boaz begat Obed of Ruth, and Obad begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon. of her that had been the wife of Urias. And then it goes all the way on down here, giving us the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. And here in this lineage, we have mentioned, in verse number five, we have Rahab mentioned. Rahab the harlot. In the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we've noted her uh already, we've been preaching on this, and we noted how she had made contact with the spies when Uh Joshua sent the two spies into the land. Again, very different situation than when Moses sent spies in, whole different purpose, whole different uh uh uh method and plans and what they did As they're spying out the layout of the land and the makeup of the city, planning their attack, the Lord had not given instructions at that point yet how they were going to take the city, and so uh Joshua was doing what he as a commander would do survey the situation. As they're spying, they came in contact with Rahab, the harlot, come to find out She had turned to the Lord Jehovah in faith. James chapter 2 tells us she was justified. Hebrews chapter 11 tells us, uses her actually as an example of a woman of tremendous faith. And all she had to go on was the fact that she had heard What Jehovah had done for Israel when they came out of Egypt and how they had conquered numerous, God had enabled them to conquer numerous uh kings and their armies as they wandered through the wilderness making their way to the promised land. That's all she knew about Jehovah, but she believed She put her faith and trust in Jehovah as her Savior. And not only did it save her soul, it saved her life and her family's life. And so the they make this contract that if they she will put that scarlet thread, hang that out the window of the wall. When they do attack, they will spare her. Now they didn't know at that point that the walls were going to come down. They had not been given that information from God yet at that point. But they nevertheless made that deal, that covenant, I should say. Of course they came in, the walls came down, except for one portion of the wall where Rahab lived. And that indicated to them where she was, all the scarlet thread. They spared her and her love and her family's lives. And the Bible says she dwelt with them. She moved in, became one of them Now here we are centuries later. We give this account and we find out some more information about Rahab that were not given in the Old Testament. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and teach us something tonight. Rahab, the title of the message I've given it is Rahab in the Generations of Jesus. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. Our time in your word this evening, I ask that you would take this dear woman that is, we're given a little bit of information about with her horrendous background And yet what lessons here? What an example. So I pray your Holy Spirit would please teach us, show us truths that can help us. Be men and women of faith and live lives that please you. God, I can't do that of myself. Need your Holy Spirit, and so Father, as best I can and know how, I yield my will, my mind to you. I pray you guide my thinking and the words I say as I preach. I present my body anew to you, Lord, in this hour that you would fill me with your spirit and speak through me To our hearts and minds. So have mercy and help us tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you haven't picked it up yet, I thoroughly enjoy doing character studies of men and women in the Bible. It's pretty much all our Wednesday night s for the last five years has been character studies. I enjoy studying Rahab and and what we've gleaned from her life. I think studying doing character studies is a great benefit to us. uh personally. I put a few things down what I think doing a s uh uh uh uh character studies will help us. Number one, it helps us grow spiritually When we study the men and women of the Bible, we see how God uses different people in different ways. Some of the characters that were given in the Bible have tremendous strengths. Some of them have tremendous weaknesses. Some of them have both. Samson. Tremendous physical strength, given him supernaturally by God. But tremendous character weakness as a result of his sinful nature. And so we see how God uses these different people. He uses their strengths. He uses their weakness We learn how God can and does use failed people, flawed people, I should say. I never found one person in the Bible apart from the Lord Jesus Christ that was perfect. We haven't found one person in the Bible. We've studied John the Baptist. We've studied Joseph. We've studied David. Now we're studying Rahab, finishing up. Next week we're going to start Moses. I haven't found one person in the Bible apart from the Lord Jesus Christ that did not have a sinful nature, that did not have some flaws and failures and weaknesses, and yet God still used them. I don't know about you, but that encourages me. I look in the mirror and I see many times I see falls, I see failures, I see shortcomings. Anyone here like this, you ever look ever look at yourself and say, God, how can you use someone like me? How could you use someone like me? But he does. And we don't have to be perfect, and we don't have to be some sort of spiritual superman or superwoman to be used of God. We just need to be honest and clean and pure and walk with him and let him use us. So we learn that as we study these different characters in the Bible. God uses flawed people. Praise the Lord for that. God has uh uh were given in Scripture human examples of how God works and how things operate. In other words, we're not just given these concepts of have faith in God, you know, just that concept. We're actually Given people that we can look and study on how that plays out in life, an example of how to have faith in God, an example of how to humble myself. We have examples of how to be passionate about the things of God. He doesn't just say, serve the Lord with all your heart. He gives us the story of David, of someone that served God with all his heart. And we can look and see how that is. We have mentors, we have these templates or these models to follow in a lot of ways. Integrity, Joseph. And see how integrity is lived out, how it speaks, how it responds to difficulties and trials, temptations. Courage. And so studying different characters of the Bible will help us grow spiritually. It really will. And I hope these studies we've been doing have helped you grow spiritually. Number two, I put this down, doing character studies helps us grasp God's character. We see how God responds to his people. Um how God responds when various individuals make a wise decision and how God will honor that. and they do right and and they do righteous and how God honors that. Then when they make stupid decisions or they get involved in sin and how God responds to that. I don't have to wait to find out how God responds to sin. By sinning myself, I can learn from others. They say that experience is the best teacher. I think there's a lot of truth in that. But I'll tell you, if I can learn from someone else's experience, it might save me some heartache. And I believe that's why God gives us the details. It's interesting, these characters we study, God is brutally honest about them. He never covers up their sin. He never whitewashes their failures. He just says, hey, this is the way it was. This is what they were. But yet I can see then how God responds to that. So I learned a lot about God and his interaction with mankind, his plans and purposes, how he can use circumstance situations to accomplish his will. We learn a lot about God. We grow spiritually. We learn of God's character. We gain insight into our own nature or what we are. Sometimes we study this, and I see myself in that person Has anyone here, as we've done various of these studies, anybody got through there and say, man, that sounds like me. Huh? I see myself there. And I learned a little bit of my own simple nature. I was thinking about Peter. You know, we have a tendency to overestimate the strength of our faith. We have a tendency to think more highly of ourselves than we really should. What happened when Jesus says, all y'all, now I don't know if he said all y'all, but um Jesus says, all you fellas are gonna Deny me. Every one of you are going to forsake me. Every one of you are going to forsake me. Peter says, no, we won't. I will never I'll die before I forsake you. Guess who is one of the first ones to forsake him Peter overestimated the strength of his commitment. He overestimated the strength of his faith. And I'll look at that and see, you know Hello, I see myself so many times. And so it helps me see my own nature as we study these do these character studies. We see temptation, Joseph with his dealing with temptation in others, and how to deal with it and how not to deal with it in some cases. The good and the benefit of having passion for the Lord, but the dangers of having passion that come along with being passionate Jose uh David bringing the ark into the Jerusalem and being so passionate about it he neglected the details of pro of properly moving the ark cost Uriah his life or not Uriah it cost um My mind just went blank. Uzziah cost Uzziah his life because David was so passionate about getting in, he overlooked the details. He had learned a hard lesson. So we see the the all this from characters. In other words, what I'm trying to say is this, and I'm getting to the message here, so bear with me. What I'm trying to say is this, characters in the Bible bring Scripture to life and make it real and make it livable. It shows me that God remembers that we are just flesh, that we are human beings. And he can and will work with us and work through us and help us and he'll protect us if we'll trust him, and he'll pick us up when we fall, and he'll empower us when we submit to him. And so it brings Scripture to life. So we're finishing up Rahab. We saw some things about Rahab, her past How God was able to take a person with such a sorid past and yet make them a testimony of faith in God. For all the ages, in the Word of God, for all eternity, when we're in heaven 10 million years, Rahab's testimony will still be there in the Word of God. Putting the past behind, not letting my past define who I am and what I can be. And so, Rahab She goes from a Canaanite harlot to an ancestor of our Savior What an amazing story. What an amazing testimony, the grace of God, and what faith can do, what faith in God can do. A couple things here. I notice here in verse number five, Salman begat Boaz of Rachab. That's Rahab the harlot. And Boaz begot Obed and of Ruth, and Obed, Jesse, and David, and on down the line. Now, I got looking at this fellow Salman. And obviously Rahab married him. Doesn't say they got married, but we could safely assume they were married to be in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. So the question comes up, who is this guy that Rahab ended up marrying? This Salmon fella. I got looking them up and doing a little study on him. I found out he's mentioned only four times in Scripture here and in Luke chapter 3 and then in the Old Testament several places. He's a very obscure person. We're told almost nothing about him He's in both of Jesus' genealogies here in Matthew and in Luke, he's mentioned. So he's a key player, not only in the nation of Israel, but in the lineage of our salvation. It's a very, very important man. How in the world does this guy end up marrying Rahab? Who is he? Well, I looked his name up. I always like to do word studies. I looked his name up and I found out his name, Salman. This is Rahab's husband. Eventually he becomes her husband The name Salmon means, get this, garment. You say, preacher, what's the significance of that? I have studied this very thoroughly. I have no idea. I don't know what the I don't know where his parents came up with the idea. Let's name him Garment. There may be significance there we're not told about. Maybe we'll get to heaven and find out. So I I didn't get much out of his name. Didn't tell me much about him. I did find this out though. He is the f his father was Nason, if you notice there Um verse number four, and Nasan begat Salman. So I thought, Well, who is his father? Remember when David had killed Goliath and King Solomon said, Who is that boy's daddy? So I got thinking, who is this guy's daddy? Let's look him up. And lo and behold, we're given a little bit of information about his daddy. Nasan was of the tribe of Judah Significant tribe. He was a leader during the exodus out of Egypt Numbers chapter 1 verse 7 mentions them as Israel is coming out of Egypt and under the leadership of Moses, and they had what 1 Corinthians chapter 2 referred to, not Corinthians, 1 Chronicles chapter 2 referred. refers to he was a prince of Judah. In other words, he was a leader in the tribe of Judah. a key player in helping Moses in his leadership of leading the nation of Israel out of Egypt. Would you agree with me? Pretty key God. He's not just Joe Blow He has tremendous responsibility. He holds an outstanding position. This is Salman's daddy, and Salman marries a harlot, a Canaanite harlot. He was most likely, I mean we're just adding numbers up here and calculating a little bit, he was most likely born during the 40 years of wilderness journey And so, you know, uh, he may have been a youngster when they first went in, but probably was born during that journey. So that's all we know about this fellow that married her, a highly respected Leader, his daddy at least, we assume that was probably passed on to him in Israel. So this man she married. Number two, I want us to consider the making of this marriage. In other words, how in the world did this happen? How does some son of a powerful leader in one of the tribes of Israel, tribe of Judah of all of them, how does he end up marrying a Canaanite gal? With such a history. I studied the scripture and I found out we're not told to peep. We don't know. I don't know we don't know how they met. We don't know what how he came to decision. Yeah, I'll marry Rahab the harlot, this Canaanite gal that's converted to The Jeh worship and faith in Jehovah. We're not told. I mean, not a smidget of information do we have about how they ended up getting married. If we go outside of Scripture, we have some legends that are passed down through Jewish traditions that go back centuries and centuries and uh probably millennial number of millennials back where the Jews had passed down these legends about Rahab the harlot and Salmon and Jewish legend says For whatever it's worth, Jewish legend says that Salman was one of the two spies that Joshua had sent in that had encountered Rahab while they're doing a recon of the area and that he had stayed there. She had spared his life and he was involved in this covenant that they had made to spare his life. Now there's absolutely no grounds to say, yes, that's true or not true. We have no idea. It's a Jewish legend. However, in my mind, that makes sense. I don't know about you. I could see that happening. That sounds like a Hallmark movie. Um now, because they're all the same, so So the making of the marriage we don't know other than God had a plan. God had a plan. Need a place, you need a purpose for every single person, even a converted harlot from Canaan, from Jericho. So the man she married, Salman, leader, respected, the making of the marriage, we don't know. Maybe he was there one of the spies and They met and fell in love, who knows, but I'm confident of this. God was behind it, God was leading, God was directing. Number three, I want us to consider the miracle of this marriage This is really an amazing thing, that somebody, the caliber of Salmon, would marry somebody with the history of Rahab. How do those two come together? If you would, now keep your place here, because we're going to look at something verse 5 here in a little bit. But come with me back to Deuteronomy. There's one thing God makes very, very clear to Israel before they go into the promised land. And he emphasized it very strongly. Deuteronomy chapter number 7. If you would turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter number 7. And there's no misunderstanding what God is saying here. Nobody misconstrued God's instructions. I guarantee it. Deuteronomy chapter 7, look with me at verse number one. When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it. And have cast out many nations before thee. Alright, so they're coming into the promised land. He's making, telling them what they need to do. The Hittites and the Gergeshites and the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites. Seven nations greater and mightier than thou When the Lord thy God shall deliver them from be deliver them before thee, thou shalt smite them and utterly destroy them. Now we looked at that previously when they're making this covenant with Rahab. But he goes on. Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them. Look at this. Verse 3. Neither shalt thou make what? Marriages with them. Anybody want to take guess what that means? It means what? Don't marry them! Kill them all, basically what he's saying. Neither shalt thou make marriages with them. Then he, just in case they didn't understand He expounds on that. Thy daughter shalt thou not give unto his son Nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. Now this is Salmon's daddy's there. He's one of the princes of Judah. He's leading them out of the uh out of Egypt. He's helping lead them out of Egypt. He's part of the leadership under Moses. And they're leaving Egypt. They're anticipating at this point in time going directly to the promised land and invading it. Now, of course, we know what happened the Red Sea and then Cadish Barney and they don't go in and then they get delayed forty years. We know all that. But at this point none of that's evident And so it's very, very clear in Salmon's daddy's mind, my boy is not to marry a Canaanite. Period. Look at verse 4. For they will turn away thy son from following me. That's the reason. That they may serve other gods. So will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you and destroy thee suddenly. Would you agree with me? Very, very clear. The instructions are clear. Don't give your daughters to them. Don't give your sons. They're going to turn you away from the worship of the true God, and God's going to judge you. Now that's What they're operating under when they're coming in. Somehow Salman meets this gal, maybe as a spy. Yet God told him very, very clearly, don't marry him, but Salmon did. And not only that God said, don't you marry them? Not only that, not only did Salmon, the son of one of their leaders, marry this Canaanite harlot She ends up in the lineage of Jesus Christ. How in the world does that happen? I'll tell you how it happens. It's a miracle of God. Matthew chapter 1, if you would, come back now, and I want you to notice something. There are two women mentioned in Matthew chapter 1, verse 5. And Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab Rahab. And Boaz begat Obed. That's King David's grandpa. Notice who he begat Obad of. Ruth. What do we know about Ruth? She's a Moabite. They're not supposed to marry the Moabites. They're not supposed to interact. The Canaanites, particularly of Jericho, and the Moabites, if you marry them, they're going to draw you away. And you're going to have God's judgment. And here we are in Matthew chapter 1, the lineage of Jesus Christ, and there's a Canaanite, a guy marries a Canaanite, and he marries a Moabite, and they're in the lineage of Jesus Christ. How in the world does that happen? It's a miracle. It's a miracle. You know what it's a miracle of? It's a miracle of God's grace and the conversion of a sinner when they put their faith in the Lord God Almighty. Of course, they're looking forward to Jesus Christ. The fact of the matter is, Rahab the harlot at this point in time is no longer a Canaanite. She has been converted. She has put her faith and trust in the Lord God Jehovah. She is submitted to his leadership and has become Use new turn New Testament terminology, she has become a disciple of Jehovah. She's now considered part of the Jewish family. She's now considered one of them. Same thing with Ruth. She came and she worshipped the God of Jehovah. Your God shall be my God. I worship your God. And she's welcomed in. She's incorporated into the very fabric of the people of God in the Old Testament. And I'm telling you, when an old sinner gets saved, and it doesn't matter what their past may be, it doesn't matter how sorry their history may be. When they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, they are a new creature and they're incorporated into the body of Christ. And it's no longer us and them, it's one body, one in Christ. Jew and Gentile, Greek and barbarian, thank God, Gentiles can be part of the body of Christ because I is one. It's a miracle. I'm telling you, salvation is a miracle. God, I had a professor years ago, I went to school in Philadelphia, and it it was good. It helped me. So I don't Don't don't misunderstand, I don't want to be overly critical. But I had a professor said, he made this statement, I'm only a year old in the Lord. I'm you know I'm like twenty, twenty-one years old, I've just gotten saved. I'm in c Bible college down there. I drove back and forth. And he made the statement, God no longer does miracles. And something inside me said, ooh. Mmm. Just like that. I said, I don't know. I don't know much. I didn't even hardly know the books of the Bible yet, but that didn't sound right to me. I came to the conclusion every time a soul gets saved, that's a miracle of God The lady last week on Monday trust Christ, little kids in children's church trusting Christ. People in their homes, all around That's a miracle every single time. It's a spiritual birth. A person, a child of the devil, gets saved, born again into the family of By the way, every physical birth is a miracle in my book. So it's a miracle. This whole marriage is a work of God. And taking this woman who grew up in such vile paganism. It's unspeakable what their lifestyles were and what their morals were. And she hears of Jehovah and she believes. And she's transformed. And she ends up in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. Don't ever let your past define who you are now or what you can be in the future. A miracle of this marriage, a miracle. Total transformation of her nature, total transformation of her identity. She is now part of the people of God. Number three and or number four and last of all, I want us to consider the message of this marriage. We have the man, Salomon, great man in Israel, highly respected, his daddy. The making of the marriage, we don't know. We just guessed. Maybe they met. Maybe she met a harlot, meets a spy. What kind of story is that? Miracle that this even happened. And then the message. What do we learn from this? I put a few things down. Number one, I put this down. Salvation is not dependent upon my past life, but my faith in the Lord. Don't ever think that someone is too sinful to be saved. Oh, that guy could never be saved. He's so sinful he could never be saved. Oh, you know what? The problem isn't someone being too sinful, the problem is someone being too righteous. In their own eyes. That was a problem with the Pharisees. Jesus said, What did Jesus say? He said, I didn't come to call the righteous to be saved, but what? Sinners. If someone's a sinner, they're a prime prospect for salvation. That's who Jesus came for. And so, oh, Rahab, she could never be part of the family of God. She can never be part of the people of Israel. She can never be involved in God using her to be a part of the Messiah coming in the world. Don't ever say never. God can save the worst. So salvation is not dependent, well I didn't live good enough, I can't be saved. I've had people out so and some of you all have also. They say something, oh, I don't think any God could ever save a sinner like me I always say, you're the exact one he's looking for. You're prime candidate. You meet the qualifications. You're a terrible sinner. Number two God can and will transform the worst of sinners. When God says an old sinner like me doesn't leave us that way. He changes people. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Rahab's a new creature. He's not a pagan Canaanite anymore. He's part of the people of God now. God can and will transform the worst of sinners. The Bible's full of examples of this, particularly in the Gospels. One of my, one of the, one of the, maybe it's one I can relate to, but uh the maniac of Gadera You can't get much lower than that. Chained up in the cemetery, running naked in the cemetery, possessed of fat legions of devils. And he meets Jesus. And the Bible says he was clothed in what? In his right mind. And he says, Lord, I want to follow you. I want to be one of your disciples. Lord, I want to go with you wherever you go. You've changed my life. You're my Savior. I want to go wherever you go. And Jesus, what did he say? He said, you go home to your friends. You tell them what great things God had done for you. I'm telling you, that's what God specializes in. Transforming lives. The Bible's full of examples. Mary Magdalene. Church history is full of examples of God saving and transforming the worst of sinners. Anybody familiar with the name John Newton? Amazing grace. Read his story. You can't get much lower than John Newton was. And God saves them and transforms them and writes one of the greatest hymns in the history of the church. It's the anthem for the Baptist. Number one, salvation is not dependent upon my past. Say, well, I I'm not of the right blood, uh uh I'm not the right color, I'm not the right nationality. I'm not good enough. No, no, no. Your pastor has nothing to do with it. It's your faith in Christ that brings salvation. God can and will transform the worst the sinners. Number three, God can and will use anybody who will submit to his will. Now I think one of the key things in the life of Rahab, and we looked at this last week, so we're not going to take time, I'm running out of time. We're not going to take time to go look at it. But if you remember, when they rescued her, they brought her, and what was the first thing the Israelites did with Rahab when they pulled her out of the city before they destroyed everyone? What did they do? They put her where? Outside the camp. I mean they didn't know. They need a little time. But then it says that she ended up among the people, and it says she dwells among them to this day. It says in Joshua 6. In other words, she went in, she submitted to the training and the teaching of the Jewish customs. The Jewish ceremonies, the Jewish sacrifices, she became a disciple of Jehovah. And because I'm convinced Because she was willing to submit to God's will for her as a believer, God was able to use her in the lineage of Jesus Christ. Her salvation from Jericho was not a get out of hell free card. It wasn't just a scaped Jericho card. It was a transformation of her very life. And it's with submission to Jehovah. And because of her submission to God, willing to do what God said and God instructed. God was able to use her. So a lot of people want to serve God, but they're not willing to submit to God. Want a title. I want a position. Serving God is not title or position. It is humbly allowing Him to lead me and direct me and His will be done Not my will be done, whether it's a position or a title or whatever. I'm convinced Rahab submitted totally to Jehovah and God was able to use him. And here we are, 3,000 plus years later, studying her Isn't that an amazing thing? God can and will use anyone who will submit to his will, regardless of their past. Regardless of their nationality, regardless of their physical features, submission is the key to being used of God. God can't use someone that's not submitted to. He can't. He can't. In fact, Jesus himself in Garden of Gethsemane said, Ah, the Father, I know that thou canst do anything. Nevertheless, what? Not my will, but thy will. Submission brought salvation. Submission on Rahab's part is what placed her in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. Salomon was a leader in Israel. A leader in Israel was willing to look beyond Rahab's past. And see her faith in Jehovah and see her submission to Jehovah. And he knew there was a future for her. And he took her in to be one with him as his wife. The book of Ruth, and again, back here in Matthew chapter 1, verse 5. Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begot Eobed of Ruth. Now, we've heard some preaching. Brother Harper had a good some good messages on Ruth, Naomi and Ruth. Um Brother Michael when he was here, McCurry the other year, preached on uh uh Ruth do you remember? And one thing we found out in preaching from Ruth, and if you study it carefully, one thing we found out, the people of Israel did not like Ruth. Every time they referred to her, she was Ruth the what? Moabitist. She's a Moabitist. She came with Naomi. She's a Moabitist. In fact, when Boaz was bargaining to uh get uh uh her take her as his wife um uh with a fella, he goes, Uh, you wanna buy get her land? The guy says, Sure, I'll take her land. Oh, you gotta marry the Moabitus. He goes, now I'm not going to mar my inheritance with no marathon Moabite us. But Boaz took her. Without reserve, without hesitation, he took in Ruth. The Moabites. He saw her faith. He saw she wasn't a Moabitist anymore. She was a believer in Jehovah. She was a new person. Now that got me thinking. I wonder where Boaz felt comfortable marrying a Moabitus. Where did he get that in his head that this would be okay? A Moabitist that had faith in Jehovah now, was part of the people of God, yeah, it'd be alright. A wonder if he didn't learn that from his daddy, Salman. Boaz's mama was a Canaanite. She had come into the faith. And his daddy, Salman, married Uh who are we talking about? Rahab. Now Boaz does the same thing. Maybe it's because his mother was a Canaanite harlot. That Boaz thought it was okay to marry Moab, to marry. A Moabite. And by the way, the nation of Israel received Rahabin. They wouldn't have tolerated this. She had proven herself, she had showed herself. So, Rahab, I hope God was able to use or study the life of Rahab to help us have faith in God. One thing I didn't mention, I had in my notes and I overlooked it, but one thing I did mention is it is possible. Another lesson we learned, let me give this to you real quick and then I'll quit. But another lesson we learn is that it is possible to break generational sins and generational curses. And I believe there is such a thing. You look at families, sometimes the same sin will go from generation to generation to generation within a family. Anybody ever notice that? I think there's such a thing as generational curses, where it just seems like there's something within that family. And I'm here to tell you faith in Jesus Christ can break that chain Just because daddy was an alcoholic doesn't mean you have to be one. Christ can break that I so weary of people saying, well, this is the way I was raised. I was this, they did that, if they didn't do this and they didn't do that, and daddy didn't do this, and Mama didn't do that, Daddy worked all the time to have money to pay so I can have everything I have and it was terrible. I tell you what, it doesn't matter. Quit blaming the previous generation. Commit yourself to Christ. Let God make you what you ought to be. Amen or not. And so we see that in Rahab. Her kids didn't have to grow up be harlots. They didn't have to grow up and be pagan Canaanites. No, God changed all that. God broke all of that. Now we got a new chain. Amen? Father, I ask you'd help us learn from Rahab and pray that some of these lessons would embolden our witness God help us not to ever look down on someone maybe comes into church and is rough around the edges and Help us to remember what we are without you and to love people and bring them to Christ I pray you'd help us to be submissive to you as Rahab was and let you use us as you see fit. I doubt she ever anticipated the role she would play in the coming Messiah God, let us just die to self, submit to you that you have your way in our lives, and that you decide how we're used. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher