With chapter two. I want to begin reading in verse number nine. I'm going to read down through verse thirteen. And we're right in the middle of an event here, an uh interaction between Rahab and the spies, and we'll kinda review, get caught up, get the context, and then uh pick up here. But I want to begin reading in verse 19. Well verse 8 or verse 8 I should say. Chapter 2 verse 8 And before they were laid down, she, Rahab, and they are the spies, before they, the spies, were laid down, she's hiding them up on the roof from the authorities She came up unto them upon the roof, and she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. We have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og uh whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things our hearts did milk. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above, and in earth beneath. Now therefore I pray you, swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that ye will also show kindness unto my father's house. And give me a true token, and that you will save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters and all that they have, and deliver our lives from death. Tonight we're talking about Rahab and the spies. I want to look at this covenant that is made between Rahab and these two Israeli spies. They make a covenant together. We're not going to get through the whole thing, but uh we want to get started looking at this covenant. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father, again, we're grateful for the Word of God and the impact it has had upon this whole world for so many years. I thank you for the reading that we just had and and uh what a tremendous uh uh recounting of of Daniel's event there in the book of Daniel And I pray now, as we look at Rahab, particularly this brief episode here, that you would your Holy Spirit would glean from this passage principles that apply to our lives and ways we can apply these truths and be better Christians, be stronger in our faith. Father in heaven, I ask that you would please fill me with your Spirit I yield my will to you. As best I know how, I present my body anew. I ask you to just take me and you would speak through me, as I said. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Rahab, as we've been noticing, is probably one of the most unlikely heroes of the faith in all of Scripture. You read through Hebrews 11, as we've done numerous times, studying Rahab, and the very fact that she's in that list is surprising. Would anybody agree with me on that And a harlot is in this list with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and these tremendous men of faith and people of faith. And there she is. I think she is one of the great testimonies of simple faith in God. Nothing complicated about it, just a simple faith in God as we see. The fact is, Rahab did not have a lot of information to go on when she made a decision. He talked about decisions have consequences. Rahab made a profound decision. to trust God and to uh help the spies and side with Israel against her own people And uh when she made that decision, she didn't have a whole lot of information to act on, just a few things that she had heard. From the the the runners and people traveling, what was taking place down in Egypt years before, and then what was taking place, this nation traveling through the wilderness, and as they're conquering people that come out against them. And so she makes a profound decision, uh uh, but what she knew she believed was true, and uh place her faith in it What she believed was true, and it saved her life and her family, and ultimately it saved her soul And what I'm trying to get here is this: it is the object of our faith that is significant. Not our faith itself, it's what we put our faith in. A person can put tremendous, strong, great faith in something that's not true and destroy themselves. Right or wrong? We have a world full of people that have tremendous faith in the Pope. They have tremendous faith in the teachings of the Catholic Church, and of course, that's all in the news right now And I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm not trying to be overly critical, but I'm here to tell you the Catholic Church is wrong on this matter of salvation. And a person can have great, great faith in the teachings and the sacraments of the Catholic Church, and yet they're dead wrong. And end up in destruction. And that's true for so many other religions. I'm not just picking on them. By the way, a Baptist can put their faith put great faith in the wrong thing And end up at the end of their life in a horrific place called hell. A Baptist, a quote-unquote Baptist, can put their faith in their church membership, and they've got it in the wrong thing Now, on the other hand of that, a person may have just a little bit of faith. It may not be very strong. It may not be very knowledgeable But if they take that little bit of faith they have and put it in what's true, it has profound consequences Right? A little bus kid. Maybe they don't know the books of the Bible. Maybe they don't know who Daniel is. Maybe they don't know about the great doctrines of Scripture, premillennial rapture of the church. They might not know anything about that. They hear about Jesus, the Son of God that loved them and died for them, was buried, rose again, and they put their faith in that Jesus, God will save their soul. God will save their soul. Rahab didn't have a whole lot to go on. Just heard some things, heard some things. We're going to see this here. She really only heard two things, which we're going to know, but she believed them And it was enough to save her family, save her life, and ultimately save her soul. So the point is this: great faith in something that's not true is not going to do me any good And just a little bit of faith and a little bit of truth is often all it takes to save a sinner from hell, deliver them from sin. Now we looked at Rahab so far in chapter 2 here. We've noted Rahab makes contact with these spies, if you remember several weeks ago. The spies show up at Rah Rahab's house. We don't know how the spies ended up in a harlot's house. We speculated that maybe because of the position of the house on the wall, it was easy access, come and go, without being seen too much, possibly. That's speculation. Perhaps it was because of her profession as a harlot she would be very uh uh apt at deceiving and covering things up and keeping stuff hidden. So maybe that may have been uh a reason they ended up there. Again, that's speculation. But one thing I'm certain of, they ended up at a harlot's house, Rahab the harlot's house, because of the providence of God. And we talked about that. Here's the thing, I got looking back over that, got thinking about that again God knew that in this city, this wicked, and it's hard to imagine the depravity of the society in Canaan back then. But here in the midst of this walled up, very, very wicked city, pagan city, no hint of God, uh God knew there was a woman there that had faith in him, that believed in him. And when those spies were sent out, humanly speaking, we see Joshua sending these two spies out. And if you remember, we said why what would they be spying? Oh the landscape, the travel routes, the wall, the approach, all of these types of things Humanly speaking, we looked at that. But I think from God's perspective, all the scouting and figuring out the routes and the landscape, the geography, from God's perspective, none of that was necessary Because God had already promised them, you're taking this. God's promise that Israel was going to take Jericho was not based on them entering certain routes or going over certain hills All they had to do was do what God instructed them to do, and they're getting the city. So from God's perspective, the spies were not necessary for conquering the city. I believe from God's perspective the spies were necessary to reach Rahab See, we make our plans and we have our pro uh our our our reasoning and our rational. I'm going to do this and we're going to do this and this is why we're going to do it. But I found a lot of time God has his own purposes and his own plans. And what we're trying to do, sometimes God takes what we're trying to do to this end, and he uses it over to this end. I got thinking about that. I don't know how many times over the years, 40 years now in the ministry, I don't know how many times I knocked on the wrong door I was going to go visit somebody and I had the wrong door, knocked on the wrong door, end up sitting in their living room on their couch with an open Bible showing them how to be saved. and they bow their head and call on the Lord. And for as far as I was concerned, it was a mistaken visit. But as far as God was concerned, it was a divine appointment. And I think that's what's taking place here. We don't know how they ended up in the Rahab, the harlot's house, but we know God had a plan. And then so we noted, first of all, that uh they uh made contact uh with Rahab. The spies make contact with Rahab. By the way Do you remember back in Luke chapter 8? We won't turn there, but Jesus is making his way through a crowd, and the Bible says the people were pressing upon him And there was a woman there that had an issue, I believe if I remember correctly, for twelve years, and she couldn't get well. The doctors couldn't do anything for her, and that woman in that sea of humanity. Believe that if she could just touch the hem of Jesus, the Son of God's garment, she would be made well. And so she pushes her way through the crowd, and you can kind of picture that in your mind. She makes her way through, and she's going by, and she just reaches down and grabs that, and she's made well. No doubt she can feel it. And Jesus immediately stops. He said, Who touched me? And I like what the disciples said. This is the Leatherman version. Are you nuts? There's people, there's thousands of people here. Everybody's pressing you. And you say, Who touched me? He says, somebody touched me. I felt virtue go out of me. I felt the power of God go out of me. Now question, did Jesus know who touched him? Sure he did. He's omniscient. He wasn't asking that because he was curious. He knew exactly who did. He was asking that to give that woman opportunity to confess Christ. And my point is this, that whole sea of people, nobody in that crowd knew that that woman had that level of faith in God. But Jesus did. And same thing with Rahab in that city, a city of wickedness, ungodliness, violence, and yet here's a woman, a harlot of all things. That heard about the Lord Jehovah and what he does did for his people, and she believes them, and she trusts him. And God sends these two spies in so that they can make arrangements so that her and her family will be rescued. So this contact here, it is faith that gets God's attention. It was this woman's faith that prompted, I believe, God to have these two spies come by her faith. It is faith that moves God to action. We put our faith in God. Listen, it's not you say, well, I really, really know the Bible, therefore God will pay attention to me. It's not our knowledge that emb that gets God's attention. It's our faith that gets God's attention. So, well, I'm really gifted, and I can do this, and I can do that. I've got all these abilities and all these talents. Well, praise the Lord, use them for the Lord, but that's not what gets God's attention, it's faith. You may have no talents, you may not have little of the Bible, but you have faith in God. That catches God's attention. And so this woman, Rahab, her faith. And so um and so that was the contact. I won't cut back and kind of rehash that encounter a little bit. So they made contact. Then in verse 2 through 7, we notice the cover up of the spies. And Rahab takes them in, puts them up on the roof, covers them up with that flax. Remember, she obviously, she apparently, I should say, was a wealthy woman. Flax was very rare, a high-valued commodity. And so she covers them up. And now we have this covenant with the spies that Rahab makes. They make this agreement between the two of them. This entire city of Jericho, if we read we'll read down through here, we'll look at a little more detail, but we're going to notice that the entire city of Jericho had heard About Israel's conquest. The whole city knew about it. From the king down to the streets. And the whole city was terrified. Did you notice that there? She says in verse 9, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. and that your terror ha is fallen upon us, that all the inhabitants of the land, not just the city, but the whole uh the whole area, the country. Look at this. All the inhabitants of the lion faint because of you. I mean we we don't even have the courage to get up and fight The word terror there has the idea of absolutely taken over by fear. They no longer have control of their own actions. Fear is taking control. And so the entire city is terrified of that, but this one harlot sees beyond the fear and sees the God That is prompting it, and she puts her faith in him. The only one out of all the cities, she's the only one to put her faith in the Lord. And she makes this covenant with the spies. First of all, and this is all we're going to look at tonight, but her request, Rahab's request, in this covenant that she's wanting to be made. Look at verse number 12. It says uh uh she says, Now therefore I pray you, swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness. that you will also show kindness unto my father's house and give me a true token. So she's saying, Listen, I was kind to you, and then verse 13, that you will save alive, my father, my mother, my brother, and my sister is all they have. And so she's making this request to them. And I want us to come back now to verse 9 and notice her confidence in this request. There's a reason she felt confident coming to these guys. And say, hey, listen, uh I I I want you to do this for me. If you would. Look at verse 9. And she said unto the men, now notice the next two words there, key words. He said unto the men What's the next two words? I know. I know. That word know means I recognize, I perceive, I am assured of I am very confident that the Lord has given you the land. She's confident that Israel's going to take this thing, that it that it's going to go exactly as it. Notice she doesn't say, I know that your armies are greater than our armies, and we don't have a chance. Did you catch that? She didn't say, I know that you have tremendous strategy in your in your battles, and you're going to outmaneuver us. And uh you're going to take us. No. Her confidence, what she knew, what she understood, what she was confident of, wasn't in Israel's ability to go to combat Her confidence was in God's promise to give them victory. And so she has this great confidence in God's promises to them. Now, two times she makes this statement. We have heard. Verse 9, she says, I know. But then she bases that, she tells them what she bases that assurance on. Look at verse 10. For we have heard. Look at verse 11. As soon as we heard these things, word had gotten to the people of Jericho. Two things they heard that God had done for Israel. Two things. Number one, two things she knew about Israel. One is God was going to give the land of Canaan, including Jericho, to Israel. God's, she knew that. We just saw that. She says, the Lord. By the way, look at that word Lord there. What do you notice unique about that word Lord? It's all capitals. Now, if you've been around Bible preaching and studying the Bible much, if you've been in Bible Institute, you know that that word Lord, when it's in all capitals, is referring to what? Jehovah, that is God's personal name. When she says the Lord, and she says it repeatedly in her conversation with these Israeli spies. She always uses the term Jehovah. Jehovah. The Jehovah. What she was saying was this, the true God. The living God. She had somehow, when she heard about what God had done for Israel and what God had promised Israel She had come to the conclusion that Jehovah is the only true God. The gods of Jericho are just figments of man's imagination. They are false gods. They are nothing. When she heard about what God had promised, and she heard what God had done for Israel, she came to the conclusion that Jehovah was the true God, he was the only God. And so she said, and she bases that on that she heard. So the first thing she bases this confidence on is that God told them he was going to give the land of Canaan. And she believed it. She just heard these things. It was it wasn't on something she saw. She wasn't there. She wasn't there when God divided the Red Sea and brought Israel out of Egypt. She wasn't there when the Red Sea crashed back down on the Egyptians. She didn't see that. All she did was what? Heard about it She didn't hear God speak to Moses and tell him that they would have the promised land. She didn't see any of that. Sinai, she didn't see any of the manna miraculously provided for him. She didn't see them miraculously defeating these kings uh throughout the winter. She didn't see any of that. All she did was what Heard about it. She just heard about it. And she believed it. She believed it. She heard how God would give the land to Cain and she believed it. She heard that God had miraculously delivered Israel from Egypt and other very powerful nations, and she believed it. She believed what she heard. Is anybody familiar with Romans chapter ten and verse seventeen? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. What she heard was true And she put her faith in it. And it saved her life, saved her family's life, ultimately saved her soul Listen, you say, well, I never saw any of that stuff happen in the Bible. I didn't see Jesus rise from the dead. I didn't see him make the lame walk. I didn't see I didn't see uh fire come down. on the mount and burn up uh the the altar with Elijah Elijah there. I didn't see any of that. No, but we heard about it and we believe it That's exactly what Rahab did. She heard about it and believed it. She believed what she heard, and faith came from that hearing. What she heard was true. Now I got thinking about that. If you would, come back with me to Numbers chapter 13. Now keep your place here and think about this. All Rahab did was hear the truth and she believed it. Back in Numbers chapter 13, we're going back a good little ways, and this is where Moses sent out spies, and we talked about them a few weeks ago. And they went out and they uh they had a whole it was a whole different context than Moses' spies going out than what Jacob's uh that uh Joshua's were And when they come back, how many spies did Moses send out? Twelve. And ten were bad and two were good. And notice when they come back. Notice the report they give in Numbers chapter 13. Look at verse 31. This is their report. Um I'm sorry, come up to verse 26. And they went and came to Moses, to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel. I think that was a mistake And brought back word unto them and unto all the congregation and showed them the fruit of the land. They told them and said, We came into the land whether thou sendest And surely it floweth with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. They brought back those big grapes of Esco and all that. Nevertheless The people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled. Can you think of any particular city they might be referencing? Jericho! The city, the uh uh the people are strong and the cities are walled and very great Moreover, we saw the children of Amak there, these were giants, and the Amalekites dwell in the land of the South, and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Ammonites. Amorites dwell in the mountains, the Canaanites dwell uh by the sea and the coast of Jordan And Caleb steps up and says, let us go. I think Caleb's basically saying this. Would you guys shut up and sit down? Let's get after it. We can do this. And then these ten spies respond back. But the men not That went up with him said, We be not able to go against the people, for they are stronger than we. That was probably that last statement was probably a true statement. They were stronger than Israel And they brought up an evil report of the Lamb which they had searched unto the children of Israel. They're speaking to the whole congregation. This is my humble opinion, and Moses was a thousand times greater leader than I would ever dream of being, but I think he made a mistake in letting these guys address the whole congregation. Saying, the land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof And all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. He's describing Jericho and the surrounding country. Now look at verse 33. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which came of which come of the giants. Now look at this. We were in our own what? Sight as grasshoppers. Now look at this. And so we were in their sight. To use a word here four times, a version of a word four times in verse 32 and 33. Anybody pick it up? We saw in it, verse 32, towards the end. Verse 33, we saw the giants. We were in our sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. The spies, these ten spies, were operating on what? Sight. What they saw, and their perception of what they saw They saw the walled cities. They saw the great armies. They saw the giants. And they saw themselves as grasshoppers And then they make an assumption that is totally wrong. We find out later. They said we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. the the the uh Jerichoites and all the people of Canaan, they did not see Israel as grasshoppers What does Rahab say? We were terrified. We were faint. We couldn't even fight. If those ten if those ten spies would have operated by faith in what God had told them rather than on their perception of what they saw, Israel could have avoided all that 40 years in the wilderness. They could have gone in and taken that land right out of Egypt But they walked by sight and not by faith. Now here's the interesting thing: a harlot of all people In the midst of a pagan, ungodly society, heard and believed. Now think about these twelve spies that said we can't do this. We're like grasshoppers in their sight. We're nothing. They had seen the Red Sea. Rahab heard about it These spies saw the smoke on Sinai when God gave the law to Moses. She heard about it. They saw all that God was doing. They saw the plagues in Egypt. She heard about it. They dismissed it. She believed it. And these guy these boys died in the wilderness and Rahab saved from the destruction. There's a verse in 2 Corinthians 5 7 says this, and this is a key verse in the Christian life. I really believe this. For we walk by faith, not by what? Here's our problem. We look at our situations, we look at our circumstances, we look at ourselves And we think, and we we look at it from our perspective, we have our understanding of what we observe, what we perceive to be true, because we what we see And we place that above what God says. Anybody here ever look in the mirror at yourself and think, what a mess. I'm not talking about how we look. That's obvious for some of us. None here, of course, but um But we look in the we look in the mirror of God's word and I look at and I think, what a mess. Anyone with me? I tell you a neat study I did, and I'm so far off my notes now, I'm off the radar. I'm not going to get back, I don't think But um I'll tell you a neat study. Go through and look at what the great men of God in the Bible said about themselves. It's interesting. I I wrote it down. I went through. Isaiah, in Isaiah chapter 6, he saw the Lord high and lifted up, and his smoke filled the temple. And the a- and the and the cherub of you, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. And he fell on his face, and you know what he said He goes, woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips. You know how Isaiah saw himself? The dirty sinner. My lips are unclean. Do you know where unclean lips come from? An unclean heart. Out of the abundance of the heart, mouth speak. You know what Isaiah was saying? Compared to God, I see the holiness of God, the blinding, perfect, immutable, unchanging, unmovable, holiness of God, inflexible holiness of God. And he says, I'm a sinner. I'm unclean, morally, spiritually unclean. God addresses that, and the angel takes the coals and touches his tongue. And makes them right. And by the way, the only way an old sinner can get clean is when God cleans them up. Job. How many people agree with me? Job, amazing man of integrity. Man, read chapter 1, what God says about Job. Perfect and upright in all his ways. But you get to the end of the book of Job, and after Job saw what God was doing, and after he came out of all his unbelievable suffering and difficulty, and he gets to the end, and he says, I've heard you with the hearing ears, now I've seen you with my eyes And he says, I abhor myself. And I repent in dust and ashes. You know what Job thought about himself as himself? He abhorred himself. Do you ever look in the mirror and say, you are such a sorry sinner? You ever look at yourself? Man God raised him up and God honored him. Paul, the Apostle Paul, would you agree with me? Paul was a tremendous man of God, right? We're at what, 13, 14, 15 chapter books of the Bible? What we have, God used Him to lay the foundation in a lot of ways of the church, the body of Christ, along with the other apostles. Paul said, in me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. He says later on, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? My point is this. If we look at ourselves apart from Christ, we see that we are sinners to the core. But as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I don't look at myself as I am. I believe what God says about me. And the Bible says that I, as a believer, I am in Christ, that I am accepted in the beloved. That I have the righteousness of Jesus Christ to my account. Now, with my eyes, with my sight, I don't see that. I see a sorry sinner that just blows it. But I hear what God says about me. And I believe that. Are you you follow what I'm saying? Follow what I'm saying? And so you have Rahab. All she did was heard what God had done. She believed it. And it saved her soul. It saved her family from destruction. These spies, they saw, they looked, and they had their interpretation of what they saw rather than what God says about what they saw. And they destroyed themselves. For 40 years they missed out on what God had. And the congregation believed them. I still think it was a mistake to let those guys talk to the congregation. It had a profoundly devastating effect on the people of God. And so Rahab hurt her whole confidence in God. Was based not on seeing the Red Sea divided, but hearing about it, and she believed it. She believed it. We walk by faith, not by sight. I want to look at her confession in her request for this covenant in verse 11. And I got a minute here. I'm going to hold off. I'm going to say that for another week because I want to look at that. But let's end with this. Let's end with this thought. And let's ask God to help us just to take God at His Word. Now, God shows me I need to adjust something, God shows me something's out of whack, then I'll take, trust him, and I'll do what I need to do to get it back in whack. Right? God tells me I should do something, I look at it and say, I can't do that. Are you crazy? No, if God says I can do it, I can do it. I heard I heard Bob Jones on the radio last week one day, and man, it just struck a chord. I wrote it in my notes. I was in the morning, I was getting ready, and he said this, if God ordered it, he'll pay for it. Say, well, I don't see how we're gonna do that. I don't see I don't see how a little church out in Mm Garrett County can support 92 missionaries at $150 a month. How in the world can that happen? I'll tell you, how in the world can happen if we just trust God, do what he says. God can do great things So let's be like Rahab and not like the spies. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts and challenge us and help us to have faith in you. To believe what you say and not go by sight, not interpret, or not take what we perceive What we see and interpret it in our understanding, our perception of it, but Lord help us take what you say about it. Lord, when things happen and you say they all work together for good, let's go by faith and not by sight. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many with me would say, Preacher, I need to act more on faith and not by sight? I need to quit leaning on my own understanding, my own perception And start just taking God at His Word. Anybody there like that? I wonder if there's anybody here who gets all worked up about stuff and then I forget God said, listen, I got this. We all worry, we get sick, we get mad, throw stuff, and kick and cuss. We just need to stop and say, wait a minute, God has a whole different perspective on this. And let's just decide. You say, brother, I have a pastor, I have a hard time trusting. I have a hard time believing. Why don't you come on and ask God to help you? One of the fruits of the Spirit is faith. He helps us have faith, he enables us. So Father, bless now in invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, amen.