Proverbs chapter sixteen and verse number nine says this it says, A man's heart deviseth his way. But the Lord directeth his steps. Now, the reason I wanted to read this before we get, we're studying the life of Rahab, and we're kind of winding down here a little bit. But uh the reason I wanted to read that was we were uh talking about Joshua sent these spies into the land of Canaan. uh to spy out the land, to get the feel for the land. And what we understand his motive was, and I've repeated this a number of times, but uh this was different than when Moses sent the spies in Those spies that he sent in had the mentality that they were going to decide whether we're going in or not. And that was a mistake. God had already told them we're going in, and they were going to decide whether we could beat these people or not, win this or not, and that was a mistake. It was already declared they were going to win. And so the the spies that went in under Moses went in under the wrong pretense. Now Joshua sent the spies in, and he did the whole thing differently. As you remember, we pointed out. They didn't come back and report to the congregation. They came directly to Joshua And it was the purpose for their going in from Joshua's perspective was to get a feel for the land, uh maybe uh uh uh uh routes to take to approach the city of Jericho. obstacles to be aware of. No doubt it was a strategic uh purpose for them going in and determine what they were going to do. At no time were they deciding whether they were going to do this or not They already knew they were going to invade the land. So it wasn't wrong for Joshua to send the spies in. That was not wrong, but I'm going to submit to you, it wasn't necessary Because we're going to find out, and if you read on in Joshua a little bit from chapter 2, God tells them exactly what they're going to do, where they're going to do it, and how they're going to do it. So the spies, though, again, it wasn't wrong. Joshua in good faith, I believe, sent them in just trying to be thorough and make sure we know what we're getting into. But it wasn't necessary. Now God let them send the spies in, and I want to submit to you that God also had a purpose For sending these spies in. You see, there was a gal in the Jericho that had turned to Jehovah in faith. And Israel, Joshua, and the armies needed to know about her, so they didn't kill her right along with everybody else And so that's why I'm here in Proverbs, it says, the a man's heart deviseth his way. That word deviseth means plans and calculates And works it out. He's got it all figured out and I can see Joshua there with the spies, find out where the entrance routes are, escape routes, and you know they're planning all this And God is uh kind of like, all right, whatever. Here's what I want you to do. And God worked that. Uh he God directed them directly to Rahab's house and put him in contact with her. The word directeth there. The Lord directeth his steps. It has the idea to put in order, establish the purpose. God had a purpose And sometimes we'll do things, sometimes we'll make our plans, we'll make our purposes, and yet God has something else in mind, and He'll be able to take what we do and redirect it I don't know how many times, Brother Moore, I've gone out to make a visit, I get the wrong door, and uh knock on the wrong door. I'm meaning to go down here somewhere, I get the wrong door, and invite him in, I get talking and end up leading them to the Lord And I think well out in in uh out in Colorado there was a family. I accidentally went by the door. They ended up coming out to church being faithful members. And so God directs the steps. So with that in mind, come back to Joshua. And it's been a couple weeks we've been away from this, so I want to begin reading in verse number eight, verse number uh uh nine, and I'm gonna read down through the end of the chapter. It's a little lengthy, but bear with me, and I know we looked at some of this already. Verse 9, it says, And she said unto the men, now they're up on the roof, she hid them with the flax. The king's men came by, she said, uh You know, she told them they're gone. So now she comes up on the roof and she said unto the men, verse 9, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings and the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan Sihon and Gah, whom he utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Pretty good testimony right there, huh? Now therefore, now here's where they begin negotiating. They make this covenant with each other. Now therefore, I pray you swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness. That ye will also show kindness unto my father's house and give me a true token. The word token there means proof of purchase. Give me something that will assure me that you will take care of me, that you'll you'll you'll you'll uh uh spare us. Verse 13, and that ye will save alive my father, my mother, my brethren, my sisters, and all they have, and deliver our lives from death. And the man answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business, and it shall be, when the Lord hath given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. Just by the way, what ends up happening to these walls? They come down. That's her house. That's where she lives. Then she let them down through the window of her house. Verse 16. And she said unto them, Get you to the mountain, lest the Lest the pursuers meet you and hide yourselves there three days until the pursuers be returned, and afterward may you go your way. And the men said unto her, We will be blameless of this thine oath which thou hast made us swear. Behold, when we come to the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window, which thou didst let let us down by Thou did and thou shalt bring thy father and thy mother and thy brethren and all thy father's household home unto thee. And it shall be that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head. And we will be guiltless. And whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand be upon him. They're making a pretty solemn promise here. And if thou utter this our business, then we will be quit of thine oath which thou hast made us to swear. We're not held to it. You'll break the oath. And she said, according to your word, so be it. And she sent them away, and they departed, and she bound the scarlet line in the window. And they went and came unto the mountain and abode there three days, just like she suggested, until the pursuers were returned. And the pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but found them not. And the reason they're hiding there three days, the king's men are pursuing them, they're down at the river. It would have been bad if they'd have met each other, you know, coming and going. So that's what that was about. Verse 23, So the two men returned and descended from the mountain and passed over and came to Joshua the son of Nun and told him all things that befell them. And they said unto Joshua, Truly the Lord hath delivered into our hands all the lands. For even all the inhabitants of the country do faint because of us. Exact opposite report that Moses' spies gave. And so we want to look at this covenant that Rahab and the Jewish spies make together. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now as We look at the life of Rahab here in this portion of her interaction with the spies of Israel I pray there be lessons here that we could glean, that you could uh your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and we could see how some of these principles may be apply to our lives. That we can be stronger in our faith and more bold in our witness and more effective in our service. So Lord, I ask tonight that you would please fill me with your Spirit. I yield my will to you, present my body anew, and ask again in this hour that you would speak through me, Lord, and that you would have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. They make contact with Rahab We suggested how they ended up how do these spies end up in a harlot's house? Uh probably we said because of the position where the house was on the wall uh no doubt would be a possibility. Maybe because of her profession. She's a harlot, so she t tends to work all out of the limelight maybe and maybe they thought it would be that. That's speculation. But one thing we do know they were there because of providence. God led them to be there with uh Rahab. So that's their contact. And then she makes the cover up. She hides them up on the roof if you remember. The king's men come there, they for whatever reason, they don't ransack the house looking for them They have reason to believe they're there, but they just meet her at the door. She assures them that they're not there, even though they were. They believe her, they take her at her word And uh they go on their way. Can you imagine uh uh some spy from China being loose in Oakland and they think that that spy is in your house And the FBI or whoever who would be national NSA probably be after you. And uh they just come to the door. Is there a spy here? Oh no, there's no spy here. Oh, okay. And they just go on their way. I don't think it would play out that way But nevertheless, apparently did Ray have enough that they took her at her word. And uh they uh uh they responded to that. So now we have this contract. If you remember two weeks ago, we noted uh her request to these uh spies that they would spare her. And we said the confidence of this request. And she says in verse 9 there, she goes, we know uh uh for for I know that the Lord hath given you this land. And uh uh she recognized the fact that God was in this. God was going to do something. And so she had real confidence And then we noted her confession. She says, The Lord, He is Jehovah. I think it seems like that she had a stronger faith than some of the Israelites did And uh she understood God in a uh some ways better than they did. And then the concern, she wanted her family to be saved. And she goes, Oh get mom and dad and my brothers and sisters and their families, get them in here, spare them also And I found when a person gets saved, uh, they want their family to be saved also. They want those dear to them to come to Christ. And so we see that in Rahab. Now I want to look tonight in in the little time we have is the spy's response to her request. She makes this request. Now we know, because we've read it a hundred times, we know how it plays out, but she didn't know if they were going to be agreeable or not. She made this request. In fact, remember I pointed out there. She goes, give me a token. It seems to me she's a little hesitant here, not real sure if they're going to say, yeah, okay, or she's they're going to say, sorry, you're a Canaanite Uh this whole city's gone down. God's told us clearly we're to slaughter everybody, everything, and sorry, there's nothing we can do for you. She didn't know how they would respond And so here we have the response. Notice in verse 14, and the men answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business. Rahab's pleading for her salvation and for her family. Now, I don't think at this point it's not the salvation of her soul she's pleading for, it's the salvation of her life The salvation of her soul was already settled when she put her faith in Jehovah. That had happened sometime previous and uh before these guys ever showed up. I'm I believe Rahab was saved uh long before these spies ever showed up. She started getting report what was happening. This God that had delivered the Israelites out of Egypt and and uh divided the Red Sea and conquered all these nations everywhere they went, miraculously provided for 'em. And she came to the conclusion that's the true God Jehovah, I'm going to trust him. And so at some point she has already been saved. Now what she's doing here is she's pleading for the salvation of her life I put it down this way in my notes. Her faith saved her soul, but her action saved her life. She acted on her faith. She responded to her faith. If she had not acted upon her faith, what she knew to be true, acted upon what she knew to be true, she would have died with the rest of the city. But she acted on her faith. She acted on her faith. That was what James emphasized. Remember when we went to James 2 and he says, by faith, Rahab? was saved by not just her faith but her works. Also he's talking about this action where her life was saved because she acted on her faith. And so Rahab and the spies make this covenant of protection. It's just a simple little agreement they have here, but it's very, very serious. And they're going to spare her life in exchange for her protection. And by the way, these covenants that they make here, that's not the only time in the Bible we find covenants between people. Remember David and Jonathan. And Jonathan made a covenant with David that you would not you would spare my children I know you're going to be king. And so you had David and uh and Jonathan. And in 2 Samuel chapter 5, David and Israel made a covenant that he would be their king and God would be their God And so they make this covenant with her, this token. A couple thoughts here under their response. Number one, they respond with a promise and assurance. With a promise and assurance. Again, look at verse 14. Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business. Now They're promising her that they will not kill her. They will not destroy her. They're giving her, I'm making a promise here. Now, we've got a problem with this promise. If you would, come back to Deuteronomy with me, chapter number seven. God had given some very clear instructions. As to what they were to do to Jericho and all the inhabitants. Deuteronomy chapter 7. And look at verse number 2. Well, I'll start reading in verse 1. Deuteronomy 7. I'll start in verse 1. When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it And hath cast out many nations before thee, the Hittites, and the Gergeshites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and the Mennonites, no, not the Mennonites I'm sorry, I always do that. Seven nations greater and mightier than now. Now look at this When the Lord thy God shall deliver them before thee, thou shalt smite them and what? Utterly destroy them. Now look at this. Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them. Pretty clear, huh? He says you're to conquer them, completely conquer them. I mean destroy them, annihilate them. Nothing left, no promises, no covenant, no negotiating, no peace treaties, you destroy them Now we have these two spies making an agreement with one of these Canaanites. And so How do we reconcile? Are these guys violating God's clear instruction here? Or what are they doing? I think the answer to that is in the fact that Rahab is now a believer. She has repented, forsaken the worship of the pagan gods. And I say this over and over, but it is hard for us to comprehend. in our culture, what we're used to, the vile wickedness of these nations. I mean they were they were vile, perverse, violent Merciless people. They would burn their children alive to their gods. Literally. The violence and the wickedness that went with the pagan worship was incredible. Rahab has turned from that. She's heard of the true and living God, and she's put her faith and her trust in Jehovah. She has rejected Canaan's paganism. Again, James 2, verse 25 states clearly that Rahab was justified. She was saved. Her sins were forgiven. Her paganism was erased from God's record in heaven. She's a believer now. And so God's instructions in Deuteronomy were about destroying these evil nations, not punishing someone's faith. John chapter 6, verse 37, Jesus put it this way. He that cometh to me, I will in no wise what Cast out. She came to the Lord's in humility and faith. She said, I know your God is a true God. I know He does what He says. I know He's all powerful. He that cometh to me, I am on no wise cast out. Romans chapter 5, verse 1 puts it this way. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Rahab now had peace with God through her faith in the Lord. I cannot find anywhere in Scripture God condemning or rejecting anyone that comes to him in sincere and genuine faith. The very fact that she put her faith and trust in the Lord Jehovah Made her acceptable to God. And God never, God never condemns genuine faith. You never find any but God rejecting anyone that comes to Him in sincere repentance and faith And that's exactly what Rahab did. She is no longer a Canaanite. She is now a worshiper of the God of Israel. And so God's instructions in Deuteronomy chapter 7 did not apply to a woman or anybody that repented of the evil that he was destroying. And coming to worship and know the true and living God. So the very fact that her faith in God exempt her. And by the way, weren't we all condemned before we came to Christ? John chapter 3, condemned already. But when we put our faith in Christ, that condemnation is removed. So the fact that Rahab could come In genuine faith, putting her confidence and trust in Jehovah would spare her from God's judgment on her land. That suggests to me that others could have been spared also. Huh? That suggests to me that the entire city of Jericho could have turned to the Lord in humility, repentance, and faith, and have been spared. Can you think of any other cities that were condemned by God to be destroyed completely and they heard of God and they repented and put their faith in God and God spared their city? Can you think of any others? Nineveh. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be destroyed. Not might be, not could be, it shall be. They repented, they sought God's mercy, and God spared them. What I'm trying to say is this: faith overrides God's judgment every time. Faith trumps judgment. And the way you and I escape God's judgment in our sins is the same way Rahab did. by putting our faith and trust, of course, now in the Lord Jesus Christ, understanding what He did for us, they were looking forward. And so They make this covenant with Rahab that on the surface appears to violate God's clear instructions. But when we consider Rahab now and her standing with God We understand that she's exempt. And apparently her family also had believed in the Lord, and they were spared also. I wondered, I was thinking this through a little bit, I wondered how many people in our community, if they heard of the Lord Jesus Christ, would put their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ They could be spared from the coming judgment also. Chester sang about it a little bit. And so faith, never underestimate the importance of faith It's how we're saved. It's how it affects, it should at least affect our behavior, and it did here in Rahab. I guess the one lesson we're picking up as we go through the life of Rahab is this: the importance of faith. Regardless of background, regardless of the depth of our sin, regardless of our culture, regardless of our nationality, we come to faith in Christ, we find forgiveness and God's mercy. And so, uh this covenant. So the the spies respond with a promise and assurance that she will not be destroyed. Again Surface, apparent contradiction to what God said, but we consider it and we understand the justification for this. Second thing I notice here, spies in Re have planned their escape. Look at verse 15 Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall And she said to them, as I pointed out here a bit ago, get you to the mountains lest the pursuers meet you. That would be bad head on on the highway there. Hide yourselves until uh there three days, until the pursuers be returned, afterward uh ye may go your way. So she knew the area well enough. She knew the rode down to the river wherever they were going well enough that it would take three days. So she goes, it's gonna take them three days to get down there, get back, hide three days. So they make this plan and they have a strategic position. She's on the town wall, so they can get out through the window. Nobody else can see them. I don't think they had security cameras in. I don't believe So she's a they're able to get out there through this window. And then again they had this strategic planning. So they make this promise to her, they give her assurance We're not going to condemn you. We're not going to kill you. We'll spare you. And then they make this plan of escape. Then the third thing I notice in verse 17 through 22 The spies make plain what their conditions are. Now they lay some conditions out to her. Look at verse 17. And the men said unto her, the spies, We will be blameless of this thine oath which thou hast made us swear. Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window, which thou didst let us down by. And thou shalt bring thy father, thy mother, thy brethren, all thy father's household home unto thee. And just a reminder, notice it doesn't say your husband or your children. She didn't have family, other than I mean her own family. And it shall be that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head. We'll be guiltless. And whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be upon our head, and if any hand be upon him. So they're giving her quite a promise They're saying, we will do our part if you do your part. Come back up there. Notice in verse number 14. They said, our life for yours. You know what they were saying there? They were saying, listen, we'll lay down our life for you. We'll give our life in protection of yours if you keep these conditions. Uh they're making quite a they're making a a pretty strong assurance here. She has had a profound impact upon these spies. In what they she did in sparing them and risking her own life. This is espionage, really, on her part for her city, her nation. And then her statement of her faith in God had such a profound impact on these spies that they're saying, listen, Rahab, we will die before we let you get killed. Now you need to do a few things on your side. You need to be in place. We're not going to alter or or advance in here anything. We're going to not gonna accommodate any variation. We need to know exactly where you are. Who's going to be there and when you're there. And so they're being very, very careful here. And um and notice they say we will be And uh verse fourteen again, and it shall be when the Lord hath given us the land that we will deal kindly and truly with thee. That truly has the idea of respectfully. We'll be straight up with you. We'll be honest with you. We'll be kind to you. I think what they were saying was: we're going to treat you like one of us. You're going to be one of us as Israelites. Was she an Israelite? No. She was a Canaanite. But she had come to trust in the God of Israel. And the spies were assuring here, we will take you in as one of our own. And I tell you, I think that's an important lesson for the church. We have people come in the church that are maybe a little different level financially than some other people. We have people come in the church, get saved, and come that are different backgrounds, maybe come some come from broken home, dysfunctional homes. and they have struggles and different is do you think Rahab may have had some issues going on in her life after all she was? And then you have people in the church, uh in the church that grew up in good, strong Christian homes. Grandpa and grandma were godly Christians, mom and dad were godly Christians, they're growing up godly home, strong in the Lord, and then you have someone that they don't even know the books of the Bible yet. And it's an important lesson for us. If someone knows Jesus Christ as Savior and they're coming in to be a part of the body of Christ They ought to be treated as an equal. James addresses that. If someone comes in and uses the term gay clothing And the sodomites have destroyed that word, but comes in all dressed up, they're fancy men, they're lawyers, they're wealthy, and then somebody comes in in poor poverty clothes. He said, Don't you dare treat the poor one any different than you treat the rich one. And that's exactly what these spies are doing. You're one of us. You know the Lord. And any person that knows the Lord ought to be treated with respect. Now s you know, they they don't get put on the platform right away, they need to grow in the Lord and different things. But they're loved and respected. They're treated kindly and truly. Even though they might not have your level of education, they might not live in a house that you might live in or whatever It's a thing I love about the bus ministry, that thing I love about Mountain Lake. Uh we have sometimes a person sitting that might have a million dollars on the bank in the bank and on the same pew somebody that doesn't have five dollars in the bank and yet we sing and praise the Lord together. That's the way it ought to be. That's the way it ought to be. As far as God's concerned, there are no rich churches, there are no poor churches, there's the church of Christ. Jesus Christ. When I came here, I've told this many times back in 93, 94, we bought a bus. I went to a preacher's fellowship over in West Virginia, small one And um I was all excited, we got a bus, you know, and so they kind of sharing testimonies. So yeah, we're excited, we got a bus, you know, and we're bringing in people on the Sunday school bus. And afterward, one of the preachers came to me And uh he says, Brother Lederman, he says, you're you're new there, that's a church is struggling back in the day. There was, it was small, we're coming out of some difficult times. And he says, listen, you can't be going after those bus kids. You need to get to some wealth, some people that have some means, and some people that have some respect. You need to focus on them and not be worrying about all these others I said, well thank you for your concern. You pray for me. So I went home and I went visiting on the bus route in response to that. Listen, we're not going after rich people, we're not going after poor people, we're going after people who are sinners that need Jesus. And that's the way the attitude of these spies were. They didn't hold anything against her. Well, you can come in, but you're going to be on probation for a while. Nope, we're going to treat you kindly and truly with respect. and as an equal. So they reassure Rahab that she will be fine. Then they give her responsibility. Verse 18, now come down there. When you come into this land, thou shalt find this line of scarlet thread in the window, which thou didst let us down by. Now the scarlet thread gets a lot of attention People preach on it and they talk about the scarlet thread of redemption that runs through the Bible, and I'm all for all that. But I got looking at this scarlet thread, and I got wondering, what in the world is a scarlet thread? What is this? And I found out that scarlet was a dye that was made from a crimson worm It would crush the worm and the fluids from that worm would produce this crimson dot. And everything I could find on it that I looked up in several books and some searching on it This dye was extremely valuable. This worm apparently was fairly rare. And to have any amount of this dye, you would have to have quite a bit of wealth. Poor people didn't walk around with this crimson dye. They would put it in the ropes for uh why in the world would you die? If it's so expensive, why would you dye a rope? Well what they did was they would put the dye in the rope for transportation, for commerce. And you'd buy maybe a four inches of rope that was worth so much that was crimson dye, you'd take it home You'd boil it or whatever and you'd extract the dye from the rope. It was how you uh how you uh what's the word I want, uh exchanged and purchased it. It was how they they did business with it Now she has a rope, a scarlet rope thread that reaches to the ground from her window. Everyone that commented on that said that was probably at least thirty feet. So you figure someone has a thirty foot long thread, I mean it says thread, but we would think rope, because that the guys had the It had to hold them, so it's heavier than our understanding of thread. Thirty foot of rope with scarlet dye would have been a phenomenal amount of money. This is incredibly valuable, incredibly expensive. And she has enough to put out the window to let these guys down. They say this dye was used primarily for royalty, for religious tapestry and clothing. In fact, the tabernacle In Exodus chapter 25, verse 1, 31, and 36 references this scarlet dye that was used in the tabernacle. Now think about the tabernacle. Every piece of furniture in the tabernacle is covered with what? Pure gold. I mean, this is valuable stuff. And she has 30 feet of it. Enough to hang over the wall. In other words, this is no minor operation that she's got going here selling and doing merchandise with this die, apparently. Remember the flax that she hid the fellas on the roof? Incredibly valuable. Just to have a little bit of it implied, well, she had enough to cover up these spies So we're learning something about Rahab here a little bit. Rahab the harlot was apparently extremely wealthy. There's no other explanation. She was apparently involved in marketing flax and scarlet, who knows what else. It's a very real I'm coming to this conclusion. I'm trying to picture this woman, Rahab, and who she is and what she's like. We know she's a believer, but her background, she's a harlot. Or at least she was a harlan. Some have suggested that she may have worked her way up out of prostitution and became a business, very successful businesswoman. Um, I don't know. We're not told that. We know she's referred to as the harlot over and over and over. She may have had multiple professions. The wickedness of that society, you know, maybe you could be a wealthy businesswoman and also be a harlot. I don't know I'd like to think that maybe she had worked her way out of it. It would explain the king's respect and not ransacking her house when they're looking for her. It would explain the presence of phenomenal valuable flax on her roof to hide. It would explain this incredibly expensive scarlet thread that she has available. to let these guys out. There's something going on with Ha Rahab that we don't know about. This gal's wealth this gal is wealthy And she appears to be respected. So whether she was still involved in harlotry or not, whether it was something from her past, we don't know that, but we do know this. The name stuck. And I think I may have touched on this before, and I know we're most we're an older crowd here, and so this might apply to younger, but it can to us. It is possible for us to get involved in things that stain our name for the rest of our life. And even though she's respected and she's praised for her faith, that tag is always on there. Rahab the harlot. And she could not shake that that stain Now I think God used it as a testimony of his amazing grace that somebody like that could even be in the lineage of Christ. But nevertheless, would you agree with me? I would be uncomfortable having that tag on my name the rest of my life So, uh, she has this scarlet thread. It's a token of this covenant that they're making. You say, you put that thread there. She goes, I'll put this scarlet thread down And that will be the covenant. That will identify me. And that's our agreement. That's there. I'll be in here. And by the way, the scarlet points to the blood atonement. Lord Jesus Christ, just like the blood on the Passover spared everyone that lived the firstborn that lived in the hell, that scarlet thread spared her life and her family. Now, real quick, I noticed some restrictions they put on her. Verse 19, they said, Whoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and will be guiltless. You've got to stay inside there. There's some restrictions You want to spare your life? There's some things you cannot do. Do not leave the house. I think what they were saying was, we're not going looking for you You be here. This is the chaos of war, the f the the the uh the the the chaos that goes on in combat You need to be where you we know you're going to be. We're not coming looking for you. And if you go outside, then we're not responsible anymore. And so uh don't leave the house. Anything they go on. Look at Verse 20 And if thou utter this our business, we will be quit of thine oath. We'll be out of the oath, it's broken, which thou hast made us declare. So they said this don't leave the house, and don't loosen your lips. You just be quiet about this. We come in this house and there's a bunch of Jerichonian soldiers. We're not saving your life. And then last of all, the return of the spies. Verse 23, verse 21 down through 24, they go back to Joshua and they give their report. Look at verse 24, and this is what I'll end with. These are the spies. Get back. They return, verse 23. And they said to Joshua, look at their statement. Again, the exact opposite of what Moses got when his spies returned. Truly the Lord hath delivered. Look at that word: past, present, or future tense. Past tense, they're considered it's already done. This is a done deal. Lord hath delivered into our hands all the land. For even all the inhabitants of the country do faint because of us. How do you think that report affected Joshua? You think he I I know for certain. Well in fact come back here, chapter one. Notice what God does over and over again. Verse 5. This is God speaking to Joshua. There shall not any man be able to stand before As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Be strong and of a good courage. Come down here to uh uh verse number nine. Have I not commanded thee, be strong and a good courage Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. The Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. The end of verse number eighteen. He shall put to that only be strong and of a good courage. Sounds like Joshua was what? He was scared. He was afraid. God had to tell him over and over again: Be of good courage, Joshua, be strong. I'm with you. Joshua, I'm with you. Be of good courage. And so he's anxious. And these spies come back and give this report. How do you think that affected Joshua? Whoo! I guarantee you that was encouragement. That helped them be bold. I think he's going into this battle a whole lot more confidence. He's got the promise of God. He has the report of these spies. They're going in here in full confidence. And I think what that tells us is this: when we have faith in God and we act on that faith, it encourages other people in the Lord. When they heard what God did in ja in Rahab's life, when they heard what God how God had used her and what he was doing, these reports Come back to him. Man, his courage. He's encouraged. He's stronger. He's going into battle. And I tell you, when you and I walk with God and we have faith in God and we do what he says and we please him with our likes It has an impact on other people and it encourages other people. We come in all mopey dopey and everything's bad and terrible and we're going to lose everything and there ain't no hope and we're not encouraging nobody. But we get in and say, hey, look what God's doing in my life. I don't know about you. She might be homesick tonight, but this little Trista gal has stirred my heart. You know who I'm talking about, little trissa's got things got saved, and I mean she's on fire for God. And uh it has lit Kathy up and it has been a blessing to both of us And we need to go out and get more Tristas. We need to get more people saved. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us, Lord, to learn from Rahab And to have faith in you and act on that faith, and Lord, to honor you with all we say and do. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to grow in my faith. I need it to be stronger. I need it to affect my behavior, my actions. I need that courage that the Lord can. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preach or pray with me. God bless you Let's ask the Lord. Let's ask the Lord to strengthen our faith. Let's ask the Lord to help us be on top side, regardless of our past, regardless of the circumstances. Tis faith in God, faith in God. Father bless our imitation I ask. In Jesus' name a