Timothy chapter 4, 2 Timothy chapter 4, and I'll preach to you for a few moments tonight on reaching for the crown. Reaching for the crown. 2 Timothy chapter 4. And notice what it says in verse 8. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. Which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day And not to me only, but unto all them also that love is appearing. Let's pray. Father, we're grateful, so grateful for this time that you've allowed us to be together. I know you've worked in my heart. Thank you for encouraging me, refreshing me. And Lord, I'm grateful for the friendship that I have with this church, and especially with Pastor. Lord, I just pray tonight in our closing meeting that you would speak to us. Encourage people tonight, will you? And though they're exhausted, I pray in their weakness you'd be strong and show them something. Teach us something. Move in our hearts. I pray it for Jesus' sake. Amen. This landmark verse, verse 8, is said in a passage That begins with Paul giving a command to young Timothy that still resounds through the thousands of years since it's been written. I love verse 2. Where he says, preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering. And doctrine. I'm glad he added that. That's such a meaningful verse when we understand the context in which it is given. I want you to understand something that when the Apostle Paul writes these words, he's not sitting in a comfortable place or Not sitting at uh Aquila and Priscilla's home. He's sitting in a prison cell. He is sitting in the Mamertine prison. It's not the first time that he's been in the Mamertine. The first time that he was imprisoned in the Mamertine, he was given great liberty And uh he could actually go to a home and and then report back and so on. But but it was wasn't a good stay, I don't mean to indicate that, but it was not what he's experiencing now The truth is, he is in the Mamertine now and days or weeks from his death. And he won't die surrounded by loved ones. In a sanitary or antiseptic place. He's going to be taken outside of Rome just a few miles because the Roman officials are afraid of what will happen If they kill him in town. So they take him out a few miles outside of Rome, and according to history, they cover his head and take his head off What an ignoble end to a great man. As he's sitting in this Mamertine prison, I've had the privilege of standing there. There's a sign out there that says Mamertine, and then it says it's known as the Rat's Nest. It was a horrible place in ancient Rome. It was a filthy bottom street. If you stood there and you looked at the mamertine this way, if you looked up to your right, not very far away, you would see that great circus maximus. The Circus Maximus is that place in Ben Hur where you see the chariot races going round and round. But what you don't often see and understand is that very often They would bury Christians up to their neck. And they would run those chariots and the hooves of those horses over whole families of believers. There's very little doubt in my mind that as Paul sits in this prison, there were times when he heard the screams, the cries, the weeping. But then also the cheer of the bloodlust Romans who would see men and women literally crushed to death under those wheels. If you look to your left, just two blocks down, you'll see that great Roman Colosseum And man, it is a marvel of architecture. And we stand there today and marvel how 20,000 people could gather in that ancient place and watch the games that took place. But understand as we marvel at it, understand the sorrow that took place. They would literally uh pillory or post believers and they would turn loose the lions and the tigers or they would use them as practice for the gladiators And there's no doubt in my mind that many times while Paul is sitting in that jail waiting and wondering, is this the day they're going to come and get him Is this the day they're going to walk him up to the circus and bury him to his shoulders? Is this the day they're going to come and get him and take him and tie him to the post and turn the lions loose on him And he would hear the screams of those people, but then he would hear the bloodlust cheer of those who were entertained by that massacre. He's in that prison because there's a wicked emperor named Nero. Nero might well be one of the most vile men that has ever walked the earth He murdered his own mother. He murdered his own brother so that there could be no one who would challenge him for the throne of Rome. He hated Christians. And yes, he did burn them at the stake and literally would use them to light his corrupt and horrible parties. Nero wanted to own a piece of property on the Palatine. The Palatine is one of the seven hills of Rome. It is the most exclusive hill in Rome. And the senators live there and and Nero wanted one particular lot there, and that senator would not sell him. And so I don't know if Nero fiddled while Rome burned, but I do know by historical fact that he lit a fire and burned Rome and the Roman Romans were irate because the Palatine was so destroyed. I I think of the Pacific Palisades being destroyed out in California and all the wealth of those people gone up in smoke. And that's what happened that night. And they were so irate they wanted somebody to blame And Nero didn't want to take the blame for what he did. So you know what he did? He blamed that sect of people that everybody hated in Rome. That sect of people that said there was only one true God, and they refused to give their pinch of salt and sacrifice to Caesar, and they refused to worship the Roman gods and to revere the temples that scattered that city. And Nero said the Christians that did it And so they went and they arrested the leaders, and one of those leaders was Paul. They brought him back to the city with the full intent. of murdering him and blaming the fire on those believers. So we want you to get hold of this. Sometimes we divorce these as just verses and not real lives and happenings, but Paul is sitting in this prison. Knowing full well that their intention is to kill him. And how does he say to Timothy, When he understands that he's in that prison because he has faithfully preached the truth of the one true God and the only way of salvation, his Son, Jesus Christ. How then do you say to a young man, hey Timothy, preach the gospel? Preach the word, my friend. Preach it whether it's in season or out of season. Oh, when it's in season, preaching's a good deal. When it's out of season, uh But out of season in this passage doesn't mean that somebody might get mad and leave the church. It means they might come and arrest you and kill you. Paul says Timothy preach it anyway. Say, why did Paul tell him that? I'll tell you why. Because Paul understood, and he's going to tell us, there are some things more important than the acceptance of the world. And there are some things that are better than all the things that we can gain in this world. And the one thing he has his eyes on is a crown. A crown of righteousness. I have people say to me sometimes, and I guess they think they sound humble, they say, well, I'm not looking for crowns I just want to get to heaven. I'll take the littlest mansion there is. Then and will you please hear what I say? I want a crown Not because of pride and not because of haughtiness. I want a crown for two reasons. Number one, I want my life to be worth a crown for Jesus. And number two, I'm telling you in heaven, I think I understand this and I think I'm correct. There will be a time when we take the crown that we have been given and hand it back to the one who is truly worthy of the crown. And it isn't Mike Edwards or Dennis Leatherman. It's Jesus. And I believe that process, that event will take place over and over and over again And you betcha I do want a crown because I want it to be a daily or weekly or whatever frequency of event I want to be able to take that crown and say, it is not my glory. It is not my righteousness. It is not my worth. It is yours, Jesus. It is yours. Any crown I have is your crown. Paul says, Timothy, you could gain the whole world, but everything you would gain would simply fall through your hands like sand. At the end of your life. But if you could live your life walking in the way that God wanted you to walk And get to heaven and have a crown that you could offer to Jesus and offer to Jesus that's worth anything and everything better than the world. Now what he does is he says this, and I want to give you three thoughts and I'll be done. How do you get that crown? And here they are. Number one, reaching for the crown precedes grasping it. Here's number two. Obeying precedes the rewarding And here's number three. Occupying precedes the appearing. Here's number one How do you get that crown? Reaching precedes grasping. Notice what Paul said again in verse 8. Henceforth. That literal meaning of that word is that there is something remaining. Because of that which has gone before, there is something that remains. And what remains for Paul is that crown of righteousness because of the way he has lived his life. When Paul got saved, he made some realizations in his life. The truth is, and I won't recite all of them, but the truth is, Paul had a very gifted life. He had a life of a lot of advantage. You talk about a guy born with a silver spoon. The Apostle Paul was born into a very Hebrew family. He was sent to the best of schools. He had the right genealogy. Man, he was destined to be a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He was destined to be a member of the Sanhedrin, and you can equate that to whatever you want, but it made him An uppity, uppity guy with an incredible future. He was going to be a powerful and wealthy man. And then he met Jesus on the Damascus Road. And when he met Jesus on the Damascus Road, it occurred to him that everything that he had been living for and working for was worth about what dung is worth. And he said, I'm no longer going to give my life to pursue those things which I cannot keep, those things that the world says are so precious. He said, My goal now is to be found in Him. Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ. The righteousness is of God by faith, that I might know him And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. Hey, Paul, what is your goal in life? To suffer with Jesus. To die to myself, to be made conformable to his death. The world would look at those goals and say, Are you crazy? You're going to give up what you had? You're going to give up the position that could have been yours? You're going to give up the wealth and the power? That could have been yours to suffer with Jesus and Paul would say, Yeah, I'm pressing towards that mark And by the way, all those people who would think he was crazy for doing that someday, whether from hell or wherever will look and see him with that crown and say, he was right, I was wrong. I'm reminded of that man The rich man who woke up in hell, looked over and saw Lazarus in Abraham's bosom, and understood the tremendous mistake he had made. Now, how is Paul going to get that crown? Well, he tells us how. He has been reaching for it all of his life, and look how he describes his life in verse 7. Well, let's go to verse 6. For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. He's sitting in a jail cell. And he knows that his days are few. And by the way, as I said already, he knows that his end is not going to be one surrounded by loved ones. Reading scripture, singing songs, reminding him of the good times and the good days. I hope that's how I go. Paul's way is to be put in chains, drugged, and pulled out Few miles out of the city, laid down on a block, without a friend around. And with men who hate what he stands for, cursing him on every step, have his head cut from his shoulders. And Paul says, I'm ready for that. It's been my goal to be conformable to his death, to be identified with his sufferings. I'm ready for that. My departure's at hand. Then notice how he sums his life up. I have fought a good fight. You know, sometimes we forget that the Christian life is often pictured as a warfare. In this same epistle Paul says something to Timothy. I'll read it to you. In chapter 2, he says, Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. I think in our generation we are forgetting that this is a warfare. We have tried to so commercialize and market the modern church that we don't offend the world. As a matter of fact, it's so hard sometimes to tell the difference between a church and the world that there's no reason for the world to get mad at it. And I'm not trying to sound like an old man, but a lot of church services have been reduced to a pep rally. A little bit of a concert where we come in and wave and sway and there's a smoke machine and lights like we're in a concert And then there's a ten or fifteen minute message that tells us we're not as bad as everybody thinks. We're pretty good people and really we can be healthy, wealthy, and wise. And we all go home and feel good about ourselves, why would the church get mad at that or the world get mad at that? But Paul says if you're going to stand for the Lord And if you're going to tell the truth in a world that hates the truth, you're going to find yourself in some warfare. And it may not be very popular, but it is still true that the world hates Christ. And because they hated him first, newsflash, they're going to hate us too. And if we think that we're going to stand for the Lord in this world and sometimes not have to fight the world, we've not seen it right. And if we don't fight the world, we're sure going to have to fight our flesh. I'm just saying to you that if you're going through your Christian life and you're not battling Might well check up. See, am I really taking a clear stand for the Lord? Paul says, I'll tell you, I have fought a good fight. He goes on and he says, I have finished my course. Hey, the Christian life is not only a battle to be won, it's a race to be run. And Paul said, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. Then he goes on and he says, I therefore so run Not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air. Paul was running the race that the Lord had set before him You and I must understand also that it's not a dash. It's a marathon. Over my periods of time in the ministry, I've met so many people that on first meeting, man, they would come and visit our church and and I'd talk to them for a few minutes and maybe visit in their home and And I would think, I'd tell my wife, I'd say, I'm pretty sure that's Bright El Moody. I think they're going to really work out great. And boy, they were a flash, and they'd be there for a month or two months or three months and maybe a year, and then you'd start looking for them, and you couldn't find them. And it had been interesting for a while, and it had been fun for a while, and it had engaged them for a while, but but they dashed out. They ran that 50-yard dash. They ran that 100-yard dash, but then they moved on to something else that piqued their interest. I want to tell you, Paul wasn't running a dash. Paul was running a marathon and and he was running and running and running and running and Sometimes it would take him to a dungeon in Philippi. Sometimes it would take him onto a dusty road where they left him for dead outside Lystra. Sometimes it would take him to uh uh Corinth where they would derate him and mock him. Uh but he didn't let that stop him. He kept running and running and running. I was younger For a good ten years in my life, I jogged. I never say I ran because it would have never been described as running. But I did jog. I quit when two 70-year-old women power walked past me. I thought, that's enough. I ran three miles every day. God is my witness. Three miles every day but Sunday. And preacher, I thought at some point I'm going to run this three miles and say to myself, I have to increase this to five. I mean this is just a piece of I want to tell you something. Every day I ran that, I had to tell myself, be a man. Put one foot in front of another and finish this thing, brother. Don't you quit. Be a man. My lungs would burn, my feet would hurt, everything would say stop, stop, stop. But I had to push myself to run. You know that in the Christian life sometimes we have to just make ourselves? Sometimes we wake up and we don't want to do it. Sometimes we comes time to pray and we say, Ah, I don't want to today. You say, Well, what's the right response? I mean If you're really going to pray, you've got to want to pray. No, the right response is sometimes you've got to self tell yourself be a man. And you've got to get up and pray when you don't want to get up and pray. And sometimes when you hurt a little bit And it's soul winning, you've got to go soul winning anyway. And sometimes when you get your feelings hurt, you've got to go to church anyway. And sometimes when it's a difficult economic week, you've got to tithe anyway And sometimes you just gotta tell yourself, hey, there's some tough spots in this race, there's some tough spots in this course, but I'm not quitting Paul said, I've run my course. I have fought a good fight. He says, I have finished my course. Then look at this. He says, I have kept The faith. Paul had fought and run the race according to the word of God. He had never dipped his colors Well, there were days when Peter kind of gave in to the Judaizers and changed what he was doing. Paul didn't change. There were days when others started preaching another gospel. Paul never preached another gospel. There were days when John Mark quit and went home. Paul never quit and went home. He never changed the message. He never made it more palatable. He preached the word of God in season, out of season, and he strived lawfully. He kept preaching the word of God, and whether the whole world dipped its colors or not, he did not. I have purposed in my life that I'm not going to, for a crowd, change the truth. I'm going to give the message as it is. And if ten want to hear it, then ten will hear it. If ten walk away, I'll preach it to my wife and my dog. If my dog goes away, I don't know what I'm gonna do. But at the end he said, You know what? I fought through it all. Man, I've kept these legs moving when they were so tired I didn't think they could move another step. And I've not dipped my colors, and I've not changed to get a crowd. And now the Lord has brought me to this place where I'm sitting in a rat-infested jail. And nobody can bring me a cloak anymore. And I can't write for anybody to bring me my books. And nobody's bringing me a meal anymore. And and nobody really knows if I'm still here and alive or not because I'm not allowed to see anybody. And the truth is, unless somebody follows on, the world may never know that they martyred me outside the city But I'm ready. And I know there's something beyond this jail cell And I know there's something beyond this life that is worth having. Henceforth, I have been reaching and reaching since the day Jesus saved me on that Damascus road. Since he pulled me out of that filthy life, that horrible life I was living. I've been reaching. I've been reaching. Lord, I want to be like you. I want to be like you. And I don't want to turn and I don't want to quit. I don't want Wanna be a statistic I've come to the place in my life where as long as God will give me strength, I'm going to keep reaching. I don't want to go to a golf course Now we'll take a fishing boat. I'm not trying to belabor, I'm not trying to be silly, I'm just saying God gave me something to do in my life And I don't ever want to be one of those that used to. I want to be one of those that still does. I want to keep reaching and reaching and reaching because beyond that reaching is a crown. A crown of righteousness. And I'm not prideful, but I want that crown. Here's number two. Obeying precedes rewarding. We've spoken much of Paul's effort and commitment, but I want to be very careful. It's not because Paul was some superior human being. When Paul gets all done When we read about his shipwrecks and when we read about being left outside Lystra dead, when we read about how he's being delivered from that that that dungeon in Philippi, when we re-read how he stands against Demetrius and Diostrophes, when we read all of that When Paul has done it all, and we read about it and think what a great missionary he was, you know what he's done? He's done his reasonable service. That's all. He just did his reasonable service. You see, God designed a path. Isn't that what it says? It says, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, notice, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me. Paul didn't design the course of his life. God did. God said, Paul, here's what I've got for your life. I'm going to take you to Philippi. I'm going to take you to Thessalonica. Hey, I'm going to take you to Lystra. That's going to be a tough one. And by the way, Paul, I'm going to take you in that ship from Jerusalem to Rome, and woo, that is going to be some trip, brother. God designed that. And when Paul went all those places and did all those things, he only did what God designed for his life. And it was only reasonable that in every day of his life he stepped and obeyed the Lord. He said, Preacher, what's your point? Here's my point. That's what God designed for him. That's not what God designed for me. I don't have to win Paul's crown. I have to win mine. God has a plan for my life. God had something He wanted me to do, and He designed a course for me, and I'm going to have to fight through some things to finish my course and I want to stay lawful and I want to strive lawfully. I want to do it right. But every day I want to walk where God has got me walking. I want to use what he's given me. I want to I want to go where he wants me to go. I want to keep doing it and keep doing it and keep doing it Until he comes for me or takes me home. And when I have finished what God wants me to do, I'm not a great guy. It's just reasonable service And when I reach the end of my trail, God has a crown for me. And you don't have to be me. You don't have to be Pastor Latherman. God designed something for you. God's got a course for you to go. And to be honest with you, there's going to be some tough days on that course Where you're going to have to purpose in your heart, I'm going to finish for the Lord. There's going to be some times when there's a temptation to run somewhere else or let it go or or let it down or do something else and you're gonna have to say, no, I'm gonna stay on the course for what God has given to me to do. And when you're done, we spoke about Ed today, and I loved him. I I only met him ten times in my life, but I knew he was the boss the first time I met him The first time I met him, him and Chester were sitting out. I was preaching a men's meeting here, I don't know, that might have been 10, 15, 20 years ago. I don't know when it was. I don't remember 10 minutes ago I walk up and there's four men working grills. They're all sweating. It's in the summertime. And Chester and Ed are sitting in lounge chairs telling them what to do. I said, well that figure that's right. And we talk about him, and he was a good man. But it's just reasonable what he did. It was just his reasonable service. God's got a plan for you. And you don't have to be me. And you don't have to be Paul. And you don't have to be preacher. You've got to be you obeying the Lord. In everything he gives you to do. And when you finished, Paul's crown, get this, will be no more shiny than yours. It'll be no bigger. It'll have no more jewels. Because the crown is not for how big we do it. The crown is for being faithful to do what he's given us to do. Obeying So yes, Lord, I'm gonna reach for it. I'm gonna do everything I can. I'm gonna fight Man, I'm just gonna follow you. And oh God, I'm going to obey what you give me to do. You're a righteous judge. You're gonna judge me. You've set a course out for me. You're preparing a crown for me, just like you did the Apostle Paul. Then I want you to notice this, number three. I want you to notice that occupying precedes appearing. Notice a phrase there. I'm going to reread the whole verse, but I want you to notice this phrase. Henceforth, that's the reaching part, and we're going to live for God. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me And he's designed my path. I'm going to be faithful to what he's given me to do because on that day You see, now listen to me. You don't get the crown today, you get the crown that day. We ought to occupy. We've got to live our lives for the Lord Remembering that the Lord is coming back. Remembering that the Lord has given us a job to do. There were ten servants that the master of the parable says, he tells them he's going away Gives them ten talents. And the the order that he gives them is this, occupy till I come. Nowhere in that command does it say, occupy when you enjoy it. Occupy when it's convenient. Do the work that I've given you to do. when it's convenient. If it if it presses you some, let go of that. It it doesn't say occupy until you have kids and and then you can't serve the Lord. You know you can't serve the Lord if I bless you with children. Occupy, serve me until you retire Until I come. What's that mean? Well, I know what it means for me. It means keep teaching and preaching the Word of God. I say, I think God gifted me with the ability to study the Word and communicate it. Now other people say, no, I don't think he gave you that gift. Well hush up. I don't know where I'll be in a year I might walk in a doctor's office this year. Hey, Mr. Edwards. I don't know. If I'll lose my legs, I might be in a rocking chair at a nursing home. I told you a little bit ago, day or so ago, about my good friend Don Sisk, 92, laying in an assisted living. His legs are gone. He's immobile. He can get up with help, but he can't walk. How are you doing, Don? Man, I'm content. This is where the Lord has me. This man has preached to thousands. Thousands. He is bedridden. Oh, by the way, there's a stack of tracks by his bed. Every person that comes in that room One of the greatest men I've ever known in my life. I don't know if you ever knew him, preacher. His name was Carlos Demarest. He's the greatest personal soul winner I've ever met in my life. We had him to our church all the time and we would just have him to take our people soul winning. He was the greatest soul winner I've ever known. Work for bearing precious seed out of Milford In his 50s, he developed ALS, Lou Gehrick's disease. I watched him over a year's time as very, very aggressive. And he went from vibrant, soul-winning, door to door, Mexico, everywhere, anywhere, anywhere, to where he couldn't speak He called me one day and he couldn't move much and in very, very slurred speech, his wife standing there by the phone, he said, She would interpret what he was trying to say, and here's what he said to me. Will your church sponsor me? I've got a Mexico City phone book. And I need envelopes, tracts, and a letter that explains how to trust the Lord. And I'm going to stuff the envelopes as long as I can and send them to every address in Mexico City. I went over there with him. We sat at his kitchen table, and he could barely get an envelope. And get that folded paper and that track in that envelope We bought thousands of dollars worth of envelopes and tracks and stamps, and our people would go and just sit with him at that table. You know what he was doing? He was occupying. I'm not giving up Until Jesus takes me or until Jesus comes and gets me, I'm going to occupy until he comes Because, preacher, I know that there's something beyond this life. I know there's something that is yet out there, and what is out there is a crown of righteousness. Not my righteousness. No, the crown of righteousness is given to those who love the appearing of the Lord and know that He is coming and know that they want to be found faithful when He comes. Someday, standing in heaven. You say, how do you know, preacher? It's my sermon, hush up. Because the rope of Revelation tells us that they cast their crowns at his feet. He is the one that is worthy. And I want to tell you to have been entrusted with the gospel. To have been given the gift and calling of preaching and teaching the Word of God, I stand amazed every day in my life. And until my last gasping breath, as honest as I know how to tell you. I want to be employing what God has given to me to do. I want to be faithful in giving and doing what He's given me to do because I want that crown Why do you want that crown so bad? So that when we stand before him and we look him face to face, I can say this is not mine. You are the one that is worthy. And anything that is good in my life is because of what you did for me. And I'm pretty sure that that will be repeated and repeated and repeated for eternity. You're worthy. Here's your crown back. You're worthy. I don't know if it'll be ten times a day. I don't know if it'll be one time. I think it'll be many times. I want that crown. And it is a crown for being faithful to do what God has called me to do The righteous judge has one designed for Pastor Leatherman. It says D. Leatherman, M-L-I-B-C. No, it doesn't. It was designed for his life. Evan, God's got you in mind. He has laid out a course for your life. And he has said, Evan, don't get distracted. Stay with it, buddy. You walk, you fight, you run, you occupy because I've got something better than any bling and bauble this world has to offer you And I want to tell you, Evan, and I'll tell Austin and every young man in this room, look down in verse 10. Redeemers have forsaken me. Listen to me Not everybody that starts finishes. I don't mean they lose their salvation. I just mean they get distracted. Demas loved this present world more. And Dinas, Demas saw the bling and baubles of this world and the acceptance and the position of this world. And he said, Man, I want that. I don't want to postpone and and live a life of that may be hard. I don't want to live a life where you got a war and and fight and run. I I don't know. I'll tell you, someday When all that stuff runs through his hands, he will wish I had that crown. If I want to be anything in my life, then not many people are going to know my name. Not many people are going to break the doors down to hear this old bald guy holler. But if God could say to me, faithful, well done. And give me that crown, it would be worth everything Quick story and I'm done. 1862, not far from here, battlefield called Antietam in Maryland. General Lee had been riding his horse, getting ready to position his men, and without knowing it, his entire battle plan had fallen out of his saddlebag. It had every position along their battle line. A Union lieutenant found it, understood what he had. took it immediately to General McClellan, the Union General, and they had the entire lay of the battle plan of the Confederate Army. When Lee realized that it was too late to reposition his army, and he knew that the weakest part of his line was right in the middle A place called the Sunken Lane near the Dunkered Church in Antietam. He and Long Street at midnight rode to that spot. It was being occupied by a a group of Georgia boys under the leadership of a colonel named John B. Gordon Well he got down off of his horse. Historical fact. He went to General or to Colonel Gordon, he said, Colonel You are in the spot that we must hold. If you vacate this spot If they run you off this spot, they're going to roll up both sides of our army, and they will be to Richmond before daylight. You've got to stand. And that colonel said back to Lee. I will stand here till victory is won or until the sun goes down. It was within a couple of hours that Union army started pouring over. It was horrible ground. Usually when in your battle, you want the high ground. Gordon had the low ground. The Union was attacking from the high ground. They started their first attack at around 6 in the morning. At about 6. 30, Gordon was shot for the first time. He was shot through his calf on his right leg. Normally when that 50 caliber miniball would hit you, it would shatter bone. It just went through the meat. And so they bandaged it up and he was hurting. And he stayed on his sword, but they said, Gordon to the rear, Gordon to the rear. They wanted him to go back and get medical aid. He said, No, I made a promise It was less than two hours later, he was shot through the upper thigh. Again, it went through meat. It did not shatter the bone. They bandaged him up and he stood there. against defense posts and led and encouraged his men. They repulsed attack after attack. At about noon he was shot through the left wrist His arm hung, and he never had use of that hand again. It shattered bone. But they stopped the bleeding. Gordon to the rear! Gordon to the rear. No! I gave my word About 230. He was shot in the left shoulder. It shattered his entire shoulder and upper arm. He could not stand any longer. They said Gordon to the rear. He said, Do not take me off this field. They sat him down and leaned him against an oak tree. And Holding this sword up, he directed his men when he saw them coming over the hill, he would say, Fill that spot, fill that spot. The last bullet that got him, number five, went through his jaw Took out his teeth, broke his jawbones. He fell over and would have drowned in his own blood, except there were so many bullet holes in his cap that the blood ran out of his cap. This is a true story He finally passed out. But his men so respected him, said, Don't take him away from the tree. They held the line that day. Six months later. There's a re year of more than a year in recovery. Six months later, Lee went to see him. Can you imagine that meeting? We're not recorded what was said, but he was promoted to general. And he begged Lee to get back into the battle, and he was back in the battle uh down at Richmond and got wounded again, by the way. But he was given the greatest honor that was given to a Confederate soldier. You say, what was it? At Appomattox, Lee said, General Gordon, Because of your faithful service, I want you to be the last man to lead the Army of Northern Virginia. And Gordon accepting his sword. Led that army in surrender to another great man named Joshua Chamberlain, the hero of Gettysburg, a little round top. And Chamberlain, so respecting what he had done, instead of mocking them as they surrendered, called his men to attention. And it was a respectful, reverent time. You say, preacher, why do you tell that story? If a man can be that faithful If a man can be that strong and fight and run and occupy and refuse to give in. To honor his general, to honor a man, to honor a human cause, can we not Honor our God with faithfulness every day of our life Can we not fight through the hard things? Can can we not turn our eye like Demas did not and say, I'm not going there, I'm not I'm not going to be distracted. I don't want that. There's something better. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown. And more than anything this world has, that I can hold for a day or a year or a season that will then run through my hands I want that crown so I can say, This is yours Nothing this world offers will replace that moment. Let's stand faithful. Let's be where we're supposed to be. Let's fight through when we feel a little off. Let's keep going when we just want to sit down and quit. Let's get up and pray when we're really tired. Let's continue to give when it's a little close. Let's tell somebody about Jesus when we're worried about their reaction will be. God help us. There's a crown worth winning. Let's win it. Father, we thank you for these few moments you've given us. I pray that you would help us to see truth and God, more than anything in my life, I want to finish strong for you. I do not want to be a statistic. I don't want to be someone who used to. I want to be someone who still does. And I may not be able to go at it as fast as I used to. I may never be as good as Adat was at it. But I want to do the best I can do for you. I want to keep running. And sometimes I've got to make myself put one foot in front of the other. Sometimes I get in some battles and I'm so tired, but I want to keep fighting. Sometimes other things catch my eye, but I want to occupy I don't want to be in love with this present world because it goes away. Never delivers what it promises. Demons can find that out. I want to stand before you into the best that I can possibly do. I want to finish the course that you've laid out for this old man to finish. Lord, help us to be those faithful that are found when you return. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.