About seventeen and a half years ago God brought my family here to Mountain Lake and uh became a part of the church. Shortly after that, God sent a young man and his wife through our church here that was raising money to go to Russia and be missionaries in Russia. And that was Mike and Terry Clark. I can't believe it. I was thinking it was ten, eight, ten years ago. I just asked him sitting here, how long ago was that? He said it was seventeen years ago they came through And uh they God uh provided for them to get over. They were in Russia for how many years were you in Russia? Six. Six years over in Russia Gave a s uh story in Sunday school, got a church going there. Here's a unique thing. God used Brother Clark and his wife to start a deaf church, and out of the deaf church, they started a hearing church Now that's kind of backwards the way you normally do types of things, but that's kind of the way Brother Clark is, a little backwards. But um God used them in a great way. The work's still going on in Russia, in that amazing thing came back to a series of events, came back to the States, pastored in West Virginia for a number of years. Now he's on Deputation Trail again, and they're starting the Legacy Baptist Church just outside of Pittsburgh, southwest of Pittsburgh, kind of between Washington and Pittsburgh in that area there. And uh they've got a start date, they've got a location, he's got tremendous literature. And I'll tell you one thing, I I I learned something last night at the Wild Game dinner. Brother Clark is going to be able to get a church up and going. God's going to use them because the guy's not afraid to work Man, last night he was serving tables, hauling chairs, doing just jumped right in and uh worked hard, and I thank God for that. And um I'm excited about what the Lord has in store. So let's get our Bibles out. I asked him to stay over this morning and preach, and let's see what the Lord has for us as he brings the message. Amen. Good to be here. You know, I was thinking that this morning when I got up, just the beautiful sunshine. All God's people said, I walk in here and a bunch of pious people, well, even if it's raining or snowing, I still love the Lord. Just something a little bit more special when the sun's shining and Yeah, I mean you just love the Lord on mornings like this, but I think it I think it has to do with also being part of a wonderful church Friday night had the couples dinner and Saturday being able to influence the community with wild game supper and then to be able to come in here on a Sunday morning. And I was I'm weird, as Pastor said. I like to go in and just see things. And the choir up here is singing and seeing the young people in the choir. Seeing the heart for people to run buses. Seeing the desire to reach people through the Sunday school and the way you greet visitors and greet folk and people feel at home and then that that beautiful soul. Some people clap after you know somebody sings, and some people say amen. I judge a special by how it prepares the auditorium for the preaching. And that was just wonderful. Just absolutely wonderful. If you have your Bibles this morning, would you open to the book of Matthew? Matthew chapter nine I love the Word of God. I love studying the Word of God. I love being in the Word of God. I like hearing others preach and teach on the Word of God. And a while ago, God started moving on my heart to go start a church. I was pastor, I was assistant pastor of a very good church plant in Charlotte, North Carolina. In seven years, God's taken a small group of people from a park building to now meeting this morning in a public school uh a gymnasium where over 350 people will be in services this morning. God's provided them 10 acres of property to build their first buildings on. 22 missionaries being supported from that church and they are sending church to send us to start a new church. I love being around God's people. And when God was moving on my heart to go start a church, I was praying over different areas, and of course I'm from Pittsburgh, I'm from the north side of Pittsburgh. And uh and I just really felt a burden to go back and look at this city. I talked actually to Pastor Leatherman and and he encouraged that in my heart. And so I flew to Pittsburgh and and I remember standing on the uh the incline. And I remember standing looking over the city and seeing house after house after house after house after house after house after house Some houses, you couldn't even push a push mower between them. You gotta take your garbage can around the alley and bring around. And then I started looking for the churches. And I couldn't find them. And I couldn't find them. And I couldn't find them. And I couldn't find them. You know, my house in Pittsburgh this morning, my wife's got to drive almost 40 minutes in a metropolitan area to find a church like this one. God started moving on my heart, and when He started moving on my heart, a word stuck into my mind. And that word was simply this: the multitude. The multitude. Seven billion people, they say, in the world. The multitude. And so as I started studying the scriptures, I started studying that word. Multitude. And as I studied the word multitude, you know what I found as I studied that word? That every time you find the multitude, you find Jesus. You see, if I would ask this question this morning, why were the multitudes drawn to the Lord Jesus Christ? Many in here may say this morning, well, that's easy, Pastor Clark. He was Jesus. And you'd be exactly right. But I think we fail in stopping there and understanding why the multitude came to Jesus. The Bible also teaches that Jesus was man. The Bible also teaches that He is our example. And so I did a study in my life on the multitudes, and I did a study particularly on why the multitudes were drawn to the Lord Jesus Christ, I did that hoping That it would enable me to reach the multitude, to reach more people than I have been. And I hope this will help and benefit you as it has in my life. Are you in Matthew chapter 9? Matthew chapter 9, look at verse 32, and the Bible says, And they went out, and beheld they brought it to him a dumb man possessed with the devil, and cast him out. And when the devil was cast out, the dumb spake, and the multitudes marveled, saying, It was never seen so in Israel. But the Pharisees said he cast out devil through the prince of the devils. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sick and every disease among them. But when he saw What's the phrase? The multitudes. He was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto His disciples. The harvest is truly plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Father, We yield this time to thee, asking that you do not anything through eloquent speech or words. But we ask that the Holy Spirit of God would take the written Word of God and help us to apply it to our hearts and our minds this morning. Simply that we might be more like Jesus, and that we too might be able to reach the multitudes. Lord, people all around us are hurting. People all around us are dying in sin. We have the answer. We just need to go and be like Jesus. Help us to make much of Jesus this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I read the Word of God, I simply like. To read the Word of God, see what it says, and then try to apply it to my life. And so as we see Jesus going to the multitudes here, We see first this morning that Jesus in verse 35 went about all the cities and what? The villages. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ understood something about the multitude. He understood that if he was going to reach them, he needed to come to where they were. In other words, the Lord Jesus Christ did not stay in one area in one specific location. He went and found people where they were So many times our churches do not reach the multitudes because we believe that everything the church does should be in these walls. And that's not the case. If we're going to reach the multitudes, we need to go to the cities. Now I like the cities. I mean when I went to Russia, it was the Kat's Meow. Man, I would go down to the in the city and I would go catch a bus And there'd be these little old ladies. These little old ladies that they would try to get up on the bus, and the bus is so packed And he used to always get the big kick out of these ladies. They would get in the bus, and you know the doors would shut in the bus, right? They would get in the bus and they'd get in the door, they'd wedge themselves, and then they'd go, whoo And they'd stand up, the door would shut, they'd go Man, I used to love that. I had a friend of mine, he was married, he came over, and we were on one of those buses, and he got squished face to face with a pretty blonde woman that wasn't his wife. And he was squished to her Dave Shrock. And I yelled across the bus over the heads, hey Dave, I'm gonna tell your wife. He looked back at me. He said, my wife don't smell like this. There's not a lot of deodorant, you know. She looked at him in perfect English and said, So where are you from? Oh I love the city. There's so much that happens. And there's so much that can take place. And I see that the Lord Jesus Christ, when he went to where people were, they listened to him. The first thing I understand if I'm going to be like Jesus, I have to get it in my mind. I have to go to where they are. If it's in the villages, we've got to get the gospel to the villages. You know what's so wonderful about the radio station here? It beams off into all the little villages, all the little towns, and all the little areas. He gets the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ into places that most people don't even know exist. I pastored in West Virginia. I know where there's places where there's whole sections of homes that still have cold creeks. Anyone know what a cold creek is? Or look, the creek runs through the basement, they keep their milk and they keep their perishables down in there because they don't even have electricity. Somebody needs to get the gospel to them. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ, when you see the multitude and you see them with the Lord Jesus Christ, understand he went to where people were. And you and I have got to start getting into our mindset, and we have to start getting into our concept of ministry that we have to go to where they are We have to make that decision. We have to make that effort. We have to send folks forth into the harvest because it's what the Lord Jesus Christ did. He went to where people were. Sometimes people wonder, I don't understand why I was born where I was born. I believe it was God's divine plan. Because he has your little mission field. He has people that you live around that only you can reach. Go to where people are, be like Jesus. Jesus went to the multitude. I I live with a phrase like this. Make it easy for people to serve the Lord, and they really will. Make it easy for people to come to Jesus by allowing them to come to where you are. He went. to where Jesus, or Jesus went to where they are. Second, I see this. The Bible says that he went teaching In their synagogues and preaching the gospel. It's not a put-down for a preacher to be called a teacher Jesus Christ was one of the best teachers that ever lived. He also was a good preacher. The Bible says here, Jesus, when he went to the multitudes He understood that there was a time to preach and there was a time to teach. You and I, in our lives, would be uh do ourselves a world of good to understand the difference. The Bible word for preach is caruso. It means to announce, it means to make known, it means to herald forth The New Testament term for teaching is didiasko. It means to teach and inform or to demonstrate. One of those deals with the what. The other deals with the how and why. Now I am through and through a Pittsburgh Steeler fan. If you don't like it, fine. Win more trophies than we have, and you can brag. I love football. Monday night football has been in our generation, has been in our society, become a staple. And Monday night football, they have a three-man booth. They have one that gives you the what. They have one that tells you what is going on on the field. And then they have another guy called Jaws. Go figure, Philadelphia. They have him, and he tells you the behind the scenes why they're doing what they're doing and where he's going and what the mindset is. And by watching that, you can come to a complete understanding about the game of football. Yes, ladies. Even you can understand football. If you can understand childbirthing, you can understand football. Amen? And what I see in the Lord Jesus Christ was the Lord Jesus Christ when he went to the multitude. He understood the difference between preaching and teaching. He understood that there was a time to stand up and say, Listen, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes unto the Father but by me. But he also understood when after teaching the 5,000, when his twelve men came to him and said, Now Lord, listen. You just said that to the multitude, but we your choice servants, we didn't get that. Would you reteach that to us? And the Lord Jesus Christ, in a gracious way, took the time to reteach the twelve. You see, what has happened in our generation, what's happened in our society. Is we think Christmas time is the time to stand on the kitchen table. Bless God, you need a turniburn. And that very well may be the case, led by the Holy Spirit. It may be what you need to do. But did you ever think it may be the opportunity to teach? You ever think it may be the opportunity to bring the Word of God to your family? In a situation where you're teaching the word of God? Do you know one of the things the Lord Jesus Christ did more than anybody else in Scripture? He asked questions. He asked questions. Now he already knew the answer to the questions. Don't ask questions you don't know the answer to. But have you ever walked up to somebody? Don't ask them what church they go to. Everybody's gone to a church. Ask them a question like this. Hey, do you know where you would spend eternity? Well what do you what do you mean? No, nobody can know that. Well, wait a minute. I know where I'm going to spend eternity because the Bible says You see, you don't have to walk up to them and preach down their throat as much as express to them, maybe, in a conversational tone, a question that now they're going to have to take with them. Listen, you ask somebody, excuse me ma'am, do you know where you're going to spend eternity? No matter what her answer to me is at that moment. The next morning when she wakes up in the quietness of her room, she's going to be struggling with that question. And the Spirit of God could use the Word of God then to have impact and influence. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ understood that yes, there were times to flip tables Yes, there were times to say, thus saith the Lord, but he was just as quick to sit down and say, Bring the lad, bring the lad to me with the lunch. Hey son, did your mom pack that? Hey listen, we want to use that thing for God's glory. Would that be okay with you? Well sure, Jesus. Well, hey fellas. Hey fellas. Let's give it out. Folk, listen. Jesus was able to reach the multitude. because he understood the setting in which he was in. The Bible clearly says here that he was teaching in the synagogues. And then he was preaching the gospel. You come to a Sunday school class, you expect what? The clear teaching Of the Word of God. You go into a classroom environment, you expect the teaching of whatever knowledge. You see, teaching fills an outline, but preaching fills a person's heart. We're not afraid to debate. We're not afraid to challenge our critics. We're not afraid to sit down and reason together with somebody that has questions. In fact, that's some of the best kind of Christianity you'll ever find. The best thing you could ever do is get with a young convert and just listen to his questions and answer those questions and take the Word of God and explain it and share it in faith. It'll do wonders in your life. It's why there was so much joy around the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was always reaching and teaching people. Jesus did not want blind followers. He wanted people to make wise choices with the mind and the heart. And you and I have to understand that if we're going to reach the multitude in our day and age, we must preach. Yes. But we also must clearly teach the Word of God. Thirdly, I see this with Jesus and the multitude. The Bible says, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Do you know why the multitude came to Jesus? Because he helped them. Do you realize the Lord Jesus Christ met every need that ever came his way? Now, he said, well brother Clark, I can't do that. I can't do that. I understand But you know what we've convinced ourselves? Because we can't meet every need that comes our way, we've stopped meeting any Used to be in America. Somebody driving down the road, break down along the highway, people almost wrecking to pull over and help. Now it doesn't even cross our minds. You see I've got a schedule I'm a busy man. I mean I've got people waiting on me. I mean, me s I mean it's a mother and a child and it's snowing, but but listen, I've got a I've got Child at home and I've got to get to. And the reason we've stopped reaching the multitude is because we've stopped meeting their needs. We've simply stopped caring. Well, Brother Clark, you know it's dangerous. Well, Brother Clark, you know the day and age in which we live. I know the Bible tells me a story about a Samaritan that found a man along the road that did by thieves. Hey, those thieves were still out there. It didn't stop the Samaritan from stopping and helping. It didn't stop him from taking the time and the effort and the energy to ensure that man Was taken care of. Can I be honest with you? If we as God's people have stopped caring about people, What kind of nation are we going to become? Oh wait. We're already into a generation that people have stopped caring, and look what's around us. I'm saying in this room, we need to start meeting people's needs. I'm saying there's neighbors. There's friends. There's family members. We wonder why they won't listen to the gospel. We wonder why they're not open to the joy of Christ that I have in my heart. And I come back and I say, Jesus Christ met every need that ever came his way. Do you know why people came to Jesus? Because he cared about them. Because he took time. It says here every, every need All I'm saying to you this morning is this. If Jesus could meet every need, then we can meet some of the needs. The multitude. The multitude came to Jesus because Jesus went to where they were. Because Jesus taught them and he preached to them. Because Jesus met their needs. But then the Bible says this in verse 36. But he simply saw them. See, the Bible's not an overly complicated book. Look what the Bible says. But when he saw them, I'm a former Marine. It's okay. When I joined the Marine Corps, I went with three buddies, two buddies. See, I was a Marine. I went with three buddies, so I I went with two buddies. The three of us went to boot camp. We went to Marine Corps boot camp, and my best friend in all the world stood right across from me. So I'm standing at attention, I'm standing there, and he got in trouble. Well, I was just laughing my head off. He got in trouble. So they dubbed us the three laughing hyenas. Which meant we were always in trouble. Always in trouble. So one day a guy pulled me aside. He said, listen. He said, you're having problems because you're focusing on what's close. Focus farther away. So I learned in my life, I have the ability. With you standing right in front of me, I can see through you and never pay attention. Do you ever wonder how the honor guard people do that? They stand there The little kids try to tickle their nose and they still stand there. I've learned how to do that. But can I be honest with you? We've all learned how to do that. How many of you got kids and light can turn them off? You know what I'm saying? Is well and then somebody will hit you and say, Did you see your kid? Like, no, that's my wife's kid. She should be watching them. You know what we've learned to do? We have learned to stop seeing people. As people We stop seeing her as her. We stopped seeing him as him. And we see a group and we see a mass. But we never focus in on the one. Jesus Christ, He saw people In fact, you know what the Bible says? That one day we're going to be tried by the fire of Christ's eyes. In other words, he's going to see us again. Face to face, that personal attention. Do you know what people long for? Personal attention. You know, the most important thing you can do at your workplace is remember people's names, names of their kids. See, specific attention. He saw the multitude. What did he see about the multitude? Look what the Bible says. He was moved compassionate on them. Why was he moved? He was moved because they fainted and were scattered abroad. Look what this says, as sheep having no shepherd. You know what broke the Lord Jesus Christ's heart as he stared at this multitude? You know what really tore him up What really broke and tore the Lord Jesus Christ's heart out at this moment in time was when he saw the mass, when he saw the multitude, he noticed that there were no leadership. That were leading them in the way of God. That the nation of Israel, their leaders were Pharisees. They were charlatans They had a form of godliness, but denied all the power thereof. In other words, they looked good, they talked good, they walked well, but they made no impact in anybody's life. And it broke his heart. Look at the Bible says. The Bible says that they fainted and were scattered abroad. I studied that word faint out. Well that word faint is. We just had the wild game dinner. That word faint there. Is the connotation of a dead carcass being ripped to shred by wild animals Let me explain to you what it means. It means in this multitude, there really were people that wanted to know the truth of the word of God. But the leadership and what they were being told was just rending their minds. It was confusing them. It was tearing them apart. They wanted to know the truth. They wanted to know the way. They wanted to know how to get to God. And the leadership was perverting it, and they were subverting it, and they were making it complicated and Confusing, and it was making people go nuts. Have somebody try to explain to you the debt in this nation, Blow your mind. Right? That's what was happening. The simplicity of the gospel was shredded by the leadership. So much so that it moved the Lord Jesus Christ to stand and give them clarity. Listen. Within three doors of this local church, there are people that are fainting Within a mile of this location, there are a multitude that are confused in their beliefs They've had one church tell them this, they've had another church tell them this, they've had this place say this, they've had this place say do this And in their minds and in their hearts they long to please God, but they've been so confused and so upset that they've just given up. It's up to us to see them. It's up to us To be like Jesus and see the individual in the multitude Have you ever gone to the mall and just sat and watched people? Told you I'm weird. Man, just get a cup of coffee. You know what you'll see? You'll see hurting people all around. You'll see people dragging kids they have no idea how to raise or how to change their attitude or effectively work on their hearts You'll see teenagers that are cutting themselves and that are doing things to their bodies in order to get a satisfaction and a fulfillment that is in their life because there's a void of God. You'll see couples that act like they're tremendously in love. But if you could go home to their dinner table, they're contemplating divorce You see, if we'll cultivate our lives, to be able to see the multitude, we'll be able to know where we can make a difference. The Bible says, then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but you've not seen it I love this about the Lord Jesus Christ. He lives it before the disciples. He shows them, he tells them, then the Bible says this in chapter 10, verse 5, these twelve Jesus sent forth. In other words, church, I've come here this morning to tell you this: the multitudes Are out there. They can be reached if we will go They can be impacted if we'll teach and preach. They can be influenced If we'll just take the time to see them as an individual. You know how many times I hear people say, well, well They'll never, they'll never get saved. And I just looked at them like you moron. That's what people said about me. But God's grace is sufficient. I'll never forget as a young Christian It's a young Christian. Somebody coming alongside and saying, hey, listen, do you know this is what the Bible teaches? Never heard that in my life, man. Can I show you in the Bible? Man, I'd love to. You know, my life is what it is today. Because people have seen me and have influence invested in my life. You know what I've determined in my life about Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania? There's a whole multitude of people That God's sending me to. To meet one need at a time. To meet one need at a time. And if I do that, I'm simply going to be like Jesus. And I think The multitude will follow. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around. Different kind of Sunday morning message. Because I really believe it's a different type time in which we live. I believe the answers the multitude are looking for are in this room. I believe that we have the answer. We've just got to believe that it's our job to go. You may be here this morning. And you may feel that religion has left you fainted in your mind. That this place has said this and this place has said that. And you're just so confused. Well, the Lord really did say, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. It really is just as simple as believing that Jesus Christ died for your substitutionary death. That you too, by faith, could receive Him. You have that opportunity in a few minutes. But, Christian, the challenge is this The multitudes. They're all around us. Are we going to be like Jesus? Or are we just going to continue like the Pharisees? Would you stand with me, heads bowed, eyes closed, as the instrumentalists play? You're here this morning. Brother Clark, I want to see the multitude. I'm going to ask God to help me see them. Come forward. Ask God to give you. I can't point that out to you. Only God can. The altar's open. You come. Christian, you wonder why you're not influencing people? Go to where they are Well, I don't like door knocking. Well come and just be a silent partner. Well I don't well go jump on the bus route Somebody came and got you. Somebody had compassion on you. Listen, I'm preaching something that I've had to deal with in my own life. Seeing people. Do you call it a few This piano plays, the invitation's open. We invite you to come. Old-fashioned altar is a good place to do business with God. Respond to the Word of God. Surrender our heart and minds to Him. Let Him have His way.