Would you join me in turning to the book of Luke, Luke chapter ten, very familiar passage, and I want to start the conference. Now, I know that missions conferences can tend to be a little bit leery in attending because you think I'm going to preach on your money. Well, I don't want to disappoint you. But I'm not going to do it I'll probably do it maybe once or twice this week because I believe this. If you can really get a glimpse of the burden to reach a world, and you let God speak to you. And you're going to be willing to give as God directs you. So I'm going to try, with the Lord's help, And I've been praying this week and asking God to do some good things. And so I'm going to hopefully just want to give you maybe a fresh vision. of reaching a world for the cause of Christ. Luke chapter 10, if you found your place, would you join me please in standing to your feet out of respect? I'm only going to read two verses Very familiar. And then I'm going to have prayer, and then you may be seated. Verse number one. Says after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also. and sent them two by two before his face into every city and place, whether he himself would come Therefore he said unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Let's pray, shall we? Our Father, tonight. What a privilege it is to stand in this place behind this pulpit and to preach your word. And Lord, these folks have gathered here tonight because of a desire, a vision, a burden. To do their part in reaching a world that's lost and dying. And Lord, all I can do is proclaim your word. Holy Spirit, we need you to touch hearts. We need you to enlarge all of our visions and the burden for reaching this world. And so, Lord, I pray tonight, help me to be just your spokesman. Guard our lips, guard our thoughts, guard our actions. Help us to be what we need to be, and you'd have us to be for this hour. And we'll praise you and thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. Some years ago I was pastoring, and we had a missionary come and he presented his work, and where he was going to was a place called Burkina Fasha. And I never heard of the place. I never even knew where it existed. It's just a little bit north of South Africa and just a very small little place. But I never even knew that there was such a country as that. And I began to think about how many people were in that little country that I had never spoken or thought about, never knew about that were in the need of having the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I have to confess that the possibility many of us would have uh the same thought that I was not aware of that place or other places that still need the gospel. But you know what? There's probably, and I would venture to guess to say that, around this church building There are people that need to hear the gospel. And we need to be aware of that. In our text tonight, in our text in the passage here, the Lord, of course, presents his personal assessment. of the spiritual need of the world, and he certainly uses it. He uh looks upon the world as he sees the world as a harvest field In need of laborers. The great need is there in seeing the world reaped and brought to the Lord Jesus Christ And those who would win souls to Christ are defined, of course, as the laborers, those that are go out into the harvest field and to do the work and the labor that's needed there and those who will accomplish only what the Lord can do through them. And so tonight I want to just share with you very briefly tonight some thoughts about this mission field, this reaching the world for the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what the Lord says here in this passage of Scripture. I think he first of all describes the immensity of the mission. Did you know that in the world today there are 7,117 different known languages? Out of those 7,117 languages, only 698 have a Bible in their language. That they can read, that they can study, and that they can understand. 1,548 have a New Testament in their language. 1,738 have a little portion of the scripture that they can read. That means that there are 3,733 languages and people groups that have no word of God. They need to be reached. And the only way they're going to be reached is if somebody goes into that harvest field, learns that language, and does the work that needs to be done. Let me just share something else with you. I just heard these statistics just recently Someone said that approximately every three minutes, 85 people pass out into eternity that have never heard the gospel message. Think about that. Eighty-five people every three minutes. That means then that every uh hour there are one thousand seven hundred people That have passed out into eternity that have never heard the gospel message. I made a mistake. Let me just go back and redo this every three seconds. Somebody passes. Every hour, every minute, 1,700 people pass out into eternity. Every hour, 102,000 people die. And every day over two million, almost two and a half million people die. Think about this. In the five days of this conference, there will be over 12 million people. Who will pass out into eternity who have never heard the gospel? It's immense of reaching a world It's immense. We live in a nation where there's churches on every corner. We live in a nation where I passed the Baptist churches coming through town coming here uh just everywhere Baptist churches that are hopefully good Baptist churches preaching the word but I want you to understand that's not the norm In around the world there is an immense need to have the gospel. Notice it's immense in its scope, Jesus said In 2 Peter 3, verse 9, the Bible says he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The scope is that he's not willing that any should slip out into eternity. Not a 12 million people in a in a five-day period should slip out into eternity and not hear the gospel message and have an opportunity. To trust the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior. Mark chapter 16, verse 15, the Bible commands us to go into all the world and to preach the gospel to every creature. It's an immense thing. It's immense in its scope. Then it's immense in its value. When you consider the value of a soul, Mark chapter 8 says, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his soul? The value of one person. Aren't you glad that Jesus died for you? You know, I was thinking of this the other day, and I'm sure you've heard it. But to think about the fact that if I was the only person that ever lived in this world, Jesus still would have gone to the cross and died for me. Because I'm that valuable to him. My soul was that valuable. The Lord here, of course, is speaking of eternal, the eternal, the immortal soul Of those that he has created. And certainly as he looks at them, he wants them to be saved. He wants them to go to heaven. We've been created to fellowship with God. And he wants to have that fellowship. It's immense in its scope, it's immense in its value, the birth of a soul, and then it's immense in the time. I want you to understand people today think we've got all the time in the world, but I'm going to tell you, I look at the conditions of this world and time is getting short. I don't believe that we've got a lot more time left when we look at the situation. I've had people ask me, preacher, do you think that that what's happening in the Ukraine and and with Russia. You think that's the beginning? I said, well I don't know, but I'm gonna tell you something. I do have read the Bible, I know what prophecy says, and Gog and Magog are going to make a move. I'm not saying that's it. Well, time's getting short. And we have to be about the Father's business. We must do what is needed. Jesus himself said, I must be about the Father's business. I've come for a purpose to do his will. And that's what we're supposed to do. It's immense in the situation. Time is growing short. I've witnessed to people who say, well, you know what? I'll do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it in my time. I'm going to do it a little later I remember as a youth pastor, I had a young man in my youth group and I I witnessed to him and and uh he said, you know, I'm gonna get saved, Brother Jim. I'm gonna get saved, Brother Moore I really am, but I I just got some things I want to do. I just got some things that I want to have a little fun before I do it. And I tried to warn him. I said, you don't, you none of us are guaranteed of another day And I remember the day that he went to go to the movies and he was excited and his parents dropped him off and he jumped out of the car and ran out into the street and was hit and killed instantly And he slipped out into eternity, lost. And I can guarantee you right now, he's looking up and said, you know, oh, I wish I would have listened to Brother Moore. Time. Time's not on our side anymore. We need to be about the Father's business. We need, it's an immense situation It's bigger than what we are, but it's not bigger than who our God is. Then notice secondly And not only did Jesus emphasize the immensity of the mission, but he also said the insufficiency of the manpower. He said, but the laborers are few. Laborers are few. You know that we're losing more off the field today than we are getting them to the field. Your preacher and I were talking at uh dinner tonight and and I agree with him. There was a time that uh my phone would ring at least four or five times a week with a missionary wanting to come to our church and present their work. And I felt bad because I I couldn't take them all in But I noticed that in the last few months, years, that's been declining. And to even find missionaries to come to a missions conference, you have to go around and try to beat the bushes to try to find them. Good ones. This last year, I'm the international field administrator. That's a big title. It just means I'm a worker to go around and try to encourage missionaries to stay on the field. That's my job That's my responsibility. Just to go where they are, to see what they're going through. Yeah, I want you to understand missionaries get discouraged. They're like you. They're in a place where possibly there's no other American around and and some of the people don't always agree with them. They're struggling, their finances, their family and all the rest. And it's our responsibility to go and to pray with them and encourage them the best we can to help them, to stay there, to do the job that God has called them to do. But this last year, just this last year, I know of three Missionary families that have left the field, come off the field, leaving a void where they once served. And who's going to replace them? Who's going back? We're not finding Bible colleges turning out missions area candidates any longer. Most Bible colleges, a lot of Bible colleges might have a missions program, but it's not the emphasis of that college. They want to turn out preachers and pastors and educators, and there's nothing wrong with that. Well, we're losing missionaries. And we need to regain it. The insufficiency of the laborers. Laborers are few. It's insufficient compared to the need Listen to this. China has 1. 4 billion people. India has 1. 3 billion people. And yet there's just a handful of fundamental independent Baptist missionaries in those countries. Preaching the gospel. I don't know about you, but one billion just amazes me. I know that we just had Elon Musk paid $44 billion to buy Twitter And I got to thinking, what is a billion? And I I went and found out that if you started counting one number every second And I mean 24 hours a day. You didn't sleep, you didn't eat, and you just kept counting. One, two, three, every second. To get to one billion, it would take you 137 years. I can't even fathom that. That's how many people are there. And the laborers, laborers, out of the 27-3, out of the 23 mission boards surveyed They stated that together they had 2,628 missionary families on the foreign fields. In Asia and the Pacific, there are only 565 fundamental missionaries serving. And yet there's billions of people. Insufficient compared to the need. It's insufficient compared to the opportunity. The lifespan in many of those countries is very short compared to our the ones that we enjoy here. When you think of 6,316 people that die. As I mentioned every hour, or more than that, that tw uh one million people that die every day. uh uh and through uh this uh time that we're here, uh all that period. I want you to understand uh the c opportunities are getting shorter and shorter. Jeremiah chapter 8 verse 20 says, the harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. I just passed your hospital coming up here tonight. I'm surprised you got West Virginia Hospital here and finally got your heart right. But I I I I would venture a guess that there's somebody at that hospital tonight in the intensive ward care ward that may not be there tonight, tomorrow morning. Do you have a funeral home here in town? I'm sure you do. If you go into that funeral home tonight And do you talk to the director, he would take you to a room where there would be casket set. A showroom, they call it, where you can pick out a casket. I want you to understand that casket is already there waiting for somebody to fill it. People are perishing all around us. All around us. We had in our church family since I've left One family that their 40-year-old son, I think he was 42 maybe, went to bed on Saturday night, never woke up on Sunday morning Slipped out into eternity. The opportunity is here now. This is the time. Right now, this is when we must be about the Father's business. It's in s insufficient. Compared, of course, to the reward, God promises to richly, I believe, reward those who labor for the souls of men. In Mark chapter 10, verse 29 and 30, it says, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my sake. And for the gospels, but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time and in the world to come. Oh, I want you to understand. You can't outgive God. Whether you give by faith, promise, or you give your life. I was in the Navy for 15 years I got saved after I had 12 years in the Navy. And uh we decided to the Lord began to work in our hearts about ministry. And so we got out of the Navy of 15 years, and and then at that point in time we never had any retirement. That was it. When you got out, that's it. No money coming in And I had to go to Bible college. My wife babysat. We uh had a little bit of GI bill that paid some of our uh college. I don't understand that we put two girls through Christian school. We had a mortgage payment that we made every week, had a uh school bill, and by the way, I paid my school bill. We have never lacked for anything. No, I'm not a millionaire. Here. But I am there. I want you to understand you can't outgive God. You give him your life, you serve him, you do what God wants you to do, and I'll guarantee you Just as the Bible says, if you forsake whatever you've got here and you give it all to the Lord Jesus Christ, He will bless you. Abundantly. I don't understand it. We don't have a mortgage now. We just bought a brand new home two years ago. Don't have a mortgage. I don't owe on my car. Of course it's falling apart, but I don't own on it. Not a bit. Why? Because God supplies every need. Compared to the reward. Compared to the war. You know, most people today are looking at their retirement funds and their retirement packages and and all the rest, but I want you to understand when you serve God, that's the greatest retirement there is. I don't know about you, but when I get to heaven I'm gonna have a mansion And I'm looking forward to it. Wow. Then lastly, I want you to understand the incorporation that he gives for the key method of it all. Notice what he says here in our passage. Verse 2, therefore he said unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Pray ye therefore. He had an incorporation of the key method. The key method is filling the ranks with laborers. The key method is uh for motivating others to go into the field. And Jesus told us what that key method is. It's praying Ye therefore. You know what you need to do as a church? You need to pray out of this church somebody would surrender to go to missions. Amen. You ought to pray your pastor would go to missions. Every mission conference we had, every mission conference I've ever been in as a pastor, when we got ready to have the missions conference, I'd say, Lord, Call me. I want to go. I want to serve you. I want to go to, I'd like to be a missionary. God never called me. Until I retired. Maybe that's what you need to do, brother. I don't know. Pray You know what we do is we raise our children and our grandchildren and we instill in them that they ought to be doctors, lawyers, businessmen. We want them to be successful. in the world and make it. I want you to understand what we ought to start doing is saying we want them to serve God. Ultimately, the greatest thing that a child could do is be to serve God, whether it be in the ministry as a pastor as an educator in a Christian school or as a missionary, but that ought to be and if you can't be that then then you can be a bus a businessman, a doctor, and a lawyer or whatever else. But the greatest thing, the highest calling is being in the ministry. Praying. Praying. Prayer shows us that we're aware of the need. You know, when we start praying for missionaries, it shows us that we're aware that there's a a shortage of laborers. It shows us that God's heart is reaching a world with a lost of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We need to be aware of the fact that eternity's long and this life is temporal and that somebody's going to spend eternity somewhere at all times. Prayer demonstrates also not only the fact that we're aware of the need, but it also demonstrates our faith By my petitioning the Lord for the needed manpower to meet the mission, I'm manifesting my faith in his ability to meet that need. Amen. I know that there's a shortage. Right now I know that there's churches that are in Europe that are in need of a pastor to go there, a missionary pastor. to preach to those people, whether it be Germans or or uh Dutch or uh French or even the military They need to have someone. And it shows me as I pray that I have faith that God is going to send laborers into his field. Prayer has always been the muscle that moves the hand of God. That's what we ought to pray. And then prayer will produce a commitment. If I'm aware that there's a need, and act upon that in faithful prayer. It will cause me to realize that I can and that I should also become a laborer for the Lord. He may not call you to go to some foreign field, but as I'm praying for laborers to go, it'll make me aware that I ought to be a laborer right here. I can serve right here in my home church. This is a mission field itself. My daughters attended a Christian school when they were in elementary age. One of their teachers, Miss Palmert. little heavyset lady and uh she really had a burden for people. She loved to win souls. But as she would leave, uh the the as she would dismiss her class every day. She would tell those little students as they would leave, you're either a missionary or a mission field. You're entering a mission field when you leave this building. All around us people are in need of the gospel. Yes, we ought to send people overseas. We ought to send them to the ships and we ought to send them to South Africa and to Utah. We ought to send them where there's a a lack of the spiritual gospel being preached. the truth of the Word of God. I believe in that and I'm I'm wanting to see more and more of that happen. But I'm also realizing that what we need to do right here in our own area is to be missionaries, to witness, to hand out tracts To invite people to come to church and let people know that there is a God and that there is an eternity and that time's growing short. That's our responsibility. So let me ask you tonight, what role do you play in the Lord's harvest? Are you a laborer? Are you a prayer? Are you one who has the vision that the Lord wanted these disciples to catch? Are you burdened for lost souls? Do you really care? You know, it's one thing I and I I believe in giving faith promise. I believe in it. I've seen it work in our lives. Oh, the Lord has blessed us in our giving. But let me just say something to you. Giving your faith promise. Does not relieve you of the responsibility to be a missionary right here. I've had people tell me in my own church when I pastored, well, preacher, I give permissions. I said, well, praise God, but what are you doing for missions? What are you doing to reach people around you? I didn't cover it tonight, but let me ask you tonight. I don't know who's here. I'm not real familiar with all the good folks here at at uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I wonder, do you know for sure you're saved? Do you know for sure tonight that you've trusted the Lord as your Savior And that you're prepared for eternity. If not, I don't know of a better time to get it right than at a missions conference when we're concerned for souls. And if you are saved, what are you doing for the causal world missions? Let's pray, shall we? Our Father, I want to thank you tonight for this time together. And Lord, we realize that as you wanted those disciples to get that same vision, you wanted to show them the immensity. Of the mission. Lord, the harvest truly is great. And the problem is the insufficiency of the manpower. Lord, the laborers are few. And yet, Lord, you gave us the exact thing that needs to be done, and that is, Lord, we need to be praying. Praying that, Lord, you would touch hearts and lives. Lord, give them the vision, the burden. Lord, if someone's being called, then let them be willing to surrender. To do what you want them to do. Father, we pray tonight that you would bless. And if there's someone here tonight That does not yet know Jesus as their personal Savior. Oh God, don't let them leave tonight without making sure that they've prepared for eternity. Blessed, I pray. Use us, we ask, and we thank you for all that you are. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed, and I'm just going to ask this. I wonder if there's someone tonight to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know if I died right now, I'm going to heaven. No one's looking but me, and the only reason I'm looking is so that I can be your friend and just pray for you by need. Not by name. But I wonder if there's one that just slipped your hand up and say, I'm not sure I'm saved, preacher. Would you just remember to pray for me? Anyone like that? Anyone? Now let me ask this. I wonder if there's somebody here tonight that said, preacher. I realize that it's an immense mission. And I realize That we're having an insufficient manpower. And if the Lord would call me I'd be willing to go. I wonder if you'd just pray for me. Here's my hand. Just lip it up high enough for me to see it. God bless you. Oh my. God bless you. That's wonderful. Thank you, you may put them down. Father, you've seen hands, you've seen hearts. I'd ask that you would bless now in the invitation. Help us to be maybe willing to surrender and seal those decisions, those burdens on the old altar, and we'll thank you as the preacher comes. God bless you.