And we'll read verses 17, 18, and 19 this evening. First Timothy chapter 6, 17 says, charge them that are rich. In this world that they be not high minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy, that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute Willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Let's pray this evening. Heavenly Father, as we look into your word tonight, I pray you'd open our hearts for what you have for us. I pray that you would help me to say and to explain this passage of Scripture as you would have it And I pray, Lord, we would leave encouraged from our time here in your words. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now as we consider the resurrection and we think about the fact that Jesus is alive, and I close this morning for those of you who were in adult Sunday school talking about the fact that we must be unmovable and constantly seeking to serve the Lord and do his work. I want to consider a topic this this evening and I will entitle it Real Living You know, we all can pinch ourselves tonight and know that we're here, right? You're breathing. But are you really living the way that God wants you to? Are you really Um alive for him making a difference for him in this world. In Brazil, the average income of a of a Brazilian is not based on a minimum wage, an hourly wage, it's a minimum salary that they receive in Brazil. And a minimum salary in our part of Brazil averages out at just under three hundred dollars a month. And with $300 a month you have to spend, you have to pay your utilities, and if you're going to rent, then most likely both uh husband and wife will have to work. But do you think about it? $300 on a monthly basis. Now that's one minimum salary. If you have a better paying job like you're a teller at a bank or something, your job might give you two minimum salaries or three or four possibly. But $500 is pretty much the average of where we're working, what people would receive on a regular basis. And when you think about that, And you think about what we receive or what you may receive, even if you are on Social Security and you're retired, we are wealthy in the eyes of the world. We as an American nation are blessed far beyond anything that we could possibly imagine. And that is why people look at us as missionaries and they say, what in the world are you doing? In Brazil. Can't you make more money in America? Well, you could possibly, but the best place, and I always answer them this way, the best place to be is where God wants you to be And money doesn't play a factor in that. Because if you're where God's at, he promises to take care of your every need. But that's also the reason that we talk about things in our nation like building walls on the border. Everybody wants in. Whether they can get in legally or illegally, doesn't matter. They want into our country. And we compare all of the world to America and we find that America is just far surpasses in wealth any other nation on average. Now I want you to stop and think with me and compare the American wealth with the wealth of God. Can you do that just for a moment? Think about all the billionaires and millionaires and dollars and material wealth and possessions that we have and compare it with God. I mean the distance is even further when we make that comparison than us as Americans to any other country in the world. And as we look at the scriptures, we see one theme, and that is that our God is a giving God. God gave his Son, His Son died on the cross, and He rose again. But God gave and He wants us to give, not just money. He wants us to give of our lives. And I want to show you this evening in this passage, I think, a powerful truth that can make a difference in your life In more than just blessing you, but you blessing other people and the world as the Lord leads and directs you. But here in 1 Timothy 6. 17 it says Charge them that are rich in this world, in this day and age. I dare say every single one of us here That is an adult working, maybe even some of your teenagers are making more than some folks in in third world countries around the world. We are wealthy. And so this charges to us. He says here that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. He's talking here and challenging us not to be proud. Not to be proud. God wants us to realize that because He gave us eternal life That we can trust him. We should not trust in ourselves. We see repeatedly throughout the scriptures, 2 Timothy in chapter 3, verses 1 to 4, starts giving a list of what it's going to be like. in end times. And it talks about in the last days men shall be high-minded. They'll have a form of godliness. Denying the power thereof. In Romans chapter 11 and verse 20, in the context, God is warning the Gentiles not to be high-minded and think that there's something special because now they're being grafted in. To what originally was started and offered to the Jews. And here the Bible is challenging us as we consider where we stand in relationship to all the other world. that we must not come to a point because of what we have and who we are as American people that we trust in and of ourselves. That we become somehow look to ourselves for the solutions. We must never forget Who saved us and who gave us the greatest gift that we could ever have received, and that is eternal life through Jesus Christ We must not trust also, it says verse 17 here, not to be high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. You know, riches have a way of of flying off, right? Of disappearing. Money has a way of of evaporating, it seems like. There's always something that needs to be paid. And as I think about Brazil specifically, and Brazil, where we're at, used to be rice fields. And what they did is they dumped about six or seven truckloads of dirt and built a house right on top of it Okay, if I dig six to seven feet down around our church property, I already hit water. Okay, so you end up imagining instead of building houses, we're actually building concrete boats. You know, they kind of float there. But we have problems with humidity because of that. And if you take a refrigerator or any kind of appliance and you sit it on a on a concrete slab And it sweats those appliances, they just rust. It's like salt on your vehicle in the winter. Okay, it does the same thing. And the Bible reminds us in Matthew 6, God warns us of the rust. He warns us of the moth. That's something else we have in Brazil. My wife doesn't like the smell, but as a kid, when I was growing up in Brazil, my mom loaded the closet with mothballs. You know what stuff smells like? Smells like mothballs and and it's hard to get that smell off. But at least you don't have holy clothes, right? You got the whole outfit when it comes out of the closet, usually if you use mothballs. But God reminds us that riches have a way of uh material things have a way of rusting, of moths, and if those things don't get it, we also have thieves. Our church has been broken into there in Brazil, they use the term being baptized. If something happens to you, you've been baptized. And so our church has been baptized into being broken into. And they rob a lot of things in our in our neighborhood because of lack of manpower. The police force pulled their police out of our police station in our neighborhood And therefore drugs and all kinds of other things kind of creep in. And when our church was broken into at eight in the morning, I called the police and they showed up at noon. And they told me, really, unless it's like uh a homicide situation, yeah, just forget about it. You know, just You might as well, you know, kiss it goodbye or whatever. But you know, money has a way of just disappearing Of the things that we acquire with it breaking down. And God challenges us here, as those who are wealthy in the eyes of the world, not to trust in ourselves, not to trust in our money. But he says here in verse 17, but in the living God. I praise God that Jesus Christ is alive today. You know, when you compare the living God to Buddha and Joseph Smith and Mary and Ellen White, and in Brazil, we have some religious leaders called Ejir Masedu R. R. Swatis You think of Muhammad and all these other religious leaders. They have one thing in common. They're all dead. Or they're going to die if they're still living today. But Jesus Christ is alive. And in the situation in which we find ourselves as a blessed nation, financially and materially speaking, God challenges us not to trust in ourselves, not to trust in those things. but to trust in him. And this evening, if I can, I just want to run through for a second God's track record God has a giving record. You know each one of us received your giving record at the end of the year. You know that God has a giving record that runs throughout Scripture? And we don't have time to run through all that he's given to us, but I just want to hit some highlights. I've written out the phrases from each one of these passages. I encourage you to jot them down and consider them. But think about what God has given us. He's given us in Psalm 68, 11, the Lord gave the word. I tried to highlight, I mentioned it before the video. I hope you caught it. But the power of God's word, it makes all the difference in the world. And that is what we are in Brazil doing, sharing God's word with people. And God's word cuts and it penetrates into people's hearts. And I like to think of a missionary kind of like this. I believe the term is the sheath. Is that what you put the sword or you pull the sword out of if it's sitting on the side of the sheath? A missionary Or a person who is serving God and spreading the gospel is simply pulling out the Word of God. The Bible says in Ephesians 6 that the Word of God, the sword of the Spirit, is the Word of God. And so I, by sharing God's word, I am pulling the sword out so that the Spirit of God can work in and through His word as I share it in people's hearts. And God challenges us. And he has given us his word. 1 Chronicles 25, 5. I can't leave this out. God gave Hermon fourteen sons and three daughters. God gave me all six children that I have. He gives us children. He blesses us with them. In Daniel chapter 5 and verse 18, God gave Nebuchadnezzar a kingdom. God is the one that allowed Donald Trump and Bolsonaro down in Brazil and all the other leaders of the world to be in their positions. And he raises them up and takes them down. God gave Solomon in 1 Kings 4. 29. God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding He gives us not only the word, but the ability to understand the word through his Spirit and leads us into all truth. 2 Chronicles 20 and verse 30. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest round about. Do you know what it's like to experience rest from God when everything around you is in turmoil? I dare say if you experience the rest in your life today, that you can kind of relate because everybody around this life is just all Messed up with problems, and yet God has a way of giving us rest. And I praise Him for that. John 3. 16. For God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten Son. We're thinking of things that God has given us in 1 Timothy 2. 16, Christ gave himself. A ransom for us. In John 1 12, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. And we can keep on going as we stake think of the scriptures in the New Testament, Acts eleven, God eleven, seventeen, God gave them the light gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. I praise the Lord that I can share with you today that people are believing in the same Jesus Christ that you are here in Oakland, Maryland. They're believing in him in Brazil, and God is giving them the same eternal life that he has given you. He is not choosing a certain race or a certain color of skin or a certain nation, but he is freely offering salvation to whosoever will call upon the name of the Lord. In First Corinthians three, six, God gave the increase to me as a missionary that is such a blessing, because oftentimes We don't have the numbers that maybe we'd like to share with you, or the amount of people, or the works not as big as maybe we'd hope it would be. But I praise God He is the one that gives the increase. as we are faithful and we do what he has called us to do. In John 14, 27, my peace I give unto you. And in John 14, 16, the Father shall give you another comforter. He's given us the Holy Spirit. You see, as we look at the scriptures and consider what God has given us. There is nothing we should do other than trust in him and rest in who he is. I love this passage. This phrase kind of caught me as I went through in 1 Timothy 6 where we started out at the end, verse 17. Talking of trusting in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Isn't it just like our God to give us things that we might enjoy them? Things that we don't even deserve. Oftentimes we have done the very opposite of what he would have, and yet we come to him and we plead for mercy. We ask that he forgives us. And what does he do? He forgives us again. And that what? That we might enjoy once again fellowship with our Creator God and that we might see His blessing in our lives. God gives us so much. That we might have a good life, an enjoyable life, a life that is full of moments of knowing that we are pleasing Him and doing exactly what He wants. Why would we be arrogant and trust in ourselves or in our money that God has given us? God is looking for people who will trust in Him more than in themselves and in their stuff. God expects our trust in God to impact the way we act. To impact the way we act. He charges us here in verse 18 that they do good. That they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. God says, if you will trust me And do what I say, I will bless you. That will be good. You know, we live in a world today in which good is relative. People say, well, that's good for you, but that's not for me. And you know, whatever you think, that's fine. Whatever I think is fine. And really the scriptures challenges that, right and wrong, and the scriptures is clear. There's no you know, gray areas, if you will. God wants us to trust in his word. And he challenges us that if we are going to trust in him, because God gave, we must do good. based on his standards and what he says. Remember Proverbs 3, 5, and 6? Trust in the Lord and all with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will direct your path. God wants you to know what is good, and He has decided what's right and wrong. And he's asking us and challenging us as people who have been blessed by him to do good. And he breaks it down into three areas here. You must do good by being rich in good works. You know, in the United States and around the world, wealth is measured by material things and how much you have in your bank account, what your assets, your liquid assets, and what your personal worth is. God measures a person's wealth, if they are a believer, by how much good works they do. And I praise God that takes it out of a rim of who has the most money. It doesn't matter if you have the most money. You could be the poorest person in this room, and you can do more good works than someone else if you put your heart to it. And you choose to do that. And God says He is looking for people who are rich in good works. What are good works? Good works don't save us, but the scriptures are clear as we look in in Titus 2. 14. I just want to read this verse real quick that God saved us by his grace. He saved us when we trust in Christ as Savior. For the purpose, it says, verse uh Titus 2. 14, who gave himself for us that we might he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify into himself a peculiar people, zealous. Good works. God is looking for people who are passionate about doing what He says is good and seeking out opportunities to do what God says is good. You know, after we accept Christ as Savior, God is looking for good works. This afternoon I was just reading and encouraging myself in the book of 1 John. I don't know when's the last time you had an opportunity to read 1 John, but 1 John repeatedly goes back to the importance of demonstrating love. to fellow believers, of loving the brethren. And um one day uh we have a lady in our church uh in Lamy, she's attending when she's able, she's primary caregiver for her parents. Her parents are elderly. In fact her her dad passed away in the last month while I've been here. Her mom is still living. But she told me one day, she said I started hearing outside, and it was the little the sound of the of the weed eater In Brazil, I don't know why, but we don't use Kubota tractors or riding mowers or self-propelled push mowers. Everything is cut with a wheat eater, okay? So an acre A half acre, whatever you got with a wheat eater, even the city does it along the side of the road. It takes a lot of time. And I do that. I cut at our house, at our property, the church. And um but any rate she says she hears this weed eater going. It was my dad, and my dad didn't tell me the story, she told me. She said my dad was out there cutting the grass of their property. And when she came up to him and she asked my dad how come he was cutting the grass, she told me that dad said, I just wanted you to see the love of Christ. And like I said, my dad didn't tell me that, I'm not saying that to raise my dad up, but that ain't that that illustrates what I'm trying to say. God is looking for us to be rich in good works. He's looking for us to do good. Because of all the good that He has done for us. And this passage, he goes on that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, ready to give. To give of what God has given us. He challenges us that He can give us back far more than we could possibly give Him. I think I was foolish enough one time to think I could outgive God and I tried. Doesn't work. You can't get outgive God God overly abundantly supplies and provides, and I think of the passages in 1 Corinthians and in s in 2 Corinthians that talk about giving, and he challenges us here to be ready to distribute. And once again, it's not about the amount. It's about our willingness to give of whatever God has provided. And the last phrase here, he says, willing to communicate. That doesn't mean Skype somebody or Facebook or emails or text or call. Willing to communicate is willing to share of whatever know-how and ability that we have. One way that this church willingly communicates on a regular basis is by the preparing of the scriptures that you put together with your hands, with your time, and you package it and you send it off so that people can distribute it or you personally take those tracks and you pass them out. That is what he's talking about here. Willing to communicate I would challenge you to think about what God has given you, abilities, know-how that you can use for the furtherance of the gospel. Let me give you an example. My dad When we were in Brazil in 1995 was the first year that we ever had a desktop computer. And uh my dad was in a church in South Carolina and there was a Marine there in that church he had worked in the communications era And he took his know-how, he bought the parts and he built us a computer. The first computer we ever owned, he built it and he took it down there to my parents. He used what he knew to be a blessing and to encourage people. And I want to challenge you that when it comes to giving, it's not all about money. Yes, you should give money, but you can give, and God has blessed you. With abilities that you can use for His honor and glory. And God wants to challenge us as God has blessed us, we are responsible to bless others, to give to others. And all of that, the title, as I mentioned, Real Living, comes down to verse number 19. He says, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. That they may lay hold on eternal life. Everybody talks about their nest egg and saving money. And right here we're talking about a nest egg. We're talking about a spiritual nest egg. How big is yours? That's what we're talking about right here. He says, this doing good work, going out of your way to do what God has commanded you to do, to give of what God has blessed you with. But whether it be money, whether it be talents, He says this is how you lay up store. This is how you lay up a foundation for the time to come And he this phrase at the end of verse nineteen is where we get our title. It says that they may lay hold on eternal life. And someone who believes that works-based salvation might say, Aha, right there. It says So get eternal life, lay hold of it, you gotta do good. No, that's not what the passage is talking about. Okay He's speaking here of real living. You want to experience real living, you must dedicate your life to doing what God says to give or God asks you to give, whether it's finances, whether it's talents, whether it's just time. God says that is real living. And we think about Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross for us. We look at the scriptures. We cannot walk away from the scriptures without realizing that God gives. And He gives. And he gives. And I tried to just kind of give an overview in when I was talking about God's track record of giving. But God gives so much more. So much more. We sang standing on the promises. There are so many promises that we find that relate directly to our lives and to our specific needs. And we can stand on those promises. In Portuguese, instead of standing on the promises, it says the way the wording is, is firm on the promises. Resting firm on the promises. It's the same idea of standing. We were just placing all our trust. If God can give us eternal life through his Son Jesus Christ, if He can richly bless us, Then he has the right to challenge us to do good, to give of our ability, to give of our finances, to give of our time. Think of it with me for a moment. God gave the work that you needed to have eternal life. He gave his son, and his son came and did what you could not do for yourself. He died on the cross for your sin. He provided the good work you needed. Can we not in turn provide the good work for others and the good work that God would have us do for others? God says that's real living. God gave us every single penny that we have, and we not give of what He's given us. To bless someone else. But God is constantly communicating to us through His Holy Spirit and guiding us and directing us and giving us the abilities and the gifts that we need. to do what he wants us to do. Can we not in turn communicate with others of the talents that God has given us? Because God gave You must give. And I just want to finish by reading back through this passage and hopefully challenging our hearts that God has something for you. Praise the Lord for this church. I hope you know your church is unique in the desire to spread the gospel and the efforts that you have, your faith promise giving, and just your heart for missions. I appreciate that. I know that comes from your pastor, but that comes from you as a church. But I want to encourage you that God can do more than you could possibly imagine And real living is just dedicating your life to trusting Him and giving in any way He may direct you, be it know-how, be it finances, be it time God can use you. And he says here in 1 Timothy 6. 17, charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life, or lay hold on what real living is. Are you really living for God? And if not, what is it that's holding you back? Where is it that you could tweak or change your life to really live the way God wants you to? After all, he gave you everything in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your word. Thank you for the time tonight. Thank you for the opportunity you've given my family to be here and worship you at this church and on this Easter Sunday. We thank you for the risen Savior. We thank you for the opportunity to promote and to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. in Brazil and around the world. I pray you would bless this church, Lord. I pray you would continue to use it, use it in far greater ways than even those here could possibly imagine. We pray, Lord, that you would help us all to trust and to really live our lives the way you would have us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many people would say, along with me