Be able to get to know new people and to see how faithful everyone's been here for so many years. And this is a great, great church, and I'm just so thankful to God. that I was able to come here with my NBT partner Ricky and just be able to serve alongside of you and serve alongside of Pastor Leatherman. It's been so great. And as Pastor said, uh it's my second year traveling Bible time. My first year was last year in 2017 And let me tell you what it changed my life. It changed my life. Bible time. I re I recommend Bible time for any young person or any unmarried young man. It's it it will change your life. Why? Because God's hand is upon the program They use the Bible, they use God, trusting God, facing God to mold us, to break us, and to make us into the Christian young men that we ought to be. The Christian young men that this nation needs And it's so it's so uh such a great, great program. This is my second year and I'm so glad. I'm so excited to see what what uh God is gonna do this summer. I'm excited to see what God's gonna do in uh Ricky's summer because it's his first year And he's very nervous, he's very scared, but you know, if he just trusts in God he'll be fine. 'Cause I was the same way last year, I was just so scared to go out, so scared to preach, but God you uh was able to use me, he worked through me to see many teenagers saved And it was just all glory to God. It's such a great, great program. It's such a great thing what God can do if you just put your faith in him. If you just trust in him, if you just believe on his name. And uh just for some of you that don't know me, I'll just give my testimony real quick. I was born and raised in California. My name is Hamilton Smith, my name is Smith Rodriguez. So so um but uh God's been good. God's been good in my life. I was born and raised in California, like I said. I did not grow up in church. Uh my parents were Catholic. My mom was a very strong Catholic and uh just the only time I remember going to church was when we would go and leave roses to the Virgin Mary And I remember just my mom going there praying to the Virgin Mary and just to this big image of of the the Saint Virgin Mary that they call her and I just remember not feeling right. I you know, ever since I was a kid I always had a faith in God, I always believed in God. But I wasn't saved. It wasn't until uh when I was sixteen years old one day my mom was invited by one of her co workers to church. She gave her a track and she said you should come to church this Sunday. And you know, and the thing with Hispanic moms is that they think they can they they they think they uh run the home and they love to be in charge and uh I heard a yup over here. You know he probably knows from experience. But They love so she said, Alright, we're all gonna go to church this Sunday and I was like, Man, I don't want to go. Because you know I thought it was just gonna be another Catholic church, just another uh just another uh Catholic, you know, uh church where I just Wouldn't learn anything. But turns out it it was a Baptist church called New Hope Baptist Church and I remember they were preaching, they were singing. And it just it was just something very different, something that started to work on my heart. God started to work on my heart. And then I got into the youth group at the age of 16. And that's when God got a hold of my heart. He began to work on my life, work in my heart And then at the age of seventeen, I remember when I was in my living room, I was a senior in high school. And I remember I was watching this video. It was called How to Get to Heaven and Know It. And it was a pastor sp sh just going through the Bible, showing the Romans Road, the Bible way to heaven. And he just began to explain. I just remember the whole time I was watching that video, I just Felt something in my heart and s I just felt I heard something s someone saying in my heart, my mind, you have to get this settled You have to get this settled in your life. Just repeating and repeating and repeating. And there in my living room in the spring of 2012, at seventeen years old in Windsor, California, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And he's changed my life ever since then. I've I've I've messed up here and there but God's been very good. God's been very good and he's allowed me I'm twenty three years old now And God's been very good in my life. And he's and I am a senior. Me and uh Ricky go to the same Bible college in California. And I am a senior this year. And Lord willing I'll graduate this year. And we'll see what the Lord has for me afterwards. I know I'm called to preach, I know I'm called to pastor, uh, but I have a desire to be a youth pastor to work with teenagers and young people, which I've been doing this past summer and and which I will do continue to do this summer, just work with teenagers. And it's such a blessing, such a blessing to serve God and to be able to see what God can do in one's life if you just trust in Him. But tonight our message It's called Reasons to Fear Not. And we will be in the book of Isaiah. In the book of Isaiah. If you have your Bible, the book of Isaiah forgot the book for us. This would help actually You guys hear me? All right. Book of Isaiah, chapter forty-one. Book of Isaiah, chapter 41, verses 8 through 14. We will be reading verses 8 through 14. Book of Isaiah, one of the big prophets of the Old Testament that God used in a mighty way to to go to the children of Israel. And to preach to them to speak to them. And I will uh speak more on Isaiah in a little bit as we get into the message. Isaiah forty-one verses Uh eight through fourteen says, But thou Israel art my servant. Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham, my friend. Thou whom I have taken. From the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief man thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant, I have chosen thee and not cast thee away. Verse ten Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Verse eleven, Behold, all they that were in sensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing, and they that strive with thee shall perish Thou shalt seek them and shalt not find them. Even them that contended with thee, that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of naught. For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. And then verse fourteen, Fear not Thou worm, Jacob, and ye men of Israel, I will help thee, saith the Lord and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we're so thankful for uh what you've done in our lives. I am thankful for this opportunity, God. I'm so unworthy. to be behind this pulpit, God. Well I'm thankful for this opportunity. I just pray tonight, God, that you can get me out of the way so that you can speak. Let your word um be preached, God. And I pray it's not w my words, but it's your words, God, tonight. We thank you so much. Use me for your honor and for your glory, and I pray, Holy Spirit, that you can work on hearts tonight. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Throughout the Old Testament One can see how the people of Israel, God's people, God's chosen people, would constantly and repeatedly stray from God and turn their way. They would they would turn and go to their own ways. We see that through the throughout the Old Testament. And they would turn to their own ways, they turn to their own ideas and their own philosophies. The people of Israel would constantly let their faith and they would constantly let their trust In their in their one true God dwindle and and and become weak. They would give in to their wants and desires each and every time, as we see in the Old Testament. And they put they would put up and make their own idols, different idols and vain things, and they would put 'em in the place of God. Each and every time we see that in different parts of the old testament. And they would forget about the true God, the true God that helped them, that has been there for that had been there for them so many years, they would forsake him and they would do their own thing. They would make and worship their own gods. Which by the way is how some Christians nowadays behave. You know, we let things like money, we let things like jobs, we let things Like pride, we let all these vain things get in the way. And we sometimes, without even knowing, without even thinking, we put those things in the way of God. We put we we begin to worship these the money, we begin to worship the job, we say, Oh, I don't think I will get mad if I miss one Sunday Come on. You know? No, God wants you to be faithful to church, Christian. God wants you to be faithful to church. But we put these things in God's way. We put these false idols in God's way, just like the children of Israel. And when the children of Israel um would put their false idols in the way of the one true God and they would they would just turn away uh to their own selfish way m to their own selfish way God would be upset of course and and then there would be many problems, many trials would come in their lives because of their decision to turn away from their true God And when Israel would turn from their God and begin to trust in their own ways, his hand with protection would be removed from them. Because they they weren't they wouldn't be trusting in him, they would be trusting in their own gods, they'd be trusting in their own ways, they'd be trusting in their own philos The fees And Israel would come in and and and then all these all these all the enemies of Israel like the Assyrians they would come in, they try to destroy them, they try to overtake them, they try to get rid of them and obliterate them and wipe them out. And it could be the same way with us. If we if we put these false idols in the way of God, if we stop trusting God as we should, if If we s if we uh turn away from God and begin to focus on our own fleshly desires, begin to focus on our what we want, the devil will move in. The world will move in. And you know what the Bible says about the devil devil walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Seeking whom the devil Will try to come in and destroy you if you turn away from God. If you put your faith in other things other than God, the devil will try to destroy you and the world as well And we see that the children of Israel were always prone to wonder. They were always prone to go away from the God, the God that had loved them, the God that had taken them out of slavery, and God would in his love he would send a man Amen. Uh to preach to them, to guide them back, to direct them back to God, to their one true God. And many times we see in the Bible they were stiff necked They were stubborn, they would become hard-hearted, and they wouldn't even pay attention. We we see that in the book of Jeremiah. They call them a weakened prophet because he never saw one person turn away From their from their wicked ways. And we hear in this chapter we find Isaiah preaching the message that God gave him to preach to the people of Israel. We see that here. And God is speaking through Isaiah here, and he warns them about their idols and he tells them about their the troubles and destructions that will come in their lives. If they continue to worship uh these false idols, if they uh and a lot of things will come upon them if they continue to go their own way and to follow their own wicked ways and to follow what they chose to follow But God through his grace gives Israel an opportunity. We see that here in this chapter. He always gave them a second chance. He always gave them grace. He always showed them love. And he tells him here to turn back to him. And he and he gives Israel the promise that we find here in verse 10. And it says, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, Yea Olof, I will help thee, Ye will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness God offers the children of Israel his protection and his love as he has always shown them. He offers that to them here in this chapter. He tells Israel that he will make we see that in the next couple verses Uh behold, all that that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing. They that strive with thee shall perish. Thou shalt seek them and shall not find them. Even them that contended with thee, that war against thee shall be as nothing As a thing of not. He promised them that all the enemies that were against Israel would be as nothing. He promised them these things. And he tells them. He gives them this promise here that we see in verse 10, that they should not fear, that they should not be dismayed If they trust in him, if they choose to turn back to him and worship him, he promised them these things. He said, Fear thou not, or fear thou not, for I am with thee. He promises that he will be with them. And the second thing you see is that fear thou not because he is their God. He's the one that chose them. He's the one that protects them. And he tells them, Fear thou not, because he would strengthen them And he tells them, fear that not, because he would help them. And then lastly, he tells them, fear that not because he would uphold them. And we see that in verse 10. And he promised Israel all these things that and that they would be safe from their enemies. And Christians, tonight. This this year, in this day and age, what God promised to the children of Israel, He promises to each and every single one of you. He promises the same thing to you. Throughout the Bible we can see, you know, many, many promises of God that are given to us to claim. At salvation and after salvation. He gives us it's not something that we have to ask for. They're already there. They're already given to us. We just have to Claim these promises. We see promises like Romans 10 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise Well then we see 1 John 1 9 if we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us From all unrighteousness. That's a promise from God. Philippians 4:19. And my God will meet all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. That's the promise of God He will meet all your needs. And then our our verse of the month, John 57, if ye abide in me and my words abide in you, you shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you That's a promise of God. And we see so many more throughout the Bible. If you seek for Him, if you study the Word of God, you can see all these promises that that He has given us to those that have believed, to those that are saved, He has these promises. All we have to do is It's claim them. And we see these promises and so many more throughout the Bible. And Isaiah 41, ten is one that we can claim as well by faith. Isaiah 41:10 is a promise that God has left for us. God tells it here not to fear nor to be dismayed. And the word dismayed here in this verse means to be unsettled or discouraged The first reason and and uh the first reason we uh we see God tells us not to fear or be discouraged is because why? He is with us. He is with us. Hebrews 13, 5 says, hold another promise. It says, He will never leave us nor forsake us. That's a promise of God. He promises that he is with us. We have no reason to fear, Church of God, because He is with us and He will always be with us. He will never leave us nor forsake us. He will always be with us. We should never fear because God is always on our side. We as human beings are weak. You know, we're prone to fear. We're prone to be scared. We're uh you know a good example of that is Moses. When mo when God called Moses through the burning bush You know, uh God called him and said, Moses, you must go to Egypt and tell Pharaoh to let my people go. And of course Moses was afraid. He's like He came up with all these excuses. He said, God, who am I? Why would you want to use me? God, I'm nobody. God. I started when I talked. God, I I don't I wouldn't know what to say if I went And he came up with all these guys, and he feared. He had fear in his heart. But God said, I will be with thee. I will be with your mouth. I will give you the words to say, Moses. Just trust in me, just believe on me. And Moses in the end said, God, I will trust in you. And he went. And he fulfilled God's plan for his life. We should never fear, because God is with us. He is always with us. 2 Timothy 1. 7 says that God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, of love, and a sound mind We have God on our side. He is with us. He is always with us. Turn to Deuteronomy 31-8. This is a great verse. That God showed me just today. God uh Deuteronomy chapter thirty-one verse eight. And it says, the Lord He it is that doth go before thee. He will be with thee. He will not fail thee, nor neither forsake thee. Fear not, neither be dismayed. We shouldn't be afraid. We shouldn't be discouraged because he, God, is with us. He's always with us. He will always be with us. And we see the second reason why we should never fear is because He is our God. He is our God. If you're saved, if you Put your faith on Jesus Christ. If you believed on Jesus Christ as your Savior, He is your God. He has become your God. And you must serve Him. You must live for Him. Have you made that decision? I believe everyone in this room is saved. I believe everyone has made that decision. And I would never try to make anyone doubt their salvation But the end times are coming. This nation is deteriorating more and more as we see each and every day, you know, drugs and gangs and all this darkness is arising up in this nation. Have you made that decision to accept Jesus Christ as your Savior? We can't get to heaven by good works. We can't get to heaven by the things we do only through Jesus Christ. John 14, 6 says, Jesus saith unto them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You know where you're going when you die. I believe everyone here in this room has accepted Jesus Christ. But there might be one. There might be one that's not a hundred percent sure that when they die, you're going to heaven. Make that decision if you haven't. He's your God. If you're saved, you put your your your faith in Jesus Christ. The King of kings and the Lord of lords is on your side. He is your God. The one true God, the one who created the heavens The one who created the earth, the one who created all the stars, the one who created everything and everything that inhabits it. He is your God. He is your God. He is on your side. He's the one that created you and me He is your God. And he is on we should never fear because God is our God. The King of kings and the will of Lords is our God. He's the one that's on our side, and He's the one who will fight our battles for us He's the one that will be there for us when times get tough. We should never be f we should never fear or be discouraged because we are on the Lord's side. Hey, we're on the winning side. We've already have the victory Through Jesus Christ, He's given us the victory to the death on the cross. And not just because of death, but because of his resurrection, we have the victory. In Jesus Christ. We have so much reason to rejoice. We have so much reason not to fear, not to be discouraged. Because he is our God. He is on our side. He's given us the victory. He's there for us. He is our God. He has given us the victory through our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. We have no reason to fear. We have no reason to be discouraged because God, the God of all gods, is our God. And then we see the third reason why we should not fear Because he will strengthen us. He will strengthen. We see that in Isaiah 41, 10, that he will strengthen us. Have you ever been, have you ever felt, Christian, have you ever felt so Just some days you felt just like you're so drained. You're so you're so weak emotionally, physically, spiritually, mentally You ever felt like that? I know I have. I felt like that so many times. Because I I go to college, you know, and I work a forty forty hour a week job and I'm in ministry every day. You know, it gets tiring. Even for my age, it gets tiring But God is there to strengthen you. He will be there to strengthen you. There will be times when you feel like you don't have the strength to go on. There'll be times when you feel like you're just so weak that you can't carry on. But if you trust in God, He will be there for you Christian, if you just trust in him, believe on him, he will give you strength. Psalm 118, verse 14 says, The Lord is my strength in my song. He is your strength if you choose to trust in him and turn to him When you're feeling weak and feeling like you can't go on, just go to God. Just go to God. He will give you the strength that you need for each and every battle, for each and every day of your life. He will give you the strength That you need church. He will be there for you. And the another reason why we should not fear, because He will help thee. He will help us. When storms and trials come in your life, and God will be there to help you through. Psalm 46 Verse 1 says, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in the time of trouble. God is there to help you. Whatever the problem, whatever the trials that may come in your life, He will be there. He will be there to help you. He will be there for you. He will help you. See this verse, Isaiah 41, 10, helped me so much This last last summer, because I was so scared to come up, I was so scared to speak in front of people, I would get so nervous, I still do, but God but God used this verse in my life to strengthen me, to help me to be able to go and stand before people and preach his word. And I remember just every time before I would go preach uh to these teenagers who will out who many of them weren't saved, I'll say, God, I need your strength And I would I would go to Isaiah 41, 10 and I'd say, God, you promise me, you will be with me, you promise me that you will help me, you promise me that you will strengthen me, and you will uphold me. And I would go to this verse. And you would help me each and every time. Each and every time I remember last summer when I was traveling for neighborhood Bible time, uh one morning in my third week of my rally, I just remember um Just this excruciating pain in my lower back. Came out of nowhere. I don't know why this I was like man I'm not I'm not old or anything. Why why should I be feeling why should I be feeling this pain? I'm not I'm not, you know, some people ageable, you know. But I was just it's just so much pain, it's felt I couldn't bend over, I couldn't do anything. I was like, God, how am I gonna do the rally today? How am I gonna be able to do the rally for the rest of this week? God, I need your help I can't do this. God, it hurts so much. It hurts so bad. I could barely get out of bed. I was like, God, what am I gonna do? So I went to God and I just started praying. God, you promised me that you will strengthen me. God, I need your help. And each and every time for the rest of that week When the rally started, you know the pain would be gone, completely gone. I'd be you know running, you know, doing backflips, doing all these things, doing uh somersaults and everything, and I'd be just, you know, I felt like I was eight sixteen again, you know? As and I was just so filled with energy and I was preaching and I was doing all these games with the teenagers and then right at the right when the rally ended He will come right back. I wish it just stayed the way it was. But God showed me grace. He He gave me the help that I need. And Christian, He will help you in the times When the troubles and trials that come in your life, He will help you. Just put your faith in Him. Just go to Him. Just trust in Him. Just believe on His Word. Just believe the Word of God. And He will help you. He will help you Psalm 54 says, Behold, God is mine helper. If you feel like you're alone, or if you feel like you're facing storms and trials alone. If you feel like you just can't go on, if you feel like there's no help around you, you feel like everyone else has failed you, you feel like you've gone to everyone else, everyone you can think of, and they all failed you, go to God. Go to God and He'll help you. He'll help each and every one of you. No matter what the problem is, no matter what the trial may be, no matter what may come in your life, He will help you. He will help you against the attacks of the devil because the devil's always trying to bring us down. The devil's always trying to destroy us. The devil's always trying to take us and away from God. He's always Just go to God and He'll help you against the devil. Just go to God and He'll help you against your temptations. Just go to God and He'll help you against all the things that come in this life, the darkness and all that, and it will help you to continue on for Him, for His honor, for His glory. And the last reason not to fear is that he will uphold us. He will uphold us. And the word upholds The definition it means to lift up or to raise from sinking. Have you ever felt in your life, Christian, that you were sinking? Have you ever felt like you were just so consumed with so many problems in your life? All this different bills, different deaths, different problems, family problems and all these things coming in your life? Ever felt like you were sinking I know I have. I I felt so many times my my second year of Bible college, I remember I was a sophomore and I remember I didn't have a good job. And I wasn't really good with money because I'm young and we're sticking with But um but uh I remember just just in my li in my dorm room, I remember uh I saw my bills for the school. It was in the thousands And I saw and then I got another uh bill in the in the mail, in the hospital bill, because I've gone through many things before that. And I remember that Um the bill was in the thousands as well. And I was just, man, what am I gonna do? I feel like I'm thinking, God, I have I owe all this money. I owe all this. God, what am I gonna do? And I just didn't know what I was gonna do, but then I turned to God and said, God, you've called me to to serve you, you've called me to do uh to live my life for you, God. Help me, please. And he upheld me. He raised me from sinking. He raised me because afterwards that bill, the the hospital bill was cut in half. I didn't have to pay as much. And then my school bill was taken care of as well. All glory to God He helped me. He upheld me. I felt like I was sinking. I felt like I was just drowning in all these problems. But God helped me. And he will help you. He will uphold you, Christian. He will be there for you. He will uphold you. And he will always be there for you. We should never fear. We should never be discouraged. We should never be dismayed. Because God because God is always there for us. He will always be there for each and every one of you if you trust in him. If you trust in him. If you believe on him, decide that you're going to follow God. Decide that you're going to believe on him. Decide that you will trust in him completely with your entire life. He will always be there to help you and to uphold you. And he will be there when times get really tough. You have no reason to fear, Christian. You have no reason to be discouraged or dismayed. You have no reason to have doubts because God is there always and He will always be there. Trusting God forever. Trusting God always. And he will be there for you. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we're so thankful for what you've done. God, we we love you so much. We don't deserve you, God. I know I don't. God, I'm so unworthy of you. I'm so unworthy to serve you. Well I love you. And I think I thank you God that you've uh allowed us, allowed me and Ricky to be here. I thank you, God, that you've uh Allowed us to serve you, God, and I'm so thankful for this church, God. I just pray I was able to be just a bit of encouragement to them, God I just pray that you continue to bless this church as you have, God. Continue to be with Pastor Letman as you always have been. I just pray you continue to help this church grow. Help this church um grow more in you, God, and and just to love you more. I mean help us just to serve you until Jesus comes, God. We're so thankful. Jesus' name. That's 11.