Entire chapter. Please follow along. I'll probably read part of chapter two as well. Let's see what the Bible has for us. God has something for us today, I'm sure of it. Let's look to the Bible for some help today. Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 1. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hechaliah. And it came to pass in the month Chislu, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the palace. That Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he and certain men of Judah, and Nehemiah says, and I asked them I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left in the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. I asked them, how's it going in Jerusalem right now? And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates therever burned with fire. Whew! It came to pass when I heard these words. Nehemiah said, I sat down and wept and mourned certain days and fasted. And pray before the God of heaven and said, here's his prayer Nehemiah prayed, beginning in verse 5. I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven. The great and terrible God that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments. Oh Lord, let thine ear now be attentive And then I open that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now day and night, for the children of Israel, thy servants. And confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee. Both I and my father's house have sinned. We've dealt Very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments which thou commandest thy servant Moses Oh, remember, I beseech thee the word that thou uh thou Lord, the word that thou commandest thy servant Moses, saying, If you transgress, I will scatter you abroad among the nations, but if ye turn unto me and keep my commandments and do them Though there were of you cast out into the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from fence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there Now, these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast redeemed by thy great power. And by thy strong hand, O Lord, I beseech thee. Let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants. Who desire to fear thy name. And prosper, I pray thee, thy servant, this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king's cupbearer. Chapter 2, verse 17. Let's go down to verse 17. In verse 17, he's got a few thousand Jews with him, not nearly as many as there should have been. But he's got a group, and verse 17 he addresses them, Nehemiah does. Verse 17, then said I unto them. Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste And the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem. That we be no more reproach. Then I told them of the hand of my God, which was good upon me, as also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, This group of Jews They said, Let us rise up and build So they strengthen their hands for this good work. But when San Balat the Horonite And Tobiah the servant, the Hammonite, and Gishem the Arabian, oh, when they heard it, they laughed us to scorn And despised us, and said, What is this thing that ye do? Will ye rebel against the king? Well, how did Nehemiah respond to that? Nehemiah says, Then answered I them and said unto them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us. Therefore, we his servants will arise and build. But ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial in Jerusalem. Wow. What a passage in the Bible! I love the Bible. Do you? Man, there's no book in the world that compares to the Bible, the Word of God. What a passage. Well Today we're going to look, and tonight we're going to look at this leader named Nehemiah. He's one of three Jewish leaders who led groups of Jews out of captivity The Babylonians had come and they'd conquered the Jews. And there were three different leaders who brought groups out. Now More than 70 years prior to this. If you're listening, say amen. More than 70 years before Nehemiah chapter 1. Yeah, the Babylonians, the terrorists of that day, had come and completely defeated Israel. They destroyed the temple, Solomon's temple. I mean that temple was fantastic. Most refined materials, exquisite, sophisticated. The Bible uses the word magnificent one time. In the entire Bible, you find the word magnificent one time, and it's about Solomon's temple. Oh, it was a magnificent building. And what happened when the Babylonians came? They destroyed it They destroyed the walls, they destroyed the army, they burnt the gates. Israel now has no defense. Persistent raids are coming upon Israel now. They take all the healthy people, the Babylonians take all the healthy Jews, all the young people, praise God for the young people here today All the millennials, all the healthy people. They took all of them. They took them 500 miles away, kidnapped them, took them captive, brought them over to Babylon. Trying to make Babylonians out of them. And so that continues for a while. Then another world superpower comes on the scene. And they defeat the Babylonians. Who came on the scene? The Medes and Persians. They came on and they took over and they took care of of the army of the Babylonians, and now the Medes and Persians are the superpower of the world. They're terrorists too. And they get all these Jews. That's part of their conquering. They get to conquer it all, and they they take possession of all the Jews. Now the Medes and Persians, they had a little different ways And finally, the Medes and Persians began to allow a few of the Jews to go back to the beloved city. What's the beloved city? Jerusalem. My wife and I try every single day at lunchtime to pray for Jerusalem. The Bible says pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Don't y'all love Israel? I do. And I love Jerusalem. I've been there. It's a world-class city. I love it. It's God's city. Well, the Medes and Persia began letting a few of these Jews go back. Now the first um fella who took some of the Jews back His name was Zerubbul. Zerubbabul. Try it with me. Ready? Zerubbabel. Pretty good. Four syllables long. Zerubbabel. He led a few of the Jews back. And they went back and they began laying the foundations for the temple. It took years and years. And when that temple was completed Solomon's temple had been so magnificent, magnificent. Zerubbabel's temple was not nearly. They didn't have the materials to work with. And when the temple was completed, the people shouted and cried at the same time. You read the Bible, they were ecstatic and sorrowful at the same time. Why? Well you can only speculate. Maybe they were sad because it's because of their sin. But that magnificent Solomon's temple had been destroyed. Maybe they were just so happy because, praise God, they had a temple again. Either way, they're laughing and crying at the same time. So it's a rebble. He led the first group back. Then a man named Ezra, one of the books of the Bible, Ezra. He leads the group back, and they re-institute worship there in Jerusalem under Ezra. And then we come to Nehemiah chapter 1. And Nehemiah asks some of his friends who've been able to go over there and take a little survey trip. He says, how's it going? And they told him the the walls are still destroyed. The terrorists can come in at any time. It's still bad. Over there in Jerusalem. We've made a little progress, but it's still terrible. The gates are still burned with fire. The walls are still down. It's bad. And when Nehemiah becomes a aware of this deteriorated condition there in Jerusalem It absolutely crushes him. As I studied and prepared for today, Thinking about how Jerusalem destroyed and the whole country so disrupted I thought back for a few moments about 2020 right here in Maryland. 2020 right in America and around the world. Man, last year, 2020, we had 2020 vision. I'd written a new song about vision and all that stuff, you know. Oh yeah, we had a big meeting in January down in North Carolina. A bunch of us preachers got together, and man, we're making plans for 2020. And a big uh change came about March. Any of y'all remember that? Yeah. Wow. 500 and some days ago. Big change, didn't it? I mean my church, Calvary Baptist Church, Smithville, Virginia, I'm an evangelist, and out of that church, my pastor is Greg Gray. You know, we we stopped having in-person services. Oh, five or six people would go there and run the cameras and that kind of stuff all spaced out. So having 300 and some people, there we have five, seven people I was preaching meetings out, and um when it first happened, I was in Pennsylvania, and our crowd went phon, right down, you know I went to the next church in West Virginia, and I had the six or eight people. I'm preaching to the camera. And um The next church I was supposed to be in, they call and says, hey, uh, would you like to just broadcast from home? And I did. I set me up a little pulpit and got the camera and got my wife to be the producer and uh Man, for 26 straight days I preached from my house. 26 straight days as an evangelist. I was not out. Twenty-six straight days. After twenty-six days, my wife, she said, won't somebody let you come preach in person? I don't know what she meant. Actually I do know what she meant. I got me one of those FM transmitters, got me sound system, I began going to church parking lights, having outdoors meetings And we're all in those cars, you know, and you preach into the cars, but at least we could see each other. And we had a good time. I enjoyed those outdoor services. And uh uh on the count of three, if you're happy to be here, I want you to blow your horn. On the count of three, and don't blow too early. One, two, three. Hon-ha, all those honking, you know. Yeah, and we um What a big time. What a great big time. I did that day after day after day. I went. I ended up preaching in 131 cities in person last year. Going city to city, preaching outside, seeing people saved. It was a wonderful time to witness. I remember the pandemic had just gotten started and My assistant Michael McCurry, he had written this COVID track. Maybe you got some of them. I remember when we first wrote that, he said, how many think we ought to print? I edited the thing. I said, this is good. He said, how many think we're to print? He said, you think we're going to print 10,000? I said, oh, come on, Michael. Let's have some faith. Let's print 30,000. Before we printed 30,000, we had orders for 90,000. I'm like, whoa, I didn't have much faith either. We ended up getting out over 900,000 of those. I remember one of the very first ones I gave out. I was at home and um you know the the fast food places, nobody was going. They were open, but nobody I said to my wife, I said, I'm gonna go down to Hardy's and get some breakfast. So I went down there to Hardy's. Nobody in line driving through. I ordered steak, biscuit, add tomato, and then I got whatever Renee wanted. I drove on up there and young lady I gave her my card and they let me stick it in or whatever it was and I said to her, I said, how you doing? She said, I'm doing fine. I said, how are you really doing? She said, Mister, I'm scared to death. I said, Oh, if you know the Lord, there's no need to be scared to death. I said, could I give this to you? And I gave her that my the first one I gave out of that COVID track I got talking with her before I knew it, three kids hanging their head out there. Tell us more, preacher. Tell us more. Tell us about Jesus. Well, it became very easy to preach the gospel last year. People wanted to know. God had their attention. So a bunch of people saved. But oh, we were so disrupted. I've got, I can hardly believe I'm going to tell you this, but I had fifteen. 1515 of my preacher friends issued tickets because they had church services. When I'm down in Mississippi, Mississippi, he's inside of his building, preaching from inside of his building. He's got his FM transmitter. He's got 26 cars on the parking lot. And they came and gave him a ticket. He's not even near his people. You mean that happened in America? Yeah. I got a copy of our Constitution. I carry it with me right here in my pocket I had to read some of that to some people last year. I carry it with me. I carry my Bible and I carry this one. Over there in New Jersey, 74-year-old Pastor Clark issued tickets. California, different places, fifteen that I know of of my personal friends issued tickets Of course having church here in America was different, wasn't it? Quite disruptive. Man, conferences all across America disrupted. A door-to-door soul winning has stopped and we're going to day at 4 30 with the teenagers. Hallelujah Bus ministries greatly impacted, vacation Bible schools not going on, Sunday school disrupted, children's ministries disrupted, senior saint meetings disrupted choir's not singing, not nearly as many people getting saved inside of our buildings, not nearly as many baptisms last year, men's conferences, women's conferences, church camps. The church our church has a church camp. Governor of Virginia said you can have ten people on your church camp. Which size is our church camp? Two hundred and eighty-three acres, twenty-two buildings It was unusual. I could get on a plane in Norfolk, Virginia with 200 people and fly to Atlanta, but our church camp could have 10. It's unusual, wasn't it? We were very disrupted. I'm telling you, I believe 2021 is the time, and right now, right here, and it's already going on, it's time to rebuild. Amen. Every every aspect of ministry, it is time to rebuild. And I want us to consider following the Nehemiah plan on how to rebuild. What what what was his plan? First thing he did, point number one, all less introduction, hey, we're doing good on time. Don't look at the clock. As soon as I say that, everybody's like, Huh. 1127. We're doing good. I I'm ready for chicken too, okay? We rebuild number one through prayer. First step, friends, is prayer. That's the first thing old Nehemiah did. He wanted to know how's it going over there? How is it there in Jerusalem? I want to know. They gave him the report The next thing you find in verse 5, he is praying. In verse 4, look at it. It came to pass when I heard these words, and I sat down and wept and mourned certain days And fasted and prayed. Oh, yeah. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that it's prayer that unlocks the power and the blessings of God upon a church. Amen. Now, this is what God said. God made a promise. There's a lot of promises in the Word of God. And when God makes the promise, when He makes a promise, He keeps a promise Man may not keep it, but God keeps it. Here's one of God's promises. Jeremiah chapter 33 and verse 3. Oh, it's a great promise. Call unto me, God says, call unto me, and I will answer. Now you can call me and I may or may not get you You call on God. If you're a Christian, he'll answer. Now I said, if you're a Christian, Because I want to say this, we Christians pray because we can pray. We Christians. Because, have you studied the Bible? God has not obligated Himself to answer the prayers of lost people. No, sir. I hear a lot of lost people praying, or at least saying they're praying. Well, I'm praying. If you're not saved, you're not on praying grounds, friends. God has not obligated himself to answer your prayers. Now is God aware of your prayers? Of course, he's aware of everything. God knows about words that people say. There's only one prayer that a lost man or a lost woman Can pray that God has obligated Himself to answer. What prayer is that? When a sin that's right, when a sinner says, Oh God Would you save me? God always says, yes. Anytime a lost sinner says, Oh Lord, would you save me? The Lord says yes. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. Now God has obligated Himself to answer the prayer of Christians, and God has given us a lot of direction on how to pray. We pray in Jesus' name. Have you noticed? You know, we call on someone to pray, call on a man to pray a while ago, and he prayed, and at the end of his prayer he said, in Jesus' name we pray. Now do we do that just out of ritual? Just out of tradition? No, no, no. We do that because of clear teaching from the Bible. You pray to God the Father through Jesus. We pray in Jesus' name. The Bible teaches that. And there's many things. I wish we had time for an entire sermon just on ways to get your prayers answered. And God answers. Sometimes He says, yes. Sometimes he says, wait. Sometimes he says, no. Sometimes he said, I've got something better for you. Listen, I want God's will done. Amen. Not Byron Fox's will. I don't know. I don't know what's best. But God's way is the best way. Amen. And so we pray. We're rebuilding through prayer right here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're rebuilding through prayer. We pray because we can pray. Hebrews 4. 16. Let us, us Christians, therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. All the help that Mountain Lake Baptist Church needs, all of the help that we need God can supply. Amen. So we pray because we can pray. And then we pray because we must pray. We must pray. You know, last year, 2020, we heard the word must a few times. Well, preacher, you've got to understand I must go to work. Americans must go to work. And you must understand, I must go to the store. We must have some groceries. We must have some supplies. We must go to work. We must go to the store. Hey, ladies and gentlemen, we Christians, we must go to church. Why did those fifteen preachers, why were they willing to be issued tickets One of my preacher friends in California, he got online on Saturday He told his church members. He talked for about 30 minutes. He said, friends, I don't know what to tell you. The authorities have told me that if I have church tomorrow, they're going to give me a $500 ticket And they've also said that up to five hundred people that come tomorrow, they'll give the first five hundred people that come, they'll give you folks a ticket too. He said, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to tell you. He said, But I've been praying and I'm going to tell you what I am going to do. This is what the pastor said. And he's lamenting because he doesn't want to snub his nose at authority. We Christians don't want to do that. There's a divine command in the Bible. There is a divine command in the God doesn't issue suggestions. No, sir. It's like the big admiral doesn't say, I I'd like to suggest you Navy boys a few things. The Admiral doesn't suggest things. He gives commands God says, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. That's a command. And some preacher friend there in California On Facebook. I'm watching it in Virginia and I'm watching California man preacher. He's saying, I don't know what you should do. He said, but I am going to go and preach. I cannot refrain from going to church, and I cannot stop from preaching tomorrow. And I sat there going, I wish I could be out there and just show up. I was already obligated to preach someplace. I wasn't gonna miss that, but I thought, man, if there's two of me, I'd send one of me out there I call one of my congressional friends, Mr. Delegate. I call one of my congressman friends up in Ohio I said, you know about this going on out in California? He said, yeah, I saw it. I said, man, I I wish I could be out there. He said, well, I just bought myself a plane ticket. He said, I'm going out there and going to be in his service with him Now, my friend in California, they average between 250 and 400 people on Sunday. Between 250 and 400. By the way, they've got a homeless ministry. Wasn't a problem to have homeless ministry. Wasn't a problem to feed the homeless there at the church. Wasn't a problem to house the homeless overnight at the church It was just a big problem to have worship service on Sunday. And so my preacher friend They normally have 250 to 400. He had told his people, if you don't come, I understand. He had 1,500 people show up that Sunday. I like Americans. I like Americans that love God. I love Americans. I love all Americans, whether they love God or not. God's put a love in my heart for everybody. But boy, I love people that love this Bible. And are people of fortitude? Amen to that And praying, people. We're going to rebuild through prayer. We pray because we can pray. We pray because we must pray. And we pray because we are expected to pray Oh yeah. Jesus said it this way. My house shall be called the house of prayer. We had this God bless America rally there in Beckley, West Virginia, a few days ago. Forty churches working together, choir, all that kind of stuff. Broadcasting, live on over 60 radio stations. All four of the local TV stations um got involved. Seven local radio stations got involved. Had uh the first night, I don't know, fifty or sixty people saved online that responded to us that they'd received Christ online, besides those inside the building. The very first God Bless America rally took place ten years ago in Charleston, West Virginia. First one. We noticed that 9-11, 2011, that 9-11 was on a Sunday. We said Why don't we just get a bunch of our churches together and and let's get us a building and let's have a worship service and ask God to bless America and became this name God Bless America rally and Ended up having 9,000 people attend. Yeah. It was on the 10th anniversary of 9-11, the three largest 9-11 services in America, the three largest were in New York City, was the largest, second largest, Philadelphia, third largest. God bless America rally in Charleston, West Virginia. Third largest in the country. We made the national news. National News said this: the three largest in America were in New York, Philadelphia, and Charleston, West Virginia. And they said this. And at the two largest 9-11 services today, there wasn't any prayer. They said, in fact, there wasn't even a moment of silence at the two largest. They said, but at the third largest. National News said at the third largest, all those folk did was pray. Now that wasn't quite true. We sang, we did a few other things too. But it got their attention that we had times of prayer for our country. And for our country to go back to God. That's the solution. You want God's blessings? Then do what God says. Amen. So God expects us to pray. Isaiah 12 and verse 2, behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. There is a demonic spirit of fear upon America The Bible says, Isaiah 12, 2, Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. For the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song. He also has become my salvation. Now, what I just said about this demonic spirit of fear, I'm not telling you not to wash your hands. I washed my hands long before the pandemic. And look, if you've got a fever long before the pandemic, long before we've been telling our people, if you if you've got a fever, don't come to church. That nothing's changing that. But we're not going to live by being paranoid with fear. No, I'm going to use my good sense. And I'm going to trust my Lord. Jesus said, have faith in God. Amen to that. I'm going to get to the other three points tonight. Let me go back to this. I said that prayer is for the Christian. God has obligated Himself to answer the prayer of Christians. We want to rebuild our church. I want us to pray for that bus ministry. Man, bus ministries all across America so disrupted. By the way, there's a big regulation coming February the 8th next year that to get your CDL in America, you're going to have to take 30 classes. It's an 80-page regulation. I've been working with a congressman on it. We've got a tiny bit of it changed so far It's going to hurt our bus ministries across America. If you're sitting on the fence about getting a maybe I ought to get my CDL, get your CDL now. Amen. And talk to me. I've got a way I can help you with that. I've got a friend who can help you. To get that done. I want you to do that. We never have too many bus drivers at our church. Ah, we just got too many. No church is in that position, you know. Offering was just too big today. That's never happened either, you know. We just had too much chicken. I doubt it. Let's pray for our bus ministry. There is a measure of revival among the teenagers of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want that to continue, don't you? This kind cometh forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. That's what Jesus said. I want the revival among the teenagers to continue. I saw some of our teenagers singing today on congregational singing. And they were singing their hearts out. Nothing reveals indifference as much as half-hearted congregational singing. Doesn't matter if you've got a good voice or not. Sing. When your heart is full of Christ, you want to sing. Prayers for the Christian. Is everybody online that's watching, are you a Christian? I mean, have you received Christ as your Savior? You see, everybody has either received Christ as Savior or rejected Christ as Savior. Well, Brother Fox, I've never really rejected. If you've not received Christ, You have rejected Christ. You can't be neutral on Jesus. You can not be neutral on Jesus. I've seen people try to straddle the fence. You can't So I ask you today, if you've never received Christ as Savior, Jesus said it this way: Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. That's what Jesus said. Did Jesus believe in hell? Yes. You read in the Bible how much he preached about hell. We don't want anybody in Maryland to go to hell. Neither does God. God wants every person to be a praying Christian. If you're not saved, I implore you, repent of your sin and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. You can write a book about Jesus and not be saved. You can sing a song about Jesus and not be saved. You can write a song about Jesus and not be saved I'll tell you something you can't do. You can't call on him to be saved and not be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you bow your hands? If you died today, I've had several of my friends die in the past few days. Three of my friends have died in the last few days. All three of my friends had received Christ as their Savior. So they're safely home. They're with the Lord. What if you died today? Do you have 100% assurance that you, if you die today, would go to heaven? Do you have any doubt about it? If you don't even really know what it means to receive Christ as Savior, would you ask God Lord, I'm not really sure, but I I do believe that Jesus is your son. Start talking to him now. Do you believe Jesus is God's Son? If you don't believe that, you're not saved. If you don't believe Jesus died on the cross, you're not saved. If you don't believe that they buried Jesus, you're not saved. If you don't believe that Jesus on the third day rose from the dead, if you don't believe he came back to life, you're not saved. The Bible's clear. The plan of salvation is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And then each individual comes to Jesus themselves. When you want to be saved and you call out to the Lord, you depend on Jesus to save you, you can't pray it wrong. It's not the order of your words that saves. It's Jesus that saves. Would you not call out on the Lord right now and say, oh Lord, I want to be saved. I want to be a Christian. I want to know that I'm going to heaven. Oh God, would you rescue me from my sin? Would you forgive me? Would you save me, Lord? The word save is a Bible word. Rescued. Saved. You could be saved right now. Call on him. If you'll call on him, he'll save you. Let me ask this: is there anyone in this room that just now Just today. Just today. Is there anyone in this room that just today you call on the Lord right now to save you? And you're happy about it. Would you raise your hand, good and tall? Let me just see. I'd just like to see if anybody call on the Lord today. Anybody? Would you just raise your hand right now? How many in this room, sometime in the past, you've already called on the Lord? Would you raise a hand and testimony and say, Brother Fox, I've received Christ as my Savior? Bless you. Bless you. Is there anybody in this room Would say, Brother Fox, I'm still not saved. Brother Fox, I want you to pray for me. Is anyone like that who would raise a hand right now? I'll start praying for you. I can't get saved for you. Anyone like that? Alright, now let me ask all the Christians. How many of you want to come up to this altar and ask God for some specific things for your church? For our assembly. God help us rebuild this. Help us rebuild that. Help us rebuild my Sunday school class. Help us rebuild the choir. Help us rebuild our children's ministry. Help us rebuild our door-to-door soul winning. Oh God, help everybody stand. Everybody stand. Everybody stand. And all the men that want to come and pray. I'm going to ask our pianists to start playing. And all the men and