That message, I believe, will get finished tonight. And I've had a wonderful day. Thank you. Thank you for letting me come through today. And put a testimony only meeting tonight, the testimonies were just tremendous. Nehemiah chapter one is a returning Ezra, Nehemiah, as we return to the book of Nehemiah, chapter 1, had a wonderful time with the young people this afternoon. I wish all of them could have been on the blessings, just to hear the joy of these teamers. Going out and take it. And I heard one of them saying this. You know, they talk about all these different generations, generation, next generation, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And one of our teenagers said, why don't we just be the generation of revival? I like that. I don't know where that came from, but I like it. Let's just have a revival. Let's do that. How can you have a revival of Bible reading? Start reading your Bible. How can you have a revival of prayer? Get in your prayer post. Get your prayer list. I don't know anyone who has a significant prayer life that does not have a prayer list. How do you ever buy a tithes? Well get your tithes caught up and they start giving offerings. And uh oh this faith promise, praise God for faith promise in my life perhaps today My wife's going to have a lifetime goal of how much we hope to give. We never promised that to God. That's a big job we're working on And by the grace of God, we were able to give more last year than we've ever given. And we're on track to give more this year than ever before. And we thank God for it. I've had a great day. God bless these young people. The young people will sing them on a day. I'm excited about their uh their choir. Well, Nehemiah chapter 1, we mentioned these CDs, please. These CDs are so low that they need somebody to take them into their homes. You know play and spend time with Bible 3 for Kid Volume 3. Volume 4 will release God willing in about two weeks We've got it's almost in it. We're working on it. I've been working on recommendation house. And uh in this brand human haven't even released yet safely home inside. Is there any size donation? Please give us some CDs. There are a few books out there, all that. Nehemiah chapter 1. The words of Nehemiah was one of Hakalife. And it came to pass in the month Shislu in the 20th year, as I was in Shushem in the palace, that Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he is. certain men of Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me The ridden that are left in the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Oh, it came to pass when I heard those words. And I sat down and wept, mourned certain days, fasted. And prayed before the God of heaven and said, I mistake thee, O Lord, the God of heaven, the great and terrible God, the keeping covenant and mercy. For them that love him and observe his commandments, let thine ear now be attentive, and let thine eyes be open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servants, which I pray before thee now day and night. For the children of Israel, thy servants, and confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee. Both I and my father's house have sinned. They have dealt very corruptly against thee. Have not kept the commandments, nor the statute, nor the judgment which thou commandest thy servant Moses. Remember how this 16? The word that thou commandest I servant those saying, If you transgress, I will scatter you abroad among the nations, but if you turn to me and keep my commandments and do them. Though there were a few cast out of the uttermost part of heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there Now, these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast redeemed by thy great power and by thy strong hand. Oh Lord, I beseech thee. But now thy ear be attended to the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who desire to fear thy name. And constantly. I pray thee, thy servant this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king's cupbearer. Chapter 2, verse 17. Remember, verse 17 he's got a few thousand Jews together. And he addresses them in verse 17. This said I unto them, ye see the distress that we are in. How Jerusalem lieth we the gates thereof are burns of fire. Come and let us Build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more reproached. Then I told them of the hand of my God, which was to put upon me As all the king's words, and he had spoken to me. And they said, this few thousand Jews. They said, let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands with this good work But when sand bowed the Horite, Jemiah the serpent, the Hamanite, and Kish of the Arabian Well, when they heard it, they laugh us to. And surprised us. And said, What is this thing that ye do? Will ye rebel against the king? It answered I them and said unto them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us. Therefore we the servant will arise and build. But ye have no fortune nor rightful memorial in Jerusalem. Woo! Nehemiah is a man of fortune. Part of the message is rebuilding our church, alright? And uh we talked about the Babylonians that come 70 years prior to Nehemiah chapter 1 They completely destroyed it, defeated and destroyed Israel's army. They destroyed the temple, the wall of Jerusalem. God had allowed the defeat. God had given them warnings. You know, God gives instructions. And then he's so good and merciful, he gives warnings. And then the judgment comes. Our country better get right with God fast. Amen. Well, so Jerusalem fell and the Babylonians relocated hundreds and hundreds of thousands of young, healthy people. They led over there, 500 miles away to Babylon in captivity. And then another superpower came in strength. And uh the Persians, led by King Cyrus, and they overtook the Babylonians. And the Babylonians, they're out of power now, the major Persians. They've got a different way about it. They began to allow some of the Jews to go back. Does anyone remember the name of the fellow four syllables long for the sea? Anybody remember who led the first expedition back? Oh, a bunch of you remember. Good. Zerubble. They go back and the first thing they start working on, rebuilding the temple. We want a place where we can worship God. And they work at it and they rebuild the temple. Then the next man comes, his name is Ezra, and they re-institute worship. And re-establish worship as a big priority under Ezra's expedition. Then Nehemiah he gets the bird His burden is to go back and rebuild those walls. Now can't you imagine building walls all the way around our town? You know, we read this and think, huh, let's rebuild walls This was a major, major undertaking. Everything destroyed. You got to clear the mess and rebuild. It was a major, major construction project. And along the way, they've got enemies. They've got mockers. They've got cynics. And then they have, I mean, a real affliction that rises up. You know that as you read the Bible, they had to You know, uh have a sword in one hand and a trout in another hand. You know what I'm saying? They're they're ready to fight and while they're working. And that's that's the way you do in that situation You're not easily stopped. You stay on point for God Amen. God's people just stay with it. You do not give up. God is in charge and ups and downs, whatever, you just keep marking. With God, it's always onward. Amen. And so he and mine is crushed the boy he gets to work. And we thought a little bit back to last year and how disruptive the churches across America were. I told you about 15 of my friends. Or issued tickets for having church. If two or three years ago someone had said, you know Now the authorities in America are going to start issuing tickets to pastors who have church services. We'd say, what planet are you from? That'll never happen in America. Boy, what a disruption. What a change our country has been in and still struggling with. Well, so how are we going to read this? I did love seeing this part up here, didn't you? I love it. I want to rebuild every choir across America. I want to rebuild every Sunday school across America. I want to rebuild and not just build back where we were. Go way beyond that. Many more ministries. I've heard about all these different ministries. That our churches had the glorious opportunity to have part in. Praise God for the radio station. Praise God for the Sunday school. Praise God for the bus ministry. Praise God for the Wild Games Center. Praise God at our church. I had a friend that never really didn't come to church. Got into the ball again, didn't what happened? He got saved. And he got baptized. He married one of our young ladies. Praise the Lord. Wow then all these things. I want to build every ministry back. Amen. And go to higher ground. Amen to that. So what's the strategy? What's the steps? that Nehemiah took to rebuild these walls. That was a huge undertaking. Well number one was prayer. First thing we do. As a church, the first thing that we do and we always do is prayer. Our church goes forward on our knees. Amen Some of the most incredible thinkings that I've ever been part of have been our God Bless America prayer around. You can't explain that. You just have to come and participate to see people all across the auditorium. go from having the little rope prayers that we have so often. I'm not mocking that. But when you start having two-hour-long prayer meetings Wow. It gets real. Keep studying the Bible, you read the prayers back to God, you sing the prayers to God. This past March we had our men's prairie lands there, our camp. Sixty of us men went out there on the campground. For three days, free. Not Charlie would respond to me. We're having all these prayer being fine. I said, well, Van Caber, the old band, said, we probably never was going to have revival in America unless the men went back out in the woods and prayed. I said, well that's how we just go out in the woods and pray. One fellow named Jerry, three hours later he came back. He said, I've never prayed enough. He said, once I got out there praying, I couldn't stop He came back three hours later. At the church services, these guys were about ten different churches The pastor of Jerry. Pastor Jerry was on Sunday night. He said, anybody got a testimony? Jerry stood up and testified for 25 minutes. He bought a van for the church. It's amazing what took place on that campground. The men that got right with their wives It's amazing what God did. It's prayer, friends. It's prayer. At one of our God blessed America rallies, prayer rallies. We uh I sometimes say, all the husbands and wives, hold hands for a minute and pray. There's a couple of that particular route This couple have been in church a long time. They've been saved for some time. They were over 60 years old. They had never had prayer inside of their homes. The two of them never had. They started that night. A tradition, a routine, a discipline. And every night before they'd go to bed, they had whole hands and bread. They told me about it, how to revolutionize their home. Amen. All of our homes should be praying on us. Amen. So number one, the first way to build back, rebuild our church is number one by prayer. But number two, there's three other steps that I must do. Don't look at the clock. I know what you did. Number two, confession of sin. That's what he does. It does in verse 6. Look at your Bible, chapter 1 verse 6. Let thine ear now be its heavy. And thy eyes open. Thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now day and night. The children of Israel, thy servants, and that confess the sins Of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee Both I and my father's house have sinned. He is coming clean with God. Wouldn't you like to hear the governor of Maryland call for a day of prayer and fashion and professional sickness? You know, Civil War came in America. And the Senate, the United States Senate, said, Mr. President. We have an urgent request. We want you to call for America to have a day of prayer and fasting. And confession of sin unto God. That's what we need, friends. Statewide prayer, dangerously. Most of the times I fasted, I have not even planned those fasting. I mean, look at me. I did eat. For me to just spontaneously not eat something's got my teaching. The times That Renee and I have on purpose set aside time to break back. I'm thinking right now of January, she and I made up our minds And we were going to pray and fast that day. And I remember the first six hours of that day, how we held hands. And for six straight hours praying to God. One of the most precious times for they and I have ever had. Six straight hours with God Oh yeah. Professive sin. If we want our church to build it, we better stay clean with God. Amen to that And he's he's confessing his sin, he's confessing the sin of his country, he's confessing the sin of his household. You know, last year we had such apathy come to the church, seems like to me. A lot of folks began making excuses not going to church. I'm afraid excuses began to take place and may still be taking place. I'm not urging anyone to do anything unsatis. I wouldn't do that. I don't want you to be careless. We've never advocated that here in church, never. But you know all of you took a risk tonight? How many of you came in a car? Uh I walked over. I didn't. But I came several hundred miles to be with you. You know how dangerous it is? You know, if we didn't have any cars in America, there wouldn't be any auto brutalities. Are we going to do that? No. All of us take some risks It's a little risky economy. It's a medical back when we shake hands. Medical back when we shake hands. A little bit of me rubs off on you. A little bit of you rubs off on me That's why we'll keep washing money. Yes. After Not going to church. Make an excuse. Oh, is the preacher online again? Ah, Pastor Pancake. We'll get to get a little past pancakes. I want some people about pancakes Now look, I like online. If you can't be here, I like it. When I was 15 years old, I hurt my ankle so bad that I had to go on preaching. It's the first time I ever preached, I don't crush. Okay? Crutches are wonderful when you don't have two good legs. But isn't it better to have two good legs? Yeah. Yeah. All of these kind of crutches. Praise God for it. I'll tell you, when you can't be here because you're sitting, you've got 101 papers, we want you to stay home. Tune in, maybe. Sing along. Say amen to the preaching. Right there at your house. Yeah. Oh, listen, all the lukewarmness in America, I don't like it. I think the church needs to be red hot for God. Amen. Let's confess our sins of getting thoroughly right with God. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. First John 1. 8. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. O Lord. The Lord is not unto them that are of a broken heart. And save such as give a contrast The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrary heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Psalm 32, 5. I acknowledge my sin unto thee And my iniquity have I not healed. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord and thou for capest the iniquity of my sin. There's nothing like being forgiven. All of us are a bunch of sinners. All of us. But praise God for forgiveness sinners. And I want all of us to keep a short account of God on our sins. Amen. Daily confessing our sins. And so the Nehemiah plan of rebuilding, number one, pray. Number two, confess. Number three, make covenant. Oh, Nehemiah, he made his commitment. Woo! He begins to pray and fast. He comes up with a plan. He presents it to the king. Nehemiah! You're sad. Let me tell you something. It was a crime. It was a crime for Nehemiah to appear sad before the king. It was a crime. He's sad. The king. He and my who throng. He and my children. Burden from a country from my city of Jerusalem birth. He says, what's going on to the hill? Well, I'd like to come back over there and rebuild the walls. Well, what do you mean? Well, I like an armed guard. Okay, I'll do that. Well, I need some supplies. Okay. How much are you thinking? Ooh, it's a lot. Okay, I'll do it. I wonder if the king didn't go to bed that night and say, what about it? That was a big reposition. I just said, sure. The heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord. God was leading. God was leading. This man prayed. You want to see God's work? Get him that prayer voice. Amen. tithe and give offerings. All the miracles of the Bible was not on tithe, it was on offerings. Oh, tithe and offering and study your Bible and confess your sins and make your request to God over and over in the Bible itself. tells us to ask. You have not because he asked not. Well didn't he and I he gets committed. You know what's lacking in our country? Commitment. I made myself a little list. New and fresh commitments I need to make to God again. Number one, to trust God comfortably. I want to evangelist I was working at a church, servant, at a church, assistant past. I was serving serving a Christian school. I had my own private piano studio. I just heard powerful food music. And I've worked 12 days a week. That's had a great time. And I think actually I was I was already quite well. And uh God called me angels. And resigned from all of this. I told Bill and said, I ain't going to make it now. And I asked God, I said, how am I going to make it now? I asked God, Lord, would you give me fifty meetings this first year in Vangel? What a great one. So the Lord had a word for it. Page three. Byron Fox resigns. No, no. I told him I had the program. You've got this headline fire and fall through something. He goes, it's perfect, isn't it? I said, it sounds like I've done something wrong. He goes, exactly. They're going to read it. And more people did. What that guy did. And they read it. He said it's a man. I got 18 meetings out of that one argument. Praise God for the sword of the Lord. Praise God for controversial headlights. I was not in 1518, my first four years. I was in 88 deals. All of my bills got paid. I made less than $14,000 altogether, those 88 deals. I drove a lot of miles. I didn't even probably pay for all our travel, but somehow God, I found ways to make money. In America, you can find ways to make money. I threw hay, how to build fences. Look, there's work all the way. Amen. God supplied all of our needs. Each year, they just improved and proved. Listen, we lost out in faith. I want to believe God like that today. Don't you want to believe God like that? Don't you want to just say, Lord, I'm going to put it all online? I'm just going to totally Trust you. Where God guides, He does provide. I can testify to that. So I want us all to trust God completely. Let's commit to it. Number two, let's all commit to put God first. Overcome to church is convenience. Convenience, it's a commandment from God to be in church It's a command from God to study the Bible. It's a command from God to pray without Ceasing has a military-like command, given that church that doesn't like it. And for us tonight, pray without ceasing. Brother Boston can't pray all the time. Why not? Why not? Why can't we just stay in prayer all day long? When I wake up in the morning, I try to start my day saying this. Good morning, Lord. I've tried to read 30 chapters in the Bible today. I've gotten 16 so far today. I've got more later. I want to close out my day with God. Don't y'all? Hello? I gotta wrap this up out of the please. Let's get committed to God. Putting God in his rightful place. What's in his rightful place? First place. And then commit to daily walking in obedience to God and his word. God, everything you say in this Bible, I want to do it. That should be our attitude. God, everything you prohibit in this Bible, I want to abstain from it. Amen than that. And then to offer to God. A sacrifice of ourselves. I was in Detroit. And uh man has passed that church. He's a fast talking man. Woo! He gets awesome. Usher, no no, no, no, no, no. And so the ushers came down. He's talking so rapidly. So the ushers come forward. Usher raised his hand. Others said, uh, may I say a word to actually? Man in his 60s. He turned around and testified to the crowd. He said, You know I got saved two years ago. You folks in this room, you knew that I was a part of the gang. I'm a criminal. In and out of the gateway. I shot two times. I stabbed nine different times. God spared me every chance to be saved. He said, now I've been saved two years. He said, I want to go first in the hall for tonight. Preacher, I want to go first. Here's the sufferer standing up right in front of you. He's saying to the crowd, I want to go first in the offer. He takes the offer away and puts it down to the floor. And he steps in in front of all of us. He said, God, I want to give everything I am to you. Everything I've got is yours. That's the way it all made. By the way, God owns it all anyway. Well, I own my house and pay it off. It's good. God still owns you. You're just steward for a little while. These things that are in our hands, just for a little while. Life is a it's so brutal. We better We better let God place. We better just give ourselves to God. You'll never regret giving yourself to God. Amen to that. We've got to wrap it up. The last point we rebuild through faith in God. Just simple faith in God Yeah, pandemic comes, government out of control, blah blah blah, whatever your problem is. Don't try to put your faith in man. Man will fail you. God has never failed anybody. Just depend on God. Look to God. God has always been looking for people that would simply Trust him. Hebrews 11, 6, without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Romans 1. 17. There is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. As it is written The just shall live by faith. 1 Corinthians 16, 13. Watch ye stand fast in the faith. 2 Corinthians 5, 7. For we walk by faith, not by sight. Galatians 2. 20. Listen, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me. And gave himself for me, which is stand. Well I must prepare. We rebuild through prayer We rebuild from the confession of sin. We're going to have invitations. You play the song I am resolved. No longer believe. Song of commitment. We all need to commit and recommit. Lord, I want to give you my best. Don't you? And then just simple faith in God, Lord, I don't know. It's all going to work out, but I'm going to just keep trusting. I want you to want to cover the ought to want you to come right now. Come on.