In any for any issue for the Christian, uh we're talking about forgiveness and dealing with it both in in two ways, in extending forgiveness to someone who has hurt us deeply. And I feel obligated to continually explain that we're not talking about the everyday offenses that come inadvertently that really in the grand scheme of things don't affect us any more than they might inconvenience us. Just the little things people say or do that really don't mean anything. We're not talking about getting worked up. People can say things and it doesn't we don't react. Are you are you with me on that? We don't have to every little thing fly off. That's not what we're talking about. When we're talking about extending forgiveness or seeking forgiveness or the aspect we're picking up this evening, we're talking about the those sins or those offenses that are very, very grievous. And I've tried to come up with various illustrations of the extent that we're talking about And some of these things, I'm afraid, are much more prevalent in the lives of church members than we care to admit. Uh things are said and done that hurt deeply, but Because we because of propriety and and things like that, we don't broadcast it. But somebody says or does something, or maybe it's on the job and A job is lost because of the uh because of dishonesty on the part of another person. And I lose my job over that. Maybe have to change my uh style of living because of what someone else has done. That's what we're talking about. Um infidelity in a marriage. Um uh uh you know, actions that maybe extended family members may uh expose children to, that type of thing These things that affect us deeply. How do you forgive something like that? Well, we looked at all that in depth. And um You may not be dealing with that right now, but uh there's a very real possibility sometime in your life you're going to have to deal with that level of hurt If you haven't already. And like I said, I believe there is more of that level of offense and hurt in our churches than we may think on the surface. And so we've got to be able to deal with it. And then what about what about when I'm the one that has said or done something for whatever reason? And man, I've hurt somebody deeply And I've affected their life and it has a profound, lifelong effect on them. Man, how do I go about how do I go about seeking forgiveness for that? How do I go about trying to make things right. And we talked about that. And both of those, extending forgiveness or seeking forgiveness in the in that level of offense I believe they both begin with my relationship with God. I need to go to God first to find forgiveness. And I need to go to God first to extend forgiveness. Because forgiveness, when you boil it down, it has to do with my relationship with God. And then my relationship with the one I offended or the one that offended me is a result. My treatment of them, my response to them is a result of the business I did with God. You follow what I'm saying? What did David say in Psalm 51? He committed sin with Bathsheba. He sinned against Uriah, he sinned against Uh Bathsheba and Uriah, whatever children they may or may have had if they did. He sinned against his wife, wives in that setting. He sinned against his children. He sinned against a lot of people, but you read Isaiah, you read Psalm fifty-one, and he says to God, Against thee and thee only have I sinned So he began with God. Now tonight we're shifting the aspect we're looking at in this overall subject of forgiveness. And I want to begin looking at what the Bible says about restoring a relationship after forgiveness has been extended. Maybe somebody has done something wrong, somebody close to me. Maybe a church member, a family member, a co-worker. A spouse, although we're gonna have to deal with that separately as I develop this, I think uh a marriage situation is a little unique Not it's very unique in this and needs to be dealt with uh in a different aspect, but once that sin has been taken place, I've committed it or somebody else has Forgiveness has been sought and extended. Now, how do we rebuild that relationship again? How do we re-establish my Fellowship with a brother or sister in Christ where this has happened. How do I real establish my camaraderie with a worker, someone at work that has done this, or a friend, close friend or family member. That's what we want to look at. So if you would notice with me in Luke 15, I'm going to read this whole story. I wasn't going to, but I'm going to read this whole story just to refresh what the situation is. And I want you to look at this story from the aspect of rebuilding a broken relationship after forgiveness has been extended. Look at verse 12. And the younger of them said to his father Father, give me the portion of goods that followeth to me, and he divided unto them his living. And not many days after that after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country And there wasted his substance with riotous living. Would you agree with me? This son is sinning against his father. You agree with that? Do you think daddy was hurt by this? Absolutely. That was apparently his living, his savings. He gave it to the son, son took it and wasted it all. Not only that, verse 14, and when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land. And he began to be in want, and when he went and joined himself to a citizen in that country, and he sent them into his fields to feed swine, he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and despair, and I perish with hunger? I will rise and go to my father, and I will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. I am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. What is the son seeking? Seeking forgiveness. The son came back. He sinned against his father deeply. There's no doubt in my mind. This daddy was hurt. Mother was hurt, so he's coming back seeking forgiveness. Now look at verse 20. And he arose and came to his father. And when he was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight. I am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to the servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatty calf, and Kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. Question. What did the father just extend to the son? Forgiveness. So we have a broken relationship, hurt deeply, no doubt about it. This was serious sin. This was a lot of money. This was this man's savings. This boy took and wasted. He comes back, he confesses his sin, he seeks forgiveness, the father freely extends it to him. Now how about rebuilding this relationship? Look what it says. Now his elder son was in the field, and as he came he drew nigh to the house, and he heard much music and dancing And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatigue Gath, because he hath received him safe and sound. And he, the brother, was angry and would not go in. Therefore came his father out and entreated him. And he, answering, said to his father, Lo, now notice this, these many years do I serve thee Neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment. Yet thou never gavest me a kid that I might make merry with my friends. Let me ask you a question. What was the brother's fault? Okay, self-centered, that would be a part of it. Jealousy over there. Unforgiveness. Of course those all are true. But I see here unforgiveness. He's saying, hey, why are you treating him that way? Why you're being forgiven to him? What would the brother what would you surmise that the brother would have done Concerning his this wayward brother. Hey, that's tough, man. You blew it. You're on your own. Would you I think we can safely read into that, correct? The brother had no time for this forgiveness business. Look what he says. Look what he says. He goes, uh, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment Now look at verse verse 30 says, But as soon as thy sons come, which has devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed it for him, the fatigue cath. And look what he says, verse 31, Son, thou art ever with me And all that I have is what? Alright, it was meat that we should make merry and be glad, for this day thy brother is dead and is alive. and was lost and is found. Now there's a ton of applications here, but the thing I want to pull out of this. The Father says to the son, let me ask you a question. Does the father dispute the eldest son's statement that he always did his father's commandments and was faithful? Does the father dispute that? No. That's a true statement. The son that stayed home, he was diligent, he was faithful, he was trustworthy. Alright? Now his attitude was wrong. Jesus, that's the whole point of the par the story here, is the attitude was wrong. But in the story we find that the son that was uh stayed home, he was faithful. He was trustworthy. And notice the father says something to the trustworthy son that he does not say to the wayward son. And that is found in verse number 31. He said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me. Look at this last statement. And all that I have is what? He doesn't say that to the son that comes back. Did you notice that? Now, I didn't pray yet, did I? Father, we ask that you would bless now and our study here and Help me, Father. I just want to be faithful to your word. We want to pull out principles and apply them in this subject, Lord. So I need your Holy Spirit to lead us and direct us. I yield my will to yours. Please Please fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think it's safe for us from what I've noticed here in the facts given us I think it's safe for us to come to the conclusion. Now this is supposition, we're supposing this. Grant that. But I think it's safe to say the father probably did not entrust the wayward son with his finances after he forgave him. Would would you agree with that would be a safe I'm I'm granting it's an assumption, but I believe it's a safe assumption. Because he does not say to the wayward son, All that I have is thine. But he does say to the son, who's got the stinky attitude, but was faithful. He says, all that I have is thine. And so I would venture to say it's highly unlikely that when that wayward son came back, though he was freely forgiven, And accepted in as a son and treated to some degree like a king. His relationship with his father was different after this event than it was before. I think it's safe to say the father, this wayward son, needed to regain the respect of his father. He needed to re-earn the trust of his father. The stinky attitude son, Daddy trusted him. He rebuked him for his attitude, but as far as his trust and respect was concerned, it was there. All that I have is thine. Listen, I can trust you with what I have. I gave him a bunch of money and he blew it. I've freely forgiven him. But there's no indication here. There's no indication here. The father trusted him immediately upon his return. So our subject is restoring a relationship after there's been forgiveness. Forgiving one who has hurt me is an act of obedience to God. I, if I refuse to forgive someone who has hurt me, I am disobeying God. I must obey God. Forgiving one who has hurt me, I believe, is a very personal and even a spiritual act It is almost a sacred decision. Someone who has hurt me deeply. I consciously, I deliberately think that thing through and say, yes I will accept the loss, I will absorb the hurt, I will not retaliate, I will not re-demand repayment, I will release them of the debt they've given me before God, I make that decision. That can be a very spiritual decision. Because it may be very costly. That debt I'm assuming because of this other person's Sin maybe very a ver ver a very um uh high debt Forgiving one who has hurt me is first and foremost, as I said, a transaction between God and I. Now, here's my question. This is what I'll seek to answer. Does God ask us to forgive some horrendous sin and then immediately turn around and act as if nothing happened? Immediately go back and restore the relationship as if it never took place. I do not believe God asks us to do that. Restoring a relationship is a different set of actions and issues than forgiving someone is. Take your Bible. We're going to look at a number of verses, so I hope you keep your Bible handy. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 4. Proverbs chapter 4. Now we look at this verse sometimes in a little different context, but I want you to consider Proverbs 4 and verse 23. In light of this subject, restoring a relationship after there's been a serious sin committed. And we're talking serious stuff. You understand that. Look at verse 23 of Proverbs 4. Keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. That word keep means protect, it means to guard. In fact, it's translated sometimes in other literature, that same word is sometimes translated blockade. It's saying to some degree, put a wall up around your heart. Protect your heart. Now what is he what what does God mean by our heart there? We understand what he's talking about, right? He's not talking about the muscle in our chest beating blood He's talking about our heart. Our heart, particularly in this context, is the seat of our emotions. That is, he's saying, in a sense You have got to guard your emotional well-being. Keep your heart with all diligence. Guard your emotions. Guard your the seat of your who you are and what you are. You've got to guard that. You've got to protect that. You have to put sometimes put a blockade up for your emotional well-being. Guarding my heart. Alright, somebody has said or did something that has absolutely crushed me I mean broken. It's affected my life. I don't think the same. I don't look at things the same. I've been affected by this deeply. I go to God and before God with all my heart, I forgive them. But God said, and and I genuinely, biblically forgive them, I release them from any liability. But God says, guard your heart. He is not asking me to go right back into a situation where that can happen again. Follow what I'm saying? Suppose you suppose you're somewhat wealthy. You're like Brian. You're a rich, rich plumber. You have a you a w school teacher wife that is filthy rich And you've entrusted your finances to a broker and he gets your money and he gives you whatever you line up with him. He just And he invests the rest. He does all you don't even know what's going on with your money. And you find out the guy's ripping you off. He's embezzling thousands of dollars. You catch him, you forgive him He said, listen, uh he says, I don't know what I was a bad situation. I promise I'll never do it again. So uh you trust him again. And here he rips you off even more. You end up with nothing. Your life savings are gone. There's no way you can recover it You're a Christian. So I'm going to forgive them for that. I've lost my life savings. I have nothing but Social Security. When I retire, I have nothing. You forgive him. You're a Christian. I forgive you. I hold you back. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna release you from retaliation or anything. But if I forgive him, does that mean I'm required to give him my money now and go right back into the same situation? Absolutely not. And if we would say that, you'd be a fool to do that. If we say that about something as tangible as money, does God ask us to do that same thing with our emotions and our heart? I don't think so. I don't see anywhere in Scripture where I have to go back and put myself in that same situation. and let that happen again. Nowhere in prodigal story of the prodigal son does it imply that the daddy was obligated. If the boy came and said, Hey, can I have the thing uh the money your life savings again? I won't I won't waste the riot's living this time. There's no way that daddy's response required to give that back. It has nothing to do with forgiveness. It has everything to do with restoring that relationship. So guarding my heart, saying, hey, I'm not going back into this. I'm not going to let this. . I've forgiven them freely. I'm not retaliating. I am not I'm absorbing the debt. But I'm sure not putting myself in that position again. That's what we're talking about. Now, doing that, guarding my heart, is not a form of retaliation I've heard Christians on rare occasions over the years say something like this. We are not on speaking terms. That is not Christian. That is self-centered, proudful hatefulness. Forgiveness does not say I am not uh regarding my heart is not saying we're not on speaking terms. It is never right to be unkind to anybody Never. So when we talk about guarding our heart, we're not saying to do with them and and somehow retali using it as a form of retaliation. It's not what we're talking about. Giving what I'm talking about by guarding my heart is saying in this situation, in this relationship, I've got to give some time to heal emotionally. I've got the I've got a I need a little bit of time to get over this. I'm not re- seeking retaliation. I'm not I'm absorbing the debt. I'm not holding anything against them. I just need to recover. Does that make sense? It's putting a little distance there. It's putting a blockade up just for my heart's sake, guarding my heart, my emotional well-being. Giving guarding my heart is not an attempt to run from the offender. Now listen, there may be a situation, I don't know what I mean you can come up with any scenario you can think of But there's a lot of them where it would probably be best not to go into the presence of somebody that has done something that has hurt you so deeply, just being able to deal with that emotionally would be very, very difficult. Are you with me on this? You understand what I'm saying? And so, you know, it may just need to, you know, I just need to stay away for a little bit. I I can't handle that. I've forgiven, I'm not holding anything. I just I just gotta guard my heart, my emotional well-being I'm not able to stand that at this point. That's what we're talking about in guarding our heart. So I want to give you a Some thoughts and this is going to carry on. It's probably going to be uh another week or two. But I tell you, this helped me. And I trust it will help you. Number one, I put this down. Genuine forgiveness, and I think we mentioned this in passing in previous messages. Genuine forgiveness is not naive or gullible. Doesn't mean that they're apologized, they're sorry, they're genuinely, I completely, biblically, from my heart, fully forgive them. But that doesn't mean I'm just going to be naive and walk back into it. I've kind of been beaten that. The Bible teaches that there are some folks who are Bible term reprobate. There are some people who are just given over to certain sins, and they are held captive by those sins. And it's it's they're trapped by their sins, and it's just kind of the way they are The world comes up with terms, kleptomaniac. Somebody that's just given over, held captive by the sin of what? Stealing. Now the world, this human psychologist, they want to make it into some disease. Fact is, it's just the sin of stealing. Being held captive by the sin of stealing. Now somebody is a kleptomaniac. They're held captive by the sin of stealing, and they've stolen deeply from me and I forgive them fully and completely, I'm not gonna that doesn't mean I have to be stupid. Right? It's not gullible. Well, if I forgive them, that means I've got to go right back and trust him again. What are you nuts? I've had people say this to me. Forgiving a person, get this, forgiving a person does not mean that they're going to do right now. Forgiving a person does mean that I want to do right. It does mean that I want my relationship with God to be right, and for my relationship with God to be right, my relationship with them must be right, and I've got to forgive them if that's ever going to happen But I do not have to be stupid or naive or gullible and think I just go right back into it. Forgiveness makes it possible from my end To restore the relationship, but it does not necessarily mean that they are going to do what is necessary to restore the relationship. And so I must not be naive about this. I've got to be wise. Are they taking the steps? Are they taking the actions that are necessary for us to re-establish a relationship of trust and confidence in one another? Now if that's going to happen, I've got to forgive them. But that does not mean necessarily they're going to do what's necessary for that relationship to be restored Forgiveness makes it possible for my end to restore the relationship, but I must be wise. Are you still in Proverbs? Come over to Proverbs 22 and look at verse 24. You know, there are some people, the Bible says we're not to be friends with them. Do you know that? You say, well, we're supposed to be friends with everybody. No, we're supposed to be friendly to everybody. But there are some people we've got to keep our distance from. Look at Proverbs chapter 22, look with me at verse 24. Make no friendship with a what? With an angry man and with a furious man, thou shalt not go. Now if that angry man hurts you, says or does something that hurts you, that furious man hurts you, maybe he blows up when you breaks your arm and you never have the use of that arm again and that is what your livelihood was dependent upon and your entire life has changed. Am I to forgive that furious man? Yes or no? Yes But am I supposed to be friends with that furious man? No. Says, make no friends with. Don't go with them. Stay away from them. There are certain people we must avoid. There are certain folks that have various characteristics that we are not to associate with. Turn with me if you would to chapter twenty-nine. Look at verse twenty-two. Chapter twenty-nine and verse twenty-two. An angry man stirreth up what? Strife. And a furious man aboundeth in transgressions. Man, does God, is the servant of God supposed to strive? No. Timothy tells us that. And so, are are we supposed to abound in transgressions? No. But this character this person that has that characteristic, that's what they produce Now maybe they've hurt me, they've done these things. I fully forgive them completely before God with all my heart. I forgive them, I seek no retaliation, I seek no reimbursement for what they've done wrong. Completely let him free. Bye. I'm staying away from the guy. Has nothing to do with forgiveness The Bible is very clear on not to establish a relationship with this person. In the Old Testament, there are certain things that people did. If they did that against another person, they were to be killed. It's called the death penalty. Capital punishment. By the way, it would help our United States of America if we would get back to some of that. I believe capital punishment is is uh uh uh a practice God has given the government the authority to use. You know what that is? You know what capital punishment is? It is the ultimate form of separation. This person is characterized by this behavior to such a degree they cannot associate with anybody And they are to be completely separated. And the most thorough form of separation is to take their life. And they can never hurt somebody again. So forgiveness is a I must not be gullible. It does not mean I have to go and re-establish a relationship with that person, especially not right away. Now let me give you a little tip on this. A right perspective. Let's put a let's put a new let's put some New Testament grace into that statement there, okay? Take your Bibles if you would turn to Galatians chapter six and verse one and I'm going to have to quit here. So we'll probably be another month or so on this. I hope this is helpful. I really wanted to get to the next point. That's the one that I really want to spend time on. But look at Galatians chapter 6 and verse 1. Let me get back here. This would be a good verse to underscore in your Bible. In church relationships, we need to we ought to memorize this. Galatians 6. 1. Brethren? Starting to Christians now. If any man be overtaken in a fall, ye which are spiritual, what's that next word? Restore. I underlined the whole verse and I circled the word restore. If somebody is overtaken with a sin, they are captive by that sin. They are trapped in that sin. That sin has them. They are a kleptomaniac or whatever blanco maniac you put in there. My response as a Christian, first forgive him fully, completely, freely from my heart, let him go. Now, I may have been hurt very deeply, emotionally hurt, bad. I may need to put a little distance. I just gotta be awake for a little bit. I I just can't be around them right now I need to guard my heart. And that has to do with the flesh, and that's what the next point was about. But my goal, my ultimate goal Would be to have that person restored in their relationship with God. Guarding my heart is not simply for my own well-being. I want things to be in such a way that that person can be restored. We're not out to remove people, we're to restore people. We don't stone them. We seek to have them, their relationship with God and with God's people restore. And so forgiveness is the first step. Forgiveness makes that possible. Whether they ever do their side of the deal or not, I need to then I may need to guard my heart a little bit. I need They need to uh put uh some bat uh blockades up there just to recover, but in so doing I'm doing that so that this person can eventually be restored. Look at the rest of the verse Brethren, if a man be overtaken of fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. How? In the spirit of what? Meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also what? You know what he's saying? Guard your heart. You do this. Consider yourself. You be meek about it. You be humble about it. But brother, don't put yourself back in a situation where you're going to be tempted to be unforgiving. Don't put yourself back in a situation where you're gonna hurt your walk with God. We want this person to be restored, but we have to be wise about that. considering thyself lest thou also be tempted. Now there's a real danger here in what I'm talking about about being very selfish. And becoming self-centered. Well, that's the idea. Well, we're not speaking terms. That's not, that's the wrong attitude. The attitude is that of meekness and humility. But I gotta recover. I don't I don't want to put myself back in a situation where I'm gonna lose it. I've got to get my heart back in shape, guard that heart, because out of it come the issues of life, and I don't want my issues of life to be messed up. I gotta I gotta let this thing heal a little bit My second point, which we don't have time, I'll just give you the thing and we'll look at it next week. Genuine forgiveness may involve continuing emotional turmoil. And this is a thought. I may forgive them completely, but that doesn't mean I don't stop hurting. Huh? Well I forgive them. There's peace comes with forgiveness, but I don't always stop hurting. You know why? Because we live in a thing called the flesh. And the flesh hates to forgive. The flesh wants to retaliate. The flesh wants revenge. And so I, from my heart, spiritually before God, completely free forgive them, release them, no retaliation, no repayment, but boy, I've got to now I've got to deal with my flesh. And the flesh is, why'd you do that? Because God said so. Well what are you an idiot? And you have this turmoil goes on. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Galatians 5 talks about it. So come back next week and we'll look at it. Look at that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us. Lord, as we go through life, you said it is impossible, but that offenses will come. So, Lord, help us to be able to deal with them biblically, spiritually. in a way that we can be strong and help others. Lord, help us not to be foolish. Help us not to be gullible. Help us to be wise. Lord, I really wanted to get to that next point and make application, but God, you know what we need and when we need it. So help us, Lord, I pray. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I've got a situation. I really need God's wisdom It may be a forgiveness type thing, maybe not. It may be something else. But dealing with somebody, I got a situation, I really need God's wisdom.