One and I'm going to read verses ten and eleven and then I'm going to jump over to chapter three and just read verse twenty-two And then I'll pray. And then the message this evening, which is just the recap of the seven churches. My plan is this to just kind of review what we've looked at. And then after we kind of look at the step back and look at the big picture of everything, we'll then uh make some some general application. Um sometimes we can dig into each each little section each verse or each section of verses and and gain a lot of truth from that, but we can also I think gain a lot of truth um looking at the whole thing as an overview as well. So that's kind of the goal for tonight Um so anyway, uh ver uh verse uh number ten of chapter one, of course this is John. He said, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day and heard behind me a great voice is of a trumpet, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. What thou seest write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia Unto Ephesus and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamus, and Thyatira, and to Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. And of course, the next couple chapters. And again each each section ended with this phrase, he that hath an ear Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Looking around, I think everyone's got ears. Alright, we're good. And if you don't, just pretend you do. So everyone that has an ear, let's let's hear what the The Spirit says to the to the churches here. Cool. So Lord, we thank you for the day that you gave us and again this this uh couple chapters here in Revelation. where you address these seven churches, or there's been a lot that we've gotten out of looking at each one individually. Now as we kind of look at this as an overview as a whole, as we kind of recap everything. Lord, I pray that we would learn the truths that you would have us to learn. I ask that you'd hide me behind you again, Lord, and you would take over the service tonight And we thank you in advance for what you're going to do. Use your word, Lord, I pray, to bring conviction where it's needed. It's in Jesus' name. So just to kind of review a few things, uh the Emperor uh Domitian was the Emperor at this time uh when John was exiled to the island of Patmos. Of course we talked about that and I won't re preach that first message, but just for sake of review, um John was was um exiled there because it was a A botched execution is what the church history tells us. And of course the Romans wouldn't uh execute someone twice, so they exile them to Patmos, and uh while he was there in exile as a much, much older man Um he wrote uh the the book here of Revelation is which is a vision that God gave to him, a revelation that God gave to him. Um And so uh of course we we know that about him. We know that he was a a younger disciple uh while Jesus was on the earth, he was referred to as the one whom Jesus loved. Um I did a a little game with the kids, I don't know, this was this was a while ago, over a month ago. I had them uh and this was in King's Kids, not not Teens Alive, but in King's Kids I had them write down four books of the Bible using one syllable. And it took them a while, but they got it. John. So four John, first John, second John, third John. Okay. So they they got it. So good for them. But um so John wrote those and they wrote Revelation as well. And um so so we learned about that. D Domitian was the emperor, as I said, and wasn't much better than Nero. Nero is kind of the famous one for his intense persecution. He's the one that set fire to the city, blamed the Christians for it, um and and and you know, he played his fiddle while Rome burned and all that kind of stuff. Uh nasty guy, but Domitian wasn't w wasn't any better. They they were brothers. And um so they they both shared a hatred for Christians and really anyone that they just didn't like. Um so when you're emperor you can do that I guess, but uh that's just how they were. And so While John is writing these letters, Gargot is using John to do so. He addresses these seven churches. There's some things we just generally learned about each one. One is that they were real places. They were actual physical. churches in actual physical cities. Um and th the point of this study was not to um compare it to any kind of end times prophecy or anything like that. And if you look at a lot of commentaries and and stuff like that, th th there's gonna be um the they'll use these seven churches that talk about like eschatology and things that are going to come and use uh in the future and use the the the the the churches and the way they're laid out to do so. Could there be some correlation there? Maybe, sure, but the purpose of this study was to look at each individual church and the individual city it was in. understanding they are not actors, they're real people. Because real people are actors. Like the was that Zeth Ford or Chevy that has those commercials? The real people, not actors? Anyone know what I'm talking about? No one knows what I'm talking about. You know what I'm talking about? Thank you. Okay, so anyway, these are real people, not fake. And there's a lot we can learn from that. There's some things we need to watch out for as well. And I've said this a few times throughout the study. The point of this is not to bash our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. Need to understand we're going to be in heaven for a long time with these people because they are Christians and they are the church and they're you know, we don't want to get to heaven and be like, oh, you're the guys from Ephesus. How come you didn't love Jesus? You know, we've got to be careful about that. Um, because then they'll be lo they could say the same thing, you never know. And we so the purpose of this study is not to bash our brothers and sisters in Christ. Just like we wouldn't want to do so now. Are there other churches that do things we disagree with? Sure. Other bap independent fundamental Baptist churches that do things we disagree with? Sure. Are we going to go write them hate mail? No. It's not going to do anything Um there's no point in that. Um so but but at the same time Jesus wrote here at the end of each church, at the end of at the end of each letter to each church, he wrote, he has an ear of hear what the Spirit says to the churches Which means he wants us to hear what's being said. And for the reason he wants us to hear what's being said is so we could draw application from each one and then learn from their strengths and learn from their weaknesses. And we compare this to like having an older sibling You you you see the beating your older sibling gets, so therefore you don't do that thing that gets the beating. Right? But then again you see your older sibling get rewarded for something, you can, aha, I can do this good thing, and my mom and dad will reward me for this And so that's kind of how we viewed this study. Looking at our our our Christian uh forefathers, our predecessors, and saw saw their strengths, their weaknesses and how God responded to each one. And so then we know what to copy and what to emulate but also what to avoid. So that was the purpose going through each one. So yes, they are real churches. And I should have asked you, Jamie, but do we still have that map somewhere? Probab probably maybe. If not, that's fine. If you you get it at any point, just throw it up there and you can just leave it up there, um that map. But but these w this was in Asia Minor, modern day Turkey Um so these seven cities are in Turkey, modern day Turkey. They were real places, real cities. A lot of them still exist. You can go, well actually all of them you can go see ruins from these cities And it's pretty cool, pretty fascinating. So each one was factual, it was real, and that each one was unique. It was individual, different cultures, different cities, different uh economic standings. You look at a city like Philadelphia, and we talked about how poor they were. uh because the emperor had took their only source of income and ripped it out of the ground quite literally. So they were very, very poor. Then you contrast that with someone like like um Laodicea we looked at today, they were so rich that they didn't mind paying taxes even when they were exempt from it um because they just had so much money. And you look at these you you contrast these cities, they're all very, very different, different cultures, different settings, different levels of persecution, all had some Some it was to the point where their their lives were being hunted. Some it was persecution from family and from commerce and things like that. But there's a the each church was unique and individual They each had strong points, weak points. But what's interesting is although these churches were so different, Christ had a message for each church And he had a personalized message to each church. There it is. There they are. The seven churches there that we looked at. Um and you can kind of see how they're laid out there. So thank you for that, Jamie. You can just leave that up and you know and help give you a reference as we go. But um the the the the the the churches were very, very unique Now Christ had a message for each one, and now it was a very specific message, but it was also meant to be heard by everyone else. And we can see that. It was meant to be hurt. So the message that we looked at today to Laodicea, that was for them specifically, but it was also for everyone That has ears. So that's everyone, right? So everyone that can read this. And if you look at the beginning of Revelation, there is a special blessing to everyone that reads it and to everyone that hears it. Very important to understand that as well. So if that's the case, that means with each one that we looked at, there was something that we could apply and something that we can learn from it. that our church here, that us individually as Christians can learn from it. So, real quick, I'm going to overview the seven churches. And we'll just to kind of get them back into your mind, what each one was, their strengths, their weaknesses, and then we'll get into some applications from there. That's the point here. And we should be done fairly quickly. But just to just to review, it starts out uh with in in in chapter two, he wrote to the church at Ephesus. Ephesus was the church that was very, very hard working. And if we look there at chapter 2 and verse 2, he talks about their works. And he talks about their labor and their patience and how they stood for uh firm on doctrine. They tried those that said they were apostles and weren't Um and so they were very, very firm in their doctrine, very, very firm in their stance on things and convictions and and they worked real hard, but of course the problem that he had with them is if they had left their first love Kind of reminds me a little bit of what we looked at this morning with Laodicea. Very busy working hard, but God wasn't part of it. Um if you're working hard, make sure God's a part of it. You know? And so that was kind of what they were known for, that they had left their first love. And w what we learned from that was Um we need to make sure that love for Christ is what drives us to everything. The reason we teach the class, run the bus Sing the choir, preach, your soul winning, uh clean, or the reason we do anything that we do, do the nursery, is because of our love for Christ and our love for others. Um as well. That is the first and greatest commandment. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind. Second is like unto it, thou shalt love the neighbor as thyself. So That was the church there at Ephesus. What can we learn from them? Work hard, but uh out of love, not out of uh the sake of just working or just doing. Then we looked at the church at Smyrna, and that was in chapter 2, verses 8 through 11 there. And they were known for their works and their tribulation and their poverty. There's only two churches that were written to uh that did not have anything negative said about them. One was Smyrna and one was what we looked at last uh Sunday night, Philadelphia. And so um V very much a commendation to those two churches. Um and especially this one here in Smyrna that we looked at. There was a lot of tribulation. In verse 10, it even said, and ye shall suffer tribulation ten days. And that word that phrase there, ten days. Uh it's kind of like us saying a minute. It means a period of time in that that's that's you know you know it would be just a minute or just a little bit of time. That they use that phrase ten days to represent an unknown short amount of time. And so of course they were in a lot of tribulation and many died but they were faithful through it. And and and the Lord applauded them for that. Then we looked at the church at Pergamos. Pergamus was in a very, very wicked city, and in and a couple of times it was meant um Satan's seat was mentioned. Pergamus might have been where Satan sat. is what a lot of if you look at different uh commentaries and things like that, some people think that's where Satan was at the time because remember he's not omnipresent. Satan can only be one place at a time and a lot of people thought well that's where he was. It was a very very wicked city Um some people think that it was because of all the idolatry that was there. Either way, if someone says you're in Satan's seat, you're in a bad place. And um they were in a lot of persecution there. Uh but because of that Um uh they they they they they um they caved a little bit and they they gave into some false doctrine um and things like that. We looked at the doctrine of uh Balaam and the the doctrine of the Nicolaitans. Basically it was a compromising church. Because of the intense persecution that they were facing, they ended up caving and compromising just to just kind of get along with the crowd and kind of get along with the city. Um so that was the status of that church there. Then we looked at the church of Thyatira. Am I going too fast? Is this good? We're good? Alright, should I slow down or no? Are we good? Okay. Yes. I'll keep going at the same speed. Um so the church in Thyatira, we saw that in verse um eighteen down to the rest of the chapter. Diatira actually had the longest uh letter there and which is which is interesting because they were like the smallest city. They're more of like a small town is what some people say, but they uh had the longest uh letter. They're at Thyatiram And they were known for being very, very charitable, and and they were known uh especially for their hard work. Because it it starts out when he says, I know thy works, and then he says some other things, and thy works, and the last to be more than the first, which means the works they were doing. now were more than the works they had been doing at the beginning. So they were a growing church. They were growing. And not just numerically, but they were adding more ministries, we might say. They were doing more things, working harder, and the lot of work involved. But they had Jezebel. Remember that? They had the the whoever that lady was. If you're called Jezebel, that's not a compliment And so we we saw that there was a lady in there that had gotten to the church and was leading the church the wrong way. And we talked about that. That's probably the problem of her, her fault for doing so, but also the the leadership of the church for allowing Someone to be in a position that was not supposed to be. We talked about that, and if you want to go back listening to that sermon, that's fine. But anyway, so that was the church there at Pergamus Or excuse me, Thyatira. Then we looked at the church at uh at Sardis, and which started out chapter three, says, I know thy works. Um they had a reputation there um for being alive. Remember that? Um we talked a little bit about uh about that how the reputation Um was what other people thought about them, but really um again kind of reminds me of what we looked at this morning with Laodicea a little bit, and then also Ephesus. They had that reputation that they were alive and they were doing things, but the reality was is they were uh dead spiritually speaking. So um then we looked at the uh last Sunday night was Philadelphia and we thought about cream cheese. I love it. You can't beat that. You can't beat that good strawberry cream cheese on a warm bagel. Everything bagel with warm strawberry cream cheese. And that's in here. No, it's not. I'm just kidding. But anyway, that's uh moving on. Philadelphia cream cheese. We talked about uh what that meant, of course, the city of brotherly love And then we have Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which was the city of Brother Viv. But um then we we talked about how the church was very, very loving Um uh and and and they were very, very faithful even in all their persecution, very poor city. They didn't have a lot, they had little strength. Remember it said they had little strength, and part of that was because of the uh economy of the city Part of that was because of the persecution as well. But uh that was the that was the church of Phil Philadelphia. But what they had they were faithful in and they were able to uh hold fast there. This morning, we finished out looking at the church of Laodicea, which they were the lukewarm church. What made them lukewarm wasn't their actions or lack of actions, what made them lukewarm was their attitude And the attitude specifically that said, I'm good. I'm rich, increase with goods, have need of nothing. And they didn't realize that they were poor, blind, and naked. And so uh the Lord counseled with them, sitting knocking on the door, say, Hey, let me into the church And we looked at all that. So that's the overview. That's in in a nutshell, a little brief uh summary of each of the seven churches. And if you want to go back and listen to the other ones, that's fine. Or even better yet, get your Bible out and study the seven churches there. That'd be great. So, with all of that being said, he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. There's four things that I have, four points I have, just by way of application, and there are kind of four separate applications even at that. Four things that I think that I personally can learn from these seven letters, but then also we as a church could learn from these seven letters. The first thing is really kind of a question, and I think it's obvious. When you look at these seven churches, maybe maybe you've already been asking yourself this, but if we had to be compared to one of these, which one would we be? Has anyone thought that yet? Like has that come across your mind like which one are we the closest to? Now again we've got to be careful with that. We talked about that this morning. Okay, so we don't want to say, oh, we're this church or we're that church. We don't want to do that. We're different. Okay, we're the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're not Smyrna. We're not Ephesus. We're not Thyatira. But there are there are similarities And so the Ephesus church, um, you know, are we a church known for losing their first love? I hope not. But we talked about this again this morning, and it's church is made up of people. So rather than say what kind of church are we, I think I the question we should be asking is what kind of Christian am I? What kind of Christian am I? And so as we go down this list, am I a Christian that has left my first love? Have I left Christ? Do I not have that relationship with him anymore? Dude, am I a Christian that is in the middle of trials right now and suffering, but I'm I'm gonna stay faithful? That'd be that'd be a Smyrna Christian. You know, am I a Pergamus Christian and I'm caving and compromising when I get a little bit of resistance, get some resistance at work, get some resistance at home, and I'm just willing to cave and go along with whatever um the the pressure is. You know, am I a Pergamous Christian or am I a thy Tyra Christian? I'm very, very charitable, loving, and very, very busy But a little bit of compromise in there as well, and I've let some things slide, I've let some things get in my life, I've let some things get into my TV or get into my phone or get into my Reading or getting I've let some things slide, but I'm busy and I'm serving the Lord. Would I be a thy tyra type of Christian? Would I be a Sardis type of Christian of having a reputation? Man, everyone sees me as super spiritual. Everyone sees me and when I my reputation is I am a alive, but I know in my heart that I'm not. You know, I don't want to be that kind of a Christian. I don't want to be a Sardis Christian. I tell you, I'd like to be a Philadelphia Christian. That even if I do have some persecution, and even if I am limited in what I could do, I would still be loving and charitable and working hard and holding on to what I have. Or a Laodicean Christian, would I want to be known for that again, that reputation, but the reality is is I'm I'm lukewarm and I make God sick. So I think as we look at these seven churches, the first thing isn't necessarily saying what what which one of these churches are we? I think we should be asking ourselves. What kind of Christian am I? Not what kind of church are we? Because truth be told, I don't know what your heart is. You don't know what my heart is We could have that facade, we could have that reputation that we're alive, but we know we're not. You know what I'm saying? So we we we really the only one that knows my heart is God and me And so this is an internal thing here. I need to be looking inward, not looking outward at the rest of the church. Oh, I wonder I wonder if Mark's right here. I wonder if which one of these he is. That's not going to do anything You know, we we need to be looking inward. So um so that would be the first application is let's look inward. Let's look inward, let's look in and examine ourselves Using these seven churches as kind of a guide or an outline to say, Hey, am I that way? Am I this way? Maybe I want to be, maybe I don't. So that might be a good study to do as a family when you have your family devotions that you have every day. Uh that might be a good study. Um to get to say is it what kind of family is this? You know, are we just putting on a show? Is this for real? You know, anyway, so second, um Again, it's kind of another question, but are we going to learn by example or experience? I think I'd rather learn by example. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. I'd rather learn. from them than have to learn from myself. You know, experience isn't the best teacher. I mean it'll teach you, but it's not the best teacher. The best teacher is That, the Bible. The best teacher is learning from God's Word, right? And so if I can learn from from from their example, I'd be a lot better off than learning from my own experience. You know I can I can do what what some like I can I can do what some of these uh people have done, the good points and the bad points, and I can I can allow some sin into my life, I can allow some compromise into my life and then have to learn the hard way. Um but I'd rather not. I'd rather just do what God says and learn from their example so I don't have to experience that. So anyway, that's one experience is the best teacher, but but God's Word is the best teacher. So let's learn from their strengths and weaknesses. Let's learn from our predecessors there. Then here's another question. Number third question is, are we going to hear? Are we going to hear what the Spirit said to the churches? Over the past uh few weeks here, and then of course of course when we started this in November, uh there was a there there is a lot of things said to these churches. We can choose not to hear it You know, someone gives you a warning, someone gives you instruction, someone gives you advice or counsel. And he even said this morning we saw that Jesus is saying, Hey, I counsel thee. We can say no to the counsel. We can refuse that. Or we can accept it. Wisdom would accept it. I gave this example this morning. It kind of fits, so I'm going to give it. Um uh my dad has been flying for a long time. He I think he got his license in seventy five. Math, hang on. Math. Yeah. Yeah, that would be it. Seventy-five, nineteen seventy-five. So he's been flying a a lot longer than I've been alive. So there was a uh there was a trip we were gonna take and I was looking at the weather and checking the weather like because that's what you do, you just check the weather nonstop and it gets really old, but you gotta do it. And so there was a flight I was thinking about taking and I wasn't really sure. And so um anyway he called me and he said, Hey, are you still thinking about flying this trip And I said, well I'm thinking about it. He said, don't. I said, okay. He said, if Dad says don't do it, I'm not going to do it. Why? Because he's been doing it a lot longer than I have been. And so then later on he told me why and he gave me some of the things that he had seen that he he looked at the weather as well and uh seen some of the storm systems and stuff like that and what could could happen and what anyway, so he I took his advice Would I have been okay? Probably. But I'm not gonna risk that and learn from experience. I'd rather learn from his experience. um because he's already experienced it. So anyway, uh I kind of look at the this study that way. Also Are we going to hear? Are we going to listen? Are we going to take it? Are we going to make the changes? Maybe we looked at that church, uh say that at Ephesus, the very first one we looked at, and we can see where You know, maybe ma my relationship with God isn't what it ought to be. Oh, if it's everyone else, they can see the work and the effort and the labor and the the patience and the s firm stand on convictions and doctrine, but I know that I've got a problem in my heart. You know, are we gonna are we gonna listen to what the Spirit has to say to the church there? And are we gonna apply that? Or are we going to not hear what he has to say and say no I'm good? I'm rich and curious of goods and have need of nothing like he said to Laodicea. So And then the last thing is this, and I'm done. This is my last point. Ultimately, we must answer to God for the way we live. We are accountable to him. Each one of these churches, the angel of the church, the elder of the church, was addressed there. You know, and I I I'm gonna have to give an account for my life, for my family. I'm gonna have to give an account for that. I'm accountable to God for myself, as are you. And so as we've looked at you know, he didn't look at the church at Philadelphia and say, Did you see what Ephesus is doing? He didn't do that. He didn't look at Smyrna and say, Hey, look at Thyatire over there. No, no. He addressed them individually. So rather than us looking at each other saying, oh man, I'm glad he preached on that whole lukewarm thing because you know, Evan, huh? I'm sorry. He's right there. He sits up front downstairs too and he's an o optimal target. Jada used to sit up front until I spit once Where is she? Is she here? No? Perfect. Alright, I'll tell the story. So there was one there was one uh uh I mean I was I don't know, I was hitting the pulpit and screaming, probably talking about veggie tails or something Like that, I don't know. But anyway, so I was getting into it and I she sat right over here and I won't spit on you. But I came right over and I I mean it was a big old white I mean it was and her f her face, it just changed I forgot what I was preaching at that moment. I just started laughing at that point. Um and I but anyway See how I get distracted? See how I I don't even remember what I was talking about now, Derek. Seven churches or something like that. Yeah. But it um yeah, spit right on her And it it was really bad. And um I don't know why Evan still sits up front. So what was I talking about, Evan? The Bible. The Bible. See this is why I like for him to be up front. He gets me back on track every time. Not really. But um Ultimately we must give an account to God for ourselves. Oh, I don't have to give an account for for someone else. So I uh you know I'm glad that he preached on that because heaven really needs that's what it was. I'm glad he preached on that because heaven really needed to hear that. Well, no, that's not that's not how the the letters were written to the churches. They were addressed individually. So look look inward, and I've already said that a few times, but I think I think that's here We need to look inward. Don't worry about what the other Christian's doing. Worry about what this Christian's doing. Worry about what I'm doing. No, I mean not you worry about what I'm doing, but I'll worry about what I'm doing. You worry about yourself. You understand what I'm saying. Okay? We all have to give an account of ourselves to God. I don't have to give an account for Evan. Evan gives an account for Evan. And and Evan doesn't give an account for Austin. Austin gives an account for Austin. And we could go on down the line. So Let's us make sure we're right. And uh the church is accountable, but we are accountable individually. So um I enjoyed it. I I did. I enjoyed going through this and uh I like the history especially. Um and I like I like looking at pictures of the different uh um um archaeological sites and the the the digs and the finds and stuff like that. And there's some pretty cool stuff if you if you s uh look into that. But if nothing else, I would encourage you to just read these couple chapters. And as you read them, don't think about everyone else in the church. Think about yourself and your family. And see what God has for you and listen to what the Spirit said unto the churches. Lord, we thank you for this study. We thank you for your word. We ask that you would um speak to us, Lord, as as we look at your word and as we look at these seven churches, Lord, and as we go home and read them on our own, maybe as a family or uh maybe individually, Lord, but that you would speak to us as as we look at each one of these and learn from the strengths, learn from the weak weaknesses and Lord, we thank you in i in advance for that. Now with no one looking around, heads bowed, eyes closed for just a moment. How many of you say, you know what, um the Lord's speaking to me about one of these areas, one of these points. It's a lot covered tonight because it was the whole recap. So I don't know how the Lord's speaking to your heart, but how many of you say, you know what, yeah, God's dealing with me about something? tonight. Could you just slip your hand up? My hand's up. Amen. You can put them down. I tell the the teens this all the time, but if someone talks to you and you don't talk back, if they're speaking to you and you don't speak back, it's rude, and so it'd be rude for us to not do business with God when He's dealing with us. So um I mean as actually as you stand to your feet uh she starts playing the altar's open.