In the Bible to Philippians chapter number two. Philippians chapter number two, right towards the end of the Old Test or New Testament, excuse me. And uh what an amazing passage of scripture Philippians chapter number two is. Uh Philippians chapter two it's it's known as the Great Kenosis passage, which you say, what in the world does that mean? I I don't know. Uh I I've heard it said many times. I don't know what it means. But uh I I've I graduated from high school barely, went off and got a college degree, got a bachelor's degree in in Bible And then about 10 years in youth ministry, I went to my pastor and said, you know, I really would just love to do a little bit more. I'd love to study more. And so I earned a master's degree and and uh and and then I I thought I want to do more and I earned a doctorate degree. I really I honestly did. I I don't I can't believe I actually finished it, but I I did. And uh and I still look at the Bible sometimes and I think Man, I don't know what that means. You ever been there? You ever look at a passage of scripture and thought, whew, that was a tough one. And then you call the pastor, then you call the youth pastor, and you say, what does that mean? And he says, I don't know I'll tell you that. I'll go ask the really smart man. We'll figure out what that means. And and uh and and by the way, that's that's okay. Can I tell you, no matter how seasoned you are in the Bible There's going to be some passages that you read and you think, I don't know, what is that all about? You got to study it. And then even after studying, sometimes you think I still don't know. But today we're going to go to a passage of scripture that I think we can look at and we can understand. Let me ask you a question before I get into the message. Let me ask you. Have you ever been guilty of coming to church And uh and looking and seeing another family and thinking they've got it all together. The dope point, by the way. But you ever thought, man, I I wish my family were more like that family. I mean they come to church, they're not fussing and fighting when they pull the parking lot. By the way, I didn't look this morning to see if anyone's doing that, so you're safe But they weren't fussing and fighting when they came in. They got out of the car. Some of you wives that I I watched that husband, he got out of the car and he walked around and and he opened the door for his wife Some of your wives are thinking, my husband doesn't do that for me. What you don't know is the the door handle on the inside of their truck doesn't work. So he had to he had to do that. There was no choice. He's not that much of a gentleman But you think, man, why doesn't my husband do that? Or or or you look at their kids. Oh, I I my God's blessed my wife and I. My wife and I have been married 27 years Uh nine months and three days. And it's a well it'll be three days in about two hours. And uh you say, how do you know that? We were married on January the first at 230. So I 1994. So we it's easy. I'm not that smart. I can just do the math real quick in my brain and figure out how long we've been married. But uh God blessed us with two daughters And uh our oldest daughter's uh she'll be twenty-four in in five days and uh four days. And uh and my youngest daughter is twenty, she'll be twenty-one coming up obviously that's I am from Tennessee, so I have to remind myself what number comes next, 2021. She'll be twenty-one coming up. And uh and we're blessed with our two daughters. I I remember when my daughters were little, Pastor, I I remember Going to church and seeing other families at church. And I know y'all would never do this. But I remember seeing other families at church and thinking, man, their kids are perfect. I mean they walk into church, they don't make a peep, you know, they sit down in their seat, their hands are folded on their lap, the preacher says something, that little child says, Amen. And I'm thinking, what did they do to get their children so perfect? We're sitting in church and you look down the road row and my daughter's drawing pictures of her daddy and she makes him like really fat And and then she she draws, you know, like y just weird things, you know. She she I I sometimes we're guilty of looking at someone else and thinking And what what's the difference between them and me? How is it they got everything together? They drive in, they got the shiny new car You drive in and it's it's blowing smoke out so bad that people don't follow in close behind you, you know, that they they can't breathe. And you park the car and and theirs shuts off nice and yours is like You're like, just shut off, just shut off, come on. They get out and they the ladies they got that nice new outfit on and You get out, it's the same outfit you've worn for the last few weeks in a row, because it's the only one you have. And you think, how do they have everything together? What's the difference between them and me? Can I tell you what the Bible says? The Bible's real clear about this. The Bible says this: when we compare ourselves amongst ourselves, we're not wise. Can I can I tell you the truth that the Lord's allowed us to work with teenagers for for uh nearly ther almost thirty years And by the way, I'm 50, in case you wonder. Some of you are like, this little whipper snapper, what's he know? And the truth is, I don't know a whole lot. But I can tell you this, what we've learned over the years is this: there's no such thing as a perfect home. Let me say it one more time, because I don't think you heard me. There's no such thing as a perfect home. By the way, wives, there's no such thing as a perfect husband. That ladies, that was a good opportunity for you right there. Amen. That's right. I've got an example right here. No such thing as a perfect husband. Truth is, there is no such thing as a perfect husband. By the way, men, now's not a good time to say amen. Hold on just a second. There's no such thing as a perfect wife, and then you're saying, I've got one. That's a good answer. Amen. Truth is, there's no such thing as a perfect wife. Teenager, young person, there's no such thing as a perfect parent. That was a hard lesson for me to learn, for my wife and I learned. You know when you were younger and you got married and and you saw that that knight in shining armor, ladies? You know what I'm talking about? You saw that man across the way and you're like, whew He is so handsome and so muscular. Those muscles, I mean, look at that chest, that barrel chest, those bulging biceps. Y'all aren't supposed to be laughing yet. And then he got a little bit older and it all dropped from here. Now he's got the barrel alright, but it's all right here. Things change, don't they? He was your knight in shining armor, now he's a rusty bucket of bolts, right? By the way, I'm not going the other way in case you wonder. I'm not gonna talk about the ladies. Kids when when when I was little Bobby, when I was little, I used to think I was the best parent in all the world. When I was little. When I was a young parent, I used to think I was the best parent in all the world. I used to think that. I used to think because I've been youth pastor for a number of years, I used to think I have all the answers how parents ought to raise their teenagers. And then my children turn into teenagers. I remember hearing preachers say when I was younger, they used to say, yeah, if you have a teenager, they turn 12, 13, build a wooden box. Put your 13-year-old in that wooden box, close the lid, but drill a hole so you can feed them and they can breathe. When they turn 17, plug the hole. Can I tell you there's a whole good kid there's no such thing as a perfect kid either, amen, parents? There's no such thing as a perfect kid, but parents, before you say Amen too loud, those kids are looking at you too, and there's no such thing as a perfect parent Man, I I learned long ago, I I don't have the answers. I don't know. And we're learning on the job. We're coming along this thing and learning what life is really like. And by the way, with two different daughters Same mom, same dad, same church, same school, same, same dog, no cat. We don't have cats, but the same, same everything And they're polar opposites. I mean, one of my daughters, my oldest daughter's name is Angel. I'll get to the Bible here in a second, I promise. My oldest daughter's name is Angel We're still trying to decide if she's a fallen angel or if she's an angelic angel. We're still working on that. She she's an amazing young lady. She really is. She lives down in Fort Walton Beach, Florida, teaches in a Christian school down there, third grade. She's stuck in third grade now. Having the time of her life. She really is. Single and looking for a husband. I just I like to put that out there too, just so you know. And uh my my youngest daughter is her name is Gabrielle. We call her Gabby And she's 20, she's in her junior year of college, studying to be a nurse, wants to help people, not just spiritually, but also physically. And uh just just amazing young ladies. Polar opposites. I mean, unb we could look at Angel when she was little. I I literally, if she did something wrong, I could look at her. You know, you know, parents what I'm talking about. Give her that look. And she would melt. She'd be like, oh, Dad, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I can give the same look to Gabby. Gabby. And Gabby would look back at me. And I'm like, oh, it's war now, we're on. We're gonna have a battle right here. I mean polar opposites Hey, can I tell you we don't have the answers. You may look at some other family and think, man, they've got it all together. Can I tell you they don't have it all together They have struggles in their home too. There's the discussions. My wife and I we call them discussions. We don't call them arguments, but every now and then we have a discussion. I know y'all never do that, but we do every now and then There's those discussions that take place. And by the way, I hate to even admit this. Most of the time, okay, all the time she's right But I I don't want to admit that. So I I scratch that from the record. That really wasn't said. Truth is everybody has discussions Everyone has fusses. I was preaching at our church years ago and I made that statement in our church. There's no such thing as a perfect family. Every couple has issues from time to time. Every couple does. And I remember after I but just made that statement going on to something in the Bible. At the end of the service, I came down and And it was one of those services where I felt like God really did a work. Pastor, you know what I'm talking about, where you you just felt the presence of God and and and people were plugged in, they were excited about what what God had to say. And and I walked down kind of big head, you know, thinking, man, that was really good. And I got down there and there was a man standing there at the front waiting for me. He's about five foot two And his wife was like five foot one. I mean they're just little short people. And they came up there and and and and he stopped me. He's about 65 years old. I could name his name. It doesn't do any good to name his name. But he stopped me and he said, this, Brother Kurt, I'll have you know My wife and I have been married for almost 50 years. And he said this. We have never had an argument in our home. And he said, nudged his wife and he said, Isn't that right, honey? And she said, Yes sir, yes sir, that's right. I'm like Amen. I hear you. That's great. I understand what you just said. Hey, can I tell you there's no such thing as a perfect home? There isn't. And sometimes we come to church looking for the answers, and sometimes By the way, I have no clue of any circumstance of anybody in the room. So I'm preaching as naive as I can be on any circumstances. But sometimes we come to church and say, God, I just need some answers today God, this week has been hard. This week has been terrible. God, I'm coming to hear from you today, God. And now I'm stuck with this redneck from Tennessee. God, I want to hear from you. Hey, can I tell you God does have the answers. God has the answers. But what we just heard sung was unbelievably true. Our prayers that we offer up to God are as strong and as big and as powerful as our God is. And by the way, He is all powerful. That's the God we serve. Philippians chapter number two. I want you to see this passage of Scripture. I want you to see in Philippians chapter number two. The first part of the chapter talks about Jesus Christ, his deity. By the way, we serve a risen Savior. Jesus is God. I cannot emphasize that point enough. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Jesus Christ is God. John 1 Verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God. The Word was God. That word is Jesus Christ. Philippians chapter number 2 talks about let this mind, verse number 5, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Listen to verse number nine. Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him And giving him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus. At the name of Jesus Every knee should bow, the things in heaven and things in the earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord To the glory of God the Father. By the way, I love that. I'm not preaching on that passage of Scripture, but you know that passage of Scripture teaches us? Jesus Christ is God. We serve when Jesus hung on that cross, not that one in particular, but when he hung on the cross and stretched his arms out. That was God incarnate. God in human flesh. God came to this old sin-cursed earth. Why did God come here? I'll tell you why God came here. Because He loves you and He loves me. What a mighty God we serve. He gave his only son, John 3:16. For God so by the way, make the Bible personal, would you? It's not a textbook God sent his only son, Jesus Christ. For God so loved, put your name there. I believe in a whosoever will gospel. God came for everybody, red, yellow, black, and white, no matter what your bank account is. You may be filthy rich or you may be filthy poor. Or you may be clean rich or clean poor. It doesn't make any difference. God died for all of us. You may have been raised in church, or this may be your first time ever to darken the door of a church. Jesus Christ loves you. For God so loved Kurt Copeland that he gave his only begotten son. That if Kurt Copeland For whosoever, for Kurt Government, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Give us everlasting life. I'm butchering the scripture. But you understand what I'm saying? God says this He died for you. I when I'm not traveled in evangelism, I have the privilege of working uh in excavation. I I I get to drive Tonka trucks And uh, you know, I played with them as a kid and now I now I'm operating a uh uh a a uh excavator and and uh skid steer and off-road dump trucks and and a mini. I get to operate those things which is really Really kind of scary if you stop and think about it. Put a preacher behind those power equipment. That's usually not a good combination. I was witnessing to one of the guys I worked with just this past week. Uh on on uh on Wednesday, trying to remember what day it was, on Wednesday I flew here Thursday. On Wednesday I was witnessing to a young man. I say witnessing to him, I I I've shared with him the love of Christ multiple times. He's a great young man. I love the guy. He doesn't live a life that would be anything like a Christian life whatsoever. Many days he comes to work hung over or still strung out on drugs. And I've been able to share with him the love of Christ. Day after day, sharing with him the love of Christ. You know what he told me Wednesday? I was standing there. He hollered out to me, he said, hey, do you ever wonder what your purpose in life is? His name's Caleb. He said to me, you ever wonder what your purpose of life is? And I looked back at Caleb and I said, Caleb, honestly, no. I know what my purpose of life is. I said, I know God has a purpose in my life. God has me here. And I said this to him: I said, God has me here to help you know how much God loves you. He said, oh no, no, that's that anyway, and he blew that off and a few minutes later he said, you know, one of these days I might just go to church with you. I said, ah, Caleb, man, I'd love where you go to church with me. That'd be awesome. He said, nah. He said, if I walk in the church doors, the building would fall down. I said, that's okay. They've got insurance. It means they can build it back again. It's okay. He said, No, no, you don't understand, man. It'd be bad. I said, if you want to, we can have services outside. Then the building can't fall down. He didn't know no, you just don't understand. He said, I'm not a good guy. I say, Caleb, it's a good thing about it. It doesn't matter how good or bad you are. It's all about Jesus Christ and how much he loves you and what he paid for you. You pray for Caleb if you would, please. I believe he's real close to getting saved. I really do believe that. Hey, I don't know if this is your first time in church or you've been here all your life. Jesus Christ loves you. On down to my text passage in this passage of Scripture, I want you to look at verse number 13. The Bible says in verse number 13, we'll read three verses here. The Bible says in Philippians chapter 2, verse 13, For it is God which worketh in you. Both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. By the way, parents, that's a good one to remind your kids of. Or maybe your husband wives. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. Verse 15, that ye may be blameless. Did you hear this? That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke in the midst in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom ye shine as light in this world. Here the Apostle Paul writes a letter to the church in Philippi. To Christians, to believers He writes this letter to these believers, and first he establishes early in the chapter the deity of Jesus Christ that he is God. But then he goes into some practical living to these Christian believers in Philippi He says to the church in Philippi, let's just apply this, because this isn't a textbook, remember? This is a living book written to us on October 3rd, is it the 3rd? 2021. To Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Oh, hold on. This is not a textbook. This is written to us. This is for us today. And he says to us today at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, he says this, for it is God which worketh in you. I put down in my notes number one, I wrote this down: the redemption. I wrote down the redemption. You see, any good thing about any of us, it has nothing to do with who we are. I'm not a good person. By the way, please don't say amen there. I'm not a good person. I'm a sinner. I'm not proud of the fact that I'm a sinner, but the truth is, I'm a sinner. If I got what I deserved this morning, just being honest, I'd be burning in a place called hell right now. I got saved when I was 11 years old, or excuse me, 10 years old. I was at Emmanuel Baptist Church in Mattoon, Illinois. My parents, my family didn't go to church. As a matter of fact, that Wednesday night, there was a Wednesday night, I went to church on my own. I love telling the story. I I I almost tell the story every time I preach. So if you come back tonight You might hear this again tonight. I don't know. But I I was at Emmanuel Baptist Church January the eleventh, nineteen eighty-two. It was a long time ago. For some of y'all you're like, oh, I was fifty at that point. I was sitting on the third row, right where you're sitting, sir. And I was sitting in that service as a 10-year-old boy. I I was the church brat and Teens, you don't have to describe it now. But uh I was the church brat. I would disturb services. The pastor would always call me down in church because I was that kid. I was that one I was the one who, you know, the preacher's preaching and I'm doing something I shouldn't be doing. The preacher I say, hey, hey, Kurt, sit up, you know. Stop doing that. Stop carving in the back of the pew there, Copeland. Stop Pull the knife out of your brother's back, Kurt. Stop doing that. That was me. But this Wednesday night I was sitting there on that third row back center aisle Fourteen people total in the church service that Wednesday night. The big church. That's sarcasm. And I was sitting there and no family with me. The pastor preached that night. I walked the aisle and I took the pastor by the hand. I had tears coming down my cheeks. And the pastor looked at me and said, Kurt, what'd you come forward for? And I said this. I said, Pastor, I I don't want to die and go to hell. You say, well, I don't think that's a good reason to get saved. Well, I I've been studying the Bible a little while. Pastor, you're a whole lot wiser than I am. Have you ever found a bad reason for someone to get saved? There's no such thing as a bad reason to get saved. I got saved because I didn't want to burn in a place called hell. And as a 10-year-old boy, I walked the aisle and I took a pastor's hand and I said, I don't want to die and go to hell. And that day he opened his Bible and he took about five minutes and he showed me from the Word of God What it means to be a Christian. And on January 11, 1982, I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I was 10 years old Hey, can I tell you? I've done a lot of bad things since I was 10. You say, what have you done? That's none of your business. Ask my wife, she'll tell you. No, don't ask my wife, because she'll probably tell you Truth is, I'm a sinner. You say, well, you're up here preaching to us? Why are you preaching? If you're that much of a sinner, why are you preaching? I'd love to study after J. Vernon McGee. Jay Vernon McGee, man, talk about old good shoe leather common sense Bible approach. I love studying after J. Vernon McGee. He's in heaven now. You can still hear him on the radio. The old Texan, that Texas draw in his voice I remember hearing him say this. He said this. He said, if you knew what kind of sinner I was, you wouldn't waste your time listening to me preach. But before you get up and leave. If I knew what kind of sinner you were, I wouldn't waste my time preaching to you. You know the truth is, the ground is level at the foot of the cross. There's no bigwigs in Christianity. There's no when God looks down at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, he doesn't say, Oh, Brother Leatherman, look at him way up here, and look at the rest of us little peons all the way down here. God doesn't do that When God looks at us as Christians, He says, They're my children, I love them. That's who we are in Jesus. And this first verse we just read Says, it is God which worketh in you. It's God in you. The only good thing about any of us is God in us. The redemption. Hey, can I ask you? When was your salvation? You don't have to say it out loud. When was it you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? And mine I just told you, January 11, 1982. I remember the date because it was such a dramatic change in my life. I wrote it down in the front of my Bible. My Bible's sitting right here right now. If you open this Bible, I didn't have that Bible when I was ten years old. But I I every Bible I get I write in the front of my Bible I was saved January 11th, 1982, 845 p. m. Matt Soon, Illinois, Emmanuel Baptist Church, Pastor Normand sons, two steps up pew on the or the the seat on the front. That that's where I I re I remember the color of the carpet. I I remember everything about it. It was a dramatic change in my life. You say, I don't remember the date, I don't remember the time, I don't remember the all the It doesn't matter if you remember the date, time, all those details. My question to you is this, you know for sure you're on your way to heaven. Do you know if your life ended today that you'd end up in a place called heaven? The Bible says to be absent from the bodies, to be present with the Lord for Christians. So if I if I hope this doesn't happen, but if I took my last breath right now? That'd really kind of be a bummer of a service, wouldn't it? But down I go. My life insurance is paid up, babe. You're good. But if I died right now, guess what? You don't have to cry for me. You know why? Because I'll be kicking up some gold dust on the streets of heaven immediately. I'll be seeing Jesus fast. I won't need the readers. I'll be able to see him face to face. I I won't have to worry about aches and pains and moans and groans You won't have to worry about cancer and and health issues, diabetes, or walkers or problems. You don't have to worry about any of it. Why? Because you're kicking up gold dust in a place called heaven. That's God in you. That's the redemption that takes place. Hey, can I ask you? Are you on your way to heaven? You say, I'm not sure. If you're not sure, you're in the right place. We'd love to take a Bible today and show you from the Bible what it means to be a Christian. You say, Well, I don't want to join the church. It has nothing to do with joining the church Listen, Jesus died for you. He wants you in heaven Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, Pastor Leathers has this church here. Listen, God has this church here for one purpose. To see souls come to know Jesus Christ as a personal Savior and then to grow in Him. First of all, in this passage of Scripture, I see the redemption I see it's God in us. That verse verse number uh thirteen. For it is God which worketh in you. I I I wrote this down in my notes. It is God in me. God in me. I'm not the same as I used to be. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 7. 17, the Bible talks about we're a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You see, God changes us as a Christian. And I love this. It's the Spirit of God that indwells me. When I got saved, Pastor preached a message on it. He mentioned this in his message, I believe, Saturday. It's the Holy Spirit of God is in me. He lives in me. What an amazing thought. Jesus Christ, in the form of the Holy Spirit, indwells my body. He's the one who whispers in my ear and says, Copeland, don't do that. As my wife whispers in the other ear, Copeland, don't do that. Hey, the Holy Spirit of God is there to help guide us and direct us. It's God in me. I remember with the teens we used to sing a song, The Things I Used to Do, I don't do them anymore. Hey, I'm changed. I'm a different person because of Jesus in me. Does that mean I don't struggle with sin? No, absolutely. I struggle with sin. By the way, I know you do too. And if you say I don't struggle with much, just get out here. I'm on the interstate somewhere. Why don't someone cut you off? I I've got I've got y you know those those construction zones? Where they have those merge over lanes. You know you're going down the interstate and they have that merge over like they're doing construction like five miles up the road and they can say get in the right lane left lane closed ahead and you get over like you're supposed to in the the right lane because the left lane is closed ahead and so you're in the left lane and it's going like five miles an hour. And there's these people right past you. And you get up towards the front, and people are coming up there and they're turning on their turn signal and trying to nose in. You know what my response to that is? Uh-uh I waited in line, you can wait in line. However, can I tell you, I'm guilty sometimes. Of being that guy going, foo, zoom, hoom, down the side. And sir, especially if I'm driving someone else's car So if you get cut off by a a really nice white little car, it's the pastor's not driving it. I'm driving it but I'm driving it right now. The truth is sometimes we're all sinners and we want to overreact, we want to respond. Someone cut you off. We all suffer through this sin-cursed earth we live on. This sin-cursed body You still have an old nature. So do I. That old nature fights against that new nature. Every day it's a struggle. Did you hear that? Every day it's a struggle. Wives, why is your husband the way he is? That's a whole nother message. I'm just going to stick to one little point. Because there's an old nature fighting the new nature. There's a constant constant struggle. Constant struggle. Why is it he can't pick up his clothes and put them in the dirty clothes basket? Because there's a concept, some of y'all, don't throw the elbows Because there's a constant struggle. There's a constant struggle. That's that old nature that's always in our body. I see number one the redemption. That's what Jesus Christ does for us. And by the way, the end of verse number 13, just a tag on this, and I'll hasten along. He says this, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Hey, can I tell you God has a purpose and a plan for all of our lives? I want to go on number one, I see the redemption here in Philippians chapter number two. I see number two, the result. This is the change that takes place because of redemption. Look at verse number 14. He says this: do all things without murmurings and disputings. The word murmuring literally means grumbling or grudging. Again, I know you don't do this. I remember as a kid. Growing up there in central Illinois, my dad came into the room and he said he said to me, he said, Kurt, go mow the yard. I got three older brothers, a whole lot more capable of mowing the yard than me, by the way. He looked at me, I was probably 10 years old, 11 years old, something like that. I was sitting down on the couch watching Scooby-Doo. Scooby's my hero, by the way. I was watching Scooby-Doo and my dad came in and said, Kurt, go mow the yard. I said, okay My dad walked through and went to the other part of the house and a few minutes later he walked back into the room. I was still sitting on the couch watching Scooby-Doo. And my dad looked at me, and the volume of his voice wasn't the same as it was the first time he walked through. He said, Boy, didn't I tell you to mow the yard? My answer was this: yes. And he walked on through to another part of the house. I guess I wasn't really that bright My dad walked through another part of the house and he walked through and we walked through and he closed the door behind him. And I think he he he just walked through the door and stood there for just a few moments. I uh in my brain, this as a parent, this is what I would have done He stood on the other side of the door and he waited, I think he probably counted to five, and he opened the door real fast. And this time, it wasn't just boy. I mean, it was on like Donkey Kong. He came back in the room and he's like, I told you to mow the yarn. You're sitting here on your tush, you get up, you get and he's literally picking me up and helping me out the door, and and and I'm my face is opening the doors as I'm going through And I go out and and and we had some dogs out in the backyard, the dogs came over like they're gonna play with me and I I wasn't ha I'm punching the dog in the face. Get away from me! I you know I'm uh I go out to the fence, I flip Flip the the latch of that that chain link fence up. I'm mad. I I I'm maybe twelve years old. Flip that latch up and I flipped it so hard the latch has bounced a couple times and latched back down. I'm kicking the gate and it won't open Flip it up again and kick the gate open. When I kick it open, I'm walking through it. It hits the back of the fence and comes back and hits me. I'm, oh I'm so mad I turn around and I fling that lash back down. As I fling the lash back down, I look up and guess who's standing right there? My dad. I can't pretend to tell you what took place next. I have a hard time even sitting now to this day because of what took place next. My dad looked at me and he said He didn't even say anything. He looked at me with that look, and you know what my first words were? My first word was this. What? My dad took me back in the house and and and there was some discipline. He called it beatons. I got a beating that day. And then I went out and mowed the yard anyway Hey, I was grumbling and complaining. I was murmuring and disputing. I was doing what verse number 14 says not to do. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. Murmurings is grumbling and grudging. No disputings. Disputings is debating and doubting. Causing discord by doubting what's going on. The Bible says here, he says the the the response, the result of that redemption that takes place in our life The result of redemption is this. Hey, there's a chance, there's a good strong opportunity for me not to live my life in murmurings and disputings. Matter of fact, he says it as a command here: do all things without it. You see, the result of redemption is a changed life. So the things that I used to do, I'm no longer doing. So I see the result of this is that changed life. Can I ask you today? Evaluate yourself. Christ in you helps you not to live a life of murmurings and disputings. So, how is it going in your life right now with Christ in you? I know I'm on thin ice right now. I'm getting a little too personal. Truth is, I'm preaching to myself. Because I'm guilty. I'm guilty, even though the Holy Spirit of God lives in me, I'm guilty of not living my life like I should. I'm guilty sometimes. I'm guilty sometimes of murmuring, disputing. Well, I don't know why, Pastor, put that building over there. Why didn't he move the building five foot further that way Why did see what I'm talking about? By the way, I don't know if anything like that has happened. So if it has, I'm not saying anything. Why is the church carpet this color? Why why are there so many flags up? Why why this? Why does that preacher holler and scream so much? What? We've got a whole lot of whys, don't we? Hey, can I tell you this? Christ in me gives me the ability to surrender my will to him. Christ in me means I don't have to give my opinion. You know the old adage is opinions are like armpits. Everyone has a couple and they usually stink. I don't have to give my opinion. Why? Because I just want to submit to God. So I see number one the redemption. I see number two the result. But I see number three the reputation that follows the result. I see that reputation in verse number 15. He says this, that yeah again, he's not talking to the church in Philippi now. They're dead and gone. He's talking to you and I at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He's talking to us that ye Christians at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God. without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse uh nation among whom ye shine as lights in this world. I I look at this that that word blameless, I looked it up, it's irreproachable or faultless Doesn't mean without sin. Literally the picture is this. Accusations are hurled against you, but they don't stick How does that that that's not human? You know what that is? That's Christ in us. That ye may be blameless and harmless, innocent with purity, that we may shine as lights. One of my favorite verses is Matthew chapter five, verse number sixteen. The Bible says this, let your light so shine among men, that they may see your good works. And glorify you. That they may come alongside you and say, wow, what a great perk! No. It has nothing to do with self-glorification. Let your light so shine among your community, in your neighborhood, to your neighbor. What? That light is Jesus in you. Let that light so shine among men that they may see your good works. Not good works that save you, because that's impossible. They may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. That's the reputation. That follows the result that comes after the redemption. You know what that means? That means this. It means Someone comes along and says, Man, I praise God for you. I praise God. That's giving God glory. Or someone else. Can I give an illustration and I'm done? Some of you are saying you were done a long time ago, you just kept talking. I I I remember as a kid growing up, I didn't have a close relationship with my father As a matter of fact, it was a bad relationship with my father. I can count on one hand the number of conversations that took place. That were positive. And I when I say positive, I mean just not negative. They weren't positive. But I can think of five conversations I've had With my dad from the age of 12 to 21. I worked real hard just to hear my dad say, I'm proud of you. I never heard it. I I love by the way, I love my dad. And don't let me forget to finish the story here. I love my dad. I worked real hard to hear him say to me one time as a teenager. One time. I worked real hard to hear him say, I love you. Never heard it. I'm proud of you. Didn't hear it. I went to church. I was a preacher boy. I earned awards at our church for being a preacher boy in our in our school and in our church. Pastor Kelly gave me the preacher boy the preacher boy award in our our church and man I I and and still nothing I got married. I went to my dad and asked my dad if he would be my best man in my wedding. And he did. Still really didn't talk to me. I was trying to win the favor of my dad. Hey, I stand before you today with this encouragement. You don't have to win the favor of your heavenly Father. When you trust him as your Heavenly Father, Ephesians chapter 1, you became accepted in the beloved. You're his child. Our text says you're the son of God, the sons of God, the children of God. You're his precious child. By the way, can I tell you that my relationship with my dad today is unbelievably sweet. Unbelievably great. You know what? God, God, there's no lapse in our relationship with God. This passage of Scripture we see that redemption he offers. We see the result, the changed life that takes place, and then we see that reputation that follows, and that reputation is this. They're the children of God. Did your neighbor see that in you? Ah, you don't know my neighbor. Man, their trash is all in my yard. They when they mow their yard, they shoot their clippings in my yard. I hate my neighbors Your neighbors are sitting in church with you too, and you're like, I still hate them. They're not. Truth is, is your neighbor ought to see Jesus in you. The result of a changed life is that reputation that brings glory to Christ. How's your reputation around the people you come in contact with? Hey, this morning it all starts with redemption. This morning, if you're here and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you're in the right place. We'd love to take a Bible and help you with that. Just like I, as a 10-year-old boy, put my faith and trust in Christ. You can know today if you take your last breath. 1 John chapter 5, verse 13. I love the verse. These things have I written unto you, God says. These things referring to the Word of God, these things have written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may No, that word is K-N-O-W. That you may know, that you may understand, that you may comprehend, that you have eternal life. I know I'm going to heaven. Why? Because I'm a preacher? Because I put my faith and trust in Christ as a 10-year-old boy. I knew I was a sinner on my way to hell. You know you're on your way to heaven. If so, that results in a change. It gives you a reputation around those near you. Philippians chapter 2, 13 through 15. I thank God for this passage of Scripture. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Let's pray together. We'll finish the service. With your head bowed and your eyes closed, can I just ask you a question or two? In just a moment, we'll have the piano play and we'll have the piano play after I pray. But as you sit here today, can I just ask you a couple of questions? You say, I don't want you getting too personal Well, it's not for my benefit. It's for you talking to the Lord is really what it is. Can I ask you this question first? How many of you say this, Brother Kurt? I know that if my life ended today, I'd wake up in heaven. I'm a Christian. There's been a time in my life I experienced that redemption. Philippians 2 talks about. I'm on my way to heaven. I'm not perfect I'm a sinner, I know I'm a sinner, but yet I know I've trusted Christ as my Savior. And no one's looking around. You don't have to be embarrassed. There's nothing to be embarrassed about anyway. But if that's you and you say, I know I'm on my way to heaven I've trusted Christ as my Savior. I'm on my way there. I'm a Christian. If that's you, would you slip a hand up as a testimony to the fact? Oh, praise the Lord. What a host of hands. Praise the Lord. You can put them down. God bless you. Maybe you're here today and you couldn't raise your hand. Maybe you're here and you're not sure if your life ended today, you'd go to heaven. But you're like I was, is that 10-year-old boy. I didn't want to die and go to hell. Maybe you're here and you're not sure about salvation and You doubt it. You wonder. Hey, can I tell you I'd I'd love to have the honor of just praying for you. I won't embarrass you. I won't call you out. And no one's looking around. No one is. But if that's you, I'd love to have the honor of praying for you. If you're here today and you'd say, Brother Kurt, I'm not sure I'm on the way to heaven. But I know this, I know for sure, I know for sure I don't want to die and go to hell Just remember me in prayer. I promise you I won't call you out. I won't embarrass you. But I'd love to have the honor of praying for you. Just in general. If that's you. You say, Brother Kurt, I'm not sure I'm on the way to heaven. But I know for sure I don't want to die and go to hell. If that's you, would you just slip up a hand? I'd love to pray for you. I won't embarrass you. God bless you. God bless you. You can put it down. Thank you. I won't embarrass you Anyone else, Brother Kurt? I'm not sure I'm on my way to heaven, but I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Brother Kurt, I'm not sure. If that's you, I promise you, I won't embarrass you. I just want to have the honor of praying for you as a friend Anybody else, you'd slip your hand up and let me pray for you? Anyone else? I'd love to pray for you. How many of you say this, Christians? Christians? How many say this? That result of redemption in my life means a changed life. And I want that changed life, and I want that reputation that follows a changed life. I want people to see the light of Jesus shining through me. If that's you, by the way, my hand's up and I'm going to hit the altar this morning because I want that in my life. If that's you and you say, Brother Kurt, I want that reputation in my life, that result of a changed life and the reputation. I want people to see Jesus in my life. I want to be that lighthouse for Jesus. If that's you, do you slip up a hand? God bless you. Oh, what a host of hands. Praise the Lord. Hey, can I challenge you this morning? As a matter of fact, would you just look right this way at me? Just look right at I give weird invitations. I know. Can I just challenge you in this way? Nearly the majority of the room raised their hand. Majority of the room raised their hand. Said, I want that change. I want that lighthouse in my life to shine for other people to see Jesus in me. Hey, can I tell you? That is a conscious decision that we have to make every day. But it starts by making a commitment to God. God, I want that changed life, and God, I want others to see you in me. And so I'm going to invite you here in just a moment. I'm not putting any pressure on it. It doesn't make any difference to me if you come or don't come. It makes no difference. This is between you and God. But in just a moment, I'm going to pray. After I pray, the piano will begin to play and we'll all stand to our feet after I pray And when that takes place, I invite you to make that commitment to God. God, you've redeemed me. I want to live a changed life. And I want other people to see you in my life. I invite you in just a moment. Would you find a spot at this old-fashioned altar and do business with God? Would you tell God that? I'm going to pray. After I pray, we'll all stand and piano will play. And I'm going to get out of the way, Pastor. I'm going to go to the altar myself because I'm going to pray. I want to be one of those preachers who practices what I preach. I want others to see Jesus in me, so I'm going to go make that commitment to God myself. Would you join me? We're going to pray, and after we pray, we'll stand to our feet. Lord, I thank you for your love God, I thank you for being so good in our lives. Thank you for that redemption you give to us through the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for us on the cross, through his death, through his burial, through his resurrection. God, I thank you that the majority of the folks here in the auditorium today raise their hand as a testimony of the fact that they know they're saved. God, thank you for that. Lord, for those that raised their hand and said they weren't sure, God may today you give them that assurance of salvation. May they understand today what it means to be a Christian. And God, may today be that day of salvation. God, please work. God, I pray for the rest of us as Christians. May you help us to make a commitment to you today. To live the changed life, the result of redemption. Lord, not so someone would pat us on the back, but God, so that you would get honor and glory out of our lives. Lord, I pray that our light would shine. Bring honor and glory to you. Thank you for loving us, Lord. Bless this invitation time in a mighty way, God. May you get victory today. For it's in the name of Jesus I pray, with every head bowed and every eye closed, let's all stand in the