Please, the book of Luke, chapter number twenty-one. The book of Luke, chapter number twenty-one. And I appreciate the pastor. It's not a chiropractor, he's a some kind of a body specialist who uh works you over and uh y you know, I was afraid to go to the chiropractor. I'd go to those men, they crunch you and stuff And uh he was I thought, Oh, this is a lot better. He's not doing any of that and all of a sudden and I said, Oh man, he got me uh when I wasn't least expecting it. But uh feel a little better, my back has been out, so pray for me if I can get better uh quickly from that and uh be able to go on. And some people that just their whole life is just one per trial after another. Uh I was uh in a uh youth camp, Triple S Ranch preaching, and they had a spec I would do with a special number And teenagers were all all out there and and uh just came up and introduced himself. He was gonna sing. Oh I'm an I'm an intense pain teenager. She said I live in pain. You know, teenagers are not that compassionate. Amen. I looked out and all the teens are kind of looked at each other. He said, on the world record Kidney Stone producer. He said, I'm massing kidney stones tonight while I'm bringing while I'm singing kidney stones And it he went on on just every night and the kids were just like oh I'm glad I'm not in a cabin because I hear kids in the cabin. Oh what's that? Number three I'm just going on and on but uh but I'll tell you that uh God is good And and he's good all the time. And we need to praise him. And no matter what's going on in your life, I can tell you this, I can assure you this, there's somebody's got it a whole lot worse than you do. And here's how I feel Anything above hell is a blessing. Anything above a lake of fire is a blessing. Amen? And I want us to think about that tonight because the Lord is coming back And he's coming very soon. Luke chapter 21, please. And I'd like us to begin reading tonight in verse number 28. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. Luke chapter 21. Verse number twenty eight. Verse 28. And when these things have already come to pass, is that what the Bible said? Oh, wait a minute. When these things Begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. And he spake to them a parable, behold the fig tree and all the trees. When they now shoot forth, you see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. Verse 28 is our text tonight. When these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads. For your redemption draweth nigh. We'll speak tonight on the subject. Redemption draweth nigh. I believe with all of my heart we are living at the cusp. We are right there. We are almost at the rapture of the church. Christ is going to come. And tonight you're even allowed to say Amen without me asking you to. I say Christ is going to come. And He's going to come very, very soon. Redemption Draw it nigh. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Bless it to every life we ask tonight. We give you the praise for that which you will do. We ask you to use it if there's one who's lost The person here tonight that is not on their way to heaven, may this be the night of salvation in their life. If they're in the room, Watching by live stream, if they're as close as Oakland, Maryland, or as far away as some country in the Middle East or in China or Asia. May the Spirit of God arrest your attention tonight. May you have your way. Thank you. We give you praise. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together. You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text tonight is a part of the last week of Christ on planet Earth. He has just come into the city of Jerusalem in what we know as the triumphal entry. He has spent one night outside of the city of Jerusalem in Bethany, his headquarters, for the last few days of his life. And now he comes back to the city of Jerusalem again He has gone up on the Temple Mount and overthrown the money changer's tables. He said to them, My house shall be called Temple The house of prayer, you have made it a den of thieves. He is looking at the temple and the disciples in Matthew 24 The twin chapter to Luke 21 begin to show him all the buildings of the Temple Mount at the time of this writing. the Jewish people literally worship the temple as much as they worship God Himself. In fact, if you swore By the gold of the temple, that was more important than swearing by the God of the temple, and they looked to the temple as a picture of God Himself. was originally rebuilt by Zerubel and Ezra. We learned about that the other night, but it had been greatly expanded at the time of Christ by Herod. It was the center of their Jewish life. Everything they did was built and revolved around the temple. It was so revered that Jews Jewish people would indeed swear The Jewish historian Josephus tells us that Herod had overlaid the temple with gold, even to the place where When you were coming up to the Temple Mount and making your ascent up to the city of Jerusalem, if it was a bright, shiny, shiny day, you could barely look Because the sun would glisten off of the Temple Mount. They said that the marble polished around the temple was so beautiful and white. It looked like snow, and it was all you could do to look at this temple. Jesus says to the disciples, they are showing him all the buildings of the temple They're showing him the outer courts, the inner courts, and marveling at it all. And Jesus says to them in Matthew chapter 24, And earlier on in Luke chapter twenty-one, see all these things, there shall not be left one stone upon another, but shall all be overthrown. It blew their minds to even think of such a thing. The disciples, even though they'd been with Jesus to hear that their temple would be destroyed, could not even think of such an event In Luke chapter 21, and especially in Matthew twenty-four. They said, Tell us when shall these things be? What shall be the sign of thy coming? and of the end of the world. In Matthew 24, 3. Jesus immediately gives them this incredible sermon that is called Uh the Olivet Discourse. They leave the Temple Mount. They go across down the Kidron Valley and over to the other side. They sit down on the Mount of Olives and he begins to give them this great sermon dealing with what will happen at the end of the age. What will happen uh at the time of his appearing. It is uh most people believe, most scholars believe, he is dealing primarily with the tribulation period and the Jewish people and what will happen to them. during this time. In the all of us all of that discourse, Jesus does several things. He gives them some short Short term prophecy though it happened soon after his departure, not long after Christ went up to heaven and ascended to the Father in seventy AD totally Titus, the Roman uh general, came in, ransacked, and destroyed the city of Jerusalem. Uh his prophecy was literally fulfilled. He said there would not be less one stone upon another. A man inadvertently threw a torch at the temple and it burned to the ground. When the temple burned to the ground, uh When Titus ordered his men to go in, disassemble all the stones, and get all the gold that had melted down between those stones. He said not one stone would be left upon another. It was literally fulfilled. It's seventy AD. But Christ was not merely looking then. He would look far out in time and eternity, several thousands of years later, and he would look to the day When the temple would be rebuilt, when uh eventually the Antichrist would come into power, would there be all the things that we know about dealing with in the book of Revelation, and he gave them a wonderful panoramic view of the end times and what would happen dealing at the day of his coming. Now if you speak about the coming of Christ, if you talk about the second coming of Christ, you must understand we are talking about two separate and distinct events. The first uh stage of his appearing is called the catching up, or the rapture of the church. Many uh Bible scholars have met me and many many foyers across America. Many spiritual geniuses have met me and said, Brother Rossi, did you know the word rapture is not in the Bible? I said, you're right Neither is the word Bible. Amen? And uh you're not going to find the word Trinity in the Bible either. But we believe in a triune God We believe in a God who is manifest himself and in an eternal one God who is eternally existent in Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. I don't understand all that But I do know it is truly revealed in Scripture. It was so we may not have the term rapture. We have the term uh called up. For God said that that there will be a wonderful day when the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout and the boy with the voice of the archangel with the trump of God And the dead in Christ shall rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be what? Caught up together in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So non used a word taken from the word uh paso and again translated into the Greek uh lan or the Latin language into the word um into the word raptoros where we get the word rapture from What does rapture mean? It means to be snatched out. It means to be grabbed suddenly. We're going to be grabbed suddenly, and the Bible said we'll be caught up together in the clouds. to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. I'm looking forward to that day. Christ is coming back and we're going to go to meet him in the clouds. Another stage, the last stage of his appearing, is when he comes back some seven years later. This will be after the marriage supper of the Lamb. This will be after the great uh tribulation period ends and is finally uh consummated, and Christ will come back Not this this the next the second time he's coming is not going to be coming for his saints. He's going to be coming with his saints. Where he's going to come back We'll be on white horses together with him. We're going to come back as a great army. Christ is going to set feet on the Mount of Olives and split it in two according to the book of Zephaniah. And understand when that amount of olives splits in two, he's going to come in, take dominion, and rule and reign in this world for one thousand years. The lion will lay down with the lamb. A little child will be able to play with a snake. And and not have its mom scream and call for the shotgun and uh get the kid away. No, uh all that poison will be gone, all that hatred and enmity will be gone. Uh I'll probably even like cats then, I'm not sure. That's if they make it. Amen. But uh I'm saying that uh but understand that uh it'll be a wonderful day in heaven and we'll spend eternity with God Now if you study your Bible, he gives us many, many things that it will let us know that we are at the time of the end. The question was posed, when shall these things be? What shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? It was a threefold question. When are you coming? When are you coming back? What is the sign of your coming and of the end of the world Jesus gave them the all Olivet discourse and began to give them uh a number of signs. In fact, if you study the Bible You're going to find there are at least twenty signs that would show us that Jesus is coming back. I'm only going to give you a few. All of God's people said Phew, man. I mean, uh glad you're not gonna preach all twenty. And now if you fall asleep or get dull on me, I'll preach more than twenty. I'll make some up. But anyway, I'm saying that there there are at least twenty signs that evidently tell us Christ is going to come back. And I I I wrote a few of these down and we're going to make an application because he said, When these things begin to come to pass, look up Lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. The coming of Christ is not something that should scare us. It is something that should prepare us. We shouldn't be uh living in fear and trembling and looking at the ground and worrying about what's going on. We shouldn't live a life of saying, Oh my, I'm worried We ought to be stirred up and looking up and saying, Lord, we look for the great God and the glorious appearing of that great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ We're looking for him to come. John would say Revelation one seven, Behold He cometh with clouds, every eye shall see him Them also which pierced him, and all kinds of the earth shall wail because of him. He is going to come back, and we ought to be watching and waiting and looking for his return. Now I wrote down a few of these things. The first and foremost sign that he mentioned, and may I say to you, he told us clearly No man knoweth the day or the hour. You cannot know the day, and you cannot know the hour. Last a few months ago people were talking about September twenty-third. It was going to be the coming of Christ. They can get into a long line of false teachers who came before them who said dates there are entire denominations built uh because of people who set dates about the coming of Christ. We can't know the date Uh he said he didn't even know, only the Father in heaven. If Jesus doesn't know the day or the hour, how do you think you and I are going to know that And so put your calendar away and quit being calendar watchers and start being sign watchers. We cannot know the day But we can certainly see the times. And we can see the signs. We can see those things that he said would let us know we're in the zone where Christ is going to come back. Think about these. First of all First and foremost he mentioned deception. He said immediately in Luke's gospel in our text tonight, verse number eight, Take heed that you be not deceived, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. The time draweth near, go ye not therefore after them. Deception in Matthew twenty-four four he said take heed that no man deceive you in verse five he said they would come in my name saying I am Christ and shall deceive In Matthew 24, 11. He said, Many prophets shall rise and shall deceive many. We are living in a generation where you can it's hard to tell anymore who's right Who's wrong? There's so much misinformation and yes, disinformation that's being broadcast today. People are beginning to settle into a silent mode of pure cynicism. I'm not listening to anybody. Well that was a good sermon, but how do you know it's true? I I had a church in Atlanta down in uh Baltimore, I was a pastor in Glen Burney, and I had some young people that were listening to some podcasts that denied everything. They sat together, three or four of 'em, and every time I was preaching they'd have their cell phones out. doing this sort of a thing and I called them over. They're on staff. I said, what are you all doing? Are you texting? What are you doing? They said, no, we're fact checking you. I said, take notes and fact check later Put your iPhones away. They they didn't last very long, but I'm saying that understand uh they were so skeptical and become so cynical they couldn't even believe a God-called pastor who is preaching from the Word of God We're living in a generation of clear deception. Paul would write later on in Second Timothy three thirteen. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. What's the telltale sign of a politician when they're lying? Their lips are moving? But I'm saying uh understand that uh you can tell on the TV, on the the internet. I watched a politician last night who stood up and literally uh just lied, looked right into the camera, had no No uh shame, no worries, just lied right in the camera, and of course his favorite newscast or his his favorite uh station will broadcast that gladly and dispel lies in our generation. There would be war. War would be another sign. In verse 9 and 10, he said, Nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. And Jesus said in Matthew 24, there shall be wars. And rumors of war. In other words, there would be a war environment when he comes back. We've got war that's About to erupt all over the world. We've got a lot of things that that uh a misfired uh uh a misfired rocket Or a rocket propelled grenade could launch us in the World War three in a very short time. He can't I can't talk about it much. He said, Preacher, I was on an aircraft. We were in Syria flying a mission. I we were going to start World War Three until they uh kanked the mission mission and brought us back. He said we were about to go in and launch a rocket that would have started World War III. This was last year. And he said, I'm so glad that they tanked the mission and brought us back. I'm saying to you, those things are happening all over the world. We're in an age where the world could explode. at any moment. Of course Russia and Ukraine are still at it. China and Taiwan, Iran, Israel, the entire Middle East. Uh a few weeks ago Four hundred and fifty million people across Europe were issued bulletins to prepare themselves to be able to live for at least two weeks because of a forthcoming war. The world's getting ready. They know that war is on the horizon. I'm glad Mr. Trump is the new peaceman all over the world. Everywhere he goes, we're gonna have peace, we're gonna have peace. And he's saying all that. I'm glad he's saying it. But my friends, uh understand there is a verse in in 2 Thessalonians they're gonna say, peace, peace, then cometh peace sudden destruction and so we are living in that age of war. Disaster. Disaster is obviously another sign of his appearing. He said in verse number eleven, great earthquakes shall be in diverse places and famines. And pestilences and fearful signs and great signs shall there be uh from heaven. So that's all happening around us every other day now. It seems there's another But he mentioned another thing that was very interesting in verse number 20. This was fulfilled, but it will be fulfilled again. Verse number 20, this did happen with Titus, the Roman general. Verse number 20, when you shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies Then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. The word compass means to encircle when Jerusalem is surrounded. Did you know that Jerusalem, even tonight Even after uh the supposed peace treaties that we've signed in recent days, even after the end of the war with Hamas Even though everything is supposedly calming down, do you know that as I speak to you tonight, that the city of Jerusalem is still literally surrounded by armies and enemies who hate the Jewish state. They've got Hezbollah to the north. They're re-arming as I speak And got Syria to the northeast. Syria now is being run by a new president. Jalani uh was an Iraqi uh he was an Iraqi uh operative, he was a part of Al Qaeda and literally several other incredible terror organizations. He's the president of Syria of Syria now, unbelievable. Oh, do you think he got saved? Absolutely not. He is practicing the doctrine of Islam called Kithman. Kithman says I am a Muslim And I can use deceit, I can use lying, I can use falsehood, anything that promotes Islam, they are allowed to lie. Aren't you glad we live in a religion, we live in the gospel of the truth. Amen? And God said for us to provide things honest in the sight of man. I'm not allowed to lie up and stand up and lie. and and exaggerate and sensationalize in order to get people saved. That's not how we do it. The truth of the gospel is more than enough. Jerusalem is surrounded by Syria Islamic jihad on the east over in Jordan, the Houthi the Houthis to the south, and Hamas, Hamas is not done. They are not finished. They have made oaths to destroy the Jewish state. They have made oaths that they cannot live with a Jewish state. They don't believe they'll go to heaven unless they destroy the Jewish state. They don't believe the Mahdi, their false Messiah, will ever appear unless They are at war with the Jewish state. They're not going to stop. How many believe that? They're not giving up their arms and they're not going to quit. Why? Because Jesus said it would be like this toward the end of the age. Now In Matthew 24, at a similar place in the same sermon, Jesus said all these are the beginning of sorrows, the persecution that would come. Other things that would arise. He said, all these are the beginning of sorrows. If you are living in certain countries right now. If you were a Christian, you wouldn't be meeting in a meeting like this. We wouldn't be singing songs like this. We would be hiding. We would be whispering one to another. And literally people are being killed all over the world right now because of their faith. He said, All these things in Matthew 24, verse 8, are the beginning Of sorrows, that phrase means the beginning of labour for a woman. They're the birth pangs that happen When a mama is about to give birth to her child, my wife had five babies, and I watched her travail I watched her labor. I watched the the nine month time between well inception and when she or conception when she eventually had our children and I can tell you uh from watching that If men were the ones who carried babies and gave birth, we'd be at zero birth population in three weeks. Amen? No more of them, brother. I mean men cry, we have a headache. Oh baby, I'm I'm tired of a headache. Oh, you poor dear. And uh she just had a baby, say that. And understand, uh When the women are giving birth, they finally go down to the place where now the baby's coming. I remember false labor. We got all ready. I had my little bag all packed. It was the beginning back when they started having Lamas classes for men. And uh they became popular. The men go in with the women When you know my dad, he just sat out there in the waiting room, took a nap, and he came out, Well, it's a boy, it's a girl, whatever, had a celebration, but now is the cool thing to go in for the birth. And these guys would be out there with their little Lama's hats on and uh coach hats and this and that. And so I had everything packed and we got there to the hospital. I was nervous alright here you go, honey, be careful. And the nurse came, put in a wheelchair, and she said, Go park your car. And I went, parked the car, came in. Three hours later we're sorry It's false labor. You'll have to go home. We went back home. We did that twice. Boy, that was frustrating. And finally the baby was coming. And we went in, I said, is it false labor against No, this this is it honey. You go park your car this time, park it where you can forget about it, at least for a day. And we did And boy I watched my wife give birth and I watched the labor pains and it was all different. There was no turning back It was all forward. It was all going to be a great day. And twenty-six hours later our first child, our baby girl, came forth out of the womb, and man, it was amazing, and we were so fired up about it. I'm telling you this Uh I think this no more false flavors. We have seen uh you know some things that look good, things that look promising, maybe he's coming. We've never had a conversion. Thank you. Then of course there's the increase of sin. The increase of sin. If you're mad at me, I didn't make this sign, the pastor did, okay? So but anyway The increase of sin. Who made this? Wilber. Welbur? It's Welbur Never mind. Did you ever have a horse? But anyway There's there's the increase of sin. The increase of sin God said that sin was going to increase so badly. It was going to get so bad, Jesus said in Matthew 24, verse 12, because iniquity shall abound the love of many Show wax cold. Well I like coffee. How many of you like coffee? Man, that's great. And I mean I can't imagine a world without coffee, but uh I I like coffee and I add coffee in the morning and I have it every day and without fail and I can tell you uh that coffee comes out of the coffee pot I I want it right now. Put a little bit of milk, not too much, because it's going to cool it off too much, but uh I want the coffee right out of the pot. Now and then I'll make a cup of coffee and something will interrupt me. I go to the other room and come back and by the time I get back to my coffee I get a drink and it's something's happened It's no longer hot. It's now it's not cold. It's become room temperature. It is blended in to the room around it. You know what's happened to Christians? We're not hot. We're not cold. We become lukewarm, amen. And because iniquity shall abound, there will be so much sin, the love of many. would wax cold. We get used to it. The sin around us, like being placed in a refrigerator, it would just cool us off. And he said That's what would happen. I remember the days when I first got saved, man, I couldn't stand here in profanity, couldn't stand here in people uh using the Lord's name in vain, went out soul winning with a young guy from our church and We were standing in Burger King and he started using the name of the Lord in vain. I was standing behind him and I I couldn't help it. I said, Well, praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Glory to God He turned around and said, Yes, Jesus saves, Amen. And he looked at me like uh like a crazy looked at me like I was nuts. I said, What's wrong If you're going to curse him, I'm going to praise him. Say amen to that. So you keep on cursing. I'll just keep on praising God. And if you think that's bad, I'm going to start singing and I'll run everybody out of here. Amen. I can't sing like Brother McCrea. That's not fair To be a preacher, be involved in all these ministries, design tracks, and sing, brother. It's amazing. Dealing with jealousy right here, but But the increase of sin. The increase of sin. How many of you know it's worse than it's ever been? Amen. It's worse than it's ever been. I'm not going to go into my normal time of dealing with what the TV shows were when I was young. We could watch shows and there were moral themes, you know, moms worked, dads came home, moms worked in the kitchen, dad came home. How do you remember Leave It to Beaver and old Ward Cleaver always he'd come home And it was clear, uh Eddie was uh Eddie Haskell was clearly a bad boy, no doubt about it. Wally was his older brother And he would give Beaver some older brother advice which is was always dumber than a box of rocks and a teenage he'd give him some teenage wisdom which is always stupid, say amen to that. Dad would come home, and there was respect for a father. There was a fear there was fear for a father. There was love for a husband from her his wife always in her role. That's gone because of sin Because of ungodliness, we've replaced godly nuclear families with cursing little cartoon creatures and and cats and dogs and uh little animals and curse and think that's okay. No, that's all getting this world ready for uh for all that's coming down the pike with transhumanism and all that's on the way during the tribulation period. It is happening As we speak tonight, sin has taken over this generation. Let me hurry because I want to make applications here. The rebirth of Israel is another great sign. I think it's number seven of what I've spoken so far. The rebirth of Israel. No nation has ever been displaced, done away with. Pushed out of their land and scattered and ever came back again. But the nation of Israel did And on May fourteenth, nineteen forty-eight, a miracle occurred as our president, Harry Truman, got on the radio and announced to the world that by uh unanimous consent that the entire United Nations General Assembly voted unanimously to recognize the Jewish state there in the Middle East. Boy, they'd never get that vote today. Say amen to that. They voted yesterday for a new resolution for the two-state solution and they're trying to provoke the Jewish state to another war. They know exactly what they're doing. But God made it very clear. In Matthew 24, Jesus said, Now learn a power of the fig tree, when his branches yet tender, and put it forth his leaves, you know that summer is nigh So likewise ye, when you shall see all these things, know that it is near even at the doors. He made it clear that when he came, uh when he's coming, when it's all gonna end He made it clear that there was going to be a restoration of the Jewish state in Isaiah sixty-six and in uh in Ezekiel chapter thirty-six. He said his people would return They would come back before the great dry brown bones in chapter 37 of the book of Ezekiel. Now he said this. I love what he said about generations. The Lord said This generation shall not pass till all these things be fulfilled. What things? All these end of the age things that he was talking about. Listen carefully. Psalm 90, verse 10. What's a generation? God said the days of our years are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow, for to soon cut off, and we fly away. Seventy-eighty years That's about what a generation is. If you take those numbers of 1948, I'm not going to set dates, I'd be unbiblical and wrong. And you add 80 years to that We're up here in the zone somewhere. We're getting close. We're getting close to the end of the age. I'm glad he didn't say exactly Seventy-three years from this event, I'm glad he didn't do that. Why? I'll tell you why in just a moment. I'll tell you why God didn't give us the exact day and the exact hour in just a moment. I'm going to give you that. Well, the Jewish state. The fact that they exist. Jerusalem, the Bible calls it a trembling, a cup of trembling. Jerusalem is a troublesome stone, according to Scripture. The idea is you're trying to get some work done, roots up mountains. There's one stone, just won't Go away. You can't get rid of it. They can't get rid of the Jewish state. They can't uh they can't bomb them away. They can't legislate them away. They can't starve them out. Hitler tried to destroy the Jewish people. There have been numerous men who tried to destroy all the Jewish people Jews and they can't destroy them because God has a covenant with the people of Israel. And the God we serve will not lie. Say amen to that Everything that God said he's going to do, he is going to do with the Jewish state. I'll preach about that more tomorrow night. Well, he said, the days of Noah. As it was in the days of Noah, Matthew 24, verse 36, Jesus said, But of that day and hour knoweth no man. No, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. What was happening in Noah's day? Eating, drinking, marrying, giving in marriage, knew not till the flood came and took them all away We have people who have some people a lively interest in the things of God. They even get curious about church and come on occasion, but as far as giving their life fully for Christ And say we want all that God has for us. We're busy with the world. We're busy making money. We're busy having fun. We're busy doing the things that the world Has given us to do. There's more to the days of Noah. The days of Noah was an awful time. All flesh had corrupted his way. On the earth. And so what does that mean? You go home and read about it. There was giants in the earth, the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair to look upon, and took them wives of all which they chose. They had unusual mutation people coming into this world, and that's where the giants came from. Did you know there were really giants? Amen. You see I used to slot shop down at the giant. I went to the Jolly Green Giant. Yeah, I had those. Now I'm not talking about that. You notice giants are always portrayed as dumb And clumsy and fumbling, woo-fee-fi-fo-fum and all that. I believe giants were super intelligent. I believe if you study your Bible there's a whole lot more to it that what they're telling us and understand this tonight, he said as the days of Noah Well we're coming up on those days We're coming into transmutationism, transhumanism. We already have transgenderism. We're coming into days, and I'll give you these, let me just move along, globalism Globalism, it's not in this text, but the one world global system is being built, manufactured, and encouraged as we speak. The last step of a society going to a full socialist state is a crisis that produces martial law. We had a test run a few years ago. I'm not going to say it or else they'll take me off of YouTube. But something happened a few years ago, a test run for the world And there was very little resistance. Amen to that? Very little pushback. And we did exactly what the government said. The World Economic Forum has now become a household world word. One of my church members where a pastor called me the other day. He said Five years ago you preached about the World Economic Forum and Klaus Schwab and all those people, what they're doing. He said, Pastor, I thought you went crazy. He said they're on the news every other day now. They're doing exactly what they said they would do, producing a one-world financial system. And I'll give you the last sign that I see coming before Christ comes. Tomorrow night I'll preach on another one that's very important. But the last sign that I see before Christ comes, these signs are lining up. These signs are happening. Is everybody okay? Technology, technology, transportation, and the explosion of knowledge is another great sign that Christ is coming. Daniel would say in chapter 12 and verse 4, Thou, O Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, even to the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased. Some of you know Revelation 13, verse 15, where the Bible says he had power to give life into the image of the beast. That the image of the beast should both speak and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. And he causeth all, who's he? The Antichrist. And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond. To receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads that no man might buy or sell, save he had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. There's a day coming. You see, that's going to happen way off. No, it's coming real soon. When you'll have to receive a mark. And the scripture is so active so accurate, God did not say on the right hand. And on their forehead, God said, in their right hand, and in their forehead, they already have uh tattoos and uh extremely small micro dots that they can put into your hand and into your forehead and other body parts and literally scan you for everything you need Do you know the world's going into a cashless society very fast? Did you know that all this is happening and that there are countries in the world right now who are already rolling out cashless and they're g they're rolling out digital ID and everybody must comply in their countries. So we are seeing this happen with technology and with what's going on. in the world in which we live. My wife and I years ago walked into the pet store. We took our little bird little girl Bethany. She's a special needs girl. And uh we were gonna buy her a dog, a little puppy dog for Easter. We went in, she's a special needs, wanna get her a little companion. I said, Bethany, this was a mistake. I said, honey, I'm going to let you pick out the dog, okay? You pick it out. Oh, thank you, Daddy. We walked into one of these pet stores We're looking at dogs, man. I was over here. I saw a beautiful little, oh man, nice little Labrador. Over here is a nice little German shepherd. We got a little baby rottwaller over here and I heard around the corner, there he is. Oh I love him. Oh daddy. My wife said, oh he's so cute. Oh I came around the corner. Oh you find one? Yes, Daddy. And I looked And she said that one, it was a chihuahua. A a small chihuahua And I looked and she said, There he is, look at him, he's so cute. He's looking at us with his little Taco Bell eyes looking at us and uh looking out of the cage and I told her, No, no. And she said, Oh, I love him, Daddy, I love him. I thought, man, he looks like a b Throw that thing across a pond, you know, and uh I mean uh oh it's so little and they say, Well, yeah, daddy, please, please. So we we go in and meet the dog. Wait a minute We had to disinfect. So we didn't give the dog anything. Whatever happened to the dog having to get disinfected, say amen. And we walked in and the family greeting room, she brings the little dog in, it's jumping all around and biting my uh shoelace. Look, he's a biter, I can tell honey, this is a mean dog. Look and he's biting on my on my shoelace and I said, oh man. And I'm looking at it, I'm going, Lord, what was I thinking, please? And I said, now, okay, how much is this dog? She said, sir This dog is on sale. Said he's had all of his shots. He's already been wormed. Wormed. If you took a worm out of that thing, it wouldn't even be nothing left. Worm was bigger than the dog. Wormed, he's been treated, everything there, he's got his papers. She said he already has been chipped. Chipped? What do you mean chipped? A chip implant. This is over ten years ago. She got he's on InfoPet already online You can go on Infopet, they'll track him if you ever lose him, you'll find him again. I could see him now. You know, probably he's going around and round and round. He's under somebody's tire. He was so little he was he's going down the highway. I mean, uh I thought, how in the world? And I I said, okay. I said, well, how much is this little chipped chihuahua? You know, how much is he? She said, well, he's he's only eleven hundred dollars. I said, well, this is ten years ago. People are paying three grand for these dogs now, four thousand dollars for a dog What are we out in the Walmart calling free to good home? Somebody, you know, rednecked with a pickup truck full of puppies out there. That's a dog, say amen to that. Man, I grew up with dog. We just ate kept the little uh leftovers from the table, threw them in a bowl, and he ate it or he didn't. That was up to him. But not now. And man they got in fresh pet and kitty pet they got pet food now they deliver to your door. Man If if there was reincarnation, I'd want to come back as a little dog. But but I said we'll we'll have to come back another time. I went home and looked it up. They're not just chipping dogs. We're chipping people. And they're beginning to roll out chips all over the world and putting things in people's right hand. for optimum battery battery life and yes, in their forehead. Did you know that even Elon Musk is rolled out last year? his neurolink uh technology that he can put an implant into your brain, uh people who can't communicate, people who have autism They can now communicate on a computer and it brings it out for their mom and dad to talk to them. And uh he said his technology is going to be able to Cure cancer, help people with bad limbs, help people with all types of disease. And one man said, We're going to live forever. That was his statement. We'll make it so people will never die. Sound familiar? Yeah, I'll go back to the garden. In the day you eat thereof, you shall be as gods. You'll never die. God said you'll surely die. You're not gonna die. You'll be as gods, knowing good and evil At the end of 2021, there were one billion surveillance cameras worldwide. That's one camera for every eight people AI is now connected to all of those cameras and the algorithms and the uh habits of every person on planet earth are now being connected to sinful systems uh that will track everything we do China with their Skynet camera network has six hundred million cameras with facial recognition and social credit systems built uh directly into those cameras. I read last week about a gentleman in in uh in China. He got a ticket. He never received the ticket in the mail He got a ticket, money came directly out of his banking account, and it all began not with his license plate, with his facial recognition they knew he was and took everything they needed right out of his banking account Big tech companies are adding one layer of after another of surveillance and information harvesting And when they want your information on various little uh you know, they send you uh some type of an email or a text message, send us this and that. They are harvesting your information and storing it in massive data centers to be used for a worldwide global network. Most vehicles have tracking systems built in. The Starlink satellites that Elon Musk companies put up, there are thousands of these. Look it up someday. Say uh Starlink satellite grid and it'll show you the world it'll show you the thousands of satellites all around the world that he has linked them all in all together personally I did not look at Elon Musk as perhaps the next great white hope for America and the great savior of our country. I was scared to death when he was having access to the White House and all of our information. Maybe you weren't, but I was. Thanks, whoever that was. Biometric bracelets are being rolled out. To contract and monitor not just what you think, but how you feel. And when a speech is being made. It'll come into information systems and it'll be something like this. Man, Brother Rossi, I just love his preaching I wish he'd just get quiet and go home. He's so long. I never liked him anyway. All those different things will be coming out of your feelings and reactions And going in through algorithms into all kinds of systems. Oh, this is not going to happen. ChatGPT is exploded in the last three years. It's exploded. I remember a few years ago when they said we're about to have chat GPT 2. 0 and that would be able to be ten times exponentially more powerful than version one. I know they have four out. I think they have GPT five, I think. Guys, you could correct me over here. We're up to five now. I know it was getting ready to roll out, and these are technology guys. They Uh they wrote wonderful scripts for a film they're doing. I said that's that's ChatGPT a hundred percent. I caught you, didn't I? And Now the new thing, and it's coming very soon, it's called quantum computing. Quantum computing is mind-blowing. How powerful it is, and how much information it gathers and sorts through in seconds. Seconds. milliseconds and understand that uh soon we're going to go from artificial intelligence to artificial general intelligence a GI AGI will make artificial intelligence look like a failure of first grade math. I'm talking about it's going to just explode the computing world and set up the entire network. for what I believe is going to be the network for the image of the beast, for the mark of the beast, for the one world system You say, preacher, you're going way out on a limb. I'm saying this because I have volumes, stacks of information to back up everything that I've said that is very well Documented. I could preach all night. I'm not going to mention the Northern War because I'm going to preach on that tomorrow night. I'm going to preach on the war of Gog, Magog, Tubal, and Meshach. What is going to happen someday when Russia and all the countries around it come down and invade that tiny nation that's about the size of the state of New Jersey? What an amazing thing. Hezbollah couldn't kill him. Amen. They said, Oh Hezbollah and I love this I love this uh this rhetoric, this uh jihadi rhetoric rhetoric. We will turn your a country into the desert sands and you shall be burned to the crisp and you will die. They're all dead. Say amen to that. All those men, all those guys that shot all those rocks 300 rockets that were shot uh in ICBMs all shot over from Iran. They shot 'em at Israel. None of them fell on their target. In fact, the only people who got killed were some of the ones who shot him off. They went straight up and they looked up and they came straight down. The last thing they ever said was, whoops, and they and they got killed And they made they messed up. They messed around with the Jewish state. Now all these things were given for us. Because the Lord didn't want us to spend all of our days trying to figure out what do you think, what color do you think the Antichrist's eyes are going to be? What color do you think his car is going to be? You have people that are speculating all this crazy stuff. Is it Donald Trump? And uh of course it's not Donald Trump. He there's no way he could be the Antichrist Not him. Jared Kushner, son-in-law. He he lived in a house in up in New York in 666 Pennsylvania Avenue, I believe it was, or his business. It was. It was documented. He had a business building up in New York City and the address was 666. Jaron Kushner. He engineered the entire Abraham Accords. He's the guy that uh miraculously does all this stuff. Who knows? He could be Because I know this. That wicked man will not be revealed until we're out of here. Until there be that falling away first. And then he'll be revealed. This is after the rapture of the church. What should be our response? I have five or six things. I'll only give you a few of them. First of all, Jesus said, we're to be looking up. When these things begin to come to pass, look up, lift up your heads Your redemption draweth nigh. And I don't mean we're supposed to just stand there and just be staring at the sky, a looking, a watching. Come on. I'm not talking about that. The idea is more of We need to be looking up. We need to be watchful. We need to walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time because the days were evil. The idea is there is a military man. He's not lapping his uh water like uh Gideon's men did. He's looking around He's careful. He knows what's happening. We're not supposed to be sitting around doing nothing until Jesus comes. Say amen to that. You say, Well, get me some potato chips, I'm going to stand and watch Jerry Springer for the rest of my life. No We have a life that we're supposed to be living. Jesus said, occupy till I come. So we're to be about it. Getting tracks out, getting the witness out, getting the word of God out. We need to look up We need to wake up. I mentioned that Sunday. Knowing the time, now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. Unbelievable. Tell you right now, Miss Helen, you're 70 years closer than when the day you got saved. It's you're 70 years nearer than when the day you believe. How many been saved more than 50 years? Anyone here? More than 50. I mean, Brother Wilbur, you're more than fifty years closer than the day you got trusted Christ as your Savior. You think about it, folks We're getting closer and closer. Every beat of our heart, every breath of our lungs is one beat, one breath closer to the coming of Christ, and because of that, it's time for churches to wake up And stay awake, say amen. Turn the heat down if you have to. Get out water and douse everybody down. I mean do what it takes. Let's wake up. Then we need to clean up, certainly Seeing that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godless, we need to speak up. Don't hide your head in the sand. Stir things up. Tell people, warn them. People curse around you in the in the restaurant. Don't be mean about it. Don't be you know weird about it. Just go say, hey Man, I'm going to tell you something. I heard you talking. Sir, you ought to think about that. I can tell you the Lord's coming back soon. I I ask people all the time, don't you think the Lord's coming back soon? I say, yeah, something's going on in this world. I was walking our dog, if you want to call her that. And I was walking our Maltese. I went from a Chihuahua to a Maltese, amen. So and I and I'm walking my daughter's dog Out in the neighborhood during COVID, and a lady across the street, she was afraid to cross the street, Pastor! Hey Pastor! I said, Hey, how you doing? She said, Do you think the end of the world is here You think the world's going to end? I said, I know the world's going to end. In fact, God made it clear the world's going to end. She said, What do you think's going to happen? The world's going to burn up. But I want my wife to call you and tell you all about it. She did and led her to Christ. Got saved over the phone. She wouldn't I was afraid she wouldn't answer the phone lest germs she come through there. I'm saying that's how paranoid people were And we need to speak up, and we need to hurry up, whatever we're doing. We better get it done fast. The end of all things is at hand. That's what Peter said. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Need to be prayed up, seeking God, calling upon Him Building ourselves up in our most holy faith and praying in the Holy Ghost, we need to be ready for when Jesus comes back. I'll tell you this and I'll be done. Years ago I was holding a junior high Bible class, and we uh we got into the Hamilton Junior High in Baltimore. It's up on Harford Road. Right near the city line, had a lot of kids in the school that were pretty rough and they were pretty much city kids We got permission to have uh a Bible a Bible club out of that school, got a church to sponsor it, and then A man let us use his basement. A couple said, you can use our basement. We'll fix it all up and have kids after school there. And we did. It was a great ministry. We had about fifteen or twenty kids starting to come. We started it up And maybe 20, 25 kids started coming, and a kid walked in, a little guy, his name was Jason. Jason came in, he had that little kind of little look about him, a little, you know, a little tough guy And uh he was, I believe, in the eighth grade and he came in there. He said, I said, hey, what's your name, son? He said, my name's Jason. He said, What yours? I said, My name's Lou. All right, good to meet you, Lou Man. And he called me Lou Man. Every time, hey Lou Man, how you doing? He'd come in and and uh Jason would come in and I started a study on the end times in the rapture of the church I started preaching to kids that Christ is going to come any minute, and you need to be ready. I said I preached about Christ is going to come and you need to be ready any minute. And these kids got interested though. They were asking me questions about the beast, about the Antichrist, coming in every week, Revelation, Book of Revelation, studying it. We come in and he kind of got quiet for a couple weeks and I thought I I told my wife, I said, I think that kid's under conviction. And one Day when we had the Bible club, I think it was on Thursday afternoon. All the kids were there. We got a van, picked them up in the church van, took them over to the house, took them back with their parents picked them up at school. And I remember one week we had the Bible club and Jason wasn't there. Has anybody seen Jason? They said Jason got detention. He got in a fight during recess today and he went to detention. I had the Bible study, and toward the end of the Bible study, he burst in the side door of the man's house on the side basement door, burst in the side, right into the room. And he looked around. He said, you're all still here. You're all still here. Oh, he's out of breath. He said, I'm so glad you're here. He said, Lou man, I need to get saved. I'm ready. I'm ready. He said, I prayed that God would let me get to this Bible study today. It's been a terrible day, and I got in a fight. And in detention, in the middle of detention He couldn't stand it anymore and he jumped up and ran out of the building and ran all the way to the Bible club, almost a mile away, ran in the room, and in front of all those kids, he said, I'm ready, I'm ready, we man And he and I led him to Christ. Several other kids got saved right there as well. And man, he was stirred up. That kid just got on fire, started bringing kids and bringing them to Bible Club. He came to me one day, about a year later, he said, Okay, I did it. I said, what did you do? I did it. I said, what do you mean? He said, I finished my Bible. I read it through. He said, where's my Bible? I thought I'd give him a really cool, nice red leather Bible if he did. I said, here it is. And I gave it to him. And uh He was a great kid. He grew. God used him. Lost touch with him after high school when he finally graduated and we had moved away. I was preaching in a church up in Bel Air, Maryland, and after the service a man walked up to me, and he said, uh Hey, how you doing? So I'm good. He said, you remember me? I said, no, I I don't remember you. He said, uh, you don't know me? I said, no. He said, I know you. I said, you look really familiar out there. I don't know ya. He said, really? And he he had a little Bible and I noticed it was a red Bible. And he said, How you doing, Lou Man? I said, no, you're not Jason. He said, how you doing? And uh man we hugged and hugged his neck and serving the Lord and had a wife and children. He said, I'll never forget that day. He said, I just knew I had to get saved. I knew I had to get saved now. There might be one here, several of you. You say, well, I come to church. That's not good enough. I'm in Kids class, I'm in Bible Club, I'm in Sunday school, those are good things, but they're not good enough. I quit smoking. I'm glad you did, but that's not good enough. So well, I pray even that's great. But here's my question: have you trusted Christ as your Savior? Have you invited him into your life to forgive you of your sin, to cleanse you and make you a new child of God, a new creature in Christ forever? Have you received His free gift of eternal life and salvation. Because that's the whole difference. It's not what you have done It's all about what he has done. Will you trust him and believe on him tonight before it's too late? The other question is, if you are saved, are you living Like he's coming. Lift up your heads. Redemption draweth nigh. He's coming soon. You see, preacher, I'm going through a hard time. Lift up your heads. Redemption draweth nigh. I'm scared. Lift up your heads. Quit looking around and looking down. Look at the world. Look at him. Believe on him. And around this room let's live as if Jesus could come tonight because he very well may. He may come before we get here tomorrow. Just trust him, believe on him. Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer. Much of what I said to you tonight is a part of a wonderful doctrine. It's called the doctrine of eminency. The imminent, any moment return of Christ. Can't read the Bible, understand it properly, if you do not believe that He could come back any second. How many of you believe in that rapture, that first stage of his appearing? How many of you believe that he will come imminently? Unexpectedly at any second. How many of you believe that tonight? Could I see your hands? You believe he could come right now He could come right now before I even finish this invitation. Jesus could come. And around the room, how many of you say, as a Christian, I need to live my life in the light of his appearing. I need to live as if he's going to come back tonight. I'm going to. Can I see your hand, please? I'm going to start living like he's coming back today. Arrange our life and our priorities and our standards and all that we do, he may come tonight. Others here would say, preacher, I believe he's coming, but I'm not sure that I'm ready for that. I'm not sure that I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Please pray for me. I'd like for Pastor to watch. And just to watch the congregation. I'm watching. You say, Pastor Leatherman Brother Rossi, I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm not sure I'm ready for the rapture. I'm not sure that I won't be left behind. Could I see your hand, please? Anyone like that at all? Put it up. Like to see it tonight. Not sure that you're ready. God bless you. Anyone else? Not sure. I'm going to give an invitation momentarily, and I want you to come right away, and I'm going to have someone to lead you to Christ first. Help you get the assurance of your salvation. Never mind what other people think Anybody at all, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I want to settle it tonight. Let me see your hand, please. Put it up. Put it up where I can see it. The rest of us, you raise your hands. How many of you know some people that are that are lost? You need to warn them. You need to call them. You need to text them. You need to send them an email. You need to do whatever it takes to get them saved. You say, I'm going to do exactly that. Could I see your hands? Don't scream at them. Don't yell at them. Don't try to speak to them about more than what you're familiar with, but just say, hey, the Lord's going to come soon. Are you ready for that? Christ is getting ready to come. Well what does all that mean? I don't know all the ins and outs. I'm just telling you it's it's gonna happen. How many believe tonight he's going to come soon? Could I see your hand, please? You believe he's going to come. I believe it with all of my heart. It's happening. As we speak. And tonight, all over the auditorium, as our sister plays, let's all stand together