Alright, Luke chapter 15. If you would, I'd like for us to read together verse number 10. Luke chapter 15, verse 10. If you have it there, read along with me if you would. Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repented. I want to speak this morning, rejoicing in heaven. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for your blessing, your goodness to us. We thank you for uh the promise of eternal light to those who turn to you in repentance and faith, trusting Jesus as Savior. And we rejoice in that promise And we rest in it. And I pray now, as we consider this matter of joy and rejoicing in heaven, and pray that you'd stir our hearts. I yield my will to you, Lord. With all my heart I present my body and ask that you fill me with your spirit. And Lord, that you would speak through me and And God empower the words, your words, as they go out of my off my lips. And um have your way. Give us uh willing hearts and minds to receive your word and then to respond and apply it to our lives as you know we have need. So we ask your blessing on the message now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Three and a half years before Jesus was crucified, he called to himself twelve disciples. That three and a half year period of time, he invested pretty much twenty-four-seven almost into training these twelve disciples on what it means, first of all, to be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, and then second of all to be a disciple. It is possible to believe on Jesus Christ and be saved, but not necessarily be a disciple. And so that entire three and a half years, he's training them This is how a believer behaves. This is how a believer thinks. And you go to Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, you have that great sermon on the mount, which is just profound. And again, it's not an evangelistic message that Jesus preached. It's a discipleship message. He's training them the Beatitudes. This is how a believer thinks. This is how a believer behaves. Not to be saved, but because they're saved. And so he takes this three and a half years and he's training his disciples As this goes on, this training goes on during this period of time, there are basically two types of people that interact with Jesus Christ and his disciples. And most of the time, when they interact with one of these two different types of people, he'll use that as an opportunity to train the disciples. This is how you meet this need. This is how you interact in this situation. This is how you respond to this type of situation. So these two different types of people, one of the types of people that met the Lord Jesus Christ were sinners who recognized themselves as sinners. People would come to Jesus Christ knowing I'm a sinner, I've come short of God's requirements, I've broken God's law, I've sinned against God, I recognize that, and they come to Jesus Christ realizing they need a Savior. By the way, every sinner needs a savior. And so these are people, they recognize they're a sinner, they recognize they need a savior, and they're coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we could take you know, quite a bit of time and look through the Gospels and give examples, illustrations of that one in uh John chapter three, where Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ by night And they interacted, and uh Nicodemus, I believe, ends up getting saved and trusting Jesus as his Savior, his Messiah. And so you have this one class of people, this group of people, they're sinners, they know they're sinners, they come short of God's glory, they need a Savior, they're coming to Jesus Christ. The second class of people are sinners, but they refuse to recognize themselves as sinners. They refuse to acknowledge themselves as a sinner And they do not see any need of a Savior personally. They're sinners just as much as the other group are, but they don't recognize it, they won't acknowledge the fact that they're sinners And though they are seeking a Savior on a national scale to save Israel from the Roman rule over them As far as an individual, personally, they saw no need of a Savior. And so these two different types of people are coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there were some folks that would fall in between there. They'd recognize her as sinner, but they weren't real earnest. And there's variations among this, but that's basically the two groups In Luke chapter 15, the chapter where our text is found today, if you'll notice in the first couple verses, you have one of these classes of people coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 1. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. So that's the first class. That's the folks, they're sinners, they recognize that, they acknowledge that, and they're coming to Jesus Christ because they need a Savior. Now look at verse 2. And the Pharisees And the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. So there's the second class of folks. These are folks, they're just uh the Pharisees and scribes in verse 2 are just the biggest sinners as the sinners and publicans in verse 1. They've all fallen short of the glory of God. They're all under the judgment of God. They're all under the wrath of God. They all need a Savior. One group recognizes that condition, their condition, their need, and the other group doesn't. In fact, the other group, the Pharisees, they were what we would describe as self-righteous. Self-righteous. I tell you, the scourge of the New Testament church is self-righteous church members. We have got to fight that tooth and nail. We cannot allow ourselves to be self-righteous. These Pharisees were. They they were sinners just as much as they by the way, every single person here is just as much as a sinner as the guy that sat at the bar drunk last night As the one down in the streets of Baltimore shooting up drugs in his arms. You and I just as much a sinner is in. Amen or not? There's none righteous, no, not one, for all sin that comes short of the glory of God. Some recognize it, some don't. Some acknowledge the fact, hey, I've come short of God's glory, I've broken God's law. We've said things we ought not to say The Bible says, thou shalt not bear false witness. One of the Ten Commandments, the most basic standard of acceptability to God, the Ten Commandments, and every single one of us have fallen short of those Ten Commandments. That shall not bear false witness. There's not one person in this building here this morning hadn't told a lie in some time in your life. And if you say you haven't, you're lying right there. Huh? And so you have one group. I'm a sinner. I know I am. I've broken God's law. I'm under God's judgment. I need a Savior. And they're coming to Jesus Christ. That's verse one. The other group, I'm just fine, just the way I am. I don't need no Jesus. I don't need no Savior. I don't need none of that. If you would, now keep your place here, but just turn a few pages over to Luke chapter 18. And we see this displayed, portrayed, clear as can be. Luke chapter 18 and verse 9, Jesus had given a parable here. And notice he says, he spake this parable, Luke 18, verse 9. He spake this parable unto certain, look at this, which trusted in themselves, and they were righteous and despised others. Now, here's the parable. Two men went up into the temple to pray. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. Now look at this. Look at how they respond. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all I possess. What was this guy? This guy's self-righteous, right? He's a sinner just as much as anybody else, but he won't acknowledge it. He won't recognize it He needs a Savior just as much as anybody else, but he won't acknowledge that. He will not accept that. He is self-righteous. I'm good enough in and of myself. Look at the second guy. Verse number and 13. And the publican, now here's the other class of people we're talking about, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner This guy recognized the fact that he had sinned against God, he had broken God's law, and he was in desperate need of a savior. God, be merciful to me a sinner. Now look at Jesus' assessment. This is the application of his parable. I tell you, now this is Jesus speaking here. I tell you, this man, this last one, this publican, went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be what? A base. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Two classes of people illustrated in this parable clearly as can be presented. Self-righteous Pharisee Condemning, despising others. I'm better than this publican here. The publican smiting his breast won't even come near, so ashamed of himself, so ashamed. He bows, says, God be merciful to me a sinner. And God says, that's the one that's justified. Question, were they both sinners? Yes or no? Oh yeah, absolutely. That Pharisee is just as much sinner as that publican was. Did they need a savior? Yeah, absolutely. That Pharisee need a savior just as much as the publican did. One recognized it, one did not. One was self-righteous. Oh, I I got it all figured out. I know. It's me. I don't need no savior. It is that group that is confronting Jesus in Luke chapter 15. That self-righteous crowd. If you would, again, come back here to chapter 15 and notice with me verse number 2. And the Pharisees and the scribes, the self-righteous, that's the guy that just prayed, I'm glad I'm not like others, I don't do this, and I don't do that, and I do this, and I do that. They come to Jesus saying, This man, they're rebuking the Lord Jesus severely. This man receiveth sinners, and he eateth with them of all things. So Jesus being confronted by these self-righteous Pharisees over his concern and his interaction with publicans, with people that recognize themselves as sinners. That see it and know it. It's obvious. The rest of the chapter, chapter 15, the whole rest of the chapter consists of three parables that Jesus gives in response to To these self-righteous Pharisees rebuking him and uh and uh confronting him about his interaction with people who recognize themselves as sinners. And he gives these three parables In these parables, he illustrates a number of truths. One thing, he points out very clearly, is that God loves and is concerned for sinners. Say, God doesn't love sinners, he's holy. God loves us even while we were yet sinners so much that Christ died for us. And he's pointing out the fact here that God does love sinners. And the parable of the woman loses her coin, the or the shepherd loses his sheep, the woman loses her coin, the father whose son goes astray. God loves sinners. I'm here to tell you this morning, whether you recognize the fact that you're a sinner before God, or whether you think you're self-righteous and you're good enough and you're no sinner I'm here to tell you God loves you and He's concerned about your soul and about where you spend eternity. Whether you recognize it or not, that's the case So one truth that comes out in these parables is that God loves and is concerned for sinners. The second thing that comes out in these parables, and we don't have time to look at all of them But um second thing that comes out is the effort that is put into reaching sinners and bringing them to the Saviour We could study the shepherd and has one sheep lost. He counts them at the end of the day and one comes up short and there's one sheep lost. Out there lost, and he leaves the ninety-and-nine and he heads out into the wilderness and no doubt into darkness and danger, and he does everything he can to find that lost sheep. Then the woman loses her coin And she sweeps the house and moves the furniture. And one little boy came home from Sunday school. He said, Mama, we learned in Sunday school that God made man from the dust of the earth And Mama said, That's correct. The Bible teaches that. He goes, Well I was just in the bedroom and uh God's making a man under our bed in there. And um So she pulls the bed out and sweeps and she's looking for this coin and she doesn't quit until she finds it. Jesus is illustrating the fact the the the effort that God puts into reaching lost people. God wants people to be saved. God wants people to have their sins forgiven and know for sure they're going to heaven and not to hell when they die. God wants people to be saved. Great effort going in to rescuing these lost sheep in this lost coin. And then what brings us to our message today Is the great rejoicing over the salvation of a sinner. If you would, look there in verse number seven. The shepherd went out and he found the sheep. He found it Puts it on his shoulders and brings it back home. Look at verse 6. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and his neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me. I found my sheep, which was lost. Come down to verse number nine, the woman with the coin. And when she found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Then over in verse number um uh twenty-two, the father, the son comes home. But when the father said unto his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet and bring hither the fatted calf and kill it And let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost in his family. And it began to make merry uh make merry. I tell you, it's exciting when somebody gets saved It's great rejoicing and celebration over the salvation of a soul. Today I want to talk about heaven. And more specifically, I want to talk about rejoicing in heaven over a sinner that is saved. The salvation of the lost. All through the Bible, we're given glimpses of the afterlife, of what happens when my time here on earth is done. What is beyond that? Is there any life beyond physical death? Is there any life beyond the grave? The Bible is very, very clear, and we're giving glimpses of this happening. By the way, the Bible is the only accurate record of life beyond the grave. The Bible is the only accurate record of afterlife, as we call it. Every now and then somebody will come out with a book about Oh they went to uh there was one several years ago, they went to hell and spent ten days in hell and then they came back and God wanted them to write about their experience in hell and what it was like and then Every now and then you get one somebody uh w uh went to heaven for a period of time and and then got then they came back and they're gonna write a book about their experience in heaven. Listen, I do not mean to be resp disrespectful, but I don't buy that for one minute. That is as unscriptural as you can get. The only accurate account we have of the afterlife is found in the pages of the Word of God. It is absolutely accurate. The Bible tells us very clearly that there is a place called heaven. Very real, literal place. In John 14, Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. All through Revelation, we get pictures of heaven. All through Scripture, we have teaching of heaven. There is heaven just as real and literal as the building you and I are sitting in right now. That's the way the Bible presents it. You cannot take the Bible at face value and reject the reality of heaven. Because the Bible teaches it. You've got to explain away somehow. If you want to reject heaven, then you've got to explain away a lot of very clear teaching in Scripture. By the way, the Bible also tells us that there's another place beyond the grave in the afterlife, and that's hell. Heaven is taught in Scripture very clearly. And it's also taught of a place called hell. Just a chapter over, in chapter 16, we have one of the most detailed descriptions Of what hell is like in all of Scripture. And it's almost Luke 16, where you have this rich man in Lazarus, and Lazarus dies, goes to Abraham's bosom, the rich man dies, and in hell. He lifted up his eyes, being in torment. And it's almost like God opens a window into the spiritual world, into the spiritual afterlife. And he gives us a glimpse of what it is like for a person in hell. Just a slim little glimpse. And it is presented as a actual, real, literal place. If somebody tries to reject the reality of hell or deny the reality of hell, they cannot take the Bible literally. Because if we take the Bible at face value, if we take the Bible for what it says and believe it for what it is, God's Word, then you have no other option than to believe the reality of hell. Both very real literal places. By the way, those are the only two places in the afterlife. Certain groups teach about purgatory. You can go into this intermediate or limbo sometimes for infants, this intermediate. I'm telling you, there is not one hint in Scripture of anything like that. In fact, the Bible is very, very clear that does not happen. That is man's invention. Anything other than heaven and hell is man's invention. So the Bible is our authority on the afterlife. Now, if you would, we notice in verse 7 and in verse number 10. We are given, again, a glimpse into something that takes place in heaven when a sinner gets saved. We have this little I don't know I'll call it a little uh peephole. Did you ever stay in a motel and they have the door and they have a little thing, somebody knocks your door, you look through there Anybody know what I'm talking about? You look through there and oh it's just the cleaning lady. And um you look through that little peop that I think this is kind of like a little people into heaven And we see something that happens in heaven when a sinner gets saved. Look there again. I know we read it several times, and we'll probably read a few more, but look at verse 7 again. I say unto you, now this is Jesus speaking. This isn't man's speculation. This is the Son of God telling us this. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in what? Heaven, all right, here's our little peephole. Over one sinner that repenteth, more than over 90 and 9 just persons that need no repentance. Down to verse 10. Likewise, just like this lady's rejoicing over the coin she found, I say unto you, there is joy. Now he gives a little more information in this statement. There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth Verse 10, he says, over one sinner that repented. Verse 10, he gives a little bit more information. He goes, in the presence of the angels of God is where this rejoicing takes place. God wants people to be saved. That shepherd wanted to find his lost sheep. To the point where he is willing to risk his life to find the lost sheep. In the same way God wants sinners to be saved. You're here this morning, you recognize you're a sinner, I'm here to tell you, God wants you to be saved. God wants people to be saved. Just like that woman wanted to find that coin. It was important to her. It was precious. It was top priority. I've got to find this coin. God wants you to be saved. Can I go so far as to say it is top priority in God's mind that sinners get saved? The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Just like that father's heart ached for his boy that was out in the far country, l uh riotous living and wasting his substance, that daddy who loved his boy and his heart is aching for that boy, and he wanted his boy home so bad. And he longed to see his son come back home. Just like that, the father Wants a sinner to come to Christ and be saved. I think by application we could say God wants the backslidden Christian to come back into fellowship with God. I don't know where you're at spiritually this morning. Maybe there's somebody here with us or online. And you're lost. You're a sinner. You know it. You've never trusted Christ. You are under the judgment of God. I'm here to tell you God is aching and longing for you to come and trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior If you're away from God, you say, preacher, I'm saved, but I'm not living for God. I'm out of fellowship. Just like that daddy wanted his boy to come home. God wants you to come back into fellowship with him. And so we have this little glimpse into heaven. What happens when that sinner does come to Christ? What happens when that sinner is saved? And we see this great rejoicing. This great rejoicing. Three thoughts very quickly, I want to give you this morning. Number one, the people who are rejoicing in heaven. Verse 7, as I pointed out, he says there's joy in heaven. It's just a general statement. There's joy that takes place in heaven when a sinner comes to Christ, when a sinner is saved. It's just a general statement. Verse 10, again, he gives us a little more detailed information. Not a lot, but a little bit. And he says: there is joy in the presence of the angels of God. Over one sinner that repented. Those who are in the presence of the angels of God. Notice carefully, it is not the angels who are rejoicing. But it is those who are in the presence of the angels who are rejoicing. Fact of the matter is, angels do not have a part in personal salvation. Angels do not get saved. And in fact, according to 1 Peter 1, verse 12, there is a lot of aspects of salvation angels do not understand. 1 Peter 1. 12 says, they desire to look into it. The whole idea is this. These angels are captivated. By the concept of their God that they know the holy God, creator of the universe, would love his sinful creation to the extent That he would become a man, take their sin upon himself, and be judged of God. For man's sin in their place be buried, be buried, die, buried, rise again, ascend to heaven. And these angels are like, What is this? They desire to look into it. They want to try and understand this. It's not the angels in heaven necessarily that are rejoicing over the sinner that repents It is those in the presence of the angels who are rejoicing. So who is that? Well, if we study our Bible carefully, the only conclusion I come to that those in the presence of angels Our believers, saints who have gone on ahead are already there with the Lord in heaven. This past week we buried Sandy, and so good to see Brian and uh his daughter here this morning Yesterday we had the memorial for Harry Miller Jr. and what a precious time that was It's these types of people, folks, saved people who have come to Christ as a sinner, realizing they need a Savior, and they trusted Jesus Christ, the only Savior We're born again. And now they've passed on. And they're in heaven now. They're in the presence of God. They're in the presence of the angels. And they are the ones rejoicing over that sinner that gets saved, that repents and gets saved. Um It is the saints in heaven that know what it means, what it's like to feel the sting and guilt of conviction of sin. They are the ones that have experienced the uh the the uh uh forgiveness that comes with trusting Christ. And that tsunami wave of forgiveness that washes my sins away in the blood of Christ, they understand what that is. They've experienced it firsthand They know what it is to have assurance of a home in heaven and and uh no no fear of hell anymore Now they're in the presence of God, and an old sinner comes to Christ, repents, and comes to Christ and is born again. And those in the presence of the angels say, Yes, I know what that is I mean, Stanis, that's a wonderful thing. It's not the angels necessarily rejoicing. The emphasis here is upon those in the presence of the angels. Saints in glory understand what it's like to be dead in sin, separated from God. They know what it's like to experience the love and grace that God has shown on the cross and in the gospel. The loving grace. It is the saints in glory that understand clearly what full forgiveness and free justification is. They understand that. No saints in glory, when old sinner comes and trusts Christ, oh, they rejoice. They rejoice. Second of all, first of all, we have the people rejoicing. The second thought I want us to consider is the perspective of those rejoicing in heaven. Their perspective looking down on earth. Now, here's the question I want to address. And I've been asked this question many, many, many, many times, maybe possibly hundreds of times in my years in the ministry. Preacher? Do people in heaven know what's happening on earth How many people have ever thought that? Anybody here ever wonder that? Any anybody here ever asked that? Yeah, sure. I've had a lot of you have asked me that. Just recently somebody did Do people in heaven know what's happening here on earth? Well, we look in the Bible. Our only authority is the Word of God. The only information we have on that question to find an answer is in the Bible. One thing the Bible we know very clearly is that people in heaven are conscious. They have an awareness. They are not, and again, this is I I have a tendency to get hung up on rabbit trails, and I'm not going to do it, but there is no such thing as soul sleep. It's not found, you can't find that in Scripture. Sometimes the Bible will refer to a believer who has passed away. It will refer to them as being asleep. Thessalonians, those who are asleep. That term is always and only referring to the body of the believer, never the believer themselves. In other words, when the day comes and the Lord tarries, the rapture doesn't take place, the day comes, my heart stops beating, these lungs start pump quit quit pumping air, and this body dies Bible is very, very clear. As a believer, I will go immediately into the presence of God. The moment my body dies, my soul leaves my body, I go into the presence of God. This body, as impressive as it is, Is not me. I'm just living inside this body. Alright, you with me? I thought I'd get more amens on that first statement than what I did. And when the Bible refers to a believer being asleep, he's not talking about the believer themselves He's talking about the body they lived in. It's a figure of speech that they are in the ground. That body is, quote-unquote, asleep. The rapture, it'll be resurrected and glorified and reunited with me. So there is no such thing as soul sleep. You could say body is asleep, figure speech, until the resurrection. So believers in heaven are conscious. Now the question is, are they conscious of what's taken place down here on earth? Do they know what's can they see what's going on down here on earth? My answer to that is this, and it's a sincere the way I the way I believe I believe this is what it is. My answer is yes to an extent Obviously, what Jesus is referring to here, they obviously are aware of these sinners repenting, right? I mean, they're rejoicing over a sinner that repents. So to an extent, they are aware of folks getting saved. Maybe this morning down in children's church, it's a very real possibility we'll have some children respond and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. Those in heaven, believers in heaven, will be aware of that event taking place. I think it was this past week, Eric led a fellow to the Lord, and um the believers in heaven are aware when we're aware at that moment that that person trusted Christ as Savior. Follow what I'm saying? So there is do they do the perspective of those in heaven, do they know what's happening here on earth? To an extent, yes, they do, because obviously they are seeing these sinners getting saved By the way, if you're here this morning, you're tuned in, you're not saved, you've never trusted Christ, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. If you would trust Christ today, if you would get saved, be born again today, people in heaven would be aware of that. They would know that. They would see that. Now I qualify that statement a bit. Because I resist thinking that those in heaven are fully aware and observe the wickedness and sin that takes place here on earth The wars and violence, perversity, the atrocities that take place here on earth. I I have a hard time And I I don't uh I don't see anything that contradicts what I'm saying right now in Scripture. I have a hard time believing that they see that because heaven is a place of perfect joy. Heaven is a place of perfect peace. And there's little there's no joy or peace here on this earth outside of Christ. And so my thinking is My understanding of scriptural teaching is yes, folks in heaven are aware to an extent of what's taking place here on earth, but I believe somehow The wickedness and the vileness and the darkness of this earth is filtered from their awareness. From their awareness. Now, that's the way I see it. Whether I'm right or wrong, if they see everything and they know everything that's taking place, I I I don't I don't think that's the case. But if it was I know this. They would see it from a different perspective than you and I do. They would see it from God's perspective. They would see it with the end ultimately involved. They would see it from the wisdom and understanding and perfection of God And they would have a perspective on what's happening on here on this earth that you and I have at best a limited perspective. They would have a perfect understanding of what God allows. Now my thinking is, and I'm pretty convinced of this, that their awareness of what's happening here on earth is very, very limited. It's very limited. Somehow God filters the nasty here out. And that's one of the things that makes heaven so appealing. No more of this garbage. Huh? No more of this sin and wait. No more sinful nature of my own. What a day that'll be. Hmm. Bell rings when someone gets saved, yeah. Like Clarence. I don't know. Maybe, I'll have to look that up. So the people rejoicing over these sinners that get saved, it's not the angels particularly, it's those in the presence of the angels. That's the believer. Their perspective uh on there is uh again I say I think it's very limited, but they do know of souls getting saved. And then last of all, I want us to consider the praise Of those rejoicing in heaven. Again, verse 7 he says, I say unto you likewise, joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. Verse 10 Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of angels. Joy. I got looking up that word joy, like I always do. I look to look words up, I like to see what the word is it came from. how it's used other places in the Bible. We have our concept of joy. When God uses the term, when Jesus uses the term joy here in his word, it has this idea. And it's Translated various ways throughout our Bible. It has this idea, exceedingly over-the-top joy. It means great, great joy. It's not just, oh joy, somebody got saved. It is, woo, man. It isn't sorry, I didn't mean to wake you fellas up here. And um Actually I did, that's why I did that It's exceedingly joyful. It's not it's not like the believers in heaven doing whatever they're doing. Somebody comes up, oh did you hear the kid got saved in the children's hearts. Oh great, that's wonderful. It ain't that at all. It's woo, it's celebration time. Um it's used in John chapter 3, verse 29 where it describes a Jesus is referring to a bride rejoicing greatly at the voice of her groom That was his voice. I mean, just thrilled, excited. The idea of it has the idea of full of joy In other words, you cannot get more joyful. It is impossible to be more joyful than what these people are in the presence of the angels. They couldn't be happier. They couldn't be more joyful. I'm telling you, when a sinner gets saved, it lights up heaven. God wants people to be saved. And when someone does trust Christ Trust Christ as Savior. It is an absolute all-out, all holds bar uh how do you say it holds barred? No holds barred uh one hundred percent joy. In heaven over a sinner getting saved. Now I tell you, our churches could use a little bit of that. We're so satisfied, we're just content We just go through and go through and we completely miss it. The whole purpose, now get this, the whole purpose of Mountain Lake Independence Baptist Church's existence is to reach lost people with the gospel Anything else is peripheral. And that is what lights up heaven. That is what brings rejoicing in heaven. That is what produces celebration in heaven. Old sinners getting saved Old sinners getting saved. Joy, exceedingly joyful. The salvation of a soul on earth is cause for rejoicing in heaven. In verse number six, that shepherd found his little sheep. He loved that sheep. He'll do whatever it takes to find that lost sheep. And when he does. He cometh home, and he calleth together his friends and his neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me. I have found my sheep which was lost. In verse 9, the woman when she had found that coin that she searched so diligently for, was so valuable to her. When she found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me. I have found the peace. which I had lost. In verse twenty-two, that father is uh sees his boy coming home, and he says, but uh and the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on and put a ring on his finger and shoes on his feet and bring hither the fatty kiff and cue it and let us eat and be merry For this my son was dead, he's alive again, he was lost and he's found, and he began to make merry uh Mary. I'm telling you, when a soul gets saved, it is celebration in heaven. Rejoicing in heaven. Rejoicing in heaven. Several years ago I came up with this great idea on our Thursday night visitation. It's been a little while ago. And I made a declaration on our Thursday night visitation. Every time someone gets saved, we're going to go to Devlars and get ice cream. Didn't I? We said that. And if someone trusted Christ, made a profession, we all went down to Devlar's and got ice cream. That was celebration. I'm telling you, you can't get more joyful than a Devlar ice cream cone And sometimes we went down even when people did get saved. My point I'm trying to make is this: the salvation of a soul is a cause for celebration. The salvation of a soul is a cause for rejoicing. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. Every soul is of great value to the Lord. And when a soul gets saved, there's great joy in heaven. Jerry Vogel and I referenced him in Sunday school. He's down in South Carolina now, but he was a faithful member, bus worker here involved. We were out on the other side of Crowan. We were just took a I don't know if it was a Thursday night or Saturday afternoon. We were just going door to door. Just going up and street there, kind of backing the wilderness back there and just knocking on doors and we came up to this one house. It was a Thursday evening now I remember. And um we just pulled in the driveway and it was like an enclosed porch We went up and knocked on the door and waited a moment. We could see some movement inside and knocked again and finally and An older man, he's probably, at the time, he's probably older, a little older than what I am now, may maybe 70s-ish, somewhere around there. He came to the door and he looked sad We introduced ourselves and said we're just out talking to folks, inviting them to church. Want to leave an invitation, some literature with you. He said, sure, that's fine. He said, why don't y'all come on in So we stepped inside and sat down out on that front porch there. He had some sofa and some furniture. And we sat down and talked a little bit. And he said, um, and then we got talking, I said, uh I said to him, what I do a lot, so let me ask you a question, sir. Do you know for sure? I told him going to church is important, but more important than that is knowing that your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. I said, Do you ever give that any thought? And he gave me an interesting answer. He said, You know, my wife was a very devout Christian. She knew the Lord, she was faithful. I never paid much attention. Wasn't too interested in it. My wife got sick. And we realized she wasn't going to live. And just before she died, I promised my wife that I would do whatever is necessary To get to heaven be with her. Whatever it took, I'd figure it out one way or another. I was going to get to heaven and be with my wife. And he says, I think about that a lot. And I want to know that I'm going to heaven someday. We took the Bible out and sat there for the next half hour. I went through as thoroughly and as carefully and as clearly as I could, I showed that dear man how that he was a sinner. We all are. If we die in our sins unforgiven, we're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. I said, sir, I don't mean to be rude or forward I said, but if you die in your sins unsaved, you'll never see your wife again. I said, but the good news is, Jesus Christ loves you. He doesn't want you to go to hell and he came down, he suffered hell for you. He took God's judgment on your sins, Jesus took on himself, was buried, rose again. And I said, if you'll come to him and you'll call on him, trust him, God will forgive you. He'll forgive all your sins. He'll give you the gift of God, which is eternal life Someday you go to heaven, not just be with your wife, but you'll see Jesus Christ. You'll be with them. You know what that guy said He said, I want to do that. He bowed his head with us, and I helped him pray, calling the Lord. We were done praying. He thanked us, thanked us, and thanked us for coming by and showing him how he can know for sure he's going to heaven when he dies. You know what I think happened? That very moment when he called in the Lord, you know what I think happened? I think folks in heaven came unglued. I think folks in heaven just came unglued. Uh I gotta quit, but I uh I grew up outside of Philadelphia, this is north of Philly. I got saved, started going to church. There's good Bible preaching, just straight down the line, church, good church. I grew But it was in the north. It's in Philadelphia. So uh you didn't have a whole lot of emotional response to the preaching. In fact, there wasn't any. It was just quiet. It was good. Everybody's happy rejoicing, but just nobody said anything. I think there was a few folks, they didn't say amen. They just held signs up. Amen. I don't know. I know I was going to school down in Philadelphia at the time and they had um uh the down there they would uh down in Philly uh they had uh some of the black churches there and they had a guy preaching and man they come they they light it up but I'll tell you. Hey bud And I came back and um uh from class one time and that next Sunday I thought I'm gonna say Amen in church So I'm sitting there, preacher said something, I don't know what. I just went, amen. The whole place went silent. Everybody's looking at me So that's how I grew spiritually my first year or so of my Christian life. I went to Tennessee, Chattanooga, Tennessee. Brother, that's a whole nother world down there. And we went to a revival meeting at a church called Battlefield Baptist. And that first night, I'll never forget it, first night there, the choir, uh early in the service, the choir was singing, Glory Unsaved. Orionse. And it was a big choir and they're singing out, belting it out. And right about the middle of that song, one of the ladies in the choir, Woo! I about jumped out of my socks. Now I'm not saying we should do that, but I am saying this. I think when that man trusted Christ I think there was some hootin' and hollering going on up in heaven. I think there was some people full of joy. And rejoicing. Now here's here's what I want to leave us. This week, let's cause some rejoicing in heaven. Let's cause a celebration, heaven. I'm asking us to give ourselves this next seven days, do everything we can, try and win other people to Jesus Christ. Let's go out of here this week, share the gospel with everybody we possibly can, and pray and work towards seeing people saved. And let's light heaven up. This week. Amen? Father in heaven, we thank you for this little glimpse into heaven. What happens when a soul gets saved? And I pray you'd help us as a church and as individuals to give ourselves to reaching other people with the gospel. Telling, bringing other people to the Savior. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many of our folks this morning here in the service. You say, preacher, I'm saved, I'm glad I'm saved. And you say, I want to give myself to try and winning other people to Christ. This week, one way or another, giving out tracts, talking to people, I mean doing everything I can to see them not just get a gospel, but trust the Savior. I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm willing to commit myself to that for this next week. Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Young and old, all around. I mean, we could bring some celebration to heaven By winning others to Christ. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I'm saved, but I'm not where I ought to be spiritually. I'm kind of like that prodigal son. I'm out there, I know I'm a child, that boy was a child of his daddy. But he wasn't in fellowship with his daddy. And maybe you're here this morning. You say, preacher, I'm saint. I know I'm saint, but I'm not in fellowship with God like I should be And I need to get that back in line. I need to get back where I need to be. And I think that brings celebrating in heaven also, like that father did. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need some things there. God bless you. A number of hands around. Just being honest. I need to get back close to the Lord. I need to get some things right. I need to make some adjustments. Let me ask this, as there's some here this morning who would say, preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You don't want to go to hell. I'm here to tell you, you can know. And God has forgiven you and saved you. If you'll just acknowledge, admit that you're a sinner, and come to Him in need of His Savior. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Pray that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. Any at all? One last question. How many people say, preacher, I'm thinking of somebody in particular that needs Christ? I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know they need the Savior. They need to be saved. Is there any like that? You're thinking of someone right now in particular. You see their face, you're thinking of their name right now. I want to urge you to come find a place at this order. Pray for them. Pray that they'll come to Christ be saved. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together