In your Bible there. We're going to start off in First Peter. We're studying, uh we just started just about a month ago a series preaching through the book of First Peter. I'm very much looking forward to this. I've enjoyed studying it And what the Lord's been teaching me, and I trust us, from this passage of Scripture. And we're going to look at verse number six. Here's the thing. I always I always preach longer than I plan on it. Every time. I mean I try I have every intention of being brief and it For some reason. I can have four pages in a notes and I can have one page of note. It's still the sermon's the same length. I don't know how that works. And I always end up covering less ground. What I'm preaching than what I planned on. When I first looked at this and was planning for tonight, I was planning on preaching verse six down through verse nine. I was going to try and cover that whole section tonight. And we're going to look at verse six. And uh this evening. And so I've changed the title. We'll read verse 6 through 9. I've changed the title of what's in the bulletin here, and I'll give that to you in a moment. Look at verse 6 of 1 Peter 1. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold, that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ, whom, having not seen, ye love, in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. Now I want to zero in there on verse number six. Wherein ye greatly rejoice Though now for a season, if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations. I want to preach this night tonight on this subject, rejoicing in trials Rejoicing in trials. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I come to you tonight with a full heart and just rejoicing. What a blessing today has been to me. And I'm so grateful for your presence and uh and uh your moving here and your blessings upon our church. Lord, as we finish out the Lord's day um this evening, or we go to Lord's Supper here in just a few moments. I pray you'd prepare our hearts. I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak to us and direct us, show us, teach us, help us. And that we can go into this coming week close to you, walking with you, and that our witness would be very effective this coming week So I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew this hour with all my heart. Again, I pray that you fill me with your Spirit And Lord, you be the preacher, you be the teacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you will, you keep your place here. We just read this, wherein, if need Uh ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, in heaviness through manifold trials. Come back to John chapter 16, if you would. Jesus is speaking here, and in verse number 33, he makes a statement that ties in, I believe, with what Peter is addressing. to these uh these young Christians that are scattered throughout Asia Minor. They've been persecuted, they've been driven from their homes. We've been emphasizing that's the context That's who he's addressing. They've been driven from their homes. They've lost their jobs. Many of them, their families, have rejected them and disowned them. Some have lost their lives, had their lives taken because of their faith in Christ, because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have, and we've had over the years, different men and women that come to know Christ here at Mountain Lake and have paid a dear price, have had family members turn on them and reject them Because of their faith in Christ. Now that's the case here with these believers that Peter is addressing, and even more so in a greater intensity than what we've ever experienced, I'm sure. But the Lord makes a statement here in John chapter 16, all the way at the end of the chapter, and verse number 33. See what the Lord Jesus Christ says. He says, These things have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have what? Peace. He says, in me you'll have peace You put your faith, your confidence, your trust, you walk with me, you'll have peace. Look at this next statement. In the world, you shall have what? Tribulation, trials, heartaches, difficulties, suffering, rejection. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Be of good cheer. That little phrase there, be of good cheer, means this: take courage. Don't get discouraged. This world's turned against you. This world is uh it brings heartache and trials and difficulties But you be of good cheer. Take courage. I put this in the margin of my Bible, that little phrase, be of good cheer, I put this, smile. Smile Uh I let me just give a little word of suggestion to you, and I I'm giving it to myself also. Hey, when everything's falling apart and you're really going through it and your heart's aching and there's And you're in the midst of hardship. Rather than walking around with a long face and all that, how about we just go ahead and put a smile on our face anyway? Amen. Just put him. That's what he's saying. Be of good cheer. How many folks are saved? You know it. Say amen. How many folks have a home in heaven Amen. How many folks have the Holy Spirit dwelling within you? The Holy Spirit of God, the creator of the universe, dwelling within you. Amen. How many has all your sins forgiven? Anybody here have any promises from God that He'll meet your every need? Anybody a couple people do. Yes, we have all of that. And the Lord says, in me, you'll have peace. In me. The world, you don't have that. He says, be of good cheer. Put a smile on your face. Take courage. And that's what Peter's writing here. That's what Peter's writing here. Trials and difficulties, heartache. Hardship, suffering. That's a common theme all through the Word of God. All the way back at the very beginning. Adam and Eve disobeyed God and heartache showed up in the world. I got thinking about Adam and Eve. And uh they had their first son, uh they had Abel and they had Cain, two boys, only people in the whole planet. Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel. How many people agree with me? It would be an overwhelming heartache to have a child, one of your children, kill another person. How many people say that would be heart-wrenching I just can't imagine what that would do to a parent's heart, to have a child that kills another person. Then I got thinking about this. How heart-wrenching it would be to have a child killed. One of my children killed by another person, life-taken. That would you agree with me? That would be hard. Now think about Adam and Eve. One child kills the other. I just can't imagine how many tears, how many nights Eve wept and sobbed her heart out. The Bible doesn't say this, but we imagine the heartache. uh the the the pain, the emotional pain that would come with that. And that experience kind of sets the tone. For humanity throughout history. And that we go through the Word of God and just over and over and over you find people, many times good people. that have tremendous hardship, have tremendous trials, have tremendous heartaches. It's a common theme through scripture. Now I say this often and probably four or five times a year, that's all come up in a message, but uh it's so common in Scripture. Uh sometimes people have heartaches and and and uh and uh hardship and trials and they suffer because they do wrong Make a stupid decision. Act sinfully. Act play the fool is the term we use. And sometimes people really pay a price because They act sinfully, they make stupid decisions, they make sinful decisions. And I'm telling you, sin brings with it heartache. Sin brings with it emptiness and pain. Oh, I know, there's pleasure in sin, sure. There's pleasure in sin, absolutely. But what? For a season. For a season. Go out Saturday night carrying on. Oh, we had a big time. Oh, for a season. And so sometimes people suffer in the Bible because of their own stupid decisions they make. Can you think of anybody, and I want you to participate, can you think of anyone in Scripture that had a rough time, had heartaches? Because of a stupid, sinful decision they make. Can anybody think of any? Ron. David! And how he wept and sobbed and regretted some decisions he made. Who else? There's others. Samson, I thought of Samson. How about it? Others. Just shout him out. Lot, yes, David. Noah. Noah? Yes, that's right. Drinking. He got drunk. I thought of someone else. Jonah. I thought of Jonah. How many people think it'd be tough sit be three days and three nights in a whale's belly? That'd be uncomfortable. There's some of us here. Tonight. We made some decisions in the past. We played the fool. We ignored God. Did what we wanted. Boy, it brought heartache. Can I get a witness? Brought heartache. Brought heartache. So sometimes these trials, these difficulties come because we make foolish decisions. That's why uh one of the reasons I think our youth ministry is so important. If we can help children, young people to be wise and to trust God and follow the Word of God, how many heartaches, how much sorrow they could avoid. Sometimes trials come not necessarily because we do wrong, but sometimes trials and heartaches, difficulties come because someone else does wrong. And it affects us. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that way that was hurt and struggled, had heartache because of something else, something someone else did? Can you think of anybody? You know who came to my mind? Caleb and Joshua. You say, what's that about? They trusted God. They said, let's go in the land. Let's go. God can deliver us. We're well able. God has promised us. Everyone else said, nope, they turned their backs on God, they didn't trust God, disobeyed him, and for 40 years Jacob and Caleb had to wander around the wilderness because of other sinful decisions. Sometimes uh we suffer because of others. Uh how about um how about Joseph? Others others made fully sinful decisions and Joseph struggled. Um and you could go down uh throughout scripture Sometimes people, sometimes we have heartaches, sometimes we have trials, sometimes we cry hot tears and our heart is empty. Because we just don't trust God and we make sinful decisions. Sometimes we have that same thing. We go through all that and we didn't do anything wrong. Somebody else did something wrong and it hurt us Sometimes, if you study scriptures carefully, sometimes people suffered heartaches, sorrow, pain, difficulties for no obvious reason. There's no explanation. Never knew why. Why did this happen to me? Why why would why would I have to go through this? And there's no reason they didn't they weren't necessarily did anything sinful. No one around them necessarily did anything sinful. Who's the obvious illustration of that? Job He never knew. As far as we know, it's never explained to him why he went through all of that. He was a just man, upright, all his ways. There's no indication that somebody else did that other than the devil Sometimes we have a rough time and it just doesn't make any human sense. Let me give you a fourth reason sometimes people suffer and struggle. Sometimes because we just play the fool, sometimes because somebody else plays the full and we suffer. Sometimes we don't even know why. It seems And sometimes we suffer heartache and pain because we do right. Because we do right. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that did what was right and very because they did right, they trusted God, they obeyed God, they paid a heavy price. Can you think of anyone like that? Apostle Paul, Lord Jesus Christ, the Apostle Paul. He goes in the Corinthians, you study Corinthians, he goes a lengthy list there of the price he paid, shipwrecked and stoned, left for dead, persecuted. Why? Because he committed himself to Christ. He was obeying the Lord. He was doing right. And that brings us to this. That is exactly What the case is with the people that Peter is writing to under the inspiration of God, these young believers, they are suffering for their faith. They were suffering because they trusted God and they were obeying God and they committed themselves to the Lord Jesus Christ and this whole sinful world turned on them And forced them out of their homes and persecuted them for their faith in God. Peter's writing to them, and he's addressing the situation they find themselves in. Let me say this, regardless of their cause, regardless of whether it's my own actions, someone else, maybe it's unexplained, maybe because I'm doing right. Regardless of its cause, all of our trials must first pass through God's permissive will. God is in control. That doesn't mean, listen, God is sovereign. That means he's in control. He runs that. That doesn't mean nothing ever happens that's against God's will. Lots of things happen that's not God's will, but he allows them to happen. He allows it to take place. I'm convinced that everything that comes into my life, good or bad, whether I understand it or not, whether I like it or not. Whether it's my own consequences of my own actions or not, God has allowed me to experience that He could intervene, he could step in and kept me from experience that difficulty, that trial. Do you agree with me? God could have, had He so chosen, kept these young believers from being persecuted Sure he could. He could have stepped in and avoided all of that, but he didn't. And all that they're experiencing, all this difficulty means Now, this is what I'm trying to get at here as quick as I can Everything that God allows in my life, whether it's necessarily his direct will for me or not, but he allows it because he can use it to develop my faith And me to be the person he wants me to be. Is everybody bearing with me? Are you with me here tonight? You follow what I'm saying? Say, oh, I made a stupid decision. I'm paying for that. Yeah. But God's allowed it, and God, if you'll trust him You'll put your faith in him and trust him. He can take the consequences of your own stupid decision and use that to develop your faith and my faith so that I can be the man he intends for me to be. He can use that And turn that around. We serve an amazing God. We serve a wise God and a good God. Vance Habner said, God, I like this statement. He said, God uses broken things. Think about it. Uh it takes broken soil to produce a crop. Anybody ever s go in the springtime, you drive by a field? And the farmer has that big tractor and he's pulling behind it a blade, a thing that has a series of blades, and it's cutting down into the earth. And it's breaking open the earth. It's tearing it open. And I can hear the field saying, ah. Yeah, man, that hurts. But what's the farmer doing? He's preparing the seal soil. He's plowing it up, preparing the soil, so that the seed can get in there and bear a crop. God uses broken things. Broken things. God uses broken clouds to bring the rain. Anybody ever say something like this, man, those clouds broke open yesterday? Good heavens. Anybody ever hear that? And God breaks that cloud and the rain comes down and waters the earth. God uses broken grain to make bread. God uses broken bread to bring nourishment and strength to our bodies. God uses in the new in the Gospels, He used a broken alabaster box to fill the room with perfume. And anoint the feet of Jesus. I thought about Peter. God broke pre-Peter. He denied the Lord. I believe when Peter realized that he had denied the Lord, not once or twice, but three times, he had completely failed his Savior. I think he was a broken man. I think his self-confidence, his pride, all that self-will that was so evident before that, that just broke. The Lord comes to him and says, Peter, do you love me? Peter, I just see him hanging his head. Lord, you know I love you. I don't know. I'm reading in a little bit. This is my imagination, but I imagine Peter thinking to himself, I do love you, Lord, but I failed you. Lord says, Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord, I do love you. Feed my sheep. Come on, feed my sheep. Peter, do you love me? And the Bible says the third time it grieved Peter. I believe God broke him, allowed him, allowed him to deny Lord Jesus three times. And then he used the consequence of that to break Peter. And uh 120 days later. Peter stands up with the power of God upon him. And he preaches that message at Pentecost. 3,000 people turned to Christ, saved, and baptized God uses broken things. God allows heartache. God allows trials and difficulties to come into our heart and lives. He allows us to experience that regardless of the cause so that we Can be usable to him so that we can be moldable and effective in influencing this world for the Lord. And we can be the people he intends for us to be And so God is allowing these dear believers, many of them young in the Lord, just recently saved, and they are absolutely going. I mean being prisoned, being tortured, being uh many of them being martyred, killed, they're losing their jobs, they're running for their lives all through that region. And Peter's writing to them. And I notice here, and I've used most of my time for my uh opening here, but let me just give you a couple thoughts as quick as I can here. Look at verse number, come back there to 1 Peter, look at verse number 6. He says, wherein ye, talking about writing to these suffering people, he says, wherein ye do what? Greatly rejoice. Seriously? Greatly rejoice. Uh he uses uh uh um The statement he makes here, he says, wherein ye greatly rejoice, sounds to me that it's more like an observation than an instruction. I kind of get the impression Peter is seeing them and hearing from them, and he says, and he says, you guys are greatly rejoicing in this persecution. Now he uses a word right at the beginning there, wherein ye greatly rejoice. That wherein, that phrase wherein refers back to the previous statements. Now, we already preached on these verses before, but we notice there that he addresses the fact that they've been born again. They've been born anew to inheritance incorruptible. He says, Because of the fact that you've been born again, wherein the fact that you've been born again, you greatly rejoice He wrote to them there in the in the verse number four. He says, you have an inheritance that is reserved in heaven for you. Nothing this old world can do to you, it can steal your happiness, it can steal your uh it can give you pain It can break your heart. It can put tears on your cheeks. But one thing this world can't do is take away the inheritance you have in Christ. And therein, wherein, therein you rejoice. And he says there in verse numbers five, we looked at last week, because of their salvation is secure. You've trusted Christ. Your sins are forgiven. You have a home in heaven. You're a child of God. Nothing can change that. And therein you rejoice. How many folks here agree with me? It's nice, regardless of how bad a day I have, regardless of how broken my heart may be. It sure is nice to lay my head down at night and knowing that the Lord accepts me. He accepts me. And they can cuss us out, they can break our hearts, they can lie to us and cheat on us, they can do all of that. But nothing. Nothing can take away the Lord's acceptance of me in Christ, kept by the power of God. And so my point here is this, I notice their transcendent joy. He says, wherein ye greatly rejoice. And I use that word transcendent. There's one of those big words I use every now and then just to remind you how smart I am. What's it mean if something transcends something else? Anybody? What is it? It's above it. Very good. Their joy, it says they greatly rejoice. That word greatly there greatly rejoice. has this idea to exceedingly rejoice. It has this time to go over the top in your rejoicing. You guys are going over the top in your rejoicing. He's saying to you, you're rejoicing in the fact that you're saved, a child of God, you have an inheritance, you're secure in Christ. Because of that, your joy transcends, it overshadows all the suffering you're going through. This is the impression I get. These people are being persecuted, they're being hounded, their hearts are broken, they're shattered. But you look at them and you never know it. They're rejoicing so much, you never know the heartache they're going through. It transcends it. It's exceeding. You greatly rejoice. You overflowingly rejoice. Man, those uh new Christians out there off for Asia Minor, they're just the happiest people and rejoicing and singing and going on, they mustn't have any heartache at all. Oh no, no You knew the truth. They're suffering intensely. But their joy, their rejoicing transcends their heart ache. Am I making sense? Are you with me? Why? Because uh uh because uh no, I'll tell you why, because they're they're a child of God, and their inheritance is reserved in heaven, and their acceptance by God is secure. And whatever this whole world does, in this world, you'll find tribulation. But be of good cheer, Jesus says. I've overcome the world. I've given you something this world will never give you. And so they have this transcendent joy over all their trials. In fact, I noticed here as you go down through here, notice the words he uses referencing them in their heavy trials. Verse 6: greatly rejoice. Come down there. Look at verse 7. More precious than gold. Look down at verse number 8. Joy unspeakable, full of glory. Wow, that doesn't sound like somebody that's going through it. They are going through it. But there's something true in their life that is far greater than any heartache or pain or trial they'll ever face. And that is their standing and their acceptance and their salvation in Christ. These young New Testament believers had a joy that transcended their intense trials and sorrows. Their joy was not based on their circumstances, their joy was based on their standing with God. I'm going to stop there Let me ask you a question. Are you happy in Jesus? Oh, your face. Um Here's the thing, and I'm guilty of this. I wish I could tell you I wasn't guilty of this, but I'm guilty of this. I allow the heartaches and difficulties and trials To transcend my joy and my rejoicing in the Lord. Anyone ever guilty of that? Come on now Oh I dread this week. Wait a minute, wait a minute Uh man, I wish we had time to look at all this. In fact, he says it's only for a season. The trial you're going through is just a brief period of time. Let's just decide. I I'm trying to land this thing. Let's just decide this week. Will you join me? Let's just decide and let's ask God, maybe at an old altar, and just before bow before the Lord, say, Lord, whatever you allow come in my heart, whatever hurts, pain, disappointment betrayal, whatever it may be, help me, Lord, to keep my focus on my standing with you and help the joy of the Lord. That comes with the presence of the Holy Spirit to transcend all that, be a testimony. Amen. I hope I'm communicating what I'm trying to say. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us not to allow the sorrow and heartache of this world and of this life that's inevitable to overshadow or cloud who we are in Christ and where we stand. Lord, I'm convicted and challenged by these New Testament believers that Peter's addressing and the joy that he says they have, exceeding, unspeakable. And I'm not suffering anything even close to what they're going through. And I gripe, complain, and worry. I pray you'd help me repent from that sin. And to realize, help all of us to realize who and what we who we are in Christ and what we have in Christ. And to live in light of that. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, yeah, there's some heartaches. And I let it get to me. And tonight I don't want to do that. I want to ask the Lord to help me rejoice in the Lord. Even in the midst of difficulty and heartaches. Is there any like that, preacher? God's God's, I know what you're talking, I know what you're trying to preach And God's Spirit has stirred my heart. And I want to be one of those Christians whose joy transcends the heartaches and trials of this life. Any others, a lot of hands raised. How about it? Any others, preacher, that's what I want. I don't want to murmur and complain like Israel. I want to rejoice like these believers here. How about it? Others? Is there any here tonight say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't even know what you're talking about. I'd love to have joy like that. I'd like to know that I'm accepted by the Lord and have a home in heaven. We can show you from the Bible how to settle that. Is there any here? Say, preacher, I'm not saved. I need to have that settled in my life. And he had all uplifted hand. Now Father, you know our hearts. Please bless the invitation time now. And I pray that you would help us to make this right decision. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Jane, could I get you at the piano? Let's stand together with our heads bowed and eyes closing