First Peter chapter one. I'm glad we have a church that folks bring their Bibles to church with them. And uh we're glad you're here. And uh I'm glad you got your Bible. Follow along. We're going to be looking at um verses uh we're gonna read verses six through nine. We're only gonna get to verse six tonight. We started this a couple weeks ago. And um 1 Peter chapter 1 had a fellow come by come by the house today. I didn't know they were building a community swimming pool downtown. He was asking for donations to help build a community swimming pool. And so I gave them a glass of water and um try to do my part to help out. There and uh another guy's g selling pencils. He said this pen he said this pen can write underwater. I said, no way. He says, yeah, it can write other words too. And um Now before rumors get around, they are not really building a swimming pool downtown. I just made that up. That part I made up. 1 Peter chapter number 1, and beginning in verse number 6, I'll read down through verse 9. Again, we're only going to look at verse 6, but I want to read the whole section because it's in context here. He says, verse 6, wherein ye greatly rejoice. Now, again, that's referring back to these list of promises that God gives us as believers. We'll touch on them briefly. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire. might be found unto the praise and the honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen ye love In whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable And full of glory. And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the time we can get together of a Sunday night and just uh sing and Fellowship, testify a little bit. We're grateful what you're doing in the hearts and lives of our young people. And now as we look into your word, I pray you'd use some thoughts here this evening to uh prepare us for the week ahead, a week ahead that you'd stir our hearts. Help us to get in such a spiritual condition that the next seven days, Lord, we could be a good testimony of your grace and your goodness So I ask you to fill me with your Spirit and present my body anew and be the preacher tonight, Holy Spirit. Teach us, convict us, challenge, encourage, and direct us. is my prayer. With all my heart, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. A fellow I enjoy reading, after Vance was a preacher of years gone by, he made this statement, and I quoted this a couple weeks ago as we were looking at this passage, he said this. God uses broken things. God uses broken things. It takes broken soil to produce a crop. It takes broken clouds to produce rain. It takes broken grain to produce bread. It takes broken bread to produce nourishment. It takes a broken alabaster box. to produce the the perfume, the aroma of the perfume. And it took a broken Peter to produce a powerful preacher. God uses broken things. And our context here, Peter is writing to young believers. Now I keep reiterating this because I think understanding who he's writing to helps us appreciate what he's saying a little bit more. He's writing to young believers. They've trusted Christ, many of them of Jewish background, but they've trusted Christ, and their profession of faith was not just a simple profession of faith. But it was an absolute transformation of their life. We talked about Paul this morning and how God transformed his life. Well, here is a case of many, many uh believers whose lives were transformed. And they were so committed to the gospel of Jesus Christ, they were so committed to the Lord Jesus Christ Himself that many of them lost their homes, lost their jobs. uh lost their standing in society. In fact, they were fleeing. If you'll notice, just a reminder, come back, verse number one, he says to the strangers scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadacea, Asia, Bithynia, it's Asia Minor there. And they've been pushed out of their homes and they're fleeing. As they go and they're preaching the gospel. Here's the thing: these are believers who rather who would rather lose their families than deny their Savior Isn't that something? They would lose their jobs before they would deny their faith in Christ. And you have a level of commitment on the part of the people Peter is writing to. That is, uh, in my opinion, is desperately needed in our day and age. A commitment to Jesus Christ. And he's writing to them, and he is, and they're broken in a lot of ways, humanly speaking. Their families, as they said, their jobs. Many of them have lost uh gave their lives as martyrs for faith uh for Christ. Many of them had suffered deer uh uh severe persecution And uh but God was using them, and God had a plan, a purpose. We come here to verse number six, and as we started a couple weeks ago, I just want to reiterate the first point we brought out, if you'll remember We noted here, and I use a very big word, I do occasionally, is their transcendent joy. And I use that word transcendent for this reason. It means to go over and above Look what he says there in verse 6, the first part. Wherein ye, what are the next two words? You greatly rejoice. Now that does not sound like something that you would reference people who are being severely persecuted. That doesn't sound like a phrase you would use to refer to folks who are being hounded uh uh like outlaws by uh the authorities and and society because of their faith in Christ. But he says you are greatly rejoicing. And by the way Sounds to me more like an observation that Peter is making about their attitude rather than something he is instructing them to do. Ye greatly rejoice. You're doing this. You are rejoicing in the midst of all of this. And uh but he uses that word wherein, and again, we touched on this before He's referring back to his previous statements there where he had uh uh mentioned that they've been born again in a previous verse. They're part of God's family. I tell you that it is a wonderful thing. It is a wonderful thing to be a part of the family of God, isn't it? I like that song. I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. This whole world can turn on us This old world can persecute us. This old world can mock us and criticize us and condemn us and uh call us names and uh Accuse us of all kinds of things, but one thing this world can't do, can't take away my heavenly Father. Can't take me out of the family of God. And so he says, Wherein? Because you've been born in the family of God Now you're greatly rejoicing. He had mentioned there that they had reserved seats in heaven. Reserved in heaven. Verse number four there, he mentioned that And again, in spite of what all was taking place and all they were going through, one thing this whole world could not do, one thing these Christ haters and these Christian haters could not do, is they cannot take away our seats in heaven. reserved in heaven for you. And they've greatly rejoiced in that. And he mentioned that their salvation is secure. He says you're kept by the power of God. All this you're going through, all this difficulty and this pain, this sorrow, but God keeps you. The power of God keeps us. Oh, what a blessing to know that. What a blessing to lay our heads at night. Isn't it a blessing to lay my head at night and know worse comes the worst? I'm safe and secure in the hands of Jesus Christ. It's all okay. Kept by the power of God. And he says, because of this, because of your position, because of all that God has assured us of. In spite of the suffering you're going through, you're greatly rejoicing, exceedingly rejoicing. That phrase greatly rejoice has again the idea of over the top rejoicing. I mean it is it's excessive. And uh what was happening was this Their confidence and their focus on the Lord and the promises of God enabled their rejoicing to overshadow their suffering. They're rejoicing to overshadow their suffering. We were talking to somebody, I don't know what is happening, but uh it seems like I'm getting more aches and pains. Uh times go by. I don't know what is a weather or something. Uh but uh my knees hurt and my shoulder hurts and my head hurts and uh my face hurts. I know it's killing you, but um And somebody was saying, they said, Well, try this ointment. And uh I said, Is it any good? They said, I don't know, but it stinks so bad you forget about the pain that's going on. And here's the thing with these believers, the promises of God were so good, were so so wonderful that it overwhelmed the suffering and the heartache they were going through, and it overshadowed that. And they were able to focus and rejoice exceedingly in these promises. All through the New Testament. This is an interesting thing All through the New Testament, you know what you find? You find God's people rejoicing in the midst of trials. And that's something. Take your Bible with me. We'll look at a few of these. Turn with me back to Matthew. Matthew chapter number five. And uh this is the uh Sermon on the Mount Matthew chapter 5, and the Lord is giving some instructions here to his disciples. The Sermon on the Mount is a Is not an evangelistic message. It's a sermon Jesus preached, but it was an evangelistic sermon. He's preaching to the disciples. He is discipling His disciples. He's teaching them how a disciple thinks, how a disciple behaves, how a disciple functions. And notice in verse number 11, he makes some interesting statements that I believe ties in with these Believers that Peter's writing to. He says in verse 11, blessed are ye. What does it mean if someone's blessed? He says, blessed are ye. What does that mean? Talk to me now. All right, you're happy, you're rejoicing, uh, you experience the grace and the goodness of God. Uh when you when you hear the Lord say You read here the Lord says, Blessed are ye. You don't picture somebody long faced and morbid and and uh and uh oh down in the dumps, do you? I don't picture anybody that way. You picture Blessed are ye, I picture somebody, man, happy and smiling, rejoicing. The presence and joy of the Lord is in their life Now what in the world is going on that's making them so blessed? Look what he says. Blessed are ye when men shall praise you and uh exalt you and And uh take do all kinds of wonderful things for you. Is that what it says? No. Blessed are ye when men shall what? Revile you. And persecute you, say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Look at verse 12. Rejoice and be what? Sounds like greatly rejoicing, huh? Sounds like what Peter was talking about, those believers there that he's writing to, that are under persecution. Be exceeding glad. Over the top glad, bubbling over. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward where in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. The Lord is setting a tone here for his disciples. And he is instructing them, but he is also making an observation. You notice here it's not so much instruction, although it includes that, but it's kind of making a statement. Listen, you're my disciple. Your faith is in me. You have some tremendous promises as a child of God. And when men revile you and when men persecute you and When they uh uh say all manner of evil things against you falsely, you can rejoice You can be blessed. In fact, he says you can rejoice and be exceeding glad Because great is your reward in heaven. That, I believe the Lord was setting a tone for his disciples, for his church, about how we can and should and will be. As we go forward in this whole world and face the opposition of the world. Come over to John chapter 16 and verse 33. Again, the Lord Jesus Christ references this same idea here, John chapter 6 And all the way at the end of the chapter 6, he makes a tremendous statement here I hope I got the right reference here. I'm sorry, John 16. I knew that didn't look right. John chapter 16 Is that what I said? Alright. I I m I must have made a mistake. I thought I made a mistake one other time, but I was wrong. Look at John 16 and verse number 33. I've got this underlined in my Bible. I've got it highlighted. Look what it says. Jesus speaking to his disciples, these things have I spoken unto you. That you might have peace. Now look at this next statement. In the world she you shall have what? Tribulation. That's what these believers Peter's writing to. Boy, they're going through it. But but be what? Of good cheer. I have overcome the world. I have overcome the world. All through the Bible, and Jesus Christ in the Gospels, he's setting this tone, he's setting a precedent down Where you and I as believers, regardless of how this whole world may treat us, regardless of how we may be falsely accused, regardless of how we may be spoken against, regardless of how we may even be persecuted. And there are people, Christians around the world, as I speak, are under persecution. He says, regardless of all that, you can rejoice You can have great peace. In fact, these New Testament, these believers here that Peter's writing to, they were exceedingly rejoicing. Rejoicing greatly. I thought about the Lord Jesus Christ. The wonderful thing about Jesus, he didn't just preach to disciples what they should do. He actually did it himself. How many people would like to have a preacher that did what he preached? Yeah, I would too. Sometimes the preaching, uh sometimes the preaching exceeds our living, doesn't it, Doc? He ain't touching that one. I heard a preacher, old preacher, years ago, he said don't bring he's talking to preachers, he said, don't bring your living down to your don't bring your preaching down to your living, bring your living up to your preaching That's exactly what Jesus did. And when Jesus was about to go through the lowest point in any human being in all of history has ever or will ever go through. When he was going up to the Garden of Gethsemane and he is about to suffer an eternal judgment of hell For every single sinner. He is about to go to a depth that no human being has ever or will ever go through. And on the way to the Garden of Gethsemane, as he comes out, he's established the Lord's Supper, he's has said some of his last words to his disciples. And he's on his way up to the Garden of Gethsemane, about to go through the crucifixion and everything leading up to it, and everything that involved. You know what he was doing? The Bible says he went out and he sang a hymn. Now I first noticed that. I thought, what in the world? Who would that's not the time to be singing. Looks to me you'd be singing when you're walking into the Jerusalem and all the people are singing, Hosanna, the glory to God. and uh thre laying down the palms and everybody singing his praise. And that's not when he was singing. You know when he was singing? At the lowest point of any person can possibly, no person will ever go through He's singing. Now we don't know what he was singing. We don't know what that song was. Now the old Jewish tradition Or the early church tradition, I should say, suggested that he was singing Psalms chapter 118, 118, verse 24. This is what he was singing. This is the day. This is the day that the Lord hath made We will rejoice and be glad in it Sing it with me. This is the day that the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. This is the day. Altogether that the Lord has made. Can you hear the Lord Jesus walking up singing that? As he's about to go into the darkest valley that has ever existed. All through the Bible, particularly in the New Testament, you find God's people in Jesus setting the pattern. of going through great trials and great heartaches and great difficulties, rejoicing. Rejoicing And so he references, he writes to these believers, and he says, you're rejoicing greatly, greatly rejoicing, greatly rejoicing. And it's based upon these promises that God had given them. Now let me quickly point something else here. Come back here to verse 6 of 1 Peter chapter 1. Wherein ye greatly rejoice. Now look at this next phrase. Though for a what? A season. I see here not only their transcendent joy, their joy overshadowed the sorrows and trials they're going through. But that not only was it transcendent joy, but I noticed that their heaviness, this trial was temporary. It's for a what? Season. Now, what is a season when he says, though neat uh though uh greatly rejoice, though now for a season. What's a season? Yeah, it's a period of time. In fact, if you look it up, your strong, you find out the emphasis on that phrase is a small, a short, or a brief period of time. Though for a season, just a brief time. I don't know about you. I like summertime. I like spring and I like summer. I would like fall if winter didn't follow it. But winter ruins my fall. And Mark this out some time ago, and after he said that, it ruined my summer. He said winter seems so long and summer seems so short. And you know why that is? Because it is! Winter's eight months here and But man, these seasons go by so quickly, don't they? Sam and I were talking before church. He said something how it's going. He said, I can't believe it's the end of September. I said, every month seems like a week You know, just months seems like a week going by. And uh what's he mean? He says, listen, you greatly rejoice, though for a season you be in heaviness through manifold trials. You for a season. You know what he's saying here? It's just for a while. It's just for a while. I like this phrase, especially when I'm going through a tough time. It won't always be this way. Won't always be this way. Sometimes we get down in a valley, it gets so dark, it seems like everybody's against us, seems like uh Seems like there's no light at the end of the tunnel, and we get thinking this way, and the devil will convince us, this is the way it's always going to be. I had somebody just recently tell me, going through off time, they said, I don't think it's ever going to change. This is the way it's always going to be And I say, that's not true. That's not true. Can I encourage you to jot down this statement? I think this is a good statement. It might be just simple, but I think it's very helpful. It's this. Our trials are controlled by God. Our trials are controlled by God. He has a timer on each of those. In fact, I modified that statement. I thought of that statement. I jotted it down after I'd finished my message. I came back and I jotted that down. Our trials are controlled by God. God controls these things. And I modified it and I put it this way. Our trials are strictly controlled by God. Listen, we're not going to be in a valley one minute longer than the Lord knows is necessary. He's going to leave us there, he's going to put us through it, allow us to go through it, but only as long as he knows that is necessary. When God permits his children to go through the furnace. He keeps his eye on the clock and his hand on the thermostat. Did you get that? I don't know who I got that quote from somebody, I don't know who. But when God permits his children to go through the furnace, he keeps his eye on the clock. And he keeps his hand on the furnace, on the thermostat. Why what's he saying? He's saying God has a timing for this. God is in control. You say, preacher, I'm never coming out of this. Oh, that's not true. That's not true. For a season, you need to go through this. For a season, your heart is broken. For a season You're suffering for a season. The tears are rolling down your cheeks. But it's not always going to be that way. Not for the child of God. Not for the child of God. Turn with me, if you would, to 2 Corinthians and chapter number 4. Second Corinthians chapter four. I tell you, Paul, again, under the inspiration of God, made so many tremendous statements to that church it 2 Corinthians chapter 4, and notice with me, if you would, verse 17. This is a good verse to underscore. 2 Corinthians 4, verse 17. He says this. For our light affliction. That's a little different word than what Peter's going to use. But he's referencing the same same Context, the same type of situation. For our light affliction, look at this next statement, which is but for a what? A very brief period of time, which is but for a moment, work is for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. For a moment. For a moment. Oh, preacher, uh, it seems like this is going to last forever. I know it. I've been there. I know it But it's not. The Lord is in control. And it's for a moment, for a brief period of time. I put this down. Our trials today prepare us for our glory tomorrow. Our glory in heaven. Compared to eternity, our issues here on earth are but a moment See, we have to keep, we need to keep eternity in mind. Some people are so earthly-minded, they're of no heavenly good All they can see what's under the sun. All they can see what's here and now. And listen, eternity is real. And for those of us that know Christ, eternity in the presence of God will far exceed any heartaches and trials, tribulations we go through here. I was looking at this and studying this. You know who I thought of? I thought of John Gravely. You say, what in the world? How'd you think of what? I thought of John Gravely signed up for the Marines, what, a little over a year ago. A year ago. And he went to boot camp, deepest, lowest, darkest point of everyone's life. Go through marine deep boot camp. Good heavens. And uh I I don't know this. I'm just assuming, making assumption. I knew um we knew Bill Barons, Dr. Bill Barons with the Lord. He was a drill instructor. I thought, good night, I got six If I spent six months under him, I would weep and cry and sorrow and consider suicide, no doubt about it. But uh I would imagine that in that six months he there was some tears shed. I would imagine there was some fear. I would imagine there was confusion. What in the world have I gotten myself into? What in the world are they doing to me? I would imagine there was some dread, some long dark night, some pain. Suffering. But you know what? He came out of that. That was just for a period of time. And when he came out Do you see those pictures? Do you see him when he was here with us, that uniform? Man alive, sharp, respect. I saw some pictures on the computer. He's over in our Africa guarding an S an embassy over there. And uh I thought, man, that poor guy's suffering in Africa. See, I saw the pictures. He's swimming in a swim sky, riding around, looking at animals, having the time of his life. And uh of course uh you know there's uh more involved than just that I'm sure. But uh I thought of this for a for a season he had to go through that boot camp. But when The glory, the dignity, the respect, the opportunities. And for you and I as Christians God allows us to go through periods of tribulation and difficulty, but we come out. God allows it for a season, but when we come out, oh, we stand before the Lord and the glory And what do we experience there? And so their transcendent joy greatly rejoice, their temporal heaviness. Let me quickly give you the last ones here. I notice their trust in this sorrow. Look, come back here with me if you would. And notice again verse 6. For wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be. I thought, what does he mean by if need be? I looked it up. You know what it means? It means it's necessary. This is something that is absolutely necessary for you guys to go through. But Peter, we got saved. We trust in Christ. God loves us. He's given us a new life. And he goes, Yeah, I know, I know. But you have to go through this necessary for your development, for your spiritual growth, for your faith to be strong. You've got to go through this. It needs Ibai thing is you need to trust the Lord. This is something that is necessary for your spiritual development. There are certain seasons of trial. That we must go through, that we must, that we have to go through to develop our faith in God. We must learn to trust God in these times. We must learn, say, all right, this is necessary if I'm going to, my faith is going to be strong. You know, when everything, when the bills are paid and the health is Everybody loves us and everything's gone our way and we're and we're just cruising through life. That's not when our faith grows That's not when our faith is developed. You know when we our faith grows when we go through dark times and God proves Himself faithful. And God is there Now I can't I I read this, so I can't document this. I can't verify this. Some of you guys could maybe tell me uh uh verify that what I'm about to say is so. If what I'm about to say is not so don't correct me till afterward all right And um uh but bear with me here. Uh I understand. I was reading about a plumber. I was reading about plumbers. And apparently there was this one plumber, he had a he had some lead. And he was having to cut through that lead. Now what what kind of metal is lead? It's a very what? Soft metal. And this plum and they and uh the the somebody was observing this plumber cutting through this soft lead, this lead, and they said, well that's nice, that's very easy, is I don't like to cut through lead with my chisel He said the soft lead destroys the chisel. It's hard on the chisel. It ruins the chisel. He said, I need to have a hard metal that tempers that chisel and makes it stronger and makes it harder. Now that uh don't don't correct me now, all right? Bear with it if I'm not correct on that, but that's what he said. And I thought about the Christian life. When things are going easy, when things are going, oh, it's soft. You talk about somebody, that guy led a soft life. It's usually a soft Christian, too. Usually a soft faith. But God says needs be he's right writing these believers say, listen, you're going through it, you're going through it But it needs being. You've got to trust God in this. Let me give you my last observation here again in verse 6. I noticed their trials were manifold. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. The word manifold uh has the idea of various colors, shapes, sizes, types, all sorts of flavors and colors of the trials they're going through. I tell you, this whole world has every kind of trial you can imagine. Here's the thing, the trial Dave Wagner's going through m probably isn't the same trial Vurden goes through. And the trial that Doc Williams faces and struggles with probably in the same trial that Virginia might struggle and go through. The trials of life are manifold. They're different. And uh God in his wisdom says, all right, this is what Dennis Leatherman needs to develop his faith. Oh, but God, I don't want to go through that. But you need speech is one for you. But they're not They're getting that. Nope, doesn't matter what they're, this is yours. That one's for them. Since they're going through all kinds of different trials. And so God gives us their custom design for us. And then he says temptations. Now, don't let that word throw you. There's three three different ways the word temptation used. One is an enticement to sin. That's normally what we think of. It's not what he's talking about here. Sometimes God will use the word temptation to refer to difficulties, hardships. Sometimes he'll use it to test he gives us, to prove us. And I believe those last two thoughts are apply here. Difficulties, hardships. Their trials were not easy. Pakti uses the word heaviness there. You're in heaviness. That word there is translated other places, great grief and sorrow, great sadness. It's used of the Lord Jesus Christ when he's in Gethsemane. And heaviness came on the Lord Jesus. And Jesus prayed, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Then he made that great, great statement. What was it? Nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. Boy, what the heaviness that was on the Lord. And that's what he's talking about here. He says, you guys are going through it. He said, but you've got some great promises. And in the midst of all of that, you rejoice greatly in God's developing you. Years ago I read about a what do you call the person? I couldn't find the name. There's a name for it. Is uh somebody that works with diamonds and they cut them and what what's that called? Anybody know Uh a jewel jeweler, but there's a more scientific name. What is it? Gemnus? I don't know. I just called it a diamond cutter. I was wanting to get a fancier name than that. But uh and apparently this is an accurate uh story. Years ago they found, I guess what was at the time the largest diamond ever found in the world. It's found in South Africa, I think. They took it to England and they found the greatest gymnast or diamond cutter in the world. And they brought him in and he studied that thing for months and months on end. And he looked at it and studied it and under telescope. Not telescope, um, a microscope, and he looked at that thing and studied the grain and the way that thing was done and all the different sections. And finally the day came. He was going to cut it. And they got the press together. And uh big famous and everybody's around, dignitaries, everybody's around, and he's going to cut this gigantic invaluable diamond. Just uh uh Can't can't uh put a number on the the worth of this diamond. And he takes his instruments and he puts it at a certain angle. He has everything in place and and holding it in place and just exact And he takes his little hammer and he goes, tap. And when he did that, diamond fell in half. And they said, everybody gasp, oh no. What an idiot. He destroyed it. And he stopped and he explained. He goes, no, that's exactly what needed to be done He said any other cut, any other break in that diamond would have completely destroyed it. It would be valueless. That was the only cut that could be made to bring out its full value. And I thought about the Lord Jesus Christ and you and I as believers. Sometimes God puts that little chisel down on our life. And man, he takes a little hammer and boom. And we feel like our whole life has fallen apart. And we think, Lord, Lord, what are you doing? Lord, you've made a terrible mistake. What are you doing to me? The Lord says, oh no no. I know exactly what I'm doing. And this is exactly what was needed for you to develop and be the Christian I want you to be. And you know what we can do? We can rejoice. Say, thank God, He's working in my life. I tell you, I look forward to getting heaven and meeting these Christians that Peter wrote to. The more I'm studying this, they're becoming some of my heroes. You rejoice exceedingly, greatly rejoice in the midst of trials. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to follow the pattern, the example that's given to us in the Word of God That when reviled, we revile not again, but we rejoice, and we're exceeding men speak evil of us and persecute us Because of all your promises, because of who we are and what we anticipate. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this evening would say, preacher, I uh I do have some trials going on, and maybe not to the extent that these believers here that Peter's writing to, maybe not that extent But you say, preacher, there's been some dark days, and there's been some tears shed, and there's been real questions in my heart and mind. But I'm just going to remember who I am in Christ. I'm just going to rejoice in God's promises and let that overshadow any trials God's letting me go through and trust him. That he has a plan and purpose. He has it all under control. Is there any like that, Preacher? Yes, there are some heartaches, some trials there, some valleys. God bless you, hands all around. How about it, others? Now, why don't we just bring that to the Lord? Why don't we just come and say, Lord, I'm just putting this whole thing in your hands. I'm going to trust you, and I'm going to rejoice in the wonderful promise in me. And uh maybe just this Sunday night before we go into the work, just kneel on that altar and say, Lord, here, whatever you have in store for me this week, I'm going to rejoice in the Lord, and I want to be a good testimony. Father, bless our invitation tonight, I ask. Let's stand again, out eyes are closed