While we're singing they were singing that, we ought to dedicate that to Dave, you know, Dave Wagner, growing old. Well, praise the Lord. Ecclesiastes chapter 5. We're back in Ecclesiastes. And what's the key phrase to understanding the book of Ecclesiastes? What do we say it is? Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, all through there. And the point of the book is we've been mentioning and trying to emphasize is that uh When all we do is live life for what is under the sun, if that's all there is, if that's all we see, that's all we uh live by is what is material world, uh then uh what's the result going to be? Vanity and vexation of spirit. It's just gonna be an empty life. When we push God out, there's a vacuum there. And uh however having said that, we're at a section of the book now, I think, where Solomon is addressing, uh maybe indirectly The fact that if all we're living for is what's under the sun, we're going to be it life is going to be vain, it's going to be frustrating. And uh we see that in the world, don't we? We live in a frustrated world And angry worlds, because they're living under the sun. That's all they see. However, there's another side to that. We do live our lives under the sun. Right? This is where we are. This is where we're living. And so this is not all we live for. We know there's more to this. There is a God. He does have a plan for our life. He can fulfill us and use us. He has a purpose However, we are living under the sun. And so as Christians, as saved people who understand us more to this, we view our lives here as very significant And what we do is very important because it's more than just uh temporary thing. With that in mind, come to uh uh Ephesi Ecclesiastes chapter five. And verse number 18. Now I did want to mention, I'd like for you to find in your Bibles 1 Timothy chapter 6, and just mark that. We're going to get to that a little bit later, but we're going to be going back and forth a little bit And so while I'm reading this, if you if you can find 1 Timothy chapter 6 real quick, that might save us a little time in uh referencing. I've got a few other verses we're going to go to also So we're going to be using our Bibles a little bit. How many folks think it's a good thing to use your Bible in church? Yeah. So we're going to do that tonight. And by the way, we don't have any visitors, but that's not uncommon for us to use our Bible, right? So I didn't want it to sound like it is. Verse 18, Ecclesiastes chapter 5. Behold, that which I have seen, it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and enjoy the good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun, all the days of his life, which God giveth him, for it is his portion. Now pay attention to what he's saying here. Let me read that again. Behold, that which I have seen, Solomon's saying, I've observed this. It is good and comely for one to eat and to drink and to enjoy the good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun. So do you catch what he's saying there? We're working under the sun. We're here in this life. And that which we work for, that's what we're labor, it is good and it's comely to eat it and to enjoy it and to partake of that which we earn, that our labor produces. All the days of his life which God given. For it is his portion. Verse 19. Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, to enjoy it, to take part of what he's earned. And to take his portion and to rejoice in his labor. Now look at the last phrase. This is the what? It's a gift of God. He's worked hard, he's earned this, he's enjoying the fruits of his labor. And he says, this is a gift that God gives to us. And in verse 20, he makes a statement. For he shall not much remember the days of his life, because God answereth him in the joy of his heart So I've entitled it Rejoicing in Labor. Now I got thinking about it after I prepared this. Um next week is Labor Day weekend, right? Am I correct? So this would have been more appropriate next week, but so I might preach this again next week, so uh no, not really. But uh let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless. Our study of your word this evening, this passage of scripture. Lord, I found encouragement from this in this pretty dark book in a lot of ways. I see a little bright light here that's been a blessing to me, and I pray that What this passage has meant to me, I'd be able to share that on with others, and that you would speak through me and apply it to all of our lives, wherever we're at, whatever our station is. I pray you'd take these truths you've given us here, and your Holy Spirit would apply them to our lives. I present my body anew, Lord. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit, please speak through me and help us in this matter of labor and what it means to us. In Jesus' name, amen. I want to jump right into my outline And I want us to notice first of all what I'm calling three economic myths. We're going to, this is economy class tonight, Economics 101. And there are three myths about wealth And about labor and about working. And that's the subject he's been addressing here. Remember a few weeks ago we looked at, he talked about money, what money cannot do for us. Now he's talking about labor and what labor can produce as a gift from God. But three myths. I put this one down. Myth number one is this: wealth is sin. It is wrong, it is sinful to be wealthy. That is a myth. Some people had the idea that to be that being wealthy is equal to being greedy. All wealthy people are greedy. All wealthy people are greedy. Usually when somebody says that, they mean I want that wealthy person to give me what they have. Is usually what that means. Nowhere does the Bible teach that being wealthy is the same as being greedy. Nowhere in the Bible does it teach that having wealth is sinful. That is not the case. There are certain elements within our society that are trying to enact policies and enact laws that I believe are rooted in envy Anybody recognize the term uh occupy Wall Street? Anybody hear that? We haven't heard of them recently. They were big in the news. And their whole idea is they are opposed to the greedy 1%. 1% of the population that is extremely wealthy. Now, I I don't know all about it, and I'm not I'm not prepared to you know debate anybody about what their grief grievous is, but my impression and just reading about them and observing them is pretty much their whole actions are rooted in envy. Jealous of folks that have more than they do. And the fact of the matter is these people that are protesting, this Occupy Wall Street that are protesting, those people are more wealthy than 99% of the rest of the people around the world. And I don't see them sharing what they have with others, yet they're demanding that those that have more than they do share with them. You follow what I'm saying? And so it is a myth to suggest, well, that person is wealthy, they must be sinful, they're greedy, or they wouldn't be that wealthy. That's not necessarily true. By the way, I've met some awfully poor people that were very greedy. I've met wealthy people that were greedy. I've met wealthy people that were very generous. I've met poor people that were very generous. And so a person's wealth is not necessarily an indicator of their character or of their spiritual standing with God. And so wealth is a sin. That is a myth. Myth number two, I put down, God is against wealth. God wants us to be poor. Blessed are the poor in spirit. People will use that someday. Somehow a poor person is more spiritual than a wealthy person. The problem is he doesn't say blessed are the poor. He says blessed are the poor In spirit. It's my attitude, my view of myself, and that type of thing. So nowhere does the Bible teach that God is against wealth. God is not against wealth God does warn about the limitations of wealth. We looked at that two week a couple three weeks ago when the previous part of chapter five earlier when he goes through and tells us things that money cannot do for us. Money cannot bring us satisfaction in and of itself. It does not give purpose in life necessarily. We went through a list of things cannot satisfy the soul. Money cannot solve all my problems. It doesn't settle my mind. It doesn't necessarily secure success. So wealth does have limitations. God warns us about that, not to look to finances to do for us. What only God can do for us. And a lot of times people will do that. But God is not necessarily against wealth. He does warn of limitations. He also warns us about loving wealth. Now that is where I'd like you to turn back to Timothy with me, if you would, Timothy chapter 6. And this is for many of us. Been, you know, studying the Bible for any length of time. You've been in teaching and preaching much. This isn't uh a strange passage to us. A lot of us are pretty familiar with this passage But notice what he says in 1 Timothy chapter 6, beginning in verse 17. Now he's instructing the young, Paul is under the inspiration of God, instructing this young preacher, Timothy. in various areas, and he addresses this matter of wealthy people, rich people. And he says in verse 17, he says, charge them that are rich in this world. Now he gives some cautions here, some warnings. That they be not what? High-minded. Don't think yourself better than someone else because you have more wealth than someone else. Don't get high-minded. Nor trust in uncertain riches. Again, don't look for the money to do for you what only God can do for you But in the living God, who saveth us, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Now that ties into what Solomon is saying back in Ecclesiastes. And then he says this, that they do good That they be rich in what? Good works. He doesn't rebuke him. He doesn't say rebuke them for being wealthy. He doesn't say God's against them. He says, listen, just be very, very careful about that. And be rich in good work. Serve the Lord. Help others. Be involved in ministry and Christian service. Ready to distribute. Willing to communicate. Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life And so God is not necessarily against wealth. And I think we understand that. He gives us some very serious cautions and stern warnings Not to uh uh understand it's limited and don't love that, don't let it get in the place of God, but God is not necessarily against it. So our myth number one is this wealth is sin. That's not necessarily true. That's not true. Number two, God is against wealth. That's not true either. And we pointed this out many times. Some of the greatest men of God in the Bible were extremely wealthy And so God is not necessarily against wealth. And here's the third one, and sometimes we get this in our head. Work or labor is bad. Sometimes we get the idea, some people have the idea that work or labor is a result of the curse. That when man sinned and Adam sinned and God cursed the earth and then man had to work, that's not true. God created us to work. God created man to labor. And we won't take time, but we could go back to Genesis chapter 2, where before Adam and Eve sinned, in fact before even Eve even existed God created man and he placed him in the garden and he gave him instructions what he was to do and one of those instructions was to keep the garden. And to till the land, and that word till means to labor diligently, it has the idea of hard work And one of the responsibilities of mankind before the fall of man, before sin entered the world, was to work, was to labor. And the implication there is that that labor would be rewarded. And the garden, the fruit of the garden. And so work is not a bad thing. Work is not a result of the curse How many folks here would would say would agree with me, and this has been my experience, I really, and many times I feel better after I worked hard during the day than when I just piddled around and did nothing all day. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know why that is? Because God created us that way. On occasion, this doesn't happen often, but occasionally I'll just kind of say, well, I'm not going to do nothing today. Man, it's not long until Kathy's saying, you need to go get something to do. You're driving me nuts. You're miserable. Go find something to do. I know that's hard for you to believe, but that's true. So, are we all on the same page? Wealth in and of itself is not sin. Right? God is not against wealth. That's not against it. He's not against it. And work and labor isn't bad. Those are myths. Now I want to give us two economic gifts. Those are three economic myths, statements about money and work and labor and economy that are not true. But Ecclesiastes, now keep your place here in Timothy. We're going to end up back here, but come to Ecclesiastes again. And Solomon, again, under the inspiration of God, makes a couple statements about working, laboring, and the results of that that I found Very interesting. Number one, I notice in verse 18, it is a gift of God, it is a gift from God. To have the opportunity to earn wealth. Look at verse 18 with me. Behold, and I emphasized this when we were first reading it. Behold that which I have seen. Alright, Solomon's made this observation. It is good and comely. So it's a good thing. It is good and comely for a man to eat and to drink and enjoy the good of all his what? His labor which he taketh under the sun. Here on this earth, he's working hard. He's laboring. God has given him Notice it says all the days of his life, which God giveth him, God has given him this opportunity to work hard and earn something, earn some wealth. And him to enjoy it. That is a gift that God has given to us, that opportunity to earn wealth. The opportunity to earn an income is a gift from God The opportunity to earn wealth is a gift from God. I have the opportunity to work hard And invest myself and apply myself, whatever it may be, and to earn a living, and to make some income, and to maybe earn some a degree of wealth. God says that's a gift that He gives to us, that opportunity to do that. Sometimes people say, well, I'm a self-made man. Well, I understand sometimes what they're saying, but the fact of the matter is, if God didn't give them that ability, they'd be a nothing-made man. God is the one that gives us that opportunity. God is the one that gives us that that up uh that opportunity. It's a gift from God How different our approach to our jobs would be if we got up in the morning and said, hey, you know, this is an opportunity God has given me to work today and make some income. How that might change everything. He says that it's a gift from God to earn wealth and to work hard and to make an income. Not everybody appreciates the opportunity to earn wealth. I came across, and Dave, these reminded me of you a little bit. These sounds like things you might say. But not everybody seems to appreciate the opportunity to earn their wealth. Now, these are reviews written by employers about those working under them Some of the folks working under them. These are the reviews. Alright, so I don't know if this will click with you or not, but they tickled me. Since my last report This is the employer reporting to about one of the workers under him. Since my last report, he has reached rock bottom and he has continued to dig Um here's another one. His men would follow him anywhere, but only out of morbid curiosity. Not a very good leader. Uh this guy this one made me think of you, Dave. This guy slipped into the gene pool when no one was looking. Apparently these are actual reviews. The employee is not so much of a has been, but more of a definitely never will be. Um this one said this. He works well under constant supervision and cornered like a rat in a trap. Then he works well. Uh when she opens her mouth it seems that this is only to change whichever foot was previously in there Here's another one. He would be out of his depth in a parking lot puddle. Um I felt that way before. Um This I like this one. This young lady has delusions of adequacy. Um I got a couple more here. Are you all enjoying this? If you did half as much as I did, I enjoyed readings. She sets low personal standards, then consistently fails to achieve them. This employee should go far, and the sooner he starts the better. This employee is deriving a village somewhere of their idiot. This employee is a gross ignoramus, 144 times worse than an ordinary ignoramus. Uh when his IQ reaches 50, he should sell. She donated her brain to science before she was finished using it. And the last one he said this, if you give this guy a penny for his thoughts, you'll get change back The point is this, not everybody appreciates the fact that an opportunity to work and earn a living and earn an income and earn wealth, not everybody appreciates that as a gift from God. But God says, and God's word teaches us, that that is an opportunity we have. There are three ways to get wealth Think with me. Everybody with me? Think a little bit. There are three ways to get wealth. Anyone want to make some suggestions? Three ways that I can obtain wealth. One of them would be what, Xander? Work hard Work hard, use be wise, follow biblical principles, and I can work and and so one way is to work and earn it. What's another way to get wealth? What inherit? I put it this way, to have it given to me. Whether through inheritance or maybe win a lottery or something like that or whatever, somebody gives it to me for whatever reason I don't work for it. I didn't necessarily earn it. But I received it. It was given to me as a gift. Now there's a third way to get wealth. Anyone think what that is? Steal it. Work for it, have it given to me, or to take it uh criminally, to steal it Now, working for it is a good thing. That is the only one of the three that brings fulfillment. That is the only one of the three that brings joy and real purpose in life Uh we had the funeral Friday and I was talking to the funeral director. We rode out to the graveside together. We got talking about different stuff and I don't know how the subject came up, but of people winning the lottery And getting a lot of money that they did not work for, that they did not earn, maybe they inherited or whatever. And how that has destroyed the majority of the people That have received wealth that wealth that way. I have a friend of mine, very close friend, whose brother inherited uh who won a lottery, won a lot of money. And absolutely destroyed his life. I mean absolutely destroyed his life. Um sometimes people will inherit money from Mom or uh maybe dad worked real hard, invest himself, build a business up, made quite a bit of m wealth, and he hands it off to the son or the child And that child never worked for it necessarily, didn't do the investment, didn't put the labor in, he just inherited it, he's just given to them. And how many times have we heard of them squandering that away? And not appreciating what it was and destroying themselves in the business and squandering the wealth. I think the prodigal son perhaps would be a good picture of that And so, and then of course stealing in Ephesians chapter 4 talks about those let those that stole steal no more, but rather work for it and earn it. And so of those three Working for it, earning it, is a gift from God to have the opportunity to earn this. I would I would like to look at a hundred dollar bill And say, you know, I earned that. I worked for that. God gave me the time uh opportunity to invest time and effort so that I could earn that. I'd rather I'd far rather get it that way and somebody just come up and hand it to me. Anyone with me? Y'all are hoping I hand it to you. Yeah, I know, I see that. You wouldn't be happy. If I gave this to you, you would not be happy. It would destroy your life and ruin it. And and I would not be happy So, three ways to earn money. But the opportunity work, take your Bible if you would, turn to Proverbs. We're not too far away. Proverbs chapter 6. And surprisingly, the Bible talks a lot about working hard, working, and earning our wealth and our income. By the way, when a young person, when mom and dad makes a young person work for their allowance, that's a good thing. That's an important life lesson. I think we're seeing a generation of folks that had everything handed to them, then they get out in real life and it's not handed to them, so they get mad and they riot and they tear stuff up and destroy things because it's not being handed to them Look at Proverbs chapter 6, and I want to read verse number 6. Begin reading in verse number 6. Proverbs 6, verse 6. Notice the Bible says Go to the ant, thou what? What's a sluggard? A lazy person? A person that will not Work. Go to the ant, thou sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise. Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, in other words, what? Their self Motivated. They don't need somebody over them constantly. They get up and they do it. Have no guy, no uh guide overseer ruler provideth her meat in the summer. And gathereth her food in the harvest. She's working hard, this aunt. How long wilt thou sleep, O sluger? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding hands to sleep. So shall thy Poverty come as one that traveleth, and they want as an armed man. Do you notice when you travel, money goes pretty quick, doesn't it? And he says, if you're not willing to take the opportunity that God gives to you, if you're not, if you don't appreciate and you don't rejoice in the fact that God has given you an opportunity to earn a living and to earn wealth and put these things up What you have is just going to be lost. You're going to be empty. You're going to be like a slugard and one that travels and the money is gone. The wealth is gone. Turn uh over to Uh 2 Thessalonians. Tell you what, I'll just turn there real quick. 2 Thessalonians and chapter 3 and verse 10. If you're taking notes, you can jot that down. Let me read it to you. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse number 10. 2 Thessalonians 3 verse 10. It says, For even when we were with you, this we commanded you. Look at this, and a lot of us are familiar with this statement. If any would not work, neither should he what? Eat. So Solomon is telling us here in this one statement, he's saying the opportunity to work hard and to earn a living and to invest time and effort into making wealth It's a gift that God gives to us. And we see that all through Scripture supported, promoting hard work and earning our wealth. Uh how many people I I find it inspiring when I can read a story about someone that goes from rags to riches Anybody see that? They're born in poverty maybe, or maybe for whatever reason they find themselves just uh scraping to get by And they apply themselves and they work hard and they be they're wise in the use of their finance. They do that and they acquire wealth and they build that thing up. I tell you, you know why we appreciate that? You know why we're inspired by that? Because that is something God has incorporated into us to work hard and accomplish things and produce. I think Joseph is somewhat of an illustration of that. Joseph, of course, through circumstances out of his control, he ends up in prison with nothing, falsely accused. But did you notice when you read the life of Joseph, did you notice every position that he had, he applied himself diligently, he behaved himself very, very wisely, he was responsible and a young man of integrity. And every place he got, he worked his way up. He worked his way up. He worked his way up. Did you ever notice that when you read that? You know what? That's what God is saying. God has given to you an opportunity, given to me an opportunity, regardless of what our circumstances are, regardless of what our situation is, and we can get out there, we can work and apply ourselves and earn a living. So number one, the economic gifts, one is the gift of God to earn our wealth. And I've noticed here a second gift. And it is this, the gift of God to enjoy our wealth. Come back to Ecclesiastes with me if you would. And notice these statements he makes here in verse, the first part of verse 18, and then verse 19. He says, this, Behold, that which I have seen, it is good and comely, for one to what? Eat and to drink and to enjoy the good of all his labor He said, this is the gift of God. Look at verse 19. Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth and hath given him power to eat thereof And to take his portion? Look at his statement. I underlined it in my Bible. And to rejoice in his labor, this is what? It's a gift from God. A gift from God. It is possible to possess wealth, but not necessarily enjoy wealth. It is possible for a person to work very hard, accumulate wealth, whatever degree it may God choose to make available to us, and accumulate some wealth. But never really enjoy that wealth because we have a wrong perspective as to what that wealth is, as to what role it plays in my life. And God says, hey, I'll give you an opportunity. You can work, you can earn some wealth, whatever, again, whatever degree God in His wisdom allows, you can earn some wealth. But I also, you can enjoy that wealth. And that's a gift that God gives to us. It's possible to possess wealth and never really enjoy that wealth. If we're not careful, we can become so obsessed with having wealth. That we fail to see the role that that finances, that that wealth plays in our lives. We become a servant to that wealth. Somebody put it this way, money is a great friend, but it's a terrible master. It's a terrible master. And if I allow the idea of getting more and getting more and having and hoarding it up and having it and having it, and that becomes a God to me. I no longer enjoy it. It's no longer a blessing. And God says, I give you the gift of enjoying it Of enjoying that which you earn, of enjoying that, not being a taskmaster over you, not being a little g god over you. But a friend and a tool and a gift from God to be used as God intends. The greatest enjoyment of wealth You say, oh, the greatest enjoyment of wealth would be cruises and vacations and um uh What else? Uh buying stuff and dresses, ladies, and rifles and four wheelers, men And uh, oh, oh, that would be the greatest enjoyment of wealth. I'll tell you what, if that is all I see, the the wealth that God provides me, if that's all I see it's used for, and that in and of itself isn't wrong, but if that is what it's all for, I'm telling you you will never enjoy it. It will become a God. It will become a burden. Some of the most miserable people in the world are living the rich and famous lifestyles. And they're not enjoying the wealth that has been made available to them. Why? Because they miss the purpose of it. They don't see the reason, the role that it plays in their lives, and it becomes a God to them. And it becomes an addiction and an obsession. The greatest enjoyment of wealth is to use it for the purpose God has given it. You say, preacher, are you saying it's wrong? To get a four-wheel or do some of these things. Is it wrong to use some of the wealth that God's provided me for whatever? Is that wrong? No, no, no. We're not saying that's wrong at all. But we don't miss the purpose of it 1 Timothy chapter 6. Come back there with me again if you would. We'll end with this. 1 Timothy chapter 6, where we read here a few moments ago, but we want to look at it again. And this time we're going to look at it seeing what the role that wealth plays in us. You say, preacher, this message would have something to do with me if I was wealthy. Well the fact of the matter is if you get outside of the United States, and I keep saying this, but the fact of the matter is the poorest person sitting in this auditorium now is wealthier than the vast majority of the people in the world. Trust me. We fail to see that. We're so used to it. We're living at such a level of lifestyle level that we fail to see that as far as the rest of the world's concerned, we're pretty well off. Look at 1 Timothy 6, and let's begin reading again in verse number 17. He says, Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. Okay? He doesn't criticize them for being wealthy, for having wealth. They've worked for it, no doubt. They've earned it. It's legit. But don't be high-minded about it. Don't trust in these riches. They're uncertain. But trust in the living God, who has given us richly all things to enjoy. You can enjoy it, there's nothing wrong with that. But be sure that they do good. That they not only be rich in finances, but they be rich in good works, ready to distribute. If there's a need and I'm able to meet that need, wonderful. In fact, I didn't want the message to go any longer, but I was working on incorporating it in Romans. He talks about the gift of giving. God has given some people the gift of giving. He has enabled them. And I found one thing, this is something I found very true in life. I can't give something away I don't have. Anybody ever find that to be true? And so God enables sometimes people to have more wealth than others, and sometimes the reason for that is so that they can use it in various ways. And that's what He's talking here. That they be ready to distribute, just ready, willing. Here it is. If it's needed, I'm not able to, I'll help. Willing to communicate. Now what does that do for them? Look at verse 19. It lays up in store for themselves a good foundation against the day to come. And so if I understand, God has given me the gift, the opportunity to work and to earn an income and to accumulate wealth, perhaps. And that's a gift. That's an opportunity God has made available to me. And I need to understand and appreciate that as a gift. But then also He gives me the opportunity to enjoy that which I've earned and the income I have, whatever level it may be, I can enjoy that. And the best way to enjoy it is to use it and to view it the way God intends for it to be used and viewed. And not becoming a master over me, not becoming a Lord over me. Now, there's one statement he makes at the end of chapter 5, and come back there with me if you would, just for a moment. And to be honest with you I could, I was trying to make up some way to apply this into the lesson and make it sound profound, but I couldn't figure out a way to do it. And he makes this statement. At the end of the thr of the uh chapter in verse number 20, and he says this. Are you back there? Look at what he says here. This captured my attention, this fascinated me. He says, For he shall not much remember the days of his life, because God answereth them in the joy of his heart. He shall not much remember the days of his life. I got thinking about that. That's a true statement. We don't remember most of the days we lived. I'm 57 years old. I look back over my life. Most of the days I've lived, I don't remember a thing about them. I have a hard time remembering what happened this morning But we live our lives and we go through it, and boy, it's so important that I that I have this toy. I've got to spend my money and have this thing. Two weeks later, I forgot all about it. I don't remember. With the exception of a few events and a few special days and a few experiences, most of our life is completely forgotten. Completely forgotten. And so we've got to have a right perspective on the finances, the wealth God gives us, and also on the time that God gives us and how we use it and how we invest it. So, rejoicing in our labor. Let's work for God. Hey, my my my this is I guess how I'll end this. Let's work hard this week. Amen? Whatever God gives us to do, let's do it with all our might. Whatever it may be. Let's look at it as a gift from God, able to work with my hands or however, whatever it must. And then uh let's rejoice in the things God makes available to us. But let's see it from God. And keep in mind the fact, you know, a year from now I'm not going to remember any of this. And keep our focus on the Lord. Does that make sense? Maybe we find what he's saying. So we're going to pray. We're going to give the invitation. And maybe as we go into the Lord's Supper and as we start the new week tonight, finish out the Lord's, then maybe we want to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, I just want to. I just want to live for you with my whole heart. And the opportunities you give me, I'll just give them wholeheartedly and rejoice in the opportunity to serve you and live for you and work. And be what you've called me to be. Father, I ask that somehow you would take this and apply it to our lives and help us, Lord, to be the hardest-working people in town, the Christians, faithful and rejoicing. And everything you intend for us to be, help us to view the things you give us and provide for us from a heavenly perspective and a proper value. valuation of the things you give to us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know how God might have spoken to your heart tonight, but somebody would say, Preacher, God did speak to my heart tonight And God challenged me in this matter of my work and the uh the material things God provides me. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God spoke to my heart. God help me tonight. God bless you. Hands all around. Now as we go to the Lord's Supper, let's bow before the Lord. Let's humble ourselves. Ask Him to challenge us and help us to come in a humble way to the Lord's Supper. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed. And as Jennifer plays the uh