You ready? Here we go. Now you you can't miss this. Say this after me. Luke chapter seventeen, verse thirty two. It won't hurt you. Okay. Luke 17, 32. Here's what it says. You ready? This is now you're going to memorize this today. You ready? Three words. Remember Lot's wipe. Say that with me. Luke 17, 32. Why would Jesus say such a thing in the middle of a message where he's dealing with the fact about you need to make the decision? It's not if the rapture is going to take place. It is when. And every one of you people, whether you're on a housetop, in bed, uh plowing, uh picking corn, plucking chickens, milking cows, that's for all you farmers or setting at your Apple or your IMAC or whatever, uh or driving down the road, there's going as an appointed time. When that trumpet blows, amen. The dead in Christ shall rise first, and we that are alive remain shall be caught up together with them. Not going to happen unless you make the choice ahead of time. Now let me step over here in this world for a moment, that we that are saved, that know Jesus Christ our personal Savior. Living with known sin in your life, you better remember Lot's wife. Amen? Let me step back over here to the unsaved world. Today you're here for a reason. Revival service at the church here is to, if anybody here doesn't know Christ your personal Savior, would you make this day the day of your salvation? You over here playing with with sin in your life and and and letting it so easily uh set you down, so easily weight you down, would you make the decision today to finally get that right with God? Because When that takes place, then you're in the place of God, and God wants to use you in a great way. Let's just hover over our thought process: salvation. Sanctification and service. As I unwrap this story, remember Lot's wife, I taught you a Bible verse already, and now we want to slide back to Genesis chapter 13, where it's beginning to happen. And by way of introduction, Abraham is Lot's uncle, and and Lot and Abraham left the herb, the Chaldees, and their their animals grew and Being good farmers and subsistent type people, they uh they made a lot of money and they were doing well, and everywhere that Abraham went, God was blessing them in a great way. It got so so deep and and and and so uh uh so tight there, can I say, started to fuss with each other. The lots uh uh farmers and Abraham's workers and They had to get separated. God met with Abraham, the godly one. And everywhere in Scripture you'll see where Abraham is. He wasn't perfect, but he was always meeting with God. You see his nephew Lot, nowhere do you ever find in this story that he ever dealt with God? God had to come deal with him. This is a revival meeting, but also ties in with missions. What a wonderful missionary Lot could have been. And I'll show you to you know the message if he just did what God put in his heart to do, but he would not And then the death of his wife and brothers-in-laws and daughters and the messed-up life his own family had, it was about the choices that they made. As I start my message today over here, before I read, we've got four or five thoughts, and one of them is this, making a decision. Will secondly always take you in a direction that will always expose what you're devoted to, that will always lead to a destination at the end of the story. That's always going to be on display. Remember Lot's wife. Bible tells us in Genesis chapter 13, we're reading our text, the Bible says in verse 9. And Abraham said unto Lot, Let there not be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between thy herdmen and thy herdmen, for we be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. And if thou wilt take the left hand, then I'll go to the right, nor thou depart to the right hand, then I'll go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan It was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest into Zor, then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan And Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves one from another. And Abraham dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent towards Sodom. And the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today. Pray to take these simple thoughts from your word and help start revival here. Lord, in Oakland, Maryland, at the uh Mountain Lake Baptist Church. Lord, we we love this church, and Lord, you love these people. May you work in their hearts, those that are saved, to make the right choices today. And those that are unsaved, they'll make the choice to trust you as their personal Savior. And may we go away from here this service this morning. Knowing, Lord, that we've done the right thing according to your word, according to your will, and done in your way. And Father, we pray these things in your name. Amen. So I start my message this morning. I want to use the word L-O-R-D, and I'll use it all week in this revival services. It spells what word? What name? L means listen to God's word. O means to obey what it says. R means to respond to it. Respect it. And D means just do what God's Word says. Amen. Get past my voice, get past my height, get past my little idioms, and understand that God wants to work in your heart and and that by design God has you here today. Now how many's ever made a mistake in life like me? Okay, how many's got a I'm gonna tell you a story where I really messed up at the age of seven. Maybe almost eight. Dad was working on the higher river, just got a job to help put the dam in down there below Powhatan Point. And we were pretty poor back in those days. I think it was 1959. And uh he drove a 48-4 and uh had those funny doors on it, no back seat. 'Cause we hauled the cows and the hogs and dogs and frogs in there to sell 'em. Too poor to have a pickup truck. And uh one particular day he mom had been praying all day and the next day he got the call to get a job As he left, he said, Now boys, I'm leaving. I'll be back tonight. He said, Now you obey your mom and and you obey your aunts and you do exactly what you told the middle of the summer And they're gonna be doing some work, but you you stay away from the cows and you stay off the tractors and you stay out of the pig pen. Yes, Daddy, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right You know, and so Dad went off to work and by ten o'clock we made it to the pig pen. We'd lasted an hour. Now the the pig pen, y'all know what a pig pen is, don't you? How do you all know what a lean to is? That's where the tin comes downhill, where it comes off a tree and it leans on top of a fence. Which way the wind blows, that's the way it's going to lean to. Amen. That's how they got that name. And so I and had a little lean two in the back. It had four or five sows in that pen. And the pen's not much bigger than the platform area here, and my twin brother and I, Sam Uh uh somebody asked if my twin was preaching tonight because your brochure s brochure says Dr. Dan DeLong this morning and tonight says Dr. Din Delong. Uh my twin was Sam, not Dan, okay? But uh Dan and Dan might have been a good name. I don't know. And now now watch this. We watch Bonanza. And man, we were so excited. We saw our first rodeo, Hoss riding a bull and and uh and Joseph riding little Joe little Joseph, little Joe riding a cat uh horse or something. I don't know. So we got the bright idea to go up to the pig pen. Get on top of that roof and we grew straws and I got the long one so I get to jump first on top of the first pig that comes out. Now for you kids that don't know what a sow is, that's a female pig. That's where sausage comes from in baking at McDonald's. So I just want you to die. I saw the girl sitting over here. Just want you to know it it's not from some machine. But anyway, this big old sow came out. And I jumped off that roof first. Grab that big old hog by the ears, and she just walling around and bite twin brothers on top of the roof. One, uh, two Verse 1 to 7 wind. You know I'd like a rodeo, right? And he got to about five. And this cloud came over the pig pen. I'm holding on to the pig and I look up and he's between five and six and he looks up. Why we were supposed to stay out of the pig pen was there was two big hornets nest up underneath that roof. Hello Dolly. How many of folks have ever been stung by a hornet? My nose is still swelled up after 60 years. Man, we saw those hornets and my little fat body come off that pig, went over that fence, and I'm running down through the field. One gets me here, and one does get me here. Gets me in the back of the neck, and I dive into a watering trough we had for cows. Bees can't swim. My twin was not so lucky. He jumped off the top of the roof, off the back of that sow, and went f back up in the mud. Couldn't get out, and they were all over him I come up for air out of that water and trough he's walking by me full of mud, his head's starting to swell up like a little softball. By the time he got to the house, it looked like a basketball. He couldn't even see his eyes. And we thought he's gonna die. Mom threw him in the back of that old forty eight or car and threw me in there and We drive to Dr. Gillespie's place seven miles away in Woodsfield, Ohio. Now he was a dual doctor. They don't have him anymore. You know what a dual doctor is? He does animals after dark and humans during daylight hours Name was Dr. Gillespie. We went in there and Dr. Gillespie looked at him and looked at me and said, let that one over there. You know, I'm over there dying. He said he's not so bad. He got Sam on that journey and gave him a shot of something and the swelling went down and they called my dad. Dad had to come from work. Had to sign the papers and write a check and my dad when he g got got mad he st started a little bit and his neck the eyes would snap His neck would get real thick. He was 5'2, weighed 220 pounds. He wasn't fat. He was just like a fire hydrant He had a 44 inch belt, psh you could snap that to twenty-two inches so fast and use it. You're like, what just happened here? He'd come in that room, what's wrong, what's wrong? My mom said, all the the boys got the bees on top of the and he just started to snap on top of what shed Oh. We got in the car and Sam's laying across the seat and I'm sitting there looking out the window, my nose is hurting, my ears are hurting. He's all uh you know Dad's driving, uh three on the tree, y'all know what that is, you know. And he's doing that thing, and and as he his eyes are still snapping, you know, and I my mom's arm comes over her left one My dad's first name was Cletus, and he he looked, she looked at him, and he's just driving, staring straight ahead, and she said, Cletus, not today. Not today. What's not today? Oh yeah I found out what that meant the next morning. You younger kids don't understand this, but I swelled in spots I didn't think I had spots, amen. When he got done with my twin brother and I, he set us on the edge of the bed. He looked at us and said, The next time. Be not deceived, God. My dad wasn't a preacher. He didn't get it all right. God will not be messed with And you better know something that says, Dad, do not provoke your children to wrath. I don't care how mad you are, you're wrong. Did you ever do this again? I mean he warmed us up. The bees were nothing The next time you want to disobey me or disobey God or your mother, you better remember the bees. Do you understand me? Loud and clear, sir. Then I started reading my Bible. Started preaching. I come across this verse. Remember Lot's wife. Number one, he made a decision. When he made that decision, it did mess with his life, his wife's life, and his children's life. You and I make decisions every day, but when it comes to making decisions to give our heart to God, to trust God as our personal Savior, It is a personal decision. Look at me in chapter 13, please. Look at verse 7. It says, And there was a strife between it the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmans of Lot's cattle. And you'll find out earlier in the chapter, in the chapter before, that God came and he talked with Abraham. And every decision you make will affect your life. It's your marriage, it's your children, it's your work, it's your education education. And this story here, God had a will for Abraham. And God had a will for Lot. And Lot was supposed to be with Abraham. He was supposed to be the next leader. But somewhere along the line. Lot made a decision over here. You know, I'm going to go with Abraham, but I'm going to do it my way. I'm not going to do it how God wants. And nowhere do you see him ever, ever praying to God. And when he made that decision. All right. He made it because of money. Because it's the well-watered plain of Sodom and Gomorrah. It was where he could feed all the the cattle and the sheep and the goats. It's where he could open up his 401k, his MetLife, his his uh uh uh prudential file, his his citibank, his His Sun Trust, his BBT bank, where he could uh get that carbon's credit and that money. He made a decision instead of staying out here and sharing part of it with Abraham And letting, deferring to the older leader all through scripture, he made a decision, you know what? Unk? Thanks for giving me the shot. I'll take the greengrass. I'll take it like it was in uh in uh in the land of Zor I'll take it like it was in the land of Egypt. I'll take it like it was there in the garden before sin. It's so good there because I'm going to have it made in the shade with all the lemonade. He made a decision And folks, you make decisions this morning. You that don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, praise the Lord. I praise God for this. It's your choice. It's not mine. I can't make you do anything. I don't want to make you do anything. Amen. I want you to listen to what God's saying to you this morning. If you're here today without the Lord Jesus Christ, you need to trust Him as your personal Savior. It's appointed once for man to die, and after this the second death. And whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall have eternal life. Amen? First John says, and you that know that's I've got Jesus in your heart, you know that you know that you know. But if you've never asked in Christ, I was teaching in Ambassador Baptist Bible College a month ago. Had 15 students there and a young boy from from West Virginia. And I said, give me your testimony. He says, Well, I go to school here, I do this and this and this. And I said, Well, you're going to be a missionary? You need to show up till you give your testimony. When did you get saved? He looked at me and said, I don't know You don't have the day, and I don't have the day. He said, I thought I got saved when I was six. I thought I got saved when I was nine. But I I'm really sure last year I got-I think I got saved last year Boy, we got real quiet in Dan DeLong's classroom. All the kids are looking at me. What's this about? And I said, see me afterward. You know that boy had been going to that school for three years. Living in the pastor's home since he was born. But he realized that day he never he was all around it. But he didn't understand what repentance was and what it means that meant to trust Christ as your personal savior. Folks, I got a sermon I preached called Living Too Close to Jesus for my damage This boy had been all around it, but he never touched Christ his personal savior. You can come to church like this, but never know Christ your personal savior. You can walk look it, you can walk it, you can Talk it. You can act like Abraham's nephew, can act like God's man's nephew, and your family can look like they're God's family nephew, uh their uncle, you're following around, but inside you're making a decision to do it your way. Number two, let's go to the second thought. Not only did he make a decision, number two, it led him to direction. Would you join me, please, on the second D. Look what it says in verse 10 of chapter 13. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld the plain of Jordan. That it was well watered everywhere. Now he could have went to the left where the land was dry and have thousands of acres, but he went to the right where there were just a couple of hundred acres because it was well watered. Now watch this. Before the Lord destroys Solomon and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest to Zor, and Lot chose him not part of it. He chose him all the plain of Jordan. The Bible says he journeyed east. He separated himself one from another. Right there when he made that decision, it took him in a direction away from the spiritual man Abraham in verse 8 and 9. He got his pent pent towards toward the wicked city. It said in verse ten, he pitched it toward Sodom and Gomorrah. And lot and verse twelve, Abraham dwelled in the Canaan. And Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain. And he he hadn't moved in yet. He pitched his tent toward it. See, he made a decision. Now he's going in a direction. Just a little bit of sin. Just a little bit of wrong. Just a little bit of laying out. Just a little bit of not having devotions. Just a little bit going a little different way. Just a little bit to give in to the eight year olds. Just a little bit to give in to the nine year olds. Just a little bit when they're sixteen. It'll be a whole lot by their eighteen. And before you know it, you were there one day for God, and because blood's thicker than righteousness, you're clear over here like Lot. What's driving you is not God, but money. Prestige. Finance. I don't want to get the cart the head of the horse here, but he made a conscious decision here. His wife's name was never given to us. Jesus said, remember Lot's wife when it comes to decision of your salvation, when it comes to decision of you getting your life cleaned up with sin, sanctification, and when it comes for service, and you know, just remember she made the wrong decision And it was on her husband because he took her in a direction. And folks, no matter how you put it, it takes you in the wrong direction. Amen. All God's people said. How many ever went on diets here like me? I hadn't been here for four years, preacher. I lost 50 pounds three years ago. I'm about the same size I was when you saw me. Well, not in Ohio, but I mean before that. I got a problem. I love to eat. Now I don't have a liquor problem. I don't have a beet problem. I don't have an alcohol problem. But God knows I love blueberry pop-tarts. My sister Kay, she should have been the Till of the Hunt secretary. I stay with her and I stay with her this week before I came. I'm over there preaching and and uh and uh I go walk and she has a six mile, there's an airport there, I walk around, a little country place I walk in and She says, how's your diet? My diet's doing good. Doctor said, go on it. And why it's not my it's not my weight, it's but my problem. It's my height. He said I need to be about six foot eight. So I I can't change that, so I've got to go back down to so I go on a diet And she knows I love these blueberry Pop-Tarts. So the second day I'm there walking and jogging and stuff, I'm going down this country road, and I notice in front of me on the right-hand side of the road was a silver package of Pop-Tarts. Was this God blessing me for my diet? And I went on down but another mile, and there's another Pop Tart. My sister. You know what? She had six of those packages over a six mile area. I took every one of them and put them in my pocket Got back to the house. She's in there, you know, she got that little smirk, you know, she's washing dishes. Hey Dan, how was your walk? That was good. And you want anything to eat? No, no, God blessed me. You know. He did? What did he bless you with? And as I turned, I noticed I saw in the corner an empty blueberry box. I'm in the room with the devil, amen. She set me up. I did eat him, but over a six-day period. The devil sets you up too. When you make a decision over here that you're going to do what's right for God, he'll bring us Sodom and Gomorrah. He'll bring Pop-Tarts, he'll bring uh uh uh Delilahs, he'll bring Bathsheba's, you listen to me, man. Ladies, he'll bring Ananias and Sapphirais. He'll bring money, he'll bring things to see if you're right on your decision And this old boy made a decision when he said, all the well plaintiff Jordan, uh-oh, red flag goes up. He pits his tent towards Gordon. He's going in a direction now. Are you with me on this? I didn't have to pick up the blueberry pop tarts and he didn't have to go in that direction, but he wanted it for him. Number three, not only decision direction, it'll always expose number three what you're devoted to. Look what the Bible says here about this devotion. And you know when And I want you to listen. He needed revival in a great way. And as we leave chapter 13, you'll find out in chapter 14 that he is uh He's kind of minding his own business. His bank accounts are pretty thick and I look at verse twelve and uh a bunch of terrorists come into town where the general's out fighting and they steal the town the way these guys do These uh these uh uh raiding marauders and says in verse twelve that they took Lot, Abraham's brother's son, who was dwelt in Sodom and his goods, and departed. They took all his his uh his his uh carts and they took all his bank accounts and They took his kids, they took him. They're going to sell them into slavery and and and sell everything else he had down at the uh yard sale in Goshen, Indiana. I mean I'm just saying he's he's lost everything And then one of the guys break away, I believe, is under God's will. Now he made a decision to go into that direction. Now you're going to see that led to this, what is he really devoted to? And I'm telling you folks, it's money Prestige and things. It's exposed here. We go away from the story, and he can he comes back into the biblical story. If you'll join me, please look at chapter 19, verse 1 Before we read that, can I stop here? Lot was captured in the dark. He he's chained, his wife's chained. The bad guys are gonna win. Then Abraham shows up with his green berets and attacks a bunch, kills every one of them, and they get everything back. Could God be at work here? Think with me, Lot. Think with me lot. Mah and I'm telling you lost everything. He gave it back to you. Why don't you move out there in the desert area? By Abraham. Why don't you go out there and do something for God? You've lost Sodom and Gomorrah. There's nothing going on there. You've lost your testimony. You've lost your witness. We'll get to that in just a moment. I mean you have nothing going on Or you can go back and get it right. He didn't do either. He comes back in our story and we see what he's devoted to in chapter 19, verse 1. Look what the Bible says when the angel showed up. There came two angels to Sodom at the evening, and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. That's the gate of leadership. He's one of the magistrates. He's one of the mayors of the suburbs. He's large and in charge of that group of unsaved people. And Lot, seeing them rose to meet, rose up to meet them. He bowed himself with his face toward the ground. He knew who they were He knew why they were there. He knew something was happening. And he'd made a decision that took him in a direction. This direction displayed his devotion. His devotion was to money His devotion was to prestige. His devotion devotion was to be the big man in charge. You know When that and my angels came in there, it's a sad story. Lot couldn't even think straight by this time He said, instead of having your way with these angels, right on you men, I'm going to offer you my two daughters here. Take them and do what you want with them. You adults know what I'm saying, don't you? This, by the way, was a saved man, I'm going to show you. He was a righteous man. But he made a decision that took him in a direction that showed that he was devoted to the wrong thing. Let me move quickly. Pastor the devotion. Why did Jesus say, remember Lot's wife? Can I tell you number four? This is important. It led to a destination. I use this term, what goes around, what comes around. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man sows he shall reap. He that soweth to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit, now listen carefully, shall reap. Life everlasting. Now listen to this thought. The destination. Look at chapter 19 with me, please, in the book of Genesis, verse 14. Can you find ten righteous? the angel said. So he went out, and the Bible says, and spoke unto his sons-in-laws, who married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place, for the Lord will destroy the city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law. No respect. What a morbid family meeting. No respect. He had no friends. All the unsaved friends he had are dying or gonna die No one understood what he was about to say, but he would think that his daughters would have talked to his son-in-laws about God never happened. They didn't have much of God in them either. Because they never said they did not decide against their husbands. They stayed with them on it. They mocked him. What a sad destination. You look closer to the story, no morals. When he started the story, he had a happy little home. You know, like Leave It the Beaver. Now he's got a mess. Terrible mess. The Bible says here that when they laughed at him and made fun of him When the morning was coming, the next verse, the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, thy two daughters, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. And while he lingered, look at him again, he did not want to leave. What a destination. He's going to lose his daughters and grandkids. His son-in-law's, he's going to lose the bank, he's going to lose all the animals. He made a decision that took him in the wrong direction. So what he's devoted to was the money. And unbelievable how this ate him up That comes as my last thought. Display. He made a decision, took him in a direction, exposed what he was devoted to, and it led to a destination of no respect. No morals. He had an opportunity to get out of that place in chapter 14. But he stayed right there. Why? It wasn't his wife. It was him. It wasn't his girls. It was him. The last thought is called the display. It's on display. And I'm glad this story is in the Bible, amen? Because it gives me hope. It gives me direction. It gives me boundaries. It gives me guidance. And to have revival, folks, you've got to take a good, honest look at your heart. You make a choice to be saved or not. You make a choice to get rid of those sins or not. And you make a choice to do God's will or not Take a look here with me, please, as we finish this last thought. As they're walking out, it says that he lingered back. They had to grab him by the arms. And as they go to verse twenty-four, verse nineteen, then rot reigned, then the Lord reigned upon Sodom and Gomorrah, brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities and all the plain and all the inhabitants of the cities that group on the ground. But his wife, she looked back. And she turned into what? Translated a statue. I went saw Liberty a couple years ago. I was over there preaching in New Jersey. Saw the statues in Washington, D. C. when I preached there a few weeks ago. Statues all around our country and they were there made of stone and they've been there for 50, 80, 100, 200 years, some of them. Her statue lasted a long time. And every time anybody go by that statue on that trade route, the Solomon Gomorrah Through that countryside, there they'd see her standing there, and that was always on display to remind anybody that came that way that when you disobey God, When you won't listen to God, when you make a conscious decision to do it your way, remember Lot's wife She stood there for years. The antiquity of time and rain and wind and it blew her away. It dissolved. And Jesus is preaching, and Jesus was there that day when that thing happened. Then he's preaching in Luke 17. He said, all you folks, when you make the decision to accept me as your personal savior or not, or you to do what God's will is of your life or not, or you to get rid of that sin or not, he said, I just want to give you three words of advice. It's your choice. Remember Lot's wife. For the unsaved, when that trumpet blows, there'll be two together in the field. There'll be two working. There'll be two on the rooftop. There'll be two in bed. The one without Christ will stay there. The one with Christ will move on. Amen. And for us living, hey, isn't it better to stay right with God than to get right with Him? But there's a smarting point we need to get right with him. Jesus said, listen, it's about your salvation. You've got that sin that's the only thing that besets you, it's about that sanctification, clean it up. And thirdly, it's about service. What are you going to do for me? Over here, Lot could have been one of the greatest missionaries ever recorded in Scripture. Instead, he was a A mistake. And I see him, I say he gets exactly what he deserves. Amen. But God didn't see it that way. Turn your Bibles to 2 Peter as I close tonight. Here's a date. I want you to catch this with me. Peter is writing. He tells us under the direction of the Holy Spirit, 2 Peter 2, verse 6. And God turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into Azes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example to those that after uh should live ungodly. And he delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. That's the lifestyle. Not their talk-talk, it's their walk. Their lewdness, their sinfulness. It bothered him every day, but he did nothing about it. For that righteous man dwelling Among them in seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. Listen to me When the bad boys came and took him out with his wife and kids the first time, boy, I my little red flag was up in my thought process. Maybe God was using that to get him to get out of that place or to bring revival to that place. The Bible says it was vexed from day to day. I'm just connecting the box for you. I have a hard time saying he's a righteous guy? You've got him in the scripture. You said his heart was vexed from day to day with their filthy conversation. He would not. Do what God told him to do. Now, folks, when you get to that point in your life, you better remember Lot's wife. Because that's why she's in Scripture. Amen. All God's people said, been there and done that. Been there and done that. Remember the bees? The day afterward? Ten years go by. I graduated from high school. And uh I put my application in, was accepted by Bob Jones University. Can you believe that? They'd take anybody back in those days. My twin brother got saved the same time I did. August 15th, 1969, how Webb was preaching the message. The Russians are coming, the Russians are coming. We got baptized two weeks later, and I'm going off to Bible college, and we just graduated from high school and he ran into a girl. To save her identity, I'll call her Jezebel Delilah. She's bad. And uh Instead of coming home with me off of work every day, he'd drop off, have me drop him off the dinner state and he'd run across the cornfield and go stay with her by 11, 12 o'clock at night. She'd bring him home and drop him off at the driveway and he'd come up the driveway. Mom knew what was going on. So a day before I got to go to college, I'd prayed about it, worked on it all year, head went the other way Making the wrong decisions. And uh she said, listen, I got him packed. You go over and get him out of that house and put him in the car, and you just take him to South Carolina with you. I want him out of here. She's bad news. So I called my best friend, Cam Hayes. He's a pastor in Wigville, Ohio today. He got in the car with my 63 Shibby and I said, Cam, we're going over to so-and-so's house and my twin Sam's in there, and we're going to back down that quarter mile-long driveway and open up all four doors, and I'm going to go inside. I don't know what's going to happen. But my mama's got a hold of God said, I gotta get him out of there and get him right with God. I didn't have any theology classes yet, and I didn't have a feelings journal yet. Still don't. And so I I I didn't know how this was going to work But I knew my mom was right. And Cam I said, don't ask any questions, keep the motor running. He said, What are you gonna do? Just just trust me So I went in that house, I didn't even knock, and he's sitting there on the on the couch, and she's sitting there beside him, they're eating peanut butter and jelly and drinking Pepsi with his shoes off. I said, Sam, don't you throw your life away with that. And that word that has a lot of adverbs and adjectives on it. And she got mad and started throwing books at me Now I'm slapping them out of the air. I said, you know what I'm saying is true. I mean you got saved, you got baptized, and you're going to stay here back in the coal mine, back in the hills in here with this. I mean your life is going to be throw it. Don't throw it away. God's got something spatial for you. I'll sound like a little evangelist, amen She went and got her broom and was going to hit me with it. Because I was calling her about every name in the book. I took it, broke it over my knee, and threw it on the floor. I said, You know I'm telling you the truth. And he said, Well, I'll make my own decision I don't know where it came from. Remember the bees. She looked at me. He said, What? Remember the bees? He goes, yeah. Well, it's going to come again in your life. It's not going to be dad this time. God's going to get you. He looked at me. He said, I think you're right. She says, No, no, no. Get back, witch. Get back. I had him going out the door and the dandelion, don't you dandelg me, you just stay right here. And she went in the kitchen. I said, Let's go, go, go, go, go. He ran to that car in his bare feet and putting his shoes on in the back seat and in his hand. Come up come up over that seat. And he said, thanks. And we sped down that road. We never stopped to accept for gas. We get to Greenville. We got on campus there. They never heard of him. Bob Jones Jr. said we'll keep you for 30 days. He ended up staying for four years, became Bot Jones Jr. 's bodyguard, uh, got better grades than me, was voted most likely to succeed, and I'm sitting in the back of the room But you listen to me. He remembered the bees. And I hope and pray that you'll remember Lot's wife. If you go out of here today without Jesus Christ. Because you have to make a choice. And you men and women playing with sin. We've had to dismiss three missionaries since January in our ministries because they. God in sin. Oh, just a little thing. Just a little blueberry pop-tart. Just a little well-watered plain of Sodom and Gomorrah. Just one more goat, one more sheep, just one more. I'm going to do God's will my way. Well, Christian, you need to do it his way. Remember Lot's wife. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, no one's looking around. With all the heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm gonna give the invitation to pastor in just a moment. I don't know your hearts, but God does. I think there's some of us in here this morning to have a revival. We need to remember lots of wife and we need to get right on some things and we need to stay right on some things and we need to do right on some things and if we just listen. to the Lord and listen, obey his word and respond to it and and just do it. And even in Lot's life, if he would just had gotten right. I think there would have been a different ending. Because God knows how to deliver us out of temptation. God knows how to deliver the ungodly, the unrighteous, to make him right But his wife looked back from behind him and she became a pillar of salt. She made a decision. She knew exactly what she was doing. And she had no idea it would happen that quick. And Jesus has put her in the scriptures for us to remember her. That we have to make a decision and do his will according to his word and his way Who can say, Brother DeLong, God has spoken to my heart this morning? I don't know Christ as my personal Savior. I need to trust Him today. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I want you to raise your hand. I want to pray for you Only Pastor Leathern and myself, we just want to pray for you that you would come and trust Christ as your Savior. Is there anybody at all where I'm not going to embarrass you? I will come to you privately. In your home or privately in a room here or privately where there'll be nobody, where you're not being barrass, where you say, hey, I need Jesus Christ in my heart. You can say, preacher, ah, I'm a Christian. You mentioned that sanctification thing two or three times. I need some things cleaned up in my life. I need some sins that so easily beset me. I need to take care of them. It could be pride, it could be worry, it could be finances, it could be something else. But God spoke to my heart. Would you pray for me that I would get cleaned up so I could be used by God? Could you raise your hand as a testimony? And he wanted out many, many, many hands. And what about this thought service? Service. Preacher, I want to do something for God. Brother Long, I want to serve like Abraham did. I don't want to flounder around like Lot. And God put on my heart today to get some things right so I can get in position. to serve him. I want to work for the Lord in and through this church. Would you pray for me that the decision I make will take me in a direction that exposes my devotion to what God wants me to do and that my life will be on display to be a witness of what it ought to be. Could you raise your hand for me? Pray for me that I would do that. My last thought is this, since we have revival here, it's about reaching the lost of this world. Who has the unsaved loved one, an unsaved friend? Could you raise your hand as a testimony See, God, put your hands down, wants to work on your heart this week to reach that person or persons in your life. Don't miss the opportunity. Now's the time to make that decision, to get that sin taken care of, get salvation taken care of, because God wants to use you in his service for his honor and his glory. And together with our heads. Bowed eyes closed. If you would, let's all stand together.