I'm going to read verse number one. I would really, really like to begin reading in chapter 11, verse 9, and read all the way down through verse 6 of chapter 12, because that is all one subject, I believe. He introduces the last few verses of chapter uh 11, the last two verses, he's he's addressing young people here, and we talked about that the last time we're here. He's looking at young people. Then verse 12 is kind of a transition. He's emphasizing the importance of youth and the importance of making uh these certain decisions and getting into a certain condition in youth. Because the transition of verse number one goes into the aging period. Look at verse one now. Look, he says, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth That's a carryover, I believe, from verse 9 and 10 of the previous chapter. Then he says this, you should remember your creator in the days of your youth. Why? While the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh. What does he mean by the years drawing nigh? It's coming down to the end of life. The years are drawing nigh. The years are running out. And when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Now notice the punctuation at the end of verse 1. What is it? It's a colon there. It's not ending the sentence. And if you follow down all the way to verse number six, that is all, this is all one continuing statement. made by Solomon in this message. And verses 2 down through 6, we're going to look at a future message. He's addressing the aging process and its effects upon our body. It's fascinating. It's a fascinating perspective that Solomon brings. But he brings this subject of youth in verse number one, and he says, Remember now thy creator. When? The days of thy youth. And there's a reason for that. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you for the book of Ecclesiastes. Lord, it's had a profound impact on my thinking. And uh Lord, I believe on my walk with you. And I pray that you would continue to use our study of this book to help us see the vanity of living a life without God, of pushing you aside and living for ourselves. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew as I do, Lord, every message. And I ask with all my heart that you would speak through me and help us. And Lord, I pray this evening, particularly for our young people, I'm so grateful for them. And Lord, we love them. We're so concerned for their well-being. And I pray that maybe you'd use some thoughts and you would especially grip their attention tonight, Lord, with these truths. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's coming to the end of his message that Solomon preached at Jerusalem. The first part, as we have been emphasizing, has been somewhat of a personal testimony of his endeavor to try and find peop purpose, find fulfillment. try and find a genuine happiness in a world without God, under the sun, pushing the Lord out. He's making decisions. He's deciding what's right and wrong. He's deciding what's bet for best for his life. He's deciding which way to go. push God out of the picture. He uses the term under the sun. And his conclusion throughout the first half is vanity of vanity. It's empty I don't find any fulfillment. In fact, it's frustrating. And we can see that in our world today. The world is frustrated. Has anybody noticed that? It is an angry, frustrated world, because they are living only under the sun. Now he's at the second half of the book, from chapter 7 on. He's beginning to get out from underneath the sun And he's getting back to the perspective he had, I believe, before he had gotten away from God. And he's starting to see things from heaven's perspective. And he's sharing with us through the pages of Scripture these lessons, these little wise statements. Now he comes to the end. And if you would notice there, look at verse number 13 of chapter 12. He says, let us hear the what? The conclusion of the whole matter. He's bringing his sermon to an end. And as you often in a sermon or a message, as you come to the end of the message, You start to make what? What does a preacher do? Is he brings the message to a close. He makes what? What is it? Yeah, he makes the personal applications. Here are the lessons. He gave his testimony. Here are the truths from the Word of God. Now, this is the application. And Solomon is applying what he's learned here particularly to the youth. Now, if you remember, several weeks ago, we noted, first of all, he is making this appeal to the youth And if you remember, we pointed out, and I think it's very interesting, that all of Solomon's writings in Scripture, all the scriptures that God inspired to preserve from us from the pen of Solomon, are addressed to the youth And his burden and his heart and his vision was for helping young people in their spiritual well-being, their spiritual health, and their relationship with their God. And he brings that here. As he brings this message to an end, he zeroes in and targets in on the youth again. And so he addresses the youth and he makes an appeal to the youth. Does anybody remember I gave a list of things to pray for our young people? Does anybody remember I gave a list about, oh, 13 different things to pray for our young people? Now, I want to get looking into this And I want us to notice in verse number one, he gives, that was an appeal to the youth, was our first point. Now tonight, I want us to notice his advice for the youth. His advice for the youth. Now, I want to challenge our young people, if you would, if you have a pen and you have some paper, I want to urge you, all our young people, 25 and under, Well all of it, and and some of that are in their second childhood even. Could um but uh jot some jot some things down, some advice that Solomon gives us here. Um And and and I'll tell you when when to write what um what I have in mind with this. But let me think let me talk about youth, the period of our youth. How many people ever look back with nostalgia on an earlier time in life? I'm talking to the older folks now. You look back on the years of the youth, you look back with nostalgia. And um I put this down. I think for a lot of people, the period of youth, the period of life that we call youth, is perhaps the most desirable period in life. It's young. Life is an adventure. We've got these dreams. We have these visions. We think we can conquer the world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? A lot of times, have you ever noticed this with folks as they get older, they don't want to admit that they're as old as they are. They want people to think that they're what? younger. And somebody said uh my my birthday was last week and uh um one of the kids how old how old do you think I am? Eighty five So he's buried out behind the barn back there. We want w our minds go back, oh if I was younger, oh if I just had the strength of my youth, oh if I just had the the uh The thrill of the youth and all that. Uh the peri the young people here in the church tonight, you are living in a period of life. You are in a stage of your life That is perhaps, at least in a lot of people's minds, the most desirable part of life. Now I enjoy the A Jam. I don't mind. I I'm fine with uh fifty-nine years old. I feel eighty-five sometimes. But um uh you know I'm happy as can be. I'm happy as a lark and uh when I get up in the morning the bones snap and crackle and standing up is think But uh youth is um for a lot of people youth is a very desirable, one of the most desirable periods of life. Let me say this. I believe that that period of youth from infancy to adulthood, that That time frame in there, 20 years maybe, give or take a few, that time frame in there, I believe, is the most important part of a person's life. Did ever hear this statement? Every I mean I think there was a book written. Everything I learned, everything I needed to learn about life, I learned in kindergarten Now you think about it. That stage of life that we call youth is where we learn just about everything we know. Now we pick up stuff later on, but it's where we learn to speak, where we learn to read, it's where we learn to drive. So many of the basic things that the rest of our life we take for granted, we just assume, is when we we learn that during that period of time. It's when we get our education for the most part, and there's exceptions It's in that period of time where the decisions we make, and I've been emphasizing this, the decisions that are made in our youth Are often decisions we have to live with the rest of our life. How many people are living with stuff you made decisions younger and you're living with that results, consequences now? Sure. Sure. And a lot of times we don't even realize at the time the significance of the decision we're making, but nevertheless, it affects us for the rest of our lives. affects us for the rest of our lives. This past Tuesday night at 10. 30, 40 years ago, we're talking about this Wednesday night with somebody, 40 years ago, this past Tuesday night at 10. 30, I knelt beside my bed Back in Pennsylvania, and I called the Lord Jesus Christ to come in my heart and life be my Savior. Forty years ago. And I made the statement the other night back in the fellowship, Paul. I made the statement. Isn't that an amazing thing? A decision I made as a 19-year-old boy late one evening on a Monday night, it was a Monday night, 40 years later, it still impacts my life every single day. Isn't that an amazing thing? And so decisions that are made in youth are are I think that period of life of youth is so important because of decisions made, because of the education we generally get during that period of time, uh because we're so easily influenced. Basically, it's during the stage of life that we call youth is where our character is developed. Our integrity, our character, our work ethic is often established during that early part of life. Whether we have an honest heart or not, Is often established. I tell you, a little child can get away with lying, that's going to affect them the rest of their life. That profoundly corrupts their integrity. When they can get away with that, it stains it, it corrodes it. So much of our character is developed. During that period of time we call youth. Now, I want to make this statement. God, regardless of what our youth was like, regardless of what decisions we made, regardless of what character we developed I'm glad that God is all-powerful and can change a life at any point in that person's life. God can transform us by the renewing of our mind. We can be transformed. and and and made into the image of Christ. But a lot of these basic character, these core characteristics of life are developed during the period we call youth. It's so important. Um, I put this down. The most brief period of life is that youth. How many people feel like your your young years just raced by? You look back and say, good night. That just went by and of course time goes faster as you get older. But these little children, how many how many how many folks that have your kids are grown, you ever say to somebody with young kids Do you ever say this to them, boy, love 'em. Enjoy it now because they'll be grown and gone before you know it. Anybody ever say that? Isn't that the truth? I was I was uh um loving on little uh Ruth Ann Swordson trooper this morning. They were going out, Lindsay and Willis, uh little uh Ruth Ann, everybody know him talking about. Isn't she a doll? And I told him, I said, man, it's like every week she's grown an inch. That little girl, I said, next week she's gonna be driving and dropping you off here. Man, youth just races by. Just races by. I used to joke with the boys that I was going to tie bricks to their heads so they stopped growing. And just stay little boys for me. Done work. Done work. Youth is so brief, goes by so quickly. And this, in a lot of cases, this next statement is true. The most squandered period of life is often youth. Squandered. And I think we live in a day and age where that is that is enhanced by our world and the society. There was a day 12, 13-year-old kids were working jobs, learning trades, working on their hands, knowing how to do things. Man, they're out, you know, a 14, 15-year-old kid driving tractors and and uh changing oil in the car could change tires. And uh but uh you know as time goes by Uh I'm finding that for a lot of our young people, the thing they're best at smashing little buttons on a little phone or a little video thing. And man, they can just mash them away. I saw a gal over here somewhere down at Capitol Connects or someone, and she was, man, alive. There was smoke coming off her tongue. She was Now I'm not trying to be critical, and I'm not trying to be critical of our youth, but I'm saying this. We live in a society now where You've got kids 20, 25, 30 years old, and they hardly have any trade. They hardly they uh they there's not much they can do. And that's a tragedy. Because the rest of life, now get what I'm saying here, and I hope the young people are taking what I'm saying seriously, because it is coming from the Word of God and it is coming from my heart. And there's a lot of adults here that would say, amen to what I'm saying. The time that you are living right now to our young people, this stage of your life is so important And can I put it this way? Don't be stupid. Don't be dumb. Solomon is emphasizing the fact to young people, you have got to be wise because the decisions you make and the direction you're going to go in your life, you are going to have to live with that the rest of your life. And we're going to see here in a minute. And then you're going to stand before God. And you cannot go back and erase it. And you cannot go back and undo a lot of that. And God is gracious and God does the miracles. But the stage that you are living in now is so, so important. And you need wisdom. You need wisdom from the Word of God. You need the Holy Spirit of God to lead you and direct you. You need to develop so many aspects of your being because someday you're going to be my age. Someday you're going to be my age and you're going to have to live with the decisions you're making now. So be wise, be wise. So Solomon is giving advice to youth, and I think the reason he's zeroing in on these youth are this list of things I just gave you now, characteristics of the youth. It's a desirable period. It's an important period. It's so brief And it's so easy to squander it and come out of my youth with nothing. With nothing. Let me give your advice. Here's Solomon's advice. This is what I encourage you to jot some of these down. First thing he says is, consider your creator. Look at verse 12. Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Remember now thy creator. The word remember there Doesn't necessarily mean way we use the uh the word remember. Anyone ever go from one part of the house and you go out to the garage somewhere and you get out there and say, I can't remember why I came out here? Anybody Never do that. You go out to the barn, get out there. What did I come out here for? I can't remember. That's not what the word remember here is talking about. Oh remember. Oh let's see. Oh yeah, there is a creator It's a whole little different aspect to that. It means this: when he says, remember thy creator, he's saying this: think on your creator. One of the definitions I found was this. Continually be recalling in your mind Your creator. Bring to mind, keep bringing to mind. I make statements like this sometimes. You need to keep this in the forefront of your mind. Don't let it get far from your thinking. Your creator. And then I found this definition and I I love it. It was this. The word remember to overlap my thoughts. I just think upon it. I just keep thinking on it, overlapping it, overlapping it, overlapping it. There are some truths in the Bible that we God tells us we must continually keep in mind. There are some facts given to us in Scripture that we must base our decisions on. And he's saying here to the young people: listen, you continually keep in your mind your Creator. Your creator. Now I got looking at that and I got asking myself this question: why does he say, Remember now thy creator in the days of the youth? Why doesn't he say this? Remember now thy God. in the days of their youth. Why does he use the term creator? Why can't he just use the general term refer to God as God? I think there's a reason And that term creator has several implications. Now, this is what I really wanted you to write down. This is what I want you to write down. I think every young person, and all of us really, but every young person particularly or to keep in mind, overlap their thoughts about our Creator, that number one, I am not my own. I did not make myself. I am the result of a creation of God. I am the consequence of a God, a creator, and I am the created being. I am not my own. I'm not my own. I'm watching a little show about these guys living in the wilderness, this little documentary thing I'm kind of addicted to right now. But um I only work one day a week, so I got plenty of time. So watch it. And this guy is making this boat. He's incredibly gifted. He's designing this little like It's like a kayak type thing, just out of sticks and stuff he's finding out in the woods. And um when he's done, he made this statement, you're mine. You're mine. I made you. And it's very it's a tremendous hand handiwork. The guy's incredibly good at it. When Solomon says to the youth, remember now thy Creator, in the days of youth, he says, keep in mind, you keep in the forefront of your mind. that God made you. You are not your own. You didn't make yourself. And by the way, you did not evolve from some amoeba. God created us. He's our creator. And we're not our own. We're not our own. Every decision I make, every action I take, every direction I go with my life. must be first and foremost kept in mind that God created me. I am not my own. The word create there means to bring into being, to cause to exist. I'm owned by God. I'm owned by God. Now that Implies something else. God is holy, right? God is pure. God is blindingly holy, is the phrase I like to use. And so when he created us, he designed us to function. We are designed to function in a holy way. In a pure way, in a righteous way. We are not designed. Our Creator did not design us to live in sin. We're not created, we're not designed to function outside of the principles of righteousness and purity. And when we step outside, when we say, all right, I'm going to make my decision and I'm going to live here in sin, I'm going to operate outside the way I was designed to operate, guess what happens? There's problems. There's there's malfunction. If you take an engine, I've used this illustration many times, but if you take an engine and you put fluids in there that aren't it wasn't designed to operate with, what's going to happen to that engine? It's going to break down. There's going to be smoke coming out. There's going to be if you put gas in a diesel engine, you're going to have problems. You put transmission fluid in the oil thing, you're going to have problems And you know what we're doing when we're sinning? God created us. We're not our own. He designed us to operate a certain way. And when we operate outside the way we were designed to operate We start breaking down. There's frustration, there's fight, there's problems, and that's what happened when Adam and Eve sinned, brought consequences into the world So, what I need to do is I need to understand, he says, remember now thy creator in the days of the youth. You're not your own. God made you. Would you write this second statement down? Number one, I'm not my own. Number two, Drop this down, would you, young people, would you do this? Write this down. I have a purpose. I have a purpose. I found that everything God made, He made for a reason. Everything God makes, He makes for a reason. For years the evolutionist says, Oh, the appendix in the bo in your body, the little appendix. Ah, it's just an evolutionary hangover. It has no purpose and uh it's not there. And uh I take issue with that. God made that thing and put it there, and it does have a purpose And now they're finding out it's part of the filtration system and toxic thing, if I understand right. They're finding, hey, that does have a purpose. That thing there is for a reason. God, will you get this statement? God never gave a person a life that he did not have a purpose for that life. Not one. Say, well, if you knew my circumstances, uh, and we've had over the years work with kids, have a parent say something like, Oh, I wish you'd never been born. I didn't plan on you, I didn't want you Listen, that's horrible. But I'm telling you this, God never says that about someone he gave life to. Regardless of what the circumstances may be around a person's birth, the fact of the matter is that the fact that they have life, that God gave them life, and gave them that life, tells me God has a plan and purpose for that life. That's what makes abortion so abominable. So abominable. So number one, I'm not my own Remember thy creator. I'm not my own. I've been created. He am his. That's what Satan did to Adam and Eve. He convinced them, hey, you're your own. You can be as God's. That was a lie. The devil, and boy, it cost them dearly. Number two, I have a purpose. Number three, jot this down. I am held accountable. I'm held accountable. That's taught all through Scripture that mankind is responsible to God I'm accountable to God for my words. Proverbs chapter, I'm sorry, Matthew chapter 12, verse 36. Jesus said every idle word that a man speaketh. He will be accountable to God for our words. Hebrews 9. 27 is appointed unto man once to die, and after this to what? Time of accountability. Time of accountability. So God is our creator. I'm not my own, I'm his. He created me for a plan and a purpose. And he's going to hold me accountable. He's going to hold me accountable what I did with this life that he gave me to use. I am a steward of this life, and I come back and answer to God. It's taught all through Scripture. All through Scripture. And so Solomon is saying to young people, and I believe, as I study this, I I could I became convinced from studying this, that if a young person can get a hold of those three truths right there. They'll be okay. They'll be okay. I'm not my own. I'm God's. He created me for a purpose. I need to find and develop that purpose from the pages of Scripture. Find out what God's purpose is. You do what he says and find his purpose for your life. And God will lead you. If you want it, God will lead you. And then understand I gotta I'm a steward of this. I'm going to have to give an account someday. That farmer's coming back. He's going to ask about the wheat. He's going to ask about the harvest. I'm a steward. I'm accountable for my life and what I do with it. We're going to have to answer to God for it So he, number one, his first advice was this, consider your creator. Doesn't say consider your God, consider your creator. Then the second bit of advice he gives here is that we need to, a young person needs to understand the critical time of youth. Look what he says. Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth That period of time between infancy and adult years is crucial. And I already talked about this at length But it is crucial that those three truths get established. I need to remember my Creator. I'm not my own. I've been given a purpose, created for a purpose, and I'm going to be held accountable. It has to be established in the time of youth, in the beginning stages of life. And then the third advice he gives is this understand there's a cause for urgency Young people, young people, you make a mistake if you don't take seriously your spiritual well-being. Oh, someday I'm gonna oh when I get out, I'm just gonna live in a I've had I don't know how many teenagers over the years from back nineteen eighty seven I first It was youth pastor. I've had so many young people say, Hey, I want to enjoy my teen years. And enjoy it. Man, it's a some of the most pleasant time of life. But don't neglect your responsibility for God during that time And he says this. He said it in chapter 11. He reiterates it here. We're going to see in the coming verses that so quickly, boom, I'm over here. And I'm in my senior years. Squandered. Evil days. Look what he says here. Remember the days of the youth? While the evil days come not. That's not talking about morally evil. He's not talking about the sinful years that are coming. It's not the that's not what he's saying here. He's talking about years of hardship. Years of difficulty and trials, limitations, and they'll go down for the next several verses. He's going to talk about the limitations that older age brings to our body. I've got a number of senior citizens here. How many folks are finding that your activities are limited because the aging of your body? How many people how many folks get frustrat how many older folks get frustrated because you can't do physically the things you used to do? That's what he's talking about. Those evil days, those days of limitations, those where it's tough and ah Days of difficulty. And then he says, Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I am no pleasure in them. And the delight is gone. And we're going to see, he goes down very poetically, he describes the deterioration, I guess you could say, of the body in the next few verses. And the pleasure is gone. Anybody notice this getting older? I'm talking to young people. Let me talk to older folks now. We're just gripe about stuff that happens in the older But how many folks, you things don't taste as good as they used to. The old taste buds are kind of gone. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Um Uh you know how many people you uh man you used to love orchestra music or a symphony. I like that a little bit. I listen to that. And um but what? Turn that up! I can't hear it. What the You know what I'm talking about? The pleasure, the things of life that we enjoy are harder and harder to enjoy. Harder and harder to enjoy. I enjoy my life. I really do. I believe with all my heart. Talking about me personally, I believe with all my heart I'm exactly where God created me to be. I think I'm doing what God created me to do. I believe that with all my heart. I hope you feel the same way But the aches and pains having to deal with them a little bit. The begot body begins to fail and Life becomes a little more limited all the time. And he's saying to young people, he's saying to young people, that day is going to show up before you realize, you don't even realize it now, but it's going to be here like that. So you remember your creator. You remember that God gave you a purpose, that you're not your own, and God has a plan for you, and you're going to be held accountable. Remember that in your youth because those evil days when the pleasure is gone and it's difficult and the limitations are going to be here so quick. And get that established now. How many folks wish you gotten saved when you were younger? Anybody here feel that way? I do. Saying that's so important. You ever hear this saying? Too soon old and too too late smart Ever hear that? I think there's an old Amish thing there. Too soon did I say it right? Too soon old and too late smart. DL Moody had a meeting. I'll in with this. DL Moody had a meeting. And he was coming out, and one of the newspaper people or somebody said, Mr. Moody. Was there any conversions in that meeting? Anybody saved? He goes, yes, we had two and a half people saved. They said, two and a half, what? Two adults and a kid? He said, no. Two children and an adult. He said those till children have their whole lives ahead of them to live for God and fulfill God's purpose. The adult just has a half left. And that's what Solomon's talking about. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. Help our young people. We love them. Lord, if I didn't love them, we wouldn't talk like this. We wouldn't challenge them in this matter. And Lord, you love them. You love all of us. I pray you'd help us to be smart. Help us to humble ourselves before you and recognize we're not our own. You've given us life for a purpose. Pray, every young person would find your will for their life and they would fulfill it. And when they stand before you, they hear you say, Well done. Well done, faithful. I pray you'd help us adults to be a good testimony, good example to them, be a good influence and help them. In Jesus' name. If heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, Preacher, I need to be reminded I'm not my own, that I'm God's. My life has a purpose, has meaning. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need to remember that. I need to remember that. God bless you. How many of our adults say, pray John, pray for our youth And pray God gives them wisdom and helps them and leads them and directs them. Any adults like that, sure. I pray every day for you Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads above, eyes are