Uh peak uh above others. And I think uh Ecclesiastes chapter twelve and verse number one is one of those. While you're finding it um Ecclesiastes, as far as we can tell, it's generally believed it was a sermon that Solomon had preached later in his life, no doubt at the uh temple, his temple that he had built there in Jerusalem And he's given an account of his demise and how he had fallen away from the Lord and he had lived a good portion of his life under the sun. pushed God out of the picture, was living on his own, trying to find fulfillment and purpose without God. And there's nothing in this world that can fill the hole that's in our soul that is designed for the presence of God in our life. And he comes to that conclusion. He's frustrated, everything is empty, it's vanity, it's vexation of spirit, and he's bringing this sermon to a conclusion. Chapter twelve, eleven, the last part of eleven in chapter twelve, he's bringing this whole thing to a conclusion. And uh he's giving To the people of Israel and to you and I, through the inspiration and preservation of Scripture, he's given to us what the conclusion was he came to. Through this experience and his relationship with the Lord. Look at verse 1 of Ecclesiastes chapter 12. He says this, remember thy creator in the days of thy what Youth. Now this is a fascinating thing. I was thinking of it this afternoon, then again this evening, and the kids singing it hit home to me again. is when you preach through the Bible, verse by verse through the Bible, you end up touching on subjects maybe that you wouldn't necessarily have preached on. And a lot of times the timing falls together in such a way that I could have never planned it. And with yesterday being down with the young people at master clubs and then tonight with them singing and the testimonies. God is God I have no doubt in my mind this message was prepared by God uh for this subject tonight And so remember thy creator in the days of thy youth. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd help me to get right to the point here, Lord I want to respect people's time, and I pray, Lord, also, and probably more importantly, that you would get to the point of our hearts and lives and what we need. I thank you for our youth. And I thank you for a church that has a heart for youth. And I ask you to help us to see that now from this passage. Fill me with your spirit is my ongoing prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. The sermon has been personal. This has been Solomon giving his personal experience, particularly early on, first six chapters. He's telling of his descent into a godless life. And the frustration and the emptiness that came as a result of living a godless life. It's possible to live a godless life and not necessarily live a tremendously wicked life I think Solomon got involved in some awful wickedness. But it was godless. He had pushed God out. I've talked to a lot of people over the years. That were upstanding citizens, honest, worked hard, paid their bills, but they said something to this effect, you know, preacher, I really don't need God in my life. That is a godless life, regardless of the uh of the how it manifests itself. So it's a personal sermon. It's a personal letter. It's Solomon expressing his descent into that condition, what he learned from it. It's a painful sermon. As we read through and we get to see the heart and mind of Solomon, particularly again early on, we see a lot of Solomon's life was very, very unhappy. Much of his life he lived as a very unhappy man, frustrated, empty, grabbing at anything to try and find some happiness, find some fulfillment. How many people are appalled at the wickedness of our society? You know what I think a lot of that is? I think it's people trying to live life without God and they're grabbing for anything. To bring happiness, grabbing for anything to bring fulfillment. Regardless of how self-destructive it is, and regardless of how perverse it may be, something that has to bring fulfillment. And they come up empty hands every time So it was a painful experience. I think I've noticed over the years that a lot of times people have to hit hit bottom of the barrel. before they realize how desperately they need Lord the Lord. I know that's the way it was for me, my salvation. Does anybody here know what I'm talking about? You have to hit the bottom. And you just have to everything needs to fall apart before we finally look to the Lord. And you know, uh some people you can throw all the tracks at 'em you want. You can nag them, you can preach at them, you can drag them to church, you can stack Bibles up in their living room, uh, you can do all of that, and sometimes what they really need, what they really need is to come to the end of themselves. They just need the bot they just need all the props kicked out from under them and to get down to where they have nowhere else to look but up And that's not a bad place to be, to be honest with you, but it's painful. It hurts. And Solomon was hurt. He was hurting. He was an unhappy man. He was a miserable man for much, much of his life. And here's the thing, unnecessarily, it didn't have to be that way. And then he has a clear purpose for this sermon. And that's what brings us here to the concluding statements he makes. He's not just telling his story. He's not just out looking for people to feel sorry for him or pity him. Oh, poor Solomon, he messed up. That's not what he's after. He has a very clear purpose in mind for giving us, and God, of course, inspiring, giving it to us, but giving the book of Ecclesiastes. And I believe chapter 12 Brings this into mind and he's wanting, listen, this is it. He is wanting the youth, the young people, to learn from his experience. So that they don't have to go down the road he went down. That's his focus. The more I've studied this, and especially as we're coming to the end, I'm coming convinced that is what this whole thing is about. is teaching the youth, the young people. And I'll I'll explain why I believe that. Chapter 12, verse number one, I believe is a continuation of the last two verses of chapter 11. We looked at it Was it last week? He says, Rejoice, O young man, verse 9, chapter 11, rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart in the sight of thine eyes. But know thou For all these things, God will bring thee into judgment. Remember, we said accountability is unavoidable. We're going to have to give an account. He's telling the young people, listen, you enjoy your youth. You, you know, you cheer, you, you enjoy your youth. But remember. Accountability is inevitable. We're going to have to give an account to God. Then he goes on and says, But know thou for all these things, God will bring thee into judgment. Then verse 10, therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, put away evil from thy flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. If you remember, we pointed out, we said that when he said childhood and youth are vanity, it doesn't mean they're not important, that they're empty, they're valueless. He means they're fleeting. They go by so fast. They go by so fast. And because that youth stage of life is so brief But yet is so influential in life, he says in verse 1 of chapter 12, remember now. Because that is true, because your years of your youth are so quick, but yet they have such an impact on your overall life. Remember now. I was talking to my wife this afternoon, and I said, you know, I'm thinking about this. I think the most influential person in my life The most influential person in my life. You know who I believe that is? I believe it was me in my youth. My youthful years have impacted my life. The decisions I made, the actions I took, have determined in many ways what my life is like now. You follow what I'm trying to say? Now I'm grateful. My dad's had a profound impact on my life. Dr. Lee Robertson, Tom Sexton, uh Brother Charles Holmcher, Dr. Pat Creed, there's a lot of men had profound impact on my life But I'll tell you who's affected my life more than anybody else was me as a young person, as a young man. How many people here live with decisions you made as a young man? You still have to live with those decisions today As a young lady, young person. The most influential years of our lives, I believe, are our youth. Our youth. Now that's not to say God can't take decisions we made and things we made as youth, that God can't take that and counter those decisions, those effects. It doesn't say God can't use those. God can and will. But I'm trying to stress, and I think Solomon is stressing, the importance of those years of the youth is such an impact on the rest of our lives. That it needs to be taken seriously. Now here's, I'll give this, and this is what I want to end with. The first thing I notice in verse 1 is he makes an appeal to the youth. Solomon is making appeal to the young people. The message tonight and probably the next week or two, whenever we get back to this, is going to be to our young people. That's who God is addressing. And he's making an appeal to you. I thought it was interesting. If you'll study the writings of Solomon that have been inspired and preserved for us in Scripture, if you study those writings, every one of them Is directed to young people. What are the writings that God used Solomon to pen? Which books? Help me. Proverbs. What else? Ecclesiastes, there's another one. Song of Solomon. If you'll read Proverbs very carefully, that is a book addressed to the young people. He makes a statement over and over and over throughout the book of Proverbs. It's this, my son. My son, my son, my son. Solomon's writing to his boy. He's concerned about youth. Young people. My wife told me the other day, she said, well maybe it's this afternoon. Might have been five years ago, I'm not sure. But she said she says, when I was young, I studied Proverbs, Proverbs, Proverbs, did words study. She goes, that was my, I was consumed with Proverbs. Proverbs is for the youth. What is Song of Solomon about? Song of Solomon is woo. It's a it's an interesting book, Brother Heinball. Song of Solomon. It's about a young couple and their love for one another. And um enough of that of getting distracted here a little bit. But uh Song of Solomon's uh is and it's to a young couple, it's for young people, establishing their marriage, their relationship with each other. To the youth Ecclesiastes, we get here, you notice youth, young man, youth, youth, youth, youth. So Solomon makes an appeal to young people. Solomon loved young people. He was concerned for them. Can I make this statement? God loves young people. He loves our youth. Say, well, you don't love old folks? No, he loves old folks too. But man, God has a concern for our youth. Our youth. Um I thought about young people in the Bible that God used. Can you let's let's have and we just got a couple minutes, so hurry up. But um uh if we go long, it's your fault. But um Well, there were some young young people, youth in the Bible, that God used in profound ways. Can you name any? David. They were studying that ways and that. Who else? Y'all saying at the same time, I don't know what you're saying. Joseph. How about any others? Daniel was a young man. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were the young young fellows. Who else? Esther was a young lady Anybody recognize the name Josiah? Man, profound. A great, great revival came to the country. He was eight years old. He started cleaning stuff up Don't tell me, don't tell me God doesn't care about young people. Don't tell me God can't use young people. Solomon wrote three books primarily targeting youth under the inspiration of God. God used young people. What about Timothy? Paul loved Timothy. Man, he invested his heart. What did he say to Timothy? Let no man despise thy youth. Youth. So Solomon and God, through Solomon, is making an appeal to the young people: Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Martin Luther, how many people here ever complained about young people these days? Come on now, be honest. I just spent ten minutes convincing you God loves them and cares about them. How many of us ever complained about them? This generation these how many people think now be honest. Don't try and pull one over on me. How many people think this generation is worse than the generation you grew up with? And the generation that's now is going to say the same thing about the generation that comes after them. And uh the generation before us said that about I've got reading about Martin Luther This is, you're talking what, 1500s? Martin Luther? Is that brother Floyd? Who's my history? I think that's right, 1500s. Martin Luther said this. The youth today are utterly desolute and disorderly. Plato, Greek philosopher back BC, I believe, said this: the youth today are rebellious, irresponsible pleasure seekers. Socrates said, the youth today, this generation, love luxury, they have bad manners, they can have contempt for authority, and they're disrespectful. They found a s uh graffiti in an ancient Egyptian tune predating the birth of Christ. It was scratched on the wall. This Egyptian tomb that said this, today's generation is decadent, they have no respect, they're rude, they have no self-control, and all they do is drink liquor So we always get frustrated with the next generation. We always look back. It's been happening for centuries. Millennium. Looking back. But I want to say to you: God loves young people God cares deeply for young people. And Satan targets young people. Our young people today, and I'm sure like these other guys would probably say the same thing in their generation back in their day, but our young people today are growing up in an anti-Christian culture They're growing up in a culture that is absolutely perverse, and I want to suggest perhaps not since the days of Sodom and Gomorrah. Young people growing up. Satan targets young people. Young people growing up today in a culture that has so twisted what their self-image is. You've got to conform to Hollywood or you ain't worth nothing. You've got to look a certain way, you've got to have a certain figure, you've got to make You've got to be so have so many likes. You have to have be popular no matter what it costs, no matter what convictions, no matter what you have to compromise, integrity, you've got to be popular at all costs And that is a lie of the devil. Divorce, family deterioration, moms and dads hating each other is killing Satan is using parents to destroy their young people because we're so self-centered It has to be my way, and I have to win this argument. It's going to be the way I say it's done. And the kids are dying. Right or wrong? Satan's targeting our youth, divorce, family fighting, negative media. I'm telling you, my wife said the other day, I keep quoting my wife. She said some time ago, she goes, we're carrying the world in our pocket. Everything the world has out there, kids are carrying around with them. Two clicks away. Right? Killing our kids. Lack of discipline Materialism under the sun. Satan is, God loves our children. God loves our youth. God is concerned for them. God has a plan and a purpose for everyone in the lives. We saw a little bit of that yesterday. But Satan is targeting them. Now I meant to tell you to do this earlier. Would you get a pen out? And a piece of paper, I want you to write down a list of things here. And then I'm going to quit. We're going to stop. And this isn't totally original with me. I saw this and I took it and modified a little bit. But I want to write down a list of ways that we can pray for our youth. And I hope you'll take this very, very seriously. Remember now thy creator in the days of the youth. Solomon, God through Solomon and through Scripture is making an appeal to our youth. I want to give you a few ways to pray for our young people. Number one, write this down. Would you pray that they would learn to be humble? Pray for humility, hearts and minds of our youth. I think pride is a is a sin of the youth It's for all of us, but sometimes in youth it really is profound. Nobody can ever listen, will you get this? Nobody can possibly be what God wants them to be unless they're humble. That is the starting point in all of life is humility. So pray that our young people would learn to be humble. Put this down. Number two, pray they would fear God. We're going to see that here in a little bit in our future studies of chapter 12 Ecclesiastes. And by that we mean they have a reverence for God. I tell you. And we have to be careful ourselves. Sometimes God's name is used so Vainly. And that is horrible. Pray that they would learn to reverence God, to fear God. Write this down, number three. Pray for their purity. I'm glad God's forgiving, amen. I'm glad the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse from any and all sin, and God can take that which is so impure and so filthy, and he can clean it and make it pure. But let's pray for our youth that they wouldn't need to be cleaned up, but God would keep them pure. Keep them pure. Write this down. Number four, pray they dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ. Dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ. Pray they dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ. Humility, fear God, reverence God, purity, dedicate to Christ. Number five, would you write this down? Pray they'd establish a work ethic. They'd learn to work. One thing I thank God for my parents, one thing I thank God, they taught me the importance of work. Nobody's going to succeed in life that doesn't work. And by the way, nobody's going to serve God without working. Number six, write this down. Would you a willingness to serve God? And by that, we're talking about missions. They'd be willing to answer God's call. What a great statement Isaiah made! Here am I, Lord. Send me. Pray that for our youth. Number seven, pray that they would have a tender heart. A tender heart, not a hard heart. This world is a hard heart. Tenderhearted. God speaks to their heart, touches them, they respond. Number eight, I know I'm going quickly here, but number eight, pray they'd have God would give them compassion. God would give him compassion. My wife helps with a little uh special needs child in the one little school down the road here. And she goes, that little boy goes out at playground and he'll fall down. And she says, it's such a blessing to see so many of the other kids come over and help him get up. And they'll toss them the ball and try and get him involved. Isn't that a joy? We need to pray our young people are compassionate. Number Next. Nine. Pray that they would be holy. For holiness. The Bible says, be ye holy, for I am holy. Pray for holiness. Let me give you the last four here real quick. Holiness. Number 10, pray they'd have a bold witness. Well, I'm glad to see a bunch of our young people out soul winning on Sundays, giving out tracts, little grace and others, giving out tracks. Number 11, pray they'd have great faith in God. Learn to trust God. Have faith in God Number 12, probably they learn to be prayer warriors. Well, these kids need to learn to pray like an adult. No. Adults need to learn to pray like a kid. Pray they'd be prayer warriors. These kids would learn to pray every day and get a hold of God. It would become part of their life And the last one I put down, pray they'd learn to be generous. You have such a selfish society. Greedy. Pray they learn to be generous. I love our young people. I I hope that's obvious. I love going down to competition and when they call our church jumping up and screaming and hollering and making a fool out of myself because I'm excited about our kids. I don't have to jump around holler to make a fool of myself, but um We love our kids. And if we don't if we don't if we don't love our youth the way God does, then we don't have any future. We have no future. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope you take this and challenge us and help us. Lord, help us to incorporate these prayer requests that I listed. Help us incorporate that in our lives. And then help us to earnestly pray in the power of the Holy Spirit for our youth that we'd see these characteristics true in them also. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm going to pray for our young people? Specifically, I am going to pray for our young people. How many uplifted hand? I wonder how many of us would be willing to kneel at an old altar tonight and say, God, help our youth, protect them. Use me to be a blessing, encourage them to them. Doesn't mean we tolerate nonsense, but it does mean we love them. Care for them and try and direct them and mentor them. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.