Very good ladies. Appreciate that. If you would turn back to X. We are Memorizing the Ten Commandments in our scripture memory. And uh there we go. And I'm trying to take about once a month preaching on the commandment of that month that we memorized. This we actually memorized verse number 8 last month back in June, I didn't get a message on it. So I'm going to do that this morning. I want to bring a message on the Sabbath And let's read, if you would, read with me altogether verse 8, and then I'm going to go on and read 9, 10, and 11. But would you read verse 8 with me? Ready? Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now let me read the rest of it. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. I want to speak this morning on remembering the Sabbath. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we look into your word now and we do a That you would bless the message. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take your word and apply it to each of our lives and our church as a congregation as you see fit. Lord, I am very much aware that I have nothing in and of myself, my own wisdom, my own understanding that could be of eternal or spiritual value. So, Lord, I yield myself to you and present my body new. I ask, God, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and again, that you would speak through me. Open our hearts and minds. and help us to be the people you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let me say right first off, this morning's message is going to be more of a teaching type thing. than a preaching message, but I believe the Lord will bless it. And uh I hope uh that uh this will be something that God can use in your life. We're talking about remembering the Sabbath day. Now you don't hear a lot of preaching on the Sabbath. And one of the reasons, perhaps, is because there's a lot of misunderstanding and a lot of misapplication as to what the Bible means and what the Bible teaches about the Sabbath day. For instance, now please I think uh folks that have been around here, you you understand we are not trying to be critical of other people, but we do want to be true to the Word of God. And if something is being taught that is contrary to the word of God, we feel that there's an we have an obligation, and I particularly as pastor, we have an obligation to point out that mistaken Teaching that unscriptural teaching so we can be aware of it and not be influenced by it. So having said that I think it's important for us to understand that the Seventh-day Adventist Church has misunderstood and misapplied the Bible teaching on the Sabbath. Now I'm not picking on them, I'm not doing anything, but that is our subject, and they are very strong teaching on it, and they are very incorrect, I believe. Now, lest you say I'm just doing it on them, there are actually a number of others. Did you know there was such a group as a Seventh-day Baptist? Did anybody know that? How many folks are familiar with that? Uh they're Seventh-day Baptists, they're an offshoot of that, and I think there's various other seventh-day things that are pretty much in the minority, but uh very incorrect teaching on that. Now let me just say a few words as far as the Seventh day Adventist position. Them and a few others like them hold to the fact that keeping the Sabbath, Saturday, the seventh day, if you keep that as the Lord's day, That is the sum of all righteousness. Now, if you talk to them one-on-one, they'll deny this next statement, but their doctrine teaches this. And that is this: if you are to be saved You must worship on the Sabbath. Now I'm boiling down to the most basic thing, but that's what their doctrine teaches. Sabbath worship is the sum of all righteousness. And Their doctrine teaches that Sunday worship, as we are here today and always have and will, Sunday worship is the sum of all evil. In fact, The Orthodox Seventh-day Adventists teach that Sunday worship is actually the mark of the beast. That if you worship on Sunday, you are taking the mark of the beast. Uh years ago, I don't think it's still there, but uh coming across Route 70 between Frederick and Hagerstown somewhere, somewhere in that area There was a huge billboard they had for years up there, and it said Sunday worship equals mark of the beast. And so, misunderstanding. Misapplication of the teaching of the Sabbath. Our fourth commandment says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now We want to obey God. Amen? We want to do what God says. But we want to be scriptural about it. And so it's important for us to understand what the Bible teaches about the Sabbath. Now, I mentioned the Seventh-day Abenice. The Pharisees, in Jesus' day, had a real hang-up with the Sabbath If you'll study your gospels very carefully, you'll find that the Pharisees were constantly at odds with the Lord Jesus Christ about the Sabbath day. And one thing that really threw them is when he would heal someone on a Sabbath. In fact, this happened repeatedly. And the Pharisees would get so worked up about that, they would actually, when Jesus would show up on the Sabbath day at the synagogue, they would show up Anticipating, waiting for him to heal someone so that they could attack him. So the Pharisees had a real hang-up, a misunderstanding about the Sabbath day, constantly at odds with the Lord Jesus Christ concerning the Sabbath. Constantly condemning the Lord Jesus Christ because of his actions on the Sabbath day And so, the Sabbath. If you'll study the Gospels, you'll find that some of Jesus' most heated confrontations with the Pharisees began with this issue of the Sabbath day. Now, said all that. And now we look at this commandment and it says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. What does that mean? And how does it apply to us? Number one, my first thought this morning is we want to consider the initiation of the Sabbath. How did this come about? Worshiping on the Sabbath. Where did this all come to? Now keep your place here in Exodus because we're going to come back to it. Did you bring your Bible this morning? Folks, bring your Bible. Now listen, we're going to use our Bible. We always use our Bibles, but we're going to really use it this morning And when we get to the end of the message, there's going to be a flurry of looking up verses and different things. Because more than anything else, I want to be scriptural in my message Amen. How many people want your pastor to be scriptural in his messages? Amen. Alright, so go with me if you would to Genesis chapter number two. Genesis chapter two And we'll begin reading in the very first verse of the chapter. Genesis 2, Matthew, Mark, Luke, Genesis chapter 2. Verse 1, Genesis 2, verse 1. Thus the heaven and the earth were finished. And all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God ended his work, which he had made He rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it Because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. Here you have the first Reference to the seventh day of the week being a day of rest. Now, if you'll notice these verses very carefully, you'll notice there is no command given here. This is merely an observation. It is simply pointing out, God is simply pointing out that in six days, God created the heavens. The earth and everything therein, everything in it. And six days, then on the seventh day of creation, God rested And he blessed that day, sanctified it. Again, no commandment here, just observation, just information being given to us Now there's several things we learn from this. We learn that after the sixth day, God's creative work was completed. God was done creating. Now I'm going to go out in a limb here a little bit, and I'd be open to a challenge, not during the service afterward. I would be open to a challenge, but if I understand my scripture correctly, God is finished creating. He is not creating anything anymore. After the sixth day, God was finished creating. You say, oh yeah, but what about if there's some universe out there beyond our realm of experience and realm of knowledge and God is doing it? Well, if he is, we don't know about it. But as far as what we know, as far as what the Bible teaches, God's creative work is finished. God is done. It is completed. We study this portion of scripture here, the previous chapter, and the next chapter, we find that when God was finished creating, he was very satisfied with his creation. He was very pleased with it. He says repeatedly, and it was good. And it was good. And it was good. So we have an observation here. The seventh day. God's done creating. God rests. Now, I'll be very frank with you, that blows my mind. That God would rest. God of infinite power Would rest, but nevertheless he does. And so he sanctifies verse 3 the seventh day. Now, some of our Bible scholars, uh, you've been around here a little bit. What does the word sanctify mean? To set apart. Very good. So God, the creator of everything there is, has taken the seventh day And the Bible says in Genesis chapter 2 that he sanctified that day, set it apart from the other six days. Now it's very interesting. We notice the first reference to the seventh day and resting here in Genesis chapter 2, right smack dab. In the middle of the creation account. Come back with me to Exodus chapter 20. I want you to notice something. Exodus chapter 20, and look with me if you would at verse number 11. Now, as I said, this is more of a teaching this morning than preaching, so bear with me, and I believe God can use it to help us. Look at verse number 11, Exodus chapter 20. For in six days the Lord what? Made heaven and earth. Ah, referencing creation. Sea and all that in them is. And when it says all that in them is, it's talking about all that is in heaven, all that is in the earth, all that's in the sea. All that in them is, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Interesting, that word hallowed comes from the same word in Genesis chapter 2, verse 3, sanctified. Comes from the exact same word, to be set apart. So we have a the literal six-day creation of heaven and earth that is the basis For God's command concerning the Sabbath day, it is rooted in the literal six-day creation Now somebody says, Preacher, why do you make such a big deal of the fact it was a literal six-day creation? What does that matter? Some folks claim to be Bible scholars. I think they're knuckleheads, but um Some folks claim to be silent scholars. They teach that in Genesis chapter 1, 2, and 3, when it talks about the first day God created this second day, God created this third day. They say those days aren't literal 24-hour days. Those are just figures of speech. And God is actually telling us that the first Day, referring to that day would simply be an age or a period of time. So the first age, the first period of time, these things developed and evolved. And the second day, it's called the day-age theory. The second day, the second age, which could be millions and millions of years, these next things evolved. Are you alright, Tom? Alright, yeah I thought that was Tom for a second there. We had shrimp the other night and it didn't quite get cooked right, so I thought maybe that uh What was I talking about? The day age theory. And so, uh you have um These people teaching us data. Now, that sounds good. I think what they're trying to do is they're trying to take evolutionary theory And scriptural teaching, and they're trying to join hands. And the two can never walk together because they don't agree. You can't do it. It's either one or the other. And here's where the problem comes in. If what they're saying is correct, then the Bible's wrong. Because Exodus chapter 20, verse 11. Says that the Sabbath rest, the day, the seventh day, is based upon a six-day, literal six-day creation Because if this Deis thing is true, then the seventh day or our the Sabbath would be millions and millions and millions of years. Now I know some folks who are trying to rest for millions and millions of years Ceasing from their work for millions and millions of years. But that is not what God is saying here. So it's important to understand. By the way, man, I get off on these tangents. By the way. The evolutionists have their a their columns or geological columns and they have their uh charts with the different uh evolution of higher, more complex species and all this stuff. You know what? And then you're on the other side you have creationists that believe the Bible, exactly what God says. You know what? The evolutionists and the Bible believer have the exact same evidence. We don't have any evidence they don't have. They don't have any evidence we don't have. We have the same fossils. It is not the difference, you say what's the big difference between evolution and creation? It's not in the material, the evidence that's there. We all have the same evidence. It's the interpretation. The evolutionist begins with the conclusion there is no God, so therefore we have to interpret all this fossil record and all these things, we have to interpret that in light of the fact there is no God. And so they come up. In fact, you get a scientist in some universities that start saying, you know, we might ought to allow for the possibility of creation. That guy's out of there. And so, the evolutionist begins with the conclusion there is no God, so therefore we have to figure out how this happened. Whereas the Bible believed, the creationist says, we believe there is a God. And we look at the evidence, and we can see the evidence To us, the fact that, in light of the fact that we believe there is a God, we can see very easily how this evidence fits into the creation account. You with me? And so, the evolutionist, the Bible believer, same evidence, it's simply how we interpret it. How we interpret it. In my thinking, and again, I would never get in a debate with someone because I'm Uh nobody's that smart I mean I'm not as smart as other people. But um uh my thinking is the Bible believer has much more in r in reality and open mind than the evolutionist does Some degree. We allow for the possibilities of God. In fact, we believe that. Evolutionist begins no way. We're not even considering that possibility. And so, having said all that, we come to the Sabbath. How does that relate to the Sabbath? The Sabbath, the day of rest, is rooted in a literal six-day creation. And I'm going to touch on that for a little bit later. From the beginning of creation. Now thinking back to Genesis chapter 2, from the beginning of creation, and I'm talking about before the fall of man. God's will and God's plan for mankind was twofold. Now, is everybody still with me? Everybody alright? God's will and God's plan for mankind is twofold. Work. And worship. Six days thou shalt work. The seventh day you rest. That's blessed of the Lord. It's the day of worship. So God's intention right from the get-go for mankind was for him to work and worship. Work and worship. Both, I believe, are necessary for man to find fulfillment in life. If a man doesn't work, if a man does not work, now I'm not talking about handicap or situations like that, but I mean if he's capable and a man doesn't work, I know one thing about him, he doesn't feel very fulfilled. There is no fulfillment. And not worry. Well, somebody says, oh, what if I just didn't have to work? Tell you what, your life would be awfully empty. You know what happens? You say, well these guys retire. You know what I've noticed? These guys retire and they're working harder after they retire than they did when they had a job. You know why? Because they're married. And all God's people said, Amen on that. But on the other hand A man can work himself to death, but if he doesn't worship God, there's an emptiness in his life also. God's created us to work and worship, work and worship, to produce, to be productive, industrious, and to recognize and submit to our Creator. And we see that in Genesis and the institution of the Sabbath. So number one, we notice the initiation of this Seventh day as a special day, what later is referred to as the Sabbath. Number two, I want us to consider God's instructions Concerning the Sabbath day. And throughout, particularly the Old Testament, we are given a number of instructions concerning the seventh day. The Hebrew word for Sabbath Occurs 108 times in the Old Testament. Now that's pretty significant. 108 times the Hebrew word for Sabbath is used Over a hundred and forty times throughout the entire Bible, the Sabbath is used, the term Sabbath is used to refer to the seventh day of the week. Now I thought, what does the word Sabbath itself mean? Let me tell you, first of all, what it never means. The word Sabbath never, ever means Saturday. Doesn't mean that. The definition of the word doesn't mean Saturday. It does not mean the seventh day. It doesn't mean number seventh. What the word Sabbath does mean. Is it it means literally intermission? It means to take a break, to cease. So understanding the definition of the word Sabbath, to take an intermission, to take a break, to cease what I'm doing. And we put that into the seven-day week, and we find that whatever is happening Monday, uh the first six days, On the Sabbath, whatever day that day is, the other six days of the seventh, the Sabbath, which does not mean Saturday and doesn't mean seventh, but whatever day the Sabbath is, it is to be different. Than the other days. To stop. Whatever I was doing before, I take a break from that. I stop that. I cease that. Here's something very interesting. The pattern of a seven-day week. Where did we ever come up with a seven-day week? Every society in the history of man, as far as we know, has recognized a seven-day week. Where does that come from? I'll tell you where it doesn't come from. It does not come from astronomy. Right? It doesn't come. There's no stellular pattern in the stars that would produce a seven-day week. It does not come from any lunar calendar or lunar rotation. That would be the basis of a seven-day week. There's no solar The Earth rotating around the Earth or anything. There's no solar basis for a seven-day week. No basis found in astrology. Where does the seven-day week come from? God ordained it. God established the seven-day week right at the beginning, and every society has recognized the seven-day week. week. And the overwhelming majority of them recognize one day, at least, to be set aside from the others. Isn't that interesting? So our seven-day week and our Sabbath is rooted and ordained by God at creation. Now, as far as God's instructions concerning the Sabbath is concerned The seventh day in the Bible is always a Sabbath. Seventh day it always is. Seventh day is always referred to as the Sabbath, a day of rest. But a Sabbath is not always the seventh day. There are Sabbaths taught in the Bible that are on different days of the week than the seventh day How many folks are still glad you came to church? Everybody alright? I told you it'd be more teaching than preaching. Leviticus 23, verse 23 through 26. The first day of the seventh month Is called a Sabbath. Is recognized as a Sabbath. Now, the first day of the seventh month, question, would that always be a Saturday? No, each year it would be different. It would be could be any day of the week. But the first day of the seventh month, as far as God was concerned, for the nation of Israel, that was to be a Sabbath for them Whatever they were doing the other day, they were stopped that day, and there's very certain aspects of their worship of God they were to carry out. In Leviticus 23, verse 34, the 15th day of the seventh month was also considered a Sabbath. So the 15th day, like the first day, would be a different day every year. Could be a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or Sunday. It would rotate around, be different. And nevertheless, that day was called a Sabbath. In Leviticus 23, verse 39, the 23rd day of the seventh month was, Israel was told it was to be a Sabbath. Again, that could be any day. And we could go through scripture, and there's many a great number of other days throughout the year that were called a Sabbath. How many folks ever wondered this? At Easter time, as we call it, most folks recognize uh uh most folks have the idea that Jesus was crucified on a Friday. And rose again a Sunday morning. Right? That's generally how it's recognized. But there's a problem with that. How many days and nights was Jesus in the tomb? Three days, three nights. He's very clear. So if he was crucified Friday afternoon, there's no way in the world you'd get three days and three nights by Sunday morning. The Bible nowhere teaches that Jesus was crucified on a Friday. How many people that's new to you? Anybody? Oh, this is old hat. I don't have to talk about that. But they say they took him down off the cross because the next day was a what? Sabbath Sabbath. But it doesn't say the next day was the Sabbath. In fact, the matter is, that week of Passover there was another Sabbath, most likely on Saturday. And many, many Bible scholars, considering all this, believe Jesus was actually crucified on a Wednesday. So we shouldn't have Good Friday, we should have Good Wednesday. And we should have off Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday instead of just Friday. I can justify anything if you think it's long enough. But my point is this. Throughout Scripture, for the nation of Israel, Saturday was always referred to as a Sabbath, a seventh day. Always. But not every Sabbath was a Saturday. There were great numbers of it. of them throughout Scripture. And by the way, the Bible's teaching on the Sabbath, the Sabbath is not confined to man only. There was what I'm calling an agricultural Sabbath, and Israel had a law given to them by God. That for six years they were to till their land, plant their crops, harvest those crops, till that land for six years, but on the seventh year they were to let that ground rest. They were not to till it, they were not to plant it, and obviously they wouldn't harvest anything on it. Now, why in the world would God tell Israel not to harvest and plant and work the land uh six and he would tell him six and then seventh year not to. Well there's various reasons. One of the primary ones, I believe, is simply for the productivity of the soil. So they don't overuse the soil and pull the nutrients from it and cause productivity. Basically, if Israel would have trusted God and obeyed him Their land would have been prosperous and their needs would have been met. But Israel ignored this command For 490 years. How many years? Think about that. 490 years, Israel ignored and neglected that. And they tilled, planted, harvested, tilled, planted, harvested, tilled, planted, harvested, year after year after year after year for 490 years Now any mathematicians tell me real quickly how many Sabbaths, years of Sabbaths, were missed in 409 years? Seventy. Guess how long Israel was held captive in the land of Babylon and their land laid empty? Seventy years. God was giving his land its Sabbath. Now this is what I want to make application. If we do things God's way, it's going to be All right. Now that's not to say in those six years they didn't have times of famine and whatnot and deal with the natural events. But God promised them if they would do things They would be okay and he would take care of them. But Israel, rather than trusting God, leaned on their own understanding and says, We will not recognize that seventh Sabbath year, that agricultural Sabbath. We're gonna do it our way. We don't think that will work. And I tell you, they ended up in a mess. And Israel, which was one time A land flowing with milk and honey, so prosperous, a cluster of grapes would have to be carried on a pole between two men's shoulders, turned to 50 years ago, a barren desert. And I believe because Israel neglected God's teachings. Now let me ask you a question. You say I don't care what God's Word says. It's more important to me that I get what I want rather than doing what God says. Let me ask you a question: how's that working out for you? Man, especially where do you think that's going to lead? I don't know about you, but I want God's blessings on my life. I want God's blessings on my marriage and my home and my ministry and my finances. I want God's blessings on it Now, if I want God's blessings on my life, and I want things to turn out right, it would be a good idea to listen and pay attention to what God says. Anybody with me? You say, yeah, but I want the subject. Yeah. But God knows a little bit better than we do. And God knows the end from the beginning. So Israel, rather than trusting God, I can hear them now saying, What? I'm not letting that land rest a whole year. Good grief. We'll miss a whole year's harvest. They'll miss more than a whole year's harvest. They got 70 years of captivity out of it. So, uh as a result, uh Palestine is was uh at one time was so productive, now it is barren. By the way God is blessing Israel again, and that thing is coming back to life just as he prophesied it would. And that's a whole nother subject. Number three I'd like for us to consider not just the introduction or the initiation of the Sabbath, not just God's instructions, and that's a very brief summary. Number three, I'd like for us to consider the interpretation of the Sabbath. What does it mean? It's important for us to understand That the law, here in Exodus, extends over into Lydicus, Deuteronomy, the law was a distinctly Jewish institution. The law, the Ten Commandments, we're memorizing them. Now, you may hesitate at this for a moment, but I think I'll explain what I mean. I think you'll get on board with me Uh I think you'll come around. You'll I think you'll eventually be right. The law was given to Israel. The Ten Commandments was expressly an instruction to the nation of Israel. You don't find it given specifically to Gentiles Now let me show you some things. Look at Exodus chapter 20. Are you there? Look at verse 1. This is the introduction of God to the Ten Commandments. Exodus 20, verse 1. And God spake all these words, say, I am the Lord thy God. He doesn't stop there. Which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Who is he directly addressing? The nation of Israel. He is not addressing the nation of Egypt. He's not addressing the Babylonians. He's not addressing any other nation of the world. He is addressing specifically Israel. And he says, thou shalt have no other gods before me. We won't take the time. You could go to Deuteronomy 5, verse 12 through 15. And there again, verted very similar to this, God is giving Israel uh their law expressly to Israel. Now The interpretation of the Sabbath is this. It was given to Israel, as were all these other commands. But it has application to all men. Now, which leads me to number four. The interpretation of the Sabbath is to Israel. But number four, what is the application of the Sabbath? Everybody still okay? This is good stuff, isn't it? Just say amen, whether you believe it or not. Amen. Thank you. I preach faster when you agree with me. Consider the application of the Sabbath. The Old Testament law of the Sabbath was given to Israel. When Israel rejected Jesus as their Messiah, God set Israel as a nation aside. He put them aside. Now, if you've been coming out Wednesday nights, you would know that Zechariah and other Old Testament passages teach that someday God is going to deal with Israel again. In a millennial period, they're going to be re-established, and God's going to reset up his relationship with Israel. But now they're set aside, and he's working with the church. Not Israel, the church, and there's a distinction between the two. So, with that in mind, and I'm not taking time to give you all the scripture for this, that in mind. We understand that the law of the Sabbath, the law of the Sabbath is set aside with Israel. And we see that in the New Testament, and I'll explain that here in a little bit. The Ten Commandments were given in the Old Testament to the nation of Israel. Israel has been set aside. Now I know what some of you are thinking, those that are paying attention, those that are still awake. I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, what does that mean? Does that mean the Ten Commandments don't apply? Does that mean I can lie? And I can steal, and I can commit adultery, and I can take God's name in vain, and I can uh dishonor my parents. Well, the law's been set aside. Oh, but you need to read your New Testament And this is where it gets very interesting. How people are hanging on the edge of your seat. How many hearers? Amen. Very good. Nine of the Ten Commandments from Exodus chapter 20 are restated in the New Testament. Nine of the ten are reaffirmed as being applicable to New Testament believers. But there is one commandment That is not restated or reapplied in the New Testament to New Testament believers. What commandment do you think that is? The fourth commandment. Nowhere in the New Testament is it reiterated. Nowhere in the testament is it re-established or restated That you are to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. All the other nine commandments are. Very clearly, very definitely, but not the Sabbath. Now that becomes very interesting. The application is this. I believe God's intention for mankind is to work six days. And one out of those seven is designated for rest and worship. I think that application stands for all of us. Now it's not given to us as a law, But I believe the principle is there. So you say this, all right, so that means we don't have a day of worship. That means we don't have a special day that is committed to the Lord and to rest and all that. I didn't say that. The Bible still teaches there is a day for New Testament believers. To set aside. But it is not called the Sabbath. Sometimes you'll read old-time preachers, and even now you'll still hear some guys make reference to the Christian Sabbath. There is no such thing. You don't find that in Scripture. But what you do find in Luke chapter what you do find Is in John 20, verse 19, Exodus 20 and verse 7, 1 Corinthians 16 and verse 2, you find Sunday referred to as the Lord's Day. And from the resurrection of Jesus Christ on, you find the New Testament believers assembling today on the first day of the week. And not on the Sabbath. Now, throughout Acts, you'll find them sometimes go to the Sabbath to the synagogue on the Sabbath, but if you'll watch what they're doing, guess what they end up doing every time? Trying to win Jews to Jesus Christ. But they're assembling themselves together as believers without fail on the first day of the week. And by the way, you think I preach long back then they assembled together all day the first day. In fact, all day and sometimes into the night to the next day, Paul preached past midnight one time. I've always felt that as a challenge, but uh I'll not take it up. Colossians and there's a ton of scripture here, and we're not going to turn to it because we're not going to have time. But let me say this. There is a ton of scriptures. Or uh let me back up. This regard that. Colossians chapter 2, verse 16 through 17. were commanded to not give any one day reverence above another day. Now that's to the Lord's people, New Testament church. Nevertheless, the example of the New Testament believers was to meet every Sunday, the first day of the week, based on the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, sanctified the first day of the week. As it's referred to not as the Sabbath, but it's referred to as the Lord's Day. Now I do want you to turn a few passages with me, and then we're going to shut it down. Turn with me, if you would, to the book of Luke. New Testament book of Luke. And I'll tell you, a great study, if this causes consternation with you, a great study would be what Jesus said about the Sabbath. Luke chapter 6. And verse number five. Notice what the Lord says here. Luke chapter 6 and verse number 5 And he said unto them, The Son of Man is Lord also of the what? What does it mean that Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath? Can I suggest this to you? Jesus is saying, I have authority. Over the Sabbath. I believe what he's saying is this: I have authority to abolish Or to alter or change the Sabbath as I see fit, because I am Lord over the Sabbath Another verse, and just touching on what Jesus taught about this, come back if you would to the book of Mark, a few pages earlier, and Mark chapter 2. And again, this was one of those heated discussions concerning the Sabbath where the Pharisees are all worked up, and Jesus makes some interesting statements. Verse 23. Mark 2, verse 23. It came to pass that as he went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples began as they went to pluck the ears of corn. And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the Sabbath day that which is not lawful They were bothered by it. And he said unto them, Have you never read what David did when he had need and was in hunger to he and they that were with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abathar and the high priest and did eat the showbread. Not supposed to eat the showbread. Which was not lawful to eat, but for the priests, and gave also to them which were with him. Now listen what he says about the Sabbath. And he said unto them, The Sabbath was made for who? Man, not man for the Sabbath. What does he mean by that? The Sabbath was designed by God for man's benefit. Not for man to be a bound under the Sabbath, not for the Sabbath to be a burden, but to be a benefit. And this is what I'm trying to say: to take one day of the week. Whether it's Saturday or Sunday, the Lord has that authority. He can move it to the Sunday based on his resurrection, as we believe he did. He has that authority. But it is good for us. It is for our benefit to take one day out of the week. Stop from our work, focus our hearts and minds on the Lord Jesus Christ, lift our voices in praise, assemble together with God's people, and give one day to the Lord. Now, United States of America, there's one day of the week in particular that is set apart, sanctified, and dedicated to the God of sports. Right or wrong? Are not the biggest sports events in the world take place on Sunday? Super Bowl Sunday. And we have replaced the Lord's day with man's day. And you know what's happening? It's hurting us. It's hurting us. Hurting us. It is for our benefit to set aside the New Testament teaching of the Lord's day to assemble with his people And to focus our hearts and minds the Lord Jesus Christ. Sunday should be the most focused day of the week. The Lord's Day. I wish we had time. I wish I could go to all these scriptures, but we can't. I put this down. Sunday should be the most refreshing day of the week. Both physically and spiritually. Refreshing. Sunday ought to be the most joyful day of the week. week. Joyful day of the week. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 9. Again, we don't have time to turn there. But the Bible makes an interesting statement about a coming Sabbath. An eternal Sabbath. A day when all work, when all struggle, when all spiritual battles and warfare will be over, and for all eternity will rest in the presence of And the most important thing in any person's life, whether it's a little child coming to Bible time, or a teenager or a senior citizen, the most important thing in every person's life is that we have come to the point where we desp we see how desperately We need the Lord Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We accept Him and we anticipate that eternal rest when we'll be with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the opposite of that eternal rest, rejecting Christ and dying without him, is eternal torment, eternal unrest. Eternal fire. Now, how do we apply this? I believe we ought to give Sunday to the Lord. Now I please, I know some of you and this is a bad thing. But I think you ought to leave the lawnmower parked on Sunday.