Let's get in our Bibles tonight, please, seriously. Turn to Mark chapter fourteen. And wonderful day today. Uh I've really I've never been to that I've heard of that place, never been there. Preacher, it was very humbling and also to hear those conversations of people who were facing death, how they would uh talk and call their loved ones. You know, and I think some of those individuals realized uh on that that plane that their their lives were coming to an end. Now the good thing is many of them had twelve, fourteen minutes to get saved and trust Christ their personal Savior Some may have not known to do that. Some of them did not probably know that they were going to go out into eternity in just a few moments. But they had a chance to get saved. And uh I want to say this, this is uh 2021. Uh this will be uh the last Friday night of the missions conference. We have stuff tomorrow, and then Sunday And then uh Monday this will be history. Amen. And you're just going to have an opportunity at this time to really get into faith promise giving. You do it already, and I know that. And tonight I I want to set the table for you And uh uh uh entitled the message, and Jamie has it back there, it's called Remember Mary. She's the only person in the Bible that Jesus tells us wherever the gospel is preached, you have to remember her. She started the whole program. Christ on his way to the cross. She anointed his body for the crucifixion and the burying before it had taken place. You know, and I wrote down in my memory and in my notes that Mary's that I've had in my ministry. I had a Mary in Papa New Guinea, her name uh she lived right there at Gary Hoo. Very faithful lady, brought three or four boys to church with her every Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, her husband would never come. And we had a missions conference and she saved money for a year. And just like your your uh your containers down there, preacher, we had court jugs uh uh ball remember the old ball jugs used to put you know canned meat and stuff in and so everybody was saving their money for a whole whole year And they were going to bring their jugs to church and put them on the altar the first night. And on her way, on her her jug, she had Gary Hoo Baptist Church. uh offering for lost souls in Papua New Guinea. And uh she had that inside there and you could say had it taped to the outside of that court jar and saved her toy or pennies and quarters and we have uh dollar pieces and two dollar pieces with holes in it and our in our money and currency over there. And on her way to church she walked about the You know, the high school over here at the the church set about that far she walked from a in the village there and she got robbed on the way to church Two or three teenage boys surrounded her with machetes and saw she one of the kids was carrying that container full of money. So they took the opportunity and stole it. And she came to church distraught and crying, and she hadn't been hurt anyway, but her heart was broken because someone took away what she was bringing to the Lord And uh after the church was over, she just couldn't stop crying. The boys that robbed her was waiting in the back of the church. When they found that it was the church's money, uh one of the parents caught them and made them bring it back. And uh now Mary wanted to whip all three of those boys, but you know, she didn't That's amazing to see in that, and she never quit coming to church, but she was so distraught that somebody took what she wanted to give to God Then I had another married in my ministry down in Cairns, Australia. She was in my first photo of her first church activity. And she did not belong to the church. I didn't know she was a we had several Filipinos coming to our church and we had our first cookout. About 35, 40 of us there. It was me, a couple of New Guineans, and the rest were Filipinos And we took a picture and got home, looked at the group picture, and there's a woman in there, didn't belong. You know, who in the world is that? Called some of the ladies, and she was related to one of the ladies that was there. She started coming to our church this Sunday mornings, come with her husband. And already been saved and working about 60 hours a week, but would just come on Sunday morning. About six months in, cancer got a hold of her and maskatized in her body And she had six months to live. And that judgment came down from the doctor, and that prescription was given to her that she was going to die, there's nothing they could do for her. She changed And she called me, my wife, one day, and she said, listen, I haven't done anything for the Lord my whole life. I've got six months to live. What can I do for the Lord? And I said, you can can stamp tracks for us. She stamped all of our tracks, put her church name on it, uh, you know, and I'd even have tracks sent from the States. And she did about 5,000 tracks, and then she got really, really sick. And then she called me one day and my wife and I went over there and she only had a couple weeks to live and she's trying to do the stamps and I'll never forget my wife that's taking her hand from the pad to the pad to the track. And that little Filipino sunken eyes, life about over, looked up at me and said, you know, I wished I'd have done what I could when I could, before it was too late. Do you think God will judge me for not doing what I could, when I could, before it's too late? Isn't that amazing? Things people say when they go through hard times I want you to catch, it's not a hard time in Mark chapter 4, and I want you to catch me there in Mark chapter 14. And I want you to listen to me as I read these verses, we get into this message tonight And we're going to honor Mary. We've got to remember her. For Jesus says wherever the gospel is preached, she must be spoken of for a memorial of her. We want to remember her. We went to this memorial today. Thing happened 20 years ago. Where did that go? You know, and what took place? And we we go there and we honor and we see the severity of this thing. Well tonight we want to honor Mary and see the importance of what Jesus wants us to see. Verse 1, and after two days was the feast of the Passover and unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft and put him to death. But they said, Not on a feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany in the house of Simon, the leper, as he said at meat there came a woman Having an alabaster box of ointment of spikered, very precious, and she broke the box and poured it on his head. There were some All those religious preacher boys, there were some, those future missionaries, all right. Those one that had just enough a Bible college to shoot themselves in the foot. Am I right? Listen to me here. They thought they were better than her. They thought they were better than you. They thought they had it figured out. Watch this. And had indignation within themselves and said, Why was the waste of this ointment made? It's a year's w worth of salary I thought it was her I think it was her re her retirement fund, you know. She was going to make probably use it on her brother, but he came back to life, so he didn't get to use it. So, you know, that that's a whole year's worth of salary there. I want you to catch this For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence and had been given to the poor, and they murmured against her. That's the disciples, those guys that we lift up outside of Judas. The ones that turn the world upside down is murmuring against her. This is a split culture. It's like New Guinea. The women sit on one side, the men on the other. All right And even in church and life, that's the way they are. I want you to catch this. And Jesus knew, and it said, let her alone in verse six Why trouble ye her? She had wrought a good work on me. She had done a good thing on me. She had done the right thing on me. She did it for me. For ye have the poor with you always, and whomever ye will, ye may do them good, but ye have uh not uh but ye but me have ye not always. She hath done what she could She has come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. Verily I say unto you, listen up, underline it, the hashtag, whatever that means, put a star beside it. I want you to catch this Wheresoever the gospel is preached, throughout the whole world. Can you underline that? Throughout the whole world. You missionaries have to take this with you This also that she hath done shall be spoken of for memorial of her. She did the right thing. In the right day, at the right time, God put it on her heart to do so. So far, so good? Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 8 with me for just a moment. by way of introduction. I want you to see this about faith promise giving. I want you to kind of picture her thought and heart for just a moment. And this Mary of the Bible, it says in verse 8, I spake not by commandment, Paul writes. but by occasion of the forwardness of others to prove the sincerity of your love. Talking about faith promise giving, you're going to prove the sincerity of her love. We're going to talk about Mary proving the sincerity of her love for Christ And going to the cross tonight just a little bit in the way of missions. Verse eight, I speak not by p commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others And to prove the sincerity of your love, for ye know that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake was become poor, that ye through poverty might be rich. And herein I give my advice. Paul says you don't have to do this But herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago, now, right now Therefore perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. God will never ask you to give anything unless you already had it. All she had was an expensive box of a box of Spikner, about a uh more than a quart, maybe a liter or so in size And it was a porcelain type of box. It could have been uh with a small neck at the top, but it was uh one of the hot commodities in those days, along with salt, more valuable than gold, to this point in the world. Now catch the next verse in verse twelve. For if there first be a willing mind, it's accepted according to what a man hath, and not according to what he hath not And Mary had been brought up with the Lord Jesus Christ. She'd been listening to the message and the sermons. Her and Martha had been at the house. They had seen him bring their brother back. They had been upside down, in and out, and around what was going on, but she caught on to what Jesus was saying and preaching. Before his disciples did. I want you to catch this. Why are we to remember her? And I want you to understand I got four or five things about her. But I want you to catch the drift and the thought of this whole thing. Do you want God to use you in faith, promise, missions, giving? Amen? You're going to Suriname, right? And you you want God to bless you, don't you? It's not rocket science. Just get right, stay right, do right, and be right, and then it'll come out all right. Amen. Not like you want it, but it's going to come out. I want you all the other ones over here to understand it too. I do preach a lot more at missionaries than most guest speakers do, because uh they these people are investing in you All right. And there ought to be a pressure on you missionaries, amen. Because if they trust what I'm saying, and they trust what the pastor's saying, and they trust what the Word of God's saying, and you're here to raise support to get you to where God wants you to be to have a ministry for Him. All God's people said, What? You have to do what's right. Remember I want you to remember Mary tonight. Remember her. Because she did the right thing At the right time, in the right way, on the right day. She did not hesitate. The clock of eternity was ticking, and that girl was on time. Don't ever forget that fulfilled scripture, amen. On time. It's amazing what this young lady had in her. And I want you to catch this number one She was an ordinary person. You can write that down. She was just an ordinary person. Look what it says in verse 3 in my text In chapter fourteen of the book of Mark, it says this and uh uh and being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, uh he said at meat, there came a woman, just a woman, having an alabaster box of ointment, just a woman Just an ordinary name's not even given yet. But I want you to catch this. She was ordinary in all the special ways. I mean what do you mean by that? She would ordinary uh because you know uh all her sins was forgiven from the past. She wasn't dwelling on the past here. How many folks remember Christ taking all your sins away Amen. Remember before how bad you were? And remember after, in the past, you don't want to even bring it up anymore. How the Lord Jesus Christ washed all your sins away. And this woman She did not dwell in the past. Secondly, I want to say she's ordinary because she was living in the present. She understood what was happening He was on his way to the cross. The feast of the Passover is getting ready to come. The bad guys are cut coming down in on him. He knows what's going to happen. Judas is sitting right there getting ready to betray him But she was an ordinary person. And I want you to understand, in an ordinary person, this is what God uses. And I catch this off. Your position She had a position in Christ. She got rid of her past. She had a presence with Christ. She knew that he was getting close to the cross, but catch this. She had a position She knew that she had to do this. The Holy Spirit put it in her heart to do this. I want to tell you, she's mentioned in Scripture nine times. When I studied in Scripture nine times, the Bible tells me three times in Luke chapter 10 verse 39, she's at Jesus' feet for instruction. And then when things go bad for a while with her brother going to the tomb, three times you'll find she's at Jesus' feet for comfort in John chapter 11, verse 32. Then you'll find her three more times in Scripture in John 12, 3, and she's at Jesus' feet for service You see, she chose the better part. And Martha was a workaholic, and Martha was serving God, but she was much cumbered about, and Mary, the Lord Jesus Christ, but Mary, she chose just an ordinary girl. But she chose what the better thing. And you know what it was? Sitting at the feet of Jesus and getting instruction and comfort and following the Spirit of God to serve him. And all she did was take that big bottle of that container of ointment and broke it. Just an ordinary person following what God put in her heart to do. Faith, promise, missions, giving. 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 5 said they first gave themselves to the Lord, for this was what The will of God. I want you to understand what's going on here. We need to remember her because she was ordinary. Number two, she was an observant person. Look at chapter 14 of the book of Mark. Look at verse 8. She hath done what she could. She had come aforetime to anoint my body to the burying. Alright? I want you to observe some things. You look at verse 8 here. I want you to know that what was going on, she knew that Christ, she he was going to the cross. to save all the lost. His blood had to be shed. So the lost of this world, he had to have his blood shed to pay the price for our sins. She knew that. She understood that preaching and that teaching. Number two, it was for the cause of Christ. I want you to catch the cause of Christ here. It says in our and to be observant here in verse 8. She had done what she could. She couldn't sing, probably better than me. She wasn't allowed to preach or to treach. I've heard some ladies do Sunday school classes and they can pretty close pr treaching, you know. And uh all she could do is sit there quietly. But it says she did what she could. That means God had something for her to do. Ordinary And observe it. Alright? I want you to catch this with me. See, I also had a burden. Have you ever been burdened about something? You know? And I'm not talking about being as prayed to the pandemic. I'm talking about being burdened by the loved ones that's unsaved in your family. I got unsaved loved ones. Anybody else got them in here? How many have got unsaved family How many's got bachelor and family? It burdens you and it doesn't burden me. But I put my hand up on all those things. Amen I got grandchildren today. My 15-year-old favorite granddaughter called me and said, Papa, boo-boo, this young man asked me out for a date. I said, no, not on any level. You've got to wait till you're 35. But Grandpa, all right, he's a Christian. I don't care what he is. You're how old? Well my dad said called Well your dad told you this. No way, Jose When the fleas of a thousand camels invade his armpits if he ever talks to you again. I want to protect that girl, don't you? How many granddads in there want to protect your granddaughters How many want to protect your daughters? Yeah, uh-huh. And he married the guy sitting beside you and you've been paying for it. Anyway, uh you know what to do when the Holy Spirit talks to you. It's a natural thing She did a natural thing. She did what she could when she could. She's not only ordinary, she was very observant. You know I said it last night, we talked about the today, brother I won't say salt trap, but I I'm close. He said one thing, preacher, there's three types of people, those that watch it happen, those that make it happen, and those that have no idea what happened. This woman Made it happen. Those disciples didn't know what was happening. And Jesus said, we're going to remember her everywhere where the gospel is preached. She was ordinary, she was observant, and I want to say this thirdly, and this is where you've got to be careful. Don't let the devil get his tail in there on this. Don't let his don't let him discourage you in this. She was oblivious The word oblivious. Look at verse 5. I want you to catch this. For it might have been sold for 300 pence. He didn't care. I mean we can make a lot of money And give it to the poor, those orphanages over there in, you know, Bangladesh or the they'll get their orphanages down in Suriname or Honduras and You know, New York City. She could care less about that. She was right there, and I want you to catch this. She was oblivious to their their thinking. It might have been sold for more than three hundred pence been given to the poor and they murmured against her. And Jesus says in the uh I want you to catch this, and she had done what she could in verse eight. And Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, wherever the gospel is preached She's going to be mentioned to the whole world. Leave her alone. I don't think she had any idea what Jesus was saying She could care less what those disciples thought. She was there to honor the God of heaven. And it tells me in 2 Corinthians, as a man purposeth in his heart, verse 9, section 7, let him give, right? As he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. And I want you to understand this. So let's say, Brother 38 Tree zeis. Tree tree zice! Like tree ice. That's so good. Yeah. Let's say he's a a thousand dollar a week guy. Let's say we come down here, brother uh what's your name? Mariner, Merimare, whatever. And he gets a thousand dollars a week in pay and he gives God two hundred And he gets $1,000 a week in pay, and he gives God $150. Because God told him to put that in his heart. He has to put it in his heart. I'll make it more applicable. He makes ten dollars a week He makes a thousand dollars a week. God touches his heart to give to missions uh a twenty percent, twenty dollars. He you you make and God gives you in your heart to give a hundred dollars He gives a hundred, he gives twenty. Which one's more spiritual? Neither one of them. Because God put it in your heart as God puts in your heart, as a man purposes in his heart. So let him what? Count somebody else's beings? No. Look at somebody else? No way It says give. I want you to catch this. This woman was ordinary. I want you to understand this thought with me. She was observant But she was oblivious to the calculator. She was oblivious to what writing down what they're going to figure it out. She was oblivious to what people thought because she was doing it for the Lord Jesus Christ doing it for God Almighty so that the world is prepared and he starts his his march to the cross. Isn't that great? The boy Bob of Jesus Man he laid into them. One of the first times in scripture you see somebody, this is a you know, cutting somebody's lips off. Hey you boy shut up. I know you didn't say something, somebody had said something, you're just thinking it. Don't you ever do that again. Alright? You are wrong on every level. So in fact, wherever the gospel's preached, you guys are going to preach and remember her for what she did. They're looking at him like, what did she do? She started the march to the cross. She fulfilled scripture. She had listened before to all the preaching and the teaching You with me on this? She was an ordinary. She was observant. She was oblivious. Number four, I love this one. She was obedient. Man, obedience is the very best way to show that you believe Now y'all thought I forgot about that, how to stay married for a long time, right? How many thought I forgot about that? Well I haven't, okay. This man got uh been married sixty-five years Out there in Colorado and him and his wife and they're in a church like this and they're going to honor them for that marriage that law Now I want you to understand that and have a good marriage you've got to be obedient to each other, right? And so the Fox News reporter comes and sit down by the old man there eating a piece of cake before they got to honor them and He said, sir, I just want to know what is the secret of you and your wife's 65-year-old marriage, I mean long marriage. He said, well, never get to the number three. And that news reporter said, Well, explain that to me. He said, Well, we got married. Uh boy, she's a nice little sweetheart, you know. And and uh we got married and we went to the Grand Canyon for our honeymoon And the first day on our honeymoon we rented mules and we're riding down into the Grand Canyon, you know, and she's riding in front of me with her little backpack on and her big mule and She would look back at me and throw a kiss, you know, and I would catch it, yum, yum, yum, yum, yum, you know. And he said, We are in love And uh and we're going about halfway down and her mule stumbles. Now you understand she's only five foot one, weighs a hundred pounds. Backpack's bigger than her. And uh that mule stumbled and about went over a cliff and fell forwards, and she jumped off that mule, and she got in front of that mule's head and Slap that mule and ups aside the head on each side, and the mule's going back and forth. And she said, if you ever do that again, that's number one. Don't you ever follow me again, horse She got back on Mount View and I looked at her like a bullfrog in its first hailstorm. What was that? That's my new wife. She gets on that mule and rides down that trail a little bit and more, and about an hour goes by and the mule stumbles into the side of the cliff there, the big wall. Skin her leg and she jumped off that mule and she took that backpack off and said, That's number two! Don't you ever do that? And she hit that thing in the head with a backpack. Mule went, whoa, you know She looked at me and smiled and love you. And she turned and looked at that mule and said, Mule, don't you ever get to number three. If you get to number three, it's over We're riding down that trail and he said, my legs are shaking. Scared to death. What did I marry? With a hundred yards at the bottom, that mule fell again. Stumbled over. She stepped off that mule, pulled a 357 out of her backpack. That's number three! Boom! Killed that mule right in front of me. Took ten years to pay for it. And he looked at that reporter and said, that's the secret to a marriage. Never get to number three. So I told the story, amen. What's this got to do with this sermon? Hey, you better be obedient when you're supposed to be obedient, amen. You've got a job to do for God, you better do it. You ought not to stumble around. I but I've also been marriages and things like that. It takes two to mess up a marriage, does it not? It does take two to make that marriage right I want you to catch this in God's world of giving. Mission's conference like this is a three-day business meeting. But it comes down to being obedient what God puts in your heart to do. Look at verse six in my text. Let her alone, for I trouble ye her. She hath wrought a good work on me. She had something to do. And she did it. Verse 9 Verily I say unto you, whereversoever the gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, that this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her. What was the memorial here? She did what she was supposed to do She did what she could. She couldn't empty the bank account out. She couldn't charge $20,000 on her Citibank card. She couldn't, you know, sell a Lamborghini or you know, sell some hog dogs and frogs to give the money to missions. She just gave what she had. And she and she had that's her her inheritance. That was her four hundred one K, whatever you want to call it. And that that was her fallback But I want you to catch this. She was so obedient to the fact. She uh she she had to do it right there at that moment, at that time. For prophecy to be fulfilled. Because after this incident, Judas went out in that night. Jesus told him to just keep it on schedule. to start the betrayal. Am I right? With the crucifixion. I want you to understand she was light years ahead of the disciples. And I want you to catch this number one, she was ordinary. Number two She was observant. Number three, she was oblivious. Number four, she was obedient. And number five, she took that opportunity. Mary's opportunity. I'm 68. I don't know how much longer I live. I've buried a lot of my friends and things like that. But I hope I'm I'm in the fourth quarter. You know, I want to be like I'm in the third, but folks I'm in the fourth. Amen Maybe it'll be an overtime I'll get a few more years, but by time, my window is real small. Y'all know what I'm saying. Mariners, you got a big window. God calls you home tomorrow. I was wrong, I'm sorry, but you got a big window. Salt traps, you got a huge window. Now think with me from off the lanes, you got a huge window. Pastor Letham and you may be both a little older. Our windows aren't near as big, but we got an opportunity. We all got an opportunity. Do not miss this as a church. What's it say in verse 8? She had done what she could. Here he comes. They're eating the meal. He's in the right house, the right time. Holy Spirit, Merry, get it. Good. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. She went in there, didn't say a word to those men, busted that bottle, anointed his body for the burying. Didn't say crucifixion, did it? Didn't say death, did it? Amen? Isn't that fantastic how the scriptures come together I just want you to see this. And when she had it prepared, she did exactly. She didn't say anything. She just stands there in her obedience. I've been around missionaries and pastors and people trying to find God's will for their life. Should I or should I not? Pastor, should I do this? Brother DeLong, should I do that? You know, how do I know it's God's will? Hey You walk with God, you just know. Did you listen to Brother Lane tonight? It didn't make sense what they did. God's will usually doesn't make sense, but it makes things right. Amen. You know, and when Jesus said, Let the dead bury the dead was looking for disciples, everybody thinks that guy's mom and dad was dead already. No, no. They got several years left. And what he was saying was, I'll wait till they die and I'll get their money from the inheritance Then I'll go be a missionary for Jesus. Jesus said that's not going to work. I want you to understand this lady understood the opportunity, and it was now. Get what's going on here in a missions conference. Understand you have an opportunity to be part of God's Great Commission. And here is the time you need to get involved. Here is the opportunity from the smallest child To the oldest person in here, it's the opportunity to w now don't wait till next year. Don't wait till the next year. Get it done now And understand God will always honor it. He tells me in Philippians chapter 4, if I do what God puts in my heart to do, he says this, that not because I desire gift, Paul said he's the church that Philippi gave to me in verse 17. He said, I desire fruit that may abound to your account or their account. And preacher, I want this church to be blessed of God, don't you? It's not a money thing, it's part of it. It's not a health thing, but it's a part of it, but it's a piece that passes all understanding. I'm telling you, missions is the heartbeat of God. I did not make that up It's right here. Then it goes on and says, says this about us. But I have all, and Paul writes, I'm aboundant. I abound and I am full, having received the Aphrodite the things which were sent from you, an odor, a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. He's bragging on this church that gave to his mission ministry, and he says this about their giving. I just he said, I want to reassure you, Church of Philippi. I watch this. My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by who? Christ Jesus. Folks, what goes around Comes around. I've heard it said what comes around usually goes around. And when that missionary, when this mission conference comes around, be part of that. And I guarantee you God will give the increase in everything that's touched by this church and by this ministry. Here's the last thing tonight, and that is this. I want you to catch the thought here. She was ordinary. She was observant. She was oblivious. She was obedient. She was an opportunist. And lastly, she was over and above what was required. Over and above what was required. She could have cooked that meal like Martha. She could have put some more beans in there. Maybe a goat, maybe some chicken, maybe fish, I don't know But she went above what was required. It tells me in verse 9, whereversoever the gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial to her. When God Almighty talks to your heart to have you express your love for Him in this way, will you be one that will give Or will you be one that'll give above what's expected? I want you to catch this with me. What do you get out of a missions conference? The what, the how, the when, what we should do. We got the missionaries here. God calls them, but the church is supposed to take care of them. That's how it's set out. Burden. I want to challenge all of you to have a personal relationship with all these missionaries. I want you to assure them that you're praying for them. I want you to spend that time in prayer. And I want you to send that time in having a hedge put around them. But folks, if you love somebody, you will always invest in that person. And all God's people said. The last Mary I had in Fort Moresby. My wife and I were soul winning on a Thursday night. You can close your Bibles See, we were so winning on a Thursday night, we would always go to the hospitals and we would take our teenagers, we'd take two bands of teenagers, and we would have about Maybe three vans of teenagers. We'd have about twenty in each van. We'd go through the hospital, hit different units, ladies would hit a unit, the boys would hit a unit. My wife and I would like to always I'd take her on death row. And hit the hard ones. And we go to the third floor there, the hospital in Moresby, and as we walk in, she's sitting there in the corner by herself. On the bed was two two boys, aged three and four. This lady's name was Mary Akila Kila. She could barely speak English, but she understood who I was, and I gave her a track, witness to her. She looked at me and said, I'm sick. They all belong to me, Emmy Daimoriak. And she was telling me her heart's going to die shortly. She says, I want to come to church and find Jesus. She said, I heard a preacher preach ten years ago out in the swamps of an American missionary like me, and I heard an invitation about going to heaven, but I said no. I'm sick and I'm dying. And she said she had this disease that was killing her. I didn't understand it in her language. So I went to pick her up Sunday, had some people pick her up, and she rode in the back of the truck and the pickup truck with her two boys and and about fifteen other people on that one. When the truck got there everybody jumped out real quick and what told her to stay in the truck. And uh I asked what was going on and she was crying and The bus driver for me is about half mad and the deacon's about half mad and said, Pastor, did you know this woman has AIDS? I said, No. I know she's sick. I thought she had, you know, uh TB or she's just dying of a heart attack. No, no. Full-blown AIDS She's got oozing sores. Don't you uh we we can't have her at the church. I said, well she's gonna sit on the truck and hear the gospel this morning So they didn't they backed the truck under the tree I preached that morning and my wife led her to Christ and no one would touch her or get close to her and uh I was about half mad at my church But I didn't know, you know, in those days what how bad AID was. She told me, yes, that's what it is, and I had a translator I took her back down to the hospital where she was at, receiving treatment with the boys, and she said, Pastor, will you come by and see me And I said I will this week. I'll bring a couple people with me to translate. I got back to the church. They used five gallons of bleach bleached the truck down all over and washed it out. And they asked me not to bring her back to church. And that's hard on a missionary, isn't it? But I think they were right. We went to the hospital. Her brothers was there. And I told him she got saved. And we prayed over her, and she thanked me. She had her two boys laying beside her. She said, Pastor, I want you to bury me when I die. Okay. Pastor, my brothers are going to take the kids away this Tuesday morning. I want you to come and pray over us. Okay, cool. No, no worries. I've never been to a takeaway service. I don't think you have either I showed up at the hospital. She's sitting under a tree. The brothers show up with their wives and three or four other men, and they all had long limbs, and the limbs had forks on them, about eight foot long She knew what was coming. I didn't. And I prayed over the whole bunch. I thought the guys, that was the sticks they were carrying idol and they didn't know what it was for. All the clothes lined up. I got done praying We committed her life to the Lord. Said amen. When I did, those six individuals with those limbs forked her neck, forked their arms, forked their legs. Broke the ankles and held her to the ground. She squalled for her children. They took him away from her. They said, Pastor, we'll come back in a week. There's money, you bury her. They left. She laid there on that dirt. They took the poles with them. She leaned up against that building. My wife had went to the truck crying. She'd never see anything like this And I said, What's your name? He said, Mary. She said, ten years ago, as I told you earlier, I said no to the gospel. Well, I've got the gospel now. You know we buried her three days later. They wrapped her up in a plastic bag We had to get special permission to dig a hole for her. Salt and lime. Had to go about eight feet down instead of six. Put her in a wooden container. Lined it with steel on the outside the best we could and buried her. Men came back, her brothers a week later, and said, Pastor, thank you so much. We have a gift for you. We'll give it to you in ten years. Ten years later I was back there preaching. They come and got me. They give me about a thousand-acre piece of property. Put a Bible college on, put a Christian school on. Because I stopped one day and helped a marry that was absolutely lost. And a married that made the wrong decisions. I'm telling you, God can even turn that around. All God's people said Now when you invest in the mariners, in the lanes, the salt traps, when you invest in their ministries, listen very carefully. Remember what Mary did. She did what she could when she could, the way God wanted her to do. Isn't that amazing? And she doesn't really say a word through this whole thing. But wherever the gospel is preached, God wants us to remember her. She did the right thing. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord, we're talking about ministry tonight. And Lord, I know I, you know, do the best I can, but man, I can't get away from your word. How wherever the gospel spoken, we have to speak of her and what she did and why she did it and how she went about it And at the bottom of the thought, Lord, we know it's giving. It may not have been a mission thing, but it's giving. And Lord, I pray tonight the hearts of these people are good people This is a good church. They understand missions. But Lord, there's people in here tonight. You may be called into the mission field. There's missionaries in here tonight that may need to dedicate that second part of their life to you that they're in, but make it all in. And Father, I pray tonight that we will have that in us that Mary had. Lord, that she was an ordinary person, but she was observant. She listened. And Lord, she was obedient. And Lord, she went over and above anything you asked. And it just kind of, wow, how would she know to do such a thing? Suppose she had a relationship with you. Lord, I pray tonight you will have a heart like Mary that was touched by God Almighty Lord, I pray that we have a thought process like Mary. We'll be honest and do what God puts in our heart to do. And I pray that we'll have a life like Mary that says that we'll honor the Lord Jesus Christ His mission outreach not only here, but around the world for his honor and his glory. I pray tonight and ask this church, what will they do with this story of Mary? How will they remember her to encourage them in giving commissions? And Father, we pray these things in your name. Pastor You're like me and you say I'm I'm not a genius, I'm not exceptional in any way, not a millionaire. And just like this woman, just an ordinary person, but God's given us an opportunity to give of ourselves, to reach others with the gospel. Maybe God's touching some heart. You say, I'm not that big a deal. No, but God uses ordinary people to do extraordinary works. And maybe tonight you'd say, I want to give myself, my life, to go wherever God wants me to go, foreign field, here in the United States, but I'll give my life to get the gospel to somebody. And if God's speaking with your heart and God's touching your heart in this call to missions, I want to urge you to come to this altar tonight and put yourself on that altar and say, Here am I, Lord, I give myself to you. Maybe God, for most of us, no doubt, God's will is for us to be right here, serve Him here. But we can give what we can. God touched our heart, God shows us as an ordinary person. God tells us what to do. We trust him, we obey him, and we give what he asks of us. Father, I ask you to bless our invitation. Help us to humble ourselves. Help us to trust you. Help us to obey you and take advantage of this opportunity in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed