Alright, Proverbs chapter twenty-nine and if you would, we'll read verse eighteen together. I know this is our memory verse for the month of uh January, we try to memorize a different verse each month. This year we're kind of focusing on vision and seeing the Lord, uh focusing our eyes on the things of the Lord with uh The 2020 year. And so this is our memory verse for January. But I'd like for us to read it together, if you would, uh, in unison. Ready? Verse number 18. Here we go. Where there is no vision, the people perish. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. I want to speak this morning on renew our vision. Renew our vision. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the church. And we've assembled here together this morning, Lord, in your name. And this is your body, the body of Christ. This is your word that we have open before us, and uh believe that for the most part, maybe all of us this morning, we're your people And so we're asking you to speak to us and challenge us from your word. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself that's of any spiritual, eternal value that I can offer. So Lord, I ask that you would speak through me. Apply these truths here to each of our lives. I yield my will to you. Again, this hour, I present my body anew Pray for the filling of your Holy Spirit. So help us to leave here stronger in our faith, a little more zealous in our service. And a little closer to you in our walk with you. I ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. Probably most of us are, but let me ask this. How many folks here are familiar with the name Helen Keller? Very familiar with that name, sure. It was she lived many years ago, but uh her uh fame, I guess you could say, lives on today. Helen Keller was an absolutely amazing woman. More I read and study about her uh the more uh amazed I am by this dear lady. Uh she was born on June twenty-seventh, eighteen eighty, down in Alabama Uh by when she was born, the first several months of her life, she was a perfectly healthy child. Um as far as we can tell, there was no issues When she was about 18 months, she contracted some sort of disease, some illness. We don't know what it was, or some speculation what it might have been, but it drove her fever up to dangerous heights. And at 18 months old, Helen Keller, because of that intense fever, she lost her eyesight and her hearing, became blind and deaf. There was little hope back in that day and uh for someone in that condition to ever be able to function in society or to be uh you know a productive part of society, I guess you could say But her parents were determined they were going to try and help her any way they could. They took her around different places up in Baltimore. I think she ended up in Boston. In Boston at seven years old, a young lady by the name of Ann Sullivan. took um Helen Keller underway. Now this is just me, but we talk about Helen Keller and we praise her and we should. She was a phenomenal woman. But I tell you, behind all that was a lady that believed in this girl and really believed in miracles and invested herself to teach Helen Keller to be able to communicate without sight, without hearing It's very difficult and it's fascinating to read. We couldn't take time to go into all the issues there. Helen Keller made this statement later on. She wrote a um uh her a bit of a biography, her story, and uh she said that her mind was in a she was lived in a mental fog and she said she had no concept what words or language even was. Now think about that, not even conceiving in your mind such a thing as language or words. And after rigorous training and working with her, Ann Solomon was able to get um Helen Keller to understand that what she was feeling in one hand and what Ann Sullivan was signing and manipulating her other hand were connected. And of course if you ever read the book or saw the movie where she has the water running over her hand And she realizes that what she is feeling, signing the the gestures in this hand relate to this. And she says, when I learned the concept of words and communication, she says, all of a sudden everything changed in my life. What an amazing thing. She won it she went on to write books. She lectured around the world. She lectured at all but great universities. She was associated with great leaders, presidents, just a phenomenal woman. At one point later in her life, she was, I don't know if it was a question-and-answer type thing or an interview, but somebody approached her with this question. It came to a woman that her whole life was deaf and blind. And they answer this question. They said, um, what would in your mind, what would be worse than someone being born blind? What could be worse than being born blind? And without hesitation, Helen Kellard answered, the only thing worse than being blind is having sight but no vision. You get that? The ability to see, but not having any vision, not having any dreams, not being able to see what can be, what is possible. Our text this morning says, where there is no what? Vision, the people perish. But happy is he. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. Where there is no vision, the people perish. We use this text, and I've used it in the past. I will somewhat this morning again. We use this. To challenge the church and challenge you and I as believers, we use this passage to challenge us to have a vision To have a vision for tomorrow, have a vision for our future, have a vision for our children and for our uh our church and its ministries And by that we simply mean this. We want to be challenged in this matter of being able to dream about what can be. To be able to establish goals out there and say, you know, I can see this happening and I can see this accomplished and I can I can imagine God doing this in my life. And maybe a Sunday school teacher having a vision for their class and saying I can imagine God raising up missionaries and preachers out of my Sunday school class or off of my bus route. A church having a vision, God can use our fingerprints ministry to bring thousands and tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people throughout the world. To come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. We use this text, we use this passage to challenge ourselves to have a vision, to have a dream, to imagine what God can do. And it says that where there is no vision, the people what? They perish. They perish. If we lose a vision, We lose that dream, we lose that anticipation, that hope, that uh that uh uh imagining of what God can do, what can happen uh people perish. I was reading this past week about the pilgrims that came over years ago and uh in Europe they were facing religious persecution and and uh a lot of issues And uh a group of them had a had a quote-unquote vision of a new world over here and what it would be like to live in America. And the freedoms that would be there to worship God according to the dictates of their own heart, the way they understood Scripture to be able to establish their own lives here without the oppressive government and religious persecution on their backs And that vision, that dream, that imagination of what they thought it would be like prompted them to risk their lives, get in these early ships and sail 3,000 miles or whatever the mileage is across the ocean. And risked life, and many of them died in route, and uh risked life and risked their fortunes in this new world. And they made it, and God brought them here, and they established a little colony up there in Massachusetts. And as I was reading about them, something sad happened. They had that vision to bring them across the ocean, but once they got here, as I read the first year, they Cleared some land, they built a little town, they survived the winter. Of course we think of Thanksgiving, and they got through that first winter with the help of some Indians and different things The second year, as I was reading in this one article, it said that the second year, first year they built a town, the second year they elected a government. They had some ideas about that and they introduced some thoughts there in their government. The third year, the leaders and the government proposed that they build a road Five miles west into the wilderness. Let's see, west would be that way. Five miles into the wilderness. They traveled the ocean thousands of miles, risked life because they imagined, dreamed, had a vision of what this new life would be like. Once they got there, they got settled in. They survived the first winter or so, many of them. They got established. They got their crops lined up. They're doing pretty good. They're somewhat comfortable. And the leadership wanted to challenge them to say, hey, we can go farther west, there's more, and introduce building this five-mile road into the wilderness. The fourth year Town rose up, attempted an impeachment of their leadership because they didn't want to build a road into the wilderness. Now the conclusion of the article as reading was this. They lost their vision. They lost their vision. They saw what could be, but once they got to that point in their journey, they just settled down. and stayed there and were fine and weren't willing to press on to see what could be more, what more could be accomplished, what more could be attained. They lost their vision. As I read that, I thought about a lot of us as Christians. Sometimes we get saved. Boy, we're excited what God's doing in our life. I remember back 1979 when I got saved and everything was so new and God was changing my life and I just I didn't know where this was going to lead. I didn't know what this what God was gonna do and I then went off to Bible college and had these dreams and ideas. And you know, if we're not careful, if we're not careful in our Christian life, we can get to the point where, yeah, we've seen that, we've done that, and we just settle down and we get comfortable. And we lose our vision. We're no longer willing to step out of our comfort zone. We're no longer willing to press forward and grow in our faith and our walk with God. We're no will no longer willing to give ourselves the Lord and let Him use us maybe in new and and greater ways. We lose our vision. If we lose a vision of what God can do in our church We shrivel up and die. We lose a vision of what God can do in my life and in my home, in my marriage, in my children. I lose that vision, that dream of what God can do Often shrivels up and dies. Notice again what our text says: where there is no vision, the people perish, perish, perish. I want us, I am his pastor, and I'd like for us as a church, and I want to challenge each of us as individuals this morning, two weeks into the new year. Challenge us to ask God to give us a vision. Ask God, what can He do in my life? Whatever stage of life I may be in, some young person down here, just in middle school or high school, maybe a senior citizen, all points in between. As long as my heart's beating and my lungs are pumping air in and out, I believe God can use me in some capacity, one or another And I've got to be able to see that. I've got to be able to believe that God can use me and God can do something in my life. It might not be, for the older folks, might not be everything I did younger, but God can still use us. Vision. Vision. I'm asking, I'm challenging myself and us this morning. We begin New Year, 2020. Let's ask God, God show me. What can you do with my life? What can you do in my home? Give me a vision of what my children can be. What this marriage can be What my Sunday school class can be, what my bus route can be in this coming year. God, what could you do? What can you do through me? In reaching us. Whatever area it may be. Maybe this morning the challenge isn't so much to establish a vision or gain some vision of what God can do. Maybe this morning for some of us it's renew it. Renew it. I wonder if I'm not speaking to some Christians this morning. There was a day when you were closer to the Lord than you are today. I wonder if I'm not speaking to some Christians this morning. There was a day when you read your Bible faithfully and that's gone by the wayside. And you've lost that vision. You've lost that walk with God, that closeness. I wonder if I didn't speak in some this morning. There was a day coming to church was a thrill and exciting. We're going to church and to sing the hymns and hear the songs and study the Bible and fellowship with God feel, oh, it was a joy. That's gotten cold. It's gotten mundane. Gotten familiar. And that joy is gone. David in Psalm 51 he said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. I want it renewed. I want it back again. Year 2020, we don't know what this year holds. I don't know about you. I'm thinking this could be the year of our Lord's return. How many people would make a motion this be the year of our Lord's return? I'd be for that. I'd vote for that in a heartbeat. This may be the Lord's return, may not. But whatever the case is, I know this. God has a plan. God has a purpose. God has a will for every one of our lives. And God wants to use us, and God wants to work in our lives. And we must see that, we must believe that, or we shribble up. We perish. When there is no vision, the people perish. The people perish. I uh I got thinking um uh a church without a vision is a church without a future Doesn't see anything, doesn't see what can happen, doesn't see what God can do. Just going through the motions, rah-da-da. Just same old thing, week after week, month after month, year after year. Oh, God, give us a few members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and say, God, we want revival. God, we want you to do something. We want to see your power. We want you to use us to have an impact on this whole sinful world and help us get the gospel out and see lives change. Vision What God can do. W church that doesn't have vision, the church has l m not much of a future. A Christian doesn't have much vision in their life, doesn't have a whole lot uh to anticipate coming up. Ask God to give you a vision. Give you a vision. Uh uh uh a renewed vision. A renewed vision. Uh I put this down. This isn't my outline. I'll get to it here about 2. 30, 3 o'clock, we'll get to it. Um I'm joking. Uh A vision, when we think about what God can do and what the future holds, and what what what my what God can do with my kids and my life, my home, and my ministry. We have to be careful there. We have to make sure it's a Bible-based vision. Got to make sure it's a Bible-based vision. Let me just say this: God never operates contrary to his word. He never does. So when we are dreaming, we're thinking, we're imagining what God can do, we need to keep it within the perimeters of what God teaches us. God never operates. You might want to, that's a good statement. You might want to jot it down. God never operates contrary to his word. Never He works within the framework, the perimeters of scriptural teaching. So my vision, our dream, our what we imagine and anticipate and wonder what God can do and And dream and imagine what he can do, it must be biblically based. I put this down, it needs to be Christ-centered. It's all about Christ. You know what the Christian life is all about? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Lord Wynn, we try very hard. I'm sure we can do better. We try very hard to be a Christ-centered church. Everything is about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. I've said this often over the years. Sometimes I get literature and advertisements for different things and You know, they'll have these uh uh companies that produce literature for you. And sometimes I'll get stuff and I'll say this. It'll say, you can use this for advertising, it'll say, a family-centered church Now, how many people believe with me the family is important? Absolutely. It's the foundation of society. Very first thing God established. was the home, the family. Uh family's important. But I tell you, if it's a family-centered church, I believe it's not a scriptural church. I believe it's to be a Christ-centered church. And when Christ is where he ought to be in my home, in my heart, in my life, in my church, In my ministry, when Christ is the center, then everything else falls into place. Everything else falls into place. Had a couple years ago, many, many years ago, they were having a little struggle in their marriage, there were different things. And um and uh uh I asked the question, I said, do you love you love your wife? Oh, I don't know. I said to her, Do you love your husband? Ugh, I don't know And I said, well, your problem, I said to him and her, I said, your problem isn't that you don't love your wife, your problem isn't that you don't love your husband. I said, your problem is you don't Of your Lord You'll love God. Jesus said in John chapter 14, about seven, eight times, he said this: if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. I got reading the Bible, one of my commandments as a husband, I'm to love my wife as Christ loved the church. If I don't love her, then I don't love the Lord, because if I love the Lord, I'd keep his commandment, his commandments to love my wife. I heard a preacher tell one time years ago he said he was driving John R. Rice to the airport And he John O'Rice and his wife were sitting in the backseat. He was driving them to the airport. And he said he couldn't help but overhear their conversation. Mrs. Rice said to John R. Rice, she said, uh, John, do you love me? And Jonathan Rice says, Of course I love you, sweetheart. I love you very much. She goes, Why do you love me? He said, because Jesus told me to Not the most romantic thing in the world, but uh if he's gonna obey the Lord, then she's got a pretty secure relationship there in my mind. And so uh uh uh so we need r uh renewed vision, uh Christ-centered, Christ-centered My whole, what I see, the future, what I see for my family, my ministry, it all revolves around Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord Jesus Christ. Him be glorified, Him be pleased, Him be followed. Trusting him, that's what all revolves around Jesus Christ. If I've got a vision that excludes Jesus Christ, it cannot be blessed of God. Do you get that? If I have a vision that does that excludes Jesus Christ, it cannot be blessed of God. I must have Christ at the very center. I need to grow closer to Christ and serve Christ. Trust him and love him must include that. So it needs to be Bible-based, it needs to be Christ-centered. And then I put this down, it needs to be gospel-focused. Gospel focused. It needs to be taking the gospel to the loss. That must be included in my vision. It must be a part of what I anticipate in this coming year. And getting involved and getting the gospel out. Getting the gospel out. So having said all that, this is my outline here for the message. A renewed vision requires a few things. We want this thing renewed. Maybe we're on fire for God, but the jets have cooled. Maybe the ambers in the in the my heart of love for the Lord have cooled off a little bit. And I need to renew that vision. I need to renew that love that That faith in what God can do, I need it renewed. Here's a couple things we need to do. Number one, real quickly, I put this down. Renewed vision requires a renewed focus on the Word of God. We have got to get back to the book. We live in a day and age, we live in a day and age, and churches are pushing aside the Word of God and bringing in man's ideas. Churches are pushing aside the scriptures and bringing in entertainment and bringing in man's pleasures and man's thoughts and man's philosophies Listen to me. If we're going to see God do something, we've got to get back into the book and get back to the Word of God. God blesses the Word of God So I must have a renewed focus on the Word of God. Now look at your passage here. Let's look at this. It says, where there is no vision. The people perish. Now we use that sometimes, and I am to some extent this morning using that statement where there is no vision to use vision with the idea of anticipation, of imagination, dreaming, what God can do. Expecting what God can do. But the meaning of the word is a little different than that. When he says that when there is no vision, the word vision there simply means this: divine revelation. Alright, everybody with me this morning? Alright, everybody good? I know it's January windy. But uh divine revelation, where there is no vision, where there is no divine revelation. Where there is no uh divine impartation of information. Boy, there's a mouthful What are you saying, preacher? When it says where there is no vision, it simply means this, where there is no communication from God. Where there is no information from God or about God, the people perish. Before the Bible was completed, God would communicate with mankind in various ways. Sometimes it was through dreams. Can you think of anybody in the Bible where God communicated information through a dream? Joseph, of course, is classic. Any others? Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar, others throughout Scripture. Sometimes there was no Bible completed. As time went on, they would have portions of it So God sometimes and often would communicate he had something man needed to know about himself or some instructions God had or some revelation he wanted man to have He would communicate it through dreams that different people would have. It wasn't real common, but it happened throughout time. Sometimes God would speak directly to man. I mean the voice of God direct from heaven. Directly, can you think of any time anywhere in the Bible where God spoke directly from heaven to mankind? What? Saul of Tarsus, he preached that? Moses on Mount Sinai? Adam? The baptism of Jesus? Elijah? All through scripture, you find these times, and uh I don't know about you, my imagination goes, well, can you imagine being out there and hearing the very voice of Almighty God? Phew. You know, Moses out there, and God speaks to him at the burning bush. What does, here's my thinking, what does the voice of God sound like? What cut what kind of dialect? What kind of accent? I don't know. It's fascinating to imagine. But sometimes God would speak through a dream. He had some information. He had some communication, something about himself. He needed man to know. He wanted man to know or something, instructions or truths or whatever. He'd communicate it through a vision. Somebody would have a vision. I have a dream, I'm sorry. Sometimes it was direct from God. And one of the ways God would communicate before the Bible was completed was through visions. Through vision. And so when Proverbs 29, 18 says, where there is no vision The people perish. What he's saying is this: there's no revelation from God. There's no information coming from God. There's no word of God available. Now you and I live in a dispensation where we have the completed Bible, Genesis to Revelation. God has, throughout the centuries, put together through various people and various methods. He's put together for you and I what we call the Bible, the scriptures, the word of God. And everything, everything that God wants you and I to know about Himself, everything that He wants you and I to know about how we are to live our lives and conduct ourselves What is true, things that he w promises he wants us to claim, warnings he wants us to heed. He communicates all of that in this dispensation. In this day and age, he communicates it through his word. Through his word. You say, what are you saying, preacher? I'm saying this. No more dreams. No more visions. No more direct speaking from God. He does it all through his word. Oh, through his word. Now, can God use different things to kind of get our attention and focus our thinking on some things? Sure. Sure. Um I've had some dreams. I've had some dreams that weren't from God, I'll tell you right now. And uh but uh I've had some dreams. I woke up and boy that made me think. Anybody know what I'm talking about It wasn't God giving me new revelation about himself, but it was just something made me think. Made me think. I've seen some things or uh sometimes out, you know, and uh uh maybe I'm a little discouraged or something or whatever, and uh I see a rainbow. And boy, God speaks to my heart and says, hey, you know, God's still in charge. It's going to be okay. It's going to be alright. Now, it's not God giving me new revelation about himself. He's just encouraging. He's using his word. But if God is going to speak to us, if God is going to direct us, if God is going to instruct us or communicate with us, it is going to be through the Bible. His word. Everybody on everybody on understand what I'm saying? And so when Proverbs says there is no vision He's referencing God's revelation of himself, God's communication of himself. So we could say in our day and age where there is no What? Bible? Where there are no scriptures, people perish. People perish You know, there's parts of the world. We uh uh we are studying we we've adopted Kazakhstan as our um as our adopted nation We pray for that country every day. I pray for Kazakhstan, the God raised up missionaries. We've got two there. We try to keep it in front of the church. We're praying for a people group there now, the Ava people group. But you know, there's some parts of the world, some people in the world, don't have any scriptures. Don't have any scriptures. And they're going to grow up. Live and die, and not one time ever hear John 3. 16. Think about that. Not one time ever hear John 3. 16. They're going to live their lives, born, grow, die, and at one time ever hear or read Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not lose one. How many people agree with me? That's tragic. That anybody in this world would not have the Word of God available to them Where there is no vision, where there's no message of God, where the word of God is not there, people perish, people perish. It was down in Mexico a couple years ago with Lacey Wheeler, a good missionary down there. And uh Brother Hommel and others were down. And uh we went into the little little villages out there. We're right in central Mexico. Now for me it was hard to believe that this was true in Mexico, so close to America and and so many missionaries. But we he Lacey told us, he says, now this little village you're going into, and there's probably eighty, maybe a hundred houses if that And he says, now this little village here, he said this. He says, the people you give these booklets to will have never, ever heard the plan of salvation in their entire lives. This is the first time they're ever hearing it. He said, for most of them, it's probably going to be the first time they've ever read the scriptures for themselves. We went out and we handed it out. I'll tell you what, that'll do something in your heart and soul when you're handing a little booklet to somebody that you know has never ever Heard the plan of salvation or had a word of God of their own themselves. Where there is no vision, the people what? Perish. Die without a Savior with no hope of forgiveness, no awareness of God's love and sacrifice for them, and die in their sins, separated from God all eternity So we need to refocus if we're going to renew our vision for what God can do and how He can use us, we've got to refocus on the Word of God. On the Word of God. The Bible is the most important document in all the world You say, oh, the Constitution, that's a great document, that's the greatest document in all the world. Listen, I think the Constitution is a great document. I'm very grateful to God for it. But I tell you what, this book right here is more important than the Constitution This is the greatest document, most important information in all the world is in this book right here A renewed vision, a renewed focus on the Word of God. The Bible is uh is the revelation from God. It is the revelation of God. You say, what is God like? Oh, open your Bible. He tells us all about himself right here. We find out what his name is. Jehovah. His son's name, Jesus. We learn in the Word of God. The Bible, it's God's revelation of Himself. It tells us who God is. The Bible contains the mind of God. Saying, well, what does God think? How does God think? What does he think about this, that, and the other? You want to know the mind of God? Open up the pages of the Bible. And I find out what God thinks, what he thinks about me, what he thinks about sin, what he thinks about love What God thinks about mankind, I find the mind of God in the pages of his word. Most important document in all the world. Is the Word of God. It contains the mind of God. It contains the state of man. Tells us who and what we really are. I was reading in my Bible this morning in Psalms and my devotions. And it says that there is none good. No, not one. He says that mankind is in a state of sinful separation from God. You and I, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, all of mankind is lost And in our sin. I learned that in the Bible. How many people agree? That's pretty important to know what my standing with my Creator is. Yeah. Very important. I find out in the Bible The Word of God tells me the mind of God, the state of man. This book tells me the way of salvation. Preacher, how can I be saved? How can I be? How can I escape hell? How can I know God accepts me and forgives me? We open the Bible. We find the way of salvation. Mike Stubler. Anybody remember Mike? Old faithful member of our church. Got saved years ago. Love the Lord. I mean faithful. We were out soul winning out here in Deerpart. This was years, he's with the Lord now, he got cancer. Uh but we were out uh Solwood in there in Deer Park and we kind of split up and I said, You take that side of the road, I'll do this, just knocking on doors. And uh I was down there, I looked over, uh he's walking up the uh sidewalk there and up the driveway I mean and uh I I'm knocking door and nobody was home. I looked over and he's standing in the driveway talking to some folks. I thought, well that's good And uh kind of make my way down, and I looked over, and he's sitting in the back uh on the picnic table in their backyard, and he's got like lemonade and um I said, wait a minute. And so I'm watching and they're laughing and drinking and going on. I said, that rat fink, I'm not I don't get I didn't get any lemonade Nobody gave me anything. And so he was there a long time and then finally came out and came down. I said, Mike, what's uh uh did you get me some? And uh He goes, they both trusted Jesus as their Savior. I said, praise the Lord. He goes, you wouldn't believe it. He says, when I came up there, they were in the backyard. When I came up uh introduced myself, got talking to them about the Lord, they they told me this. They said just, it was an older couple, they said just this morning we were discussing with each other how in the world where we're going to spend eternity. how in the world we could possibly uh know that we're going to heaven. You know what happened? God sent Mike by so those people could look in the the word of God, have a vision, get the revelation from God on how they could be saved. They've accepted it. They accepted it by faith, trusted Christ, and were born again. The Bible gives us the way of salvation. It tells us the mind of God. It tells us our condition. The Bible reveals to us the doom of the lost. You're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm telling you, this book, this book! It says that if we die in our sins, we're separated from God for all eternity in hell, eventually the lake of fire. Lost! Outer darkness! The Bible tells us the fate of the lost. Most important document in all the world is the Word of God. The mind of God, the state of man, the way of salvation, the doom of the Lord. The Bible tells us the blessedness of the saved. I don't know about you, I'm not that old yet. 59 is middle age. That'd be 118. But I don't know about you, but I've been thinking about heaven more and more lately. Thinking about heaven. Say, what's heaven like? What's it like to be in God's presence People say, oh, well, I think it's this You know, it doesn't matter what you and I think. We come to the Bible, we find out what it's like. The Bible tells us about the blessedness of the saved The home, the ransomed. Heaven. Nothing else in this world can tell us authoritatively what it's like to be in the presence of God. Only the Word of God. Do you agree with me? Most important document in all the world. The Word of God. The Word of God. The Word of God. By the way, not just the blessedness of saved in eternity, but the blessedness of being saved here and now. You're in now. Say what? This this May, this coming May 7th. It's coming May 7th. Forty-one years I've known the Lord as my Savior. Some of you are longer than that. Some of you weren't I mean your your parents weren't even born then. Maybe But I found one thing to be true. I've had some ups and downs in my Christian life, as have many of you. Some dark days, some awfully wonderful days. But I'll tell you what, I want to trade one day with the Lord for a ten years of the devils. Before I was saved, I wouldn't trade it. I tell you, the worst day as a Christian is far better than my best day as a lost man on my way to hell. The blessedness of the saint, I find it all in this book. You know what I found out? You know what I found out? If I do what this book says, it usually works out pretty good I have never, ever, ever regretted following God's instructions at one time. I've had a heap of times where I did it my way. Anybody here wish you'd go back and redo some things? Try to get a second shot? Boy, that'd be nice. But I've never said that when I did what God said. So if we're going to renew our vision, we're going to be able to anticipate what God can do in my life, what God can do in my ministry, in my Sunday school class, my church, my choir, my bus route, my kids, my marriage, my home I've got to refocus back on this whole book. I need to, can I put it this way? I need to get my nose back in the Bible. I want to challenge every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in the year 2020. Let's just determine we're going to spend a little bit of time in the Bible every day. Now, I think it's a good thing to read that Bible through once a year. I think it's a good thing to get to that point. But if you're not going to do that, that's fine. Read some part of God's Word every single day. Man, we've got Bible reading schedules coming out our ears around here. We can help you. There's tools to help us know what to read and when and all of that But renew our focus in the Word of God. Let me give you this next one real quick. Renew our faith in the Word of God. Renew our faith in the Word of God. It's one thing to know what God says in His Word, it's another thing to trust. What he says in his word. There's a fellow his son was real sick and he came to the Lord Jesus And the Lord Jesus says, if you have faith to believe, I can make them well. And the fellow said this, and I prayed this prayer so many times myself. He said this, Lord, I believe But help thou mine unbelief. What was he saying? He says, Lord, I know what you're saying. I know what you're saying. You can do this. I know that. I believe that's true. But Sometimes I struggle with my faith, and sometimes I'm just not real confident. Lord, help me. Help me to believe that what you say is so. Are there any Christians ever been there? I know what you're saying, Lord, and I believe it, but help me, help my unbelief. I want my faith to be stronger. I want my faith to be more confident. These doubts. We just have to make a decision. God, I'm going to take you at your word. I'm just going to take what you say is true and act upon it. Renew our focus on the Word of God, get back in it, but renew our faith. God, I'm going to live by this book. I'm going to trust what it says. Regardless of what my own understanding says, I'm going to go by your word. We can trust the Bible to be perfectly true. Can I say this? This book has no errors. There is not a mistake in this book. Read Psalms 12, 6, and 7, Psalm 19, 60. Psalm 119, 60. Not one mistake in this book. You say, the guy, when I right after, not long, about a year or so after I got saved, guy was working with, he says, Oh, that Bible's full of contradictions I said, really? And uh he goes, yeah. I said, name one. Uh well, there's one in there somewhere about something that one of the guys did that contradicted something else. I said, okay, that's pretty solid there. I said, you find it, you show it to me. Guess what he showed me? Nothing. Nothing. Now are there some portions that looks like contradiction? You know, I found ever I've read I'm working on my forty-first time reading that Bible through. You know what I found out? Every time there's something that is apparent contradiction, if I look at and just compare scripture with scripture It all works out. It's not a contradiction at all. Not a contradiction at all. I can have faith that that book is without error. It's the perfect word of God. I can trust it completely. I can have faith that this truth of this book will give me eternal life. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but by the word of God Which liveth and abideth forever. Only true salvation is Bible salvation. Somebody gets saved another way than what the Bible says to get saved, they're not saved. They're not saved. I can have confidence. Somebody says, uh uh preacher uh I was out visiting Phil Sherman. Uh how many people know Phil Sherman? Oh member of the church here, years blind. He was coming out for while he's diabetic real bad he can't get out. And uh we don't know how much time he has back down here with us. But um Uh uh I was visiting them yesterday, had a good time. And uh every time I visit Phil, we laugh and we cry and we pray and we read the Bible. Every time. First time I visited Phil, this is early on, back 1994, somewhere there, 93. I've just been here a couple months probably. And uh somebody said, go visit Phil and Carolyn Sherman out there. Uh they used to come here. I said, all right. Someone out there said, now he's blind. I said, all right, that's fine. And uh went out there and knocked, invited me in, introduced myself a little bit. He was a little leery of me. Um, even though he couldn't see me, he was still leery of me And uh I said, Phil, before I go, let me ask you a question. He said, All right. He's got this goatee about down here. And uh I said, Phil, uh, you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven? Without hesitating, he fired right back at me. Do you know you're going to heaven when you die, preacher? I said, well, uh I don't know that anybody's ever responded exactly that way when I've asked that question. I said, but Phil, I can tell you emphatically and without hesitation I know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. When I die, I'm not going to hell. He goes, okay then. I said, let me tell you why. It's not because I live my not how I live my life, not because I'm a preacher. It's not because I've been baptized Because the Bible promises me that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The assurance of our salvation is based squarely on the Word of God. What God says. Not anything I do or don't do, not any achievements I have. I'm nothing but a sorry sinner of nothing I have to bring to the to the Lord to accept me, just rotten, filthy rags of my own attempted righteousness. I come to God in faith, believing what He has told me in His Word, that whosoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I have assurance of my salvation that God has given me that promise. So the Bible, I can have faith in God's word. It's perfect. The perfect word of God. It imparts eternal life. It provides wisdom and direction in life. Tell you what you say, I don't know what to do, I don't know how to live. Open your Bible, follow this book. Can I make a suggestion? Read a chapter of Proverbs every day. On that day, on January 1st, I read Proverbs chapter 1. January 2nd, Proverbs chapter 2. Just do that over and over and over. The wisdom book It'll give you wisdom for life, help you make decisions, let the Lord lead and direct you. Have faith in the Word of God. Trust it. It'll give you direction and and wisdom in life. It'll empower us over sin and temptation I'm not going to actually respond to this, but I guarantee you this, every one of us that know Christ as Savior, since we've been saved, we've struggled with sin. Getting saved doesn't eliminate the sinful nature. It doesn't eliminate temptation from my life. It's still there. It's very real. But now I have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within me, and I can have victory over it. I don't have to give in to that temptation. I don't have to be dominated by sin and be a slave to sin anymore. I can be free. Through Christ. Psalms 119, uh, let me try and quote it here. Psalm 119, 9. Uh wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to his word. You got some sinful addiction? You got some sin you can't conquer. It's just killing you? I'm telling you, the Bible can empower you and I to have victory over that sin. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. The power of the word of God. To give me victory in my life, to lead me and give me wisdom into the perfect will of God, to assure me that I am a home in heaven. I'm not going to hell. The perfect word of God Well, we need to renew our faith in God's Word. We need to renew our focus in God's Word. And I am with this, we need to renew our furtherance of God's Word. Say, what do you mean by that? Where there is no vision, the people what? Perish. Perish. You know what that tells me? There's people all around the world desperately need the vision. Need the revelation of God And you and I have been given a commission by Almighty God, by Jesus Christ Himself. He has given our church a commission to take the gospel, the vision of God, the revelation of God, into all the world. To further this revelation of God as given in the Word of God further into all the world. Into all the world. Where there is no word of God, people will perish. Homes without the Word of God perish. Communities, cities without the Word of God perish. Nations without the Word of God perish. We've got to further this book. We've got to get it out. The revelation of God and his plan of salvation, as given in the Word of God, we've got to further it. We've got to get it out. God, raise up missionaries out of our own body of Christ here. Go around the world and giving out the Word of God, distributing, preaching the Word of God. God raise up preacher boys. God raise up soul winners here in our own community. Share the gospel with others and see them saved. You say, oh, there's nobody in this area here that wouldn't know the Lord, wouldn't know God. I'm telling you, I meet them every single week. I need 'em all the time. Janu or December. Thirty days has September. April, June, and November. Uh Jan December thirty-first, nineteen seventy-eight. New Year's Eve. I made decision. I'm not going to live the way I'm living anymore. I don't want to be the man I'm becoming. I had friends, some had OD'd, were dead. I had some in jail. Just about all the people I hung around with, just about all, just about all of them, were starting to shoot up heroin. I was 18 years old I looked at my life. I looked at where I was heading. I saw where I was heading. And I said, I can't be this way. I can't. I cannot end up this way. I said, I'm going to change. I'm going to change. I couldn't change Sin had dominion over me. I tried and tried weeks and finally in desperation at night I'd come home and I'd say, God, you have to help me. Oh God, help me And it wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice. God spoke to my heart. Read the Bible Something in my heart and soul directed me to the Word of God. The vision of God. The revelation of God. I remember it's early in the year January, February, sometime there, I started rooting through my drawers and cabinets and everything, and found the Bible that had been given to me. Thank God for folks who give out Bibles. I started reading that Bible. I didn't know anything. I just opened it up and started reading. My daddy'd been praying for me, been a phenomenal witness. And I knew that God could help me. I knew God could help me. I started reading that vision. I started seeing I was a sorry sinner. I saw there was only one hope. There's only one hope. Not only of becoming a new man, of having a new life, being born again. There is only one hope of that, but there's only one hope of being accepted by God. Of escaping hell and heaven. Wasn't really thinking about that, but God revealed Himself to me. You know Bone-headed, thick-headed skull of mine. For five months I struggled with that. I knew that was the answer. Jesus was the answer. Jesus was the answer. But I was afraid I didn't know how that would all play out. May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night. You know the story. I bowed by my bed. I said, oh God. I have no hope. I don't want to be this way. I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. You know the story. God turned it around, just changed everything. Certainly not sinless, but my soul, what God has done. You know what it all came down to? There was the vision of God that was available to me Follow what I'm saying? The Word of God was available, and I could read it, and I gained that information that was vital for me to find forgiveness and a new life and to know God. It was in the Word of God. And wherever the Word of God is missing, those people perish. I thought as I prepared this, what if I had lived somewhere where there was no Bible? What if I had lived somewhere there was nobody distributed the Word of God and I had nowhere to go to to find help, to find a new life, to find forgiveness? What if I had no Bible? Oh, thank God that we live in a place and there's people who care enough to give the Word of God out. But all around the world, there's people that have no scriptures, no vision, they perish. Let's ask God to refocus ourselves into the Word of God, get refocused back in that word. Let's help Him to uh uh to renew our faith in the Word of God And then commit ourselves to renew the furtherance, getting it out, getting out. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Stir our hearts this coming year. Give us a vision, Lord, of what you can Do if we'll just trust you. And then Lord help us to refocus on your vision, the Word of God. Have faith in it and get it out to everybody we possibly can Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need, I need to discipline myself as a Christian to get back in that Bible and spend time On a regular basis in the Bible. How many like that? Say, preacher, I need that. God bless you. Hands all around. Just determine. Ask God to help you. I'm going to spend time every day in God's Word. It will change your life How many would say, Preacher, I'm trying to read the Bible? I believe it's true, but you know sometimes my faith is weak. Sometimes my faith isn't what it ought to be, and I struggle with that. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that my faith can grow this year. And it can be strengthened. And take God at His Word and trust and act on it. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I need my faith to grow. God bless you. What about this matter of furthering the Word of God? You say, preacher, I need to get involved in that I need to be a part of getting the Word of God to other people who don't have it here locally and around the world. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. Getting involved in that. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I want to, God bless you, my hands raised. On all of those, my hands raised. And then God can give us a vision of what He can do. We can dream and imagine. What God can do in my home, my kids, my own ministry, my life. Father, bless our invitation now. We're going to respond in faith and personal needs, and then we're going to pray, Lord, for these scriptures. They go out. You would use them in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed