While we're doing that, if we can grab the ushers real quick, I'd like to collect these uh Trek Month reports up and we'll tally these up uh and have at the end of the service We'll give a figure for this morning. So if you have yours filled out, uh uh go ahead and pass it to the aisle. That'll make it a little easier for our guys. If you haven't, do that real quickly And again, you can estimate on that. Don't exaggerate. Put your name on there in today's date. We also are compiling which individual gives out the most tracks, and uh they're going to get a nice meal at a restaurant for them and their family, whoever gives the most gospel tract out. Just a little motivation here. And uh so we want to get these up. Anybody else down front still a lack uh in the back, all the way over on the left here, Brother Tom And all the way over on the right. And I got mine up here. Also, while they're collecting these up, um just a little bit of information we have had it's been quite a morning behind the scenes machines around here, I'll tell ya. Got out there to run the bus and the battery was dead, so that delayed us. Got stuck behind a train over in Teralta, so I come flying in the last minute PowerPoint thing wasn't on where it's supposed to be. I had to run over the house real quick and get that. Greg Barrett just about run me over when I was crossing the street Not really. But uh lo and behold, during the Sunday school hour, all of our commodes are plugged up. So uh they are diligently working on 'em as I speak, but as of right now, there is one restroom functioning and that is in the nursery. So unless it's an absolute emergency, um just kind of sit tight there if you would. Uh Lord will and we're getting that fixed. And um my conclusion is God must be fixing to do something good here, you know. All this going on, but praise the Lord. Uh if that's our worst of our problems, we're in pretty good shape. Amen. So We appreciate you bearing with us. Acts chapter 3. Would you look at verse 19 with us, please? I want us I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Acts 3 And verse number 19. Everybody got it there? Looking around? Everybody ready? Let's read it together with me, would you? Repent ye therefore and be converted. that your sins may be blotted out when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. I've entitled the message, Repent ye therefore and be converted Paul is preaching to a group of Jews here. They had just saw a lame man healed. The crowd gathers together. And man, if you paid attention when James was reading earlier in this passage, uh he really lays it to them. I mean he says, You crucified the Lord of glory, and he just tears them up. And uh then he says in verse 19, he says, Repent ye therefore And be converted that your sins may be blotted out. You know what he's telling us? He's telling us how to get our sins forgiven Repent ye therefore be converted that your sins may be blotted out. Now I'm uh giving a little bit of the gist of my message, but this is what he's doing He is splitting hairs here. He is cutting it down into great detail how it is we get our sins forgiven. Repent. And be converted. Alright, let's pray. I'll try and share some thoughts here. We'll look at some other passages of scriptures and try and get a grasp of what God's telling us here. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Bless now our time in your word. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. It has been hectic, Lord, and uh we're we're just Lord, I'm just glad to be busy for you, Father, and even have these issues indicates to me, Lord, we're doing something, and uh you're doing something. So Please bless now this hour. Um uh I ask that you would speak our hearts, open our hearts and minds, save souls, revive Christianity I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm curious how many folks recognize the name David Brainerd? Anybody recognize that name, David Brainerd? David Brainerd was a great, great missionary back in the 1700s. Does anybody know? Anybody recall who David Brainerd focused his mission efforts on? What group of people The American Indians. He was down in Tennessee. I think he was over in Kentucky. And of course in the early 1700s, much of America was a pioneer, un un uh un uh settled and unexplored and he was reaching out to American uh Indians and taking the gospel to them. He made this statement. Listen carefully to what he's saying here. This is going to set the stage for our message I'll read what his statement and I'll come back and maybe reword it. But this is what he said. Listen carefully. I never he's speaking about his preaching to the Indians. I never got away from Jesus and him crucified in my preaching. I found that once these people were gripped by the great biblical meaning of Christ's crucifixion on our behalf, I did not have to give them any instructions about changing their behavior. Now, do you catch what he said there? Let me put it in my own words. I believe he was saying this. I preached the fact that Jesus Christ died on the cross for our sins. He died in our place for our offenses, our disobedience. And when these dear people got a hold of the fact that Jesus Christ died for their sins, I didn't have to talk to them about changing their life. They wanted to change their life. There was something inside that the Spirit of God did that prompted them to want to live for God. And you know what he says here very distinctly, I've found to be true in my life. I found to be true in the ministry. When a person gets a hold of what Jesus Christ has done for us on the cross. When we really grasp the price that my sins cost the Lord Jesus Christ, down inside, I want to live and please Him. I want to live for Him. Um when we are, when we are, and I try this very diligently from this pulpit. I try to do it out. We were in Morgantown yesterday witnessing and sharing the gospel. I was in Cumberland earlier this week in Frostburg. And uh giving out gospel tracts and trying to I try to talk to people about the Lord while I'm out. And uh I try very very di I try very diligently, as many of you do, when I'm sharing the gospel with someone, to be very, very clear. On how a person knows that their sins are forgiven and that when they die, they go to heaven and not to hell. Now, my emphasis here is being very clear Making sure they understand. Yesterday we finished giving out tracks in Morgantown. There was a great group of us. And I tell you, these road trips are more fun than a barrel full of monkeys. I like saying that. I've been saying it over and over. And we had a great time. We stopped at McDonald's, some of us. Some went to Sonic, some went to Kroger's to eat. And um uh we went to McDonald's. And uh the lady behind the counter, I got a gospel track out, got her my meal, and I said, Can I leave a gospel track with you? Uh has any no, I said this. I said, Has anyone ever given you a gospel track? She goes, yeah, I've gotten a few. I said, have you gotten any today? She goes, no. I said, well, here you go. This is today. She goes well I never got this one before. Who's it from? And I said, Well, I'm the pastor of Mount Lake Baptist Church up in Oakland. We're in Morgantown. And uh she goes, and she made this statement. She says, I don't believe in organized religion. She goes, I believe in God. I believe in heaven and hell, but I don't believe in organized religion. I said, well that's very interesting because this tract is not from an organized religion. It's straight from the Bible. She goes, really? I said, it tells you how you can how it tells us what God says, how we can know that when we die our sins are forgiven, we go to heaven and not to hell. She goes, is that a fact? I said, yeah. I said this is right up your alley. You would enjoy this She smiled ear to ear and said, Well thank you. I'm going to read that thing. You know what I was trying to do? I was trying to be very clear. It is God that tells us how we can know our sins every day when we go to heaven. That's what we need to do. We need to be very, very clear from this pulpit out on the highways and hedges and the streets and the marketplaces in our homes. When we open our Bibles or we have a gospel literature and we share with people how they can be saved, we must be very, very clear. And telling them what the Bible says. Um Tuesday I had a dentist appointment. I had oral surgery. They told me initially it was going to take two and a half hours. Uh it was only about an hour. I had all kinds of Nova Cain shots and everything in this jaw up here and uh they did a bunch of anybody want to hear all the details of what it was? And uh I was there about an hour. I'll tell you later, Mitchell, and uh he's real interested. And uh so anyway, uh I got out of the dentist office and um y you know when you have Novocaine your whole side of your face any anybody know what I'm talking about it's you feel like you got a softball there, you know. And I come walking out and I didn't feel anything. I was in no pain at that point. That guy felt really good. Uh and I come out of there, I thought, you know, is uh I thought was I was Expect to be here another hour and a half longer than what I got an hour and a half. I'm gonna go give out some gospel tracts. So I had a stack of gospel tracts and I drove over to the college there where a lot of the uh dormitories and fraternity houses and apartments for h student housing are and so I went over there and I was giving out gospel tracts and leaving them on doors and going on and uh uh I'm there I I like to sing while I'm running around and I'm trying to sing, uh uh and uh it's all swelled up I couldn't hardly talk about so anyway I come around a corner and here's this college student walking out of the apartment and he's heading to college, to classes. You could just walk over from where I was at. And so I said He came around the corner. I said, Come on, good with my buffer card. He stopped and he said, What? I go, I'm gonna go with my buffer card. He says, I don't know what you're saying. A gonquar. He goes, what is that thing? It's a gonquet. He said, where are you from? Oakland. Where? Oakland. Where's that? O Bokam Namfu So finally said he took the thing, he says, What is this? It's from the Bible. Finally I said, And the guy talked walked off and he's walking down the sidewalk with his bag reading the guy. Don't go for a boat. I walked away, I thought, I better just stick to handing it to them, you know. Because I wasn't making it very clear. But, all joking and laughing aside, when we're dealing with someone's eternal destiny, it is vitally, vitally important. That we accurately communicate to them what is required for a person to know that their sins are forgiven and that they're on their way to heaven I think there are three, and this is not the message, this is just setting it up, but I think there are three truths that if a person is going to be saved, they absolutely have to have a handle on. The first one is this, is the sinfulness of man. A person needs to understand that we in and of ourselves before God have absolutely nothing good to offer him We are sinners. We've broken God's law. We are guilty of breaking the laws of God, and we stand under the judgment of God. Nobody is ever going to be saved from hell and get to heaven who does not first understand their sinful condition. So that needs to be clearly communicated, clearly understood. The second is not just the simpleness of man, but the sacrifice of Christ. We have got to clearly communicate to people the fact that Jesus Christ died as a substitute for our sin. There's nothing we can do to atone for our sin. There's nothing we can do to make ourselves acceptable to God. Jesus did that for us when he died on the cross, was buried, and rose again. The substitutionary death of Christ must be clearly communicated. Nobody will ever get to heaven that does not understand that Jesus died for them in their place and rose again. Not going to make it. So the simpleness of man, the sacrifice of Christ, and then the third thing I think needs to be clearly communicated is the simplicity of faith Just because Jesus died on that cross doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. I must exercise faith in what Christ did for me. I must put my trust, my hope, my confidence in what he did for me, depend upon his sacrifice to get me to heaven. Nobody ever gets to heaven who does not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. So those are three areas that must be clearly communicated. Regardless of denominational background, regardless of religious background Those three things must be understood if a person's going to be saved. Now, that brings me to this. There is one term you will hear often. In preaching, in sometimes on gospel tracts, that is associated and biblically associated closely with salvation. But it is also a statement, a truth, that is taken to extremes. And that is this: repentance. Repentance. How does repentance fit in to a person's salvation? What does it mean? How do I do that? How necessary is it? Now I made the statement, it's taken to extremes. The one extreme is it's completely denied. No, there's no repentance. There's no such thing. Doesn't matter. Um, just to illustrate, uh, the universalist church would teach that Everybody goes to heaven. You don't there's no repentance, no chains, nothing. You just go to heaven no matter what. That is unscriptural The other extreme is to distort what repentance really is. In other words, to give it meanings that are not found in the Bible To give unscriptural definitions to the term repentance. Now, there is no doubt in studying the Bible, and I think I'll be able to point this out to you, convince you of this here if you're not already, I'll be able to convince you from the scriptures. That repentance is a key ingredient in being saved from sin in hell. It absolutely is. John the Baptist preached repentance. Mark chapter 1 and verse 15, Jesus Christ Himself said, on two occasions, except ye repent, ye shall likewise perish. Jesus. Peter in Acts chapter 3, verse 19, we just read, he said, Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. The Apostle Paul in Acts chapter 20 preached repentance. In fact, if you'll study church history, all great preachers used of God preached repentance. So there's no doubt. Repentance is a biblical doctrine. It is a very key part of a person's salvation. Now, here's my first thought tonight. If you're taking this morning, if you're taking notes, this is point number one. I want us to consider some confusion about what repentance really is. There are about as many different deaf ideas of what repentance is as there are churches. You talk to I mean even within the independent Baptist circles, I uh Brother Williams is here, so this kind of is a little pertinent, but the first revival we had at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church when I was pastor in uh December of nineteen ninety-three How many people remember way last century, 19 uh brother Williams? Uh do you remember that meeting? Sort of. Um Very first meeting. I came in September. We schedule meeting in December. Now one reason that sticks out in my mind is uh it was the first week, it's the first revival, and I schedule it right during the first week of beer rifle season. And I learned my lesson. Don't ever do that again. There are sacred times of the year. But um we had that meeting. I got a letter from another pastor. And he rebuked me. And he said, we didn't preach repentance. Now, if you've been around Brother Williams very long, you know he preaches repentance. Uh we believe that, we teach and preach that here. But he rebuked me very sharply. I wrote him back, I said, Thank you for your concern. Uh thank you for your concern and uh pray for us that God will give me wisdom, I'll do right And um uh but uh he said he didn't do it. Here I come to find out his definition of repentance was not Bible definition of repentance. Um you go to different churches and you'll have, you talk to different preachers or whatnot, you'll get several different definitions of repentances. And what role it plays in salvation. Now, I think there's two reasons why there's some confusion about what repentance is. Now, we're going to do a little Bible study with me this morning, alright? Uh I uh uh so bear with me. But um two reasons I think there's some confusions if you go to one church and they'll say this about repentance and go to another One of the reasons is, now this is my thinking, one of the reasons, I believe, is because the t the English word repent Does not correspond exactly with the uh word it comes from, the Greek word repent. When you translate from the original language, Greek, into the English, there's no word in the English language that directly corresponds With what the original language when it spoke about repentance was. Now, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying that's not the right word. It is the right word. It's the word God gave us But the English, this is what I'm trying to say, the English definition of the word repentance has variations to it that are not found in the word it came from. You follow what I'm saying? And so it comes down to this. You can look up one dictionary of the word re- English word repent, and it'll give this definition. You look up another dictionary, it'll give a slightly different definition. You look up another one, it gives a slightly different definition. Because there's not an exact parallel in the two languages. So it's very easy to take that and uh if you don't go back to the word it came from and do a little search there, the Bible says study to show yourself approved unto God. If you don't study that out You just take this definition, then you build on that, and next thing you know, you're over here and you have a meaning that the Bible does not give for it. You follow what I'm saying? So, uh the nature of the word lends itself to the possibilities of confusion about its meaning. But there's another reason, and I think this is more Perhaps closer to the actual reason why we have so many different definitions, so many distortions. And that is this. Because we find within Christianity and our evangelism A lot of people who make professions of faith, they claim to trust Christ, but there's never any change in their life. You know what I'm talking about? They'll say a sinner's prayer, they'll come to an altar, they'll trespact, but you never see God work in their life. You never see a change there, any development Now don't misunderstand. Everybody's different. That change, that process of growth in some people is more rapid than others. Some people it displays itself more prominently than others But there is a change that takes place, right? 2 Corinthians 5:17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. So here's what happens. Particularly in our circles, independent Baptist circles, is uh we're very aggressive, we get out there, we share the gospel with people, we try and be as clear as we can. Somebody says, Yes, I want to trust Christ, they trust Christ. And they go back and they stay in the bars and they stay running around, they go on, and nothing ever happens. And so that bothers us. Rightly so. Now here's where the mistake comes in. Some guys got the idea, well, I have to make it harder for them to get saved. And they'll give a definition to the word repent that's not found in the Bible. And they'll try and make it harder for people to trust Christ. Listen, I, regardless of what the results are, I have no right to toy with the message of salvation. I can't change it. I can't say, oh, we're going to make this harder. I have to give the gospel exactly as the Bible gives it. Leave the results up to God. But and I think they're sincere. I think for probably good men and mean well. But they say, I gotta make this harder. These people are just making profession, not change. We gotta get them to repent. And they give a definition of repentance that is not in Scripture. So what are some of these uh can what is some of this confusion about repentance? Let me give you a few false uh little confusing definitions that people give that I don't believe are scriptural. First of all Uh one confusion about repentance is this. Repentance equals stopping to stop sinning. It's often expressed this way: you must repent of all your sins. Now, what they mean by that is you have to stop sinning to be saved. That's unscriptural. That is humanly impossible to stop sinning. Listen to 1 John 1 and verse 10. John says this. We'll tell you what. Turn there with me. Would you? I want you to see this. 1 John chapter 1, just back there beyond Hebrews, James, 1, 2 Peter, 1 John. If you got the 2 John, you went too far. 1 John chapter 1 verse number 10. Look at this here in your Bible with me. Would you I want you to see it. Verse 9 he said now there's a very important word here. Verse 9, if what's that next word? We. That means he's including himself in with his hearers, correct? We. Question. Was John a saved man? Absolutely. Was John writing to save people? Yes. So when he says, if we saved people, confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now look at verse 10. If what's the word? If we, a saved people, say that we have not sinned, we do what We make him a liar. Listen, somebody says, oh, I've stopped sinning. The Bible says that person's a liar. You come across someone who says, no, I don't sin anymore. I've repented of all my sins. Ask his wife about that. The idea that repent means to stop sinning is unscriptural. When I was under conviction from January of 1979 to May of 1979, that five-month period of time, God was healing my heart. I knew I needed to be saved. I was reading my Bible, I was crying out to God to help me. If somebody would have come to me and said, Dennis Leatherman, if you want to be saved, you have to repent from all your sins. You have to stop sinning. You know what my answer would have been? I can tell you, as sure as today is Sunday, I tell you what my answer would have been. Would have been this. I want to, but I can't. I can't. That's the whole problem. I don't want to live like this anymore. I don't want my life eat up by sin anymore. I don't want to do these things I'm doing. I don't want to be the person I'm becoming. I would never have gotten saved. It was hopeless. So, the idea of telling a lost sinner that you have to repent of all your sin, you have to stop sinning. Or you can't be saved. No one would ever be saved. Follow what I'm saying? If we say we have no sin We make him a liar. So another confusing definition of the term repentance is this. It has the idea of being sorry for my sins. Now, I believe in repentance, we'll see in a little bit, is the is the ingredient of being sorry, but simply being sorry for my sins is not repenting from them. You follow what I'm saying? Someone says you've got to be sorry, and this is expressed this way sometimes. You don't hear this quite as much, but it's expressed this way. They just did not seem like they were very sorry for their sins. They came to the altar, there was no tears, there was no weeping, there was no sorrow. That person's not ready to get saved. That is not scriptural. It's nowhere in my Bible that I see that tears and weeping is a prerequisite for salvation So to equ to equate repentance with sorrow, weeping, and outward expression of sadness is unscriptural. 2 Corinthians chapter 7 verse 10 said that godly sorrow worketh repentance When I get sorry for my sins, it may can produce repentance, but that sorrow in and of itself is not repentance. You follow what I'm saying? Uh how many folks here you uh when your kids are small, you have small kids, you ever discipline them? I mean the old-fashioned way to discipline. Don't tell anyone. Anybody know uh do you ever go to discipline them and before you ever touch them, they're screaming bloody murder. Can I get a witness? Anybody? They're over the knee. I love you, son. You did wrong. I want this has to teach a lesson. And I'll pick back like that and it's I didn't even touch it yet, kid. There's a ton of sorrow, but that's not for repentance. You know why all that sorrow is being expressed? To make that a little bit lighter when it lands. Right? So repentance is stop sinning. No, that's not biblical repentance. Be sorry for your sin. Well, you should be, and that can produce repentance. But that's not repentance. Another idea is repentance is reformation. You've got to change your life. Then you can be saved. Now, God wants to change our lives, right? But you don't you don't I knew I was gonna do that one of these days you don't get the cart before the horse. See what I'm saying? I've had so many people over the years say I'm sharing the gospel with them, I'm trying to urge them to get saved, and they'll say this. Well, you know, I just got to straighten some things up before I get saved. I just I had a guy in Indianapolis that gave me a list of things that he had to stop and change before he could get saved. Well I gotta quit this habit. Well I gotta change that. I need to do this, I need to stop that, I need to start this Listen, you've got the cart before the horse. You trust Christ, and then God changes those things. Let God do the changes. So repentance does not equal reformation. They told me when I got saved, one of the fellows at the meat packing plant said to me, I was witnessing and telling what God was doing for me. There was obviously a phenomenal change in my life. The Lord did And uh one guy said, Well, Leatherman, you turned over a new leaf. I said, No, the problem with that is the bottom side of the leaf was just as nasty as the top side. You got a poison ivy tree. You got that poison ivy plant, and you say, well, we're going to reform this plant. We're going to turn over the leaves. I found the bottom side of poison ivy is just as poisonous as the top side of poison ivy. And so repentance is not reformation. How many folks are familiar with the term penance? You've been out of the Catholic Church, you're familiar with that. Uh Father, I go into confessional. Father, I have sinned. What have you done, my son? Confess and whatever they say. Well, I I put four tracks on a door instead of one and counted all four of them. Good heavens! Alright, here's your penance. You have to say five Hail Marys, and you gotta You gotta put extra tithe in the offering that Sunday. Now what some people have the idea that's repentance, doing penance. That's not repentance. What is that? It's works. It's punishment. Alright, if you did that wrong, then you got to do this, this, this, this to make up for it. This is your punishment. Now the problem with that is Christ was punished for us. I confess my sins. I don't have to go through some sort of punishment. Christ was already punished for my sins. So you follow what I'm saying. These are just a few examples of confusion about what does it mean to repent and be converted. How do I repent? What does it mean? Well, that leads us to our second thought, real quick. We looked at some confusion about repentance. What about the certainty of repentance? Does the Bible really teach that we should repent? And if so, what does it mean? Well, some form of the word repentance is used 111 times in the Bible. That's nothing to sneeze at. If God uses, God addresses an issue a hundred and eleven times, it's pretty significant. It's pretty significant. Now, you say, well, how do I know what the word repents? I think it's very simple. We complicate things. I think there's three things to do to determine what the word repent or any other meaning of teaching in the Bible is. First of all, get the meaning of the word. And if necessary, if you get various meanings in the English, go back to the word it comes from and see what that Definition was. Get some insight there. So find the meaning of the word. But that isn't always the end. Do you ever use a word that means one thing, but you use it in a context and it means something else Sure. So I find out what the word means, then I go to the passage it's used in. And I look at the context. What is being talked about here? How does it fit in there? Does that meaning make sense in this context? And that helps me understand. Then there's a third thing I think we should do, is this. Look at how it's used other places in the Bible. How is it used there? What does it mean here? Is there a contradiction, apparent contradiction? If so, then I look and see how that is resolved. So I get the meaning of the word, the context, and cross-reference it with other scriptures. And I'm convinced if we will do that, it will answer every question, solve every problem. The problem is when somebody gets a meaning and they build a whole doctrine on a meaning without looking at the context and without cross-referencing it. Follow what I'm saying? So. Is repentance in the Bible? Yes. Absolutely. How do we know how it applies? What it means? Well, let's look at the meaning, let's look at the context, let's cross-reference it. I did a little research on the word repentance. I found, now I'll just go through this quickly. In Acts chapter 20 and verse 21, listen to this. They were told to exercise repentance toward God. In Revelation 9. 20, they're told to repent from idols. In Revelation 9. 21, they were told to repent from a list of particular sins. In Revelation 16, verse 19, they were told to repent from sinful deeds. Listen to Hebrews 6:11, they were told to repent from dead works. In Acts 2, verse 14 through 40, they were told to repent towards Jesus Christ. 28 times in the Old Testament, 28 times. The term repent has God doing the repenting Now, if repentance means to stop sinning, how do you explain God repenting from something? God can't stop sinning because he doesn't sin. Several times, nine other times in the Old Testament, it implies a situation where God could repent, but he says, I won't. So, what's the conclusion? I'm condensing hours and hours of study into a few statements. The conclusion is this. The strict biblical definition of the word repent is simply this: to change one's mind about something I viewed something one way, and I no longer view it that way anymore. I had a certain perspective on something. And I have a different perspective on it than what I did before. I have changed my mind about that. Remember in Genesis chapter 6, we're preaching in Sunday nights periodically on the life of Noah. Remember, in the mankind had become so thoroughly perverse, so thoroughly wicked. And God said it reprieved him. It repented him that he had created man. You know what he's saying? Now this blows my mind. But God was saying, I changed my mind. I wished I hadn't even made them. Now, God, in his compassion, spared mankind through Noah and his three sons and their wives. And here we are today. So if we look strictly at the biblical definition of the term, and the root words carry this out. It means simply to change my mind about something. To have a whole different perspective on it than I used to. It also in the matter of repentance, the object of my repentance is significant. As I studied through here, all man repenting It always had something to do with his relationship with God. It always had something to do with his standing before his creator. He repented toward God, he's told. We're told. What does that mean? It means he changed his whole perspective on who and what God is. He sees it completely differently. What authority God has over my life now. I see it completely differently. God's right to make demands of me. See what I'm saying? It's a change of mind. It's a and it's directed Godward. And when it is concerning salvation And the study of scriptures and the term repentance. When repentance is, by the way, I've found, and studying scriptures support this, that in my life, most of my repentance took place after I got saved. Um when I got saved, May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, right after Lurns early, I trusted Christ saved, got in my bed. I drove to work that morning. This is going to shock your socks off. I listened to rock and roll music on the way to work that morning. Aerosmith? Uh Led Zeppelin. I was listening to that. But I was reading my Bible that week, that following week. As I read my Bible, I started to change my mind about that. I started realizing, wait a minute, this that I'm listening to doesn't match what I am now. This garbage I'm listening to. It's not in line with scripture. So about two weeks into my Christian life, I got eight track cassette tapes Eight track tapes. Why do we always laugh about them? I had stacks of them. I went out in the garage. I found a big old, it wasn't a sledgehammer, but it was bigger than a hammer. What do you call that? What? A big hammer. And I was out there and I was just sitting there and I was just smashing them. My mom sticks her head out. Now don't you do this, but she did this. She called me Denny. Denny! Shh! Yeah! What are you doing? Smashing this sinful garbage. What? Dh yeah. She goes, are you crazy? There's a thousand dollars. Why don't you sell 'em? I said, then someone else will listen to this sinful garbage. Now, when I got saved, it wasn't a big deal. But as I studied my Bible, I began realizing, wait a minute, this is not in line. You really won't believe this. When I got saved, I had hair down beyond my shoulders. You don't even believe I had hair. But I did. This is the this this is the part that is just out of this world. I worked at a meat packing plant. You know what that meant? We had to wear hairnets. You should have seen me in hair nets. It was to die for it. I started reading my Bible. I read there, it's a shame for a man to have long hair. Huh. Guess what? I started cutting my hair. I haven't quit. You follow what I'm saying? At night I got saved, the length of my hair, the music I listened to, stuff like that. That didn't ever enter my mind. I was all this other stuff I was worried about. But as I read my Bible, I repented. I changed my perspective on these things. I started seeing it differently. You know why? Because I had repented in my understanding of God. Now I saw God having authority over my life. I saw God being God and not me anymore. And so, as a result of that, I began repenting in other areas. And more changes took place in my life after I got saved than took place before I got saved. Repentance. It means to change my perspective on something. Um That leads me to my last and brief thought. Come back to Acts chapter number three. Now Peter is preaching to these Jews. He just healed a man and they're coming around and they're saying, What in the world? And Peter says, Listen, don't think it's through our holiness that we're some super great men of God that did this. It's we're just people like you. It's God did this. Then he lays in to the Jewish religious leaders. And I mean he skins them alive. Did you pay attention when James was reading that? You crucified the Lord of glory. You did. And then in verse nineteen He says, repent ye therefore and be converted. So that God can forgive all your sins. You know what he was telling him? You need to change your mind about some stuff. You need to see some things differently than the way you're looking at them. You've got a long perspective on God and on life and on who and what you are. You need to see things from the biblical point of view. You need to see things through the lens of truth. Repent and be converted. They were to change their mind. Listen, I may be talking to someone this morning. You need to change your mind about who and what you are. You see yourself as not needing God. You see yourself as not needing Christ. You see yourself as being able to live your life independent of God. And God says, repent from that way of thinking. Stop thinking that way. You need me. You'll die and go to hell without Christ as Savior. Repent from that way of thinking. Repent and be converted. The Jews were self-righteous. So much so they crucified the Son of God. Repent and be converted. Quit thinking that way. Well, I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. Stop thinking that way. You're a wicked sinner. Your heart is deceitful and desperately wicked, just like all of ours is. There's nothing good you have in your hands To offer the Lord Jesus Christ to make you acceptable to Him. We're always an unclean thing. Our righteousnesses are as filthy rags in the sight of God. So he's telling them, change your perspective on yourself. Change your perspective on sin. I get out and knock on doors and witness to people. Go through the point of sin. You know your sinner? Yeah, buddy. This here's a sinner. You know what he needs to do? Repent. Being a sinner is not cool. It's a shame. It's something we seek deliverance from. Yeah, I'm a sinner. A wicked, vile sinner deserved to die and go to hell. Like when I'm sharing the gospel with people to try and help them see this. I'll get the Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. I'll explain it. That means because we're sinners, what we end up if we die that way is end up in hell, death, separation from God. Occasionally I'll ask this question. According to the Bible, Romans 6 23, for the wages of sin is death, that's dying going to hell. According to the Bible. Where do you deserve to go when you die? Where do you deserve to go when you die? Now, sometimes a person says, Well, I'm not perfect, but I don't know I deserve to go to hell. That person needs to repent. They got a wrong perspective. We do deserve hell. Every one of us. Oh, I want what I deserve. Are you sure? We got what we deserved. Every one of us be burning in the devil's hell right now. We've broken God's law. So we need to repent, change of perspective about what sin is. Change of perspective. about what I am. Change a perspective about what the Savior is. Those five months I was going through conviction and the scriptures bear this out as I was reading my Bible and crying out to God I was it was dawning on me. I was coming to the conclusion. I was beginning to see, understand, that my only hope was Jesus Christ. Not Buddha, not Muhammad, not Joseph Smith, not some self-help guru. Jesus was the only savior available to mankind. I had to change my perspective and understand. It isn't the church that saves me from sin and hell. It isn't the Pope that saves me from sin and hell. It is Jesus and Jesus alone. So, repentance in this matter of conversion is seeing myself, my sin, and my savior. From a biblical perspective, not a wrong, man-centered perspective. And I repent from that. I change my mind about that Now, it's interesting, and we don't have time to really go into this, but it's interesting. Peter says to those Jews, he says, Repent and be converted. He doesn't just say repent. Now I believe there's a degree of repentance a person can do and not be saved. It can change their mind about some things, but never be converted. Can I give you an illustration? Judas. Did Judas go to heaven? He's in hell today. Did he repent? Yep. Yeah. After he crucified Christ, he changed his mind about that 30 pieces of silver they gave him. He threw it back I betrayed an innocent man. He completely changed his attitude about doing what Jesus was. But he was never converted. He never put his faith in Christ. He went and what'd he do? Took his own life. Yeah, he changed his mind, but he never came to Christ. That's sad. He says, repent and be converted. I think of the prodigal son. I wish we had time to look at it, but we don't. The Bible says when he was in the hog pen feeding the hogs and he was eating the pig food, he was so hungry. The Bible says he came to himself. You know what that is? Repentance He changed his whole perspective. What am I doing here? This is crazy. My father's servants have a place to live and food to eat. And he had a completely different perspective. He repented. But he didn't stay there. He got up out of the hog pen and he went back to his father. You know what that was? Conversion. Yeah, I'm a sinner. I hate it. I can't do anything. And I know Jesus is the Savior. I know He's my only hope. That's repentance. Conversion is, I'm going to trust him. I'll take him to be my Savior, to save me from sin in hell. Repent, be converted. Years ago we had a lady called me. Oh, by the way, the book of the Gospel of John, if you'll read chapter 20, verse 31. The whole reason the Gospel of John was written so that people would believe on Jesus and have everlasting life. I did a little study, I found the word repent is not found one time in the Gospel of John. And the whole purpose of the book of John was this people believe on Christ and have everlasting life. But you know what word is used? Ninety sometimes, believe. Believe, believe, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. For God so loved the world, He gave his only begotten Son, whosoever Believeth in him should not perish. Nicodemus came to the Lord by night. Not one time did Jesus tell Nicodemus to repent. You know what he told him? Believe, believe, believe. You know why? Because implicit in that word believe is changing my whole mentality and putting my trust in Christ. Follow Years ago I got a phone call. I don't know how long we've been here. A lady calls. She goes, I'm I've been diagnosed with cancer. I only have a little while to live. Could I be baptized at your church? We had run buses and knocked on our door. I said, well tell you what, let me come by and visit with you. So we went by and visit her. She was had um I guess her husband. And uh he was there, he wasn't very interested. And I can't remember the lady's name. I don't remember her name. But anyway, we sat down with the gospel, went through, and she trusted Christ as Savior. She was dying from breast cancer. She accepted Christ as Savior, made a solid profession of faith, came to church and got baptized. She was pretty sick, she was losing her hair, she only attended maybe a couple months. Her husband would come with her. Her husband was a very large full-blooded American Indian. Do you remember who I'm talking about? Very large man. He was very kind. He supported her in her decisions. But he hadn't gotten saved. She died. I think we were out of town. I came back, did her funeral. After a funeral, he and I sat down here. I don't remember if it was after the reception or whatever, but I know we sat down in this pew here. And he says, you know, I'd like to get this salvation matter settled. I said, oh, good. We've been praying for that. So I got my Bible out and I had it with me, and we sat down. I went through the plan of salvation. And just as clearly as I could, like Brother Pat's teaching in the class, just went through that whole thing. And he says, yeah, I'd like to call on the Lord. And for some reason, I don't know why, I hesitated with him to make that decision. I believe it's the Lord. His name was Quito. I said, Tito, do you understand that Jesus is the only way to be saved? He's the only Savior. He says, Pastor Leatherman, I've been raised Native American. He goes, I believe in the spiritism of my fathers. He goes, I want Jesus to be one of the gods that I'm trusting in. And being saved. I said, Tito, that's not how we're saved. You need to change your whole mentality. I said, you need to repent from believing in those other spiritists. And believe in Jesus and Jesus alone. You know what he said? I can't do that. I cannot forsake the religion of my fathers. I couldn't persuade him. You know what his problem was? He wouldn't repent. And his mentality of the falsehood of these other gods and trusting Christ and Christ alone. Last I knew, he moved to Texas. It's years ago I lost track. I pray, trust Christ and Christ alone. But do you understand what repentance is? Have a biblical perspective on things. Now, by the way, if I think about something differently than I did before, that tells me most likely I'll change my behavior about that. Right? Before I'm saved drinking beer and liquor and slow gin and all that stuff, bother me. Yeah, that's great. But I get saved, the Spirit of God moves in me. I study scripture, suddenly I have a whole different perspective. It's like, no, I don't see that the way I don't want that anymore. I don't want to go to the bars with you guys. I don't see it the way I did. Now, as I said before, most of my repentance took place after I got saved. Now what about you? I have no doubt in my mind. I have no I've been doing this long enough. I have no doubt in my mind. There's some folks sitting in these pews right now under the sound of my voice. The Spirit of God is dealing with something you need to repent. As a saved person, it's between you and God. I don't know what it is. I don't even want to know what it is. But God's spirit is dealing with you. You need to change this. You've got a wrong view on this. This is wrong and you know it and you need to change your perspective. This is right and you know it's right. You need to change your perspective. I am God over you, I have loved you, I've given my life for you, I have a plan and purpose for your life. You need to change your attitude, your view of my authority over your life, of your relationship with me. It's called making him Lord. Father in heaven, bless us, I pray, that we would have a thorough understanding of what this matter of repentance is in our salvation, in our Christian life. That we would see things from your perspective, that we would understand things from the biblical perspective, not our sinful self-righteous perspective. Now, your will can be accomplished in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder this morning. Now, again, this is between you and a God, alright? Don't misunderstand, but I'm your pastor. I want to pray with you. I want to give you opportunity to respond. You say, Pastor, the Spirit of God has and is dealing with my heart about some areas that I just need to change my thinking on it. I just have to have a different approach to it. I need to repent. A Spirit of God has touched my heart very specifically. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Hands all around here That's the Holy Spirit of God dealing with our hearts, bringing about repentance, granting unto us repentance. Now we can cooperate. See, yes, Lord, I'll see it from your end. Or we can harden our hearts. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I didn't raise my hand, but the Spirit of God is dealing with my heart. There's some changes in my thinking. And and the way I see things and what it was. How about it? Any others? How about it? God bless you and you. Several other hands. Maybe there's someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to have a clear and correct perspective on what it means to be saved, about my relation with the Savior. I need this matter settled. I don't want to go to hell when I die. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I don't want to die and go to hell I want to know I'm going to heaven. I'm real concerned about that. Would you slip your hand up? I'll pray with you that God will help you and bless you and help you settle that. How about it? Any at all? Young or old? Front or back? I need this matter settled. How about it? Now we all know folks that have a wrong perspective on things. Family members, friends, co-workers. Let's pray with them. Let's try and be an influence. Be a witness to them so that they can see things from a correct biblical perspective. Help them repent Father, bless our invitation. Now, a lot of hands raised. You know where we're at. We need your help, Lord. We want the mind of Christ. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's step.