S book in the book of the last chapter I should say in the book of Job. Job chapter forty-two I believe I need a little more volume, Sam, on the monitors up here, if you would please. Job chapter 42. And uh I'm just going to read verses 5 and 6 Job 42. While you're turning there, our ladies had a great time, I hear, uh, shopping uh in Hagerstown the last few days. It was called Shop Till You Drop. And um uh my wife came home, we're broke now, in debt for five years, but um she had a great time and so uh Kathy said, she goes, Man, some of those ladies know how to shop and uh So they're going for three days next year, so start saving up, fellas. Reminded me of a fella that was um they were getting ready to him and his wife were getting ready to go away And uh he was sitting on the edge of the bed and she was standing as uh some women do sometimes in front of a full-length mirror and um just getting ready and looking at herself in the mirror. Her birthday wasn't far away, so he said to her Uh he says, what would you like to have for your birthday? She's looking in the mirror and uh all dressed up and she says, I'd like to be six again. That morning of her birthday showed up, her husband got up early, made her a nice big bowl of lucky charms. After they'd done that they went out to Six Flags theme park and they had a day. They rode every ride in the park, they rode the death slide, the wall of fear, the screaming roller coaster, and everything else there was Five hours later, they staggered out of the theme park. She was uh her head was railing, her stomach was upside down. Then he took her to McDonald's. He ordered a happy meal with extra fries and a chocolate shake. Then they went off, they got popcorn, soda pop, gutter candy, MMs, and they had uh came home Uh she wobbled home uh with her husband, collapsed into bed exhausted, and he leaned over his wife with a big smile and said, Well dear, how did it like how what was it like being six years old again? Her eyes slowly opened, her expression suddenly changed. She says, I meant my dress size, you idiot. And um There's a moral to that story. The moral of the story is even when a man is listening, he still doesn't get it. So, Job chapter 42, verse number 5, the Bible says, I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee. Wherefore, because of that, verse 6 is saying, because of the statement in verse 5, wherefore, I abhor myself. And repent in dust and ashes. I want to talk this morning on this repenting in dust and ashes. Let's pray and ask the Lord. Speak of hearts. Father, we come to your word again, the preaching time of this service. Lord, uh we're convinced that this is the most important thing going on right now. So we ask that you would help us. And God, I pray you'd help me to give to this message the energy and focus that you would expect. I pray from the congregation, Lord, we could have the attention and the respect to the Word of God that you would expect. And Lord, I pray that our hearts and minds, mind and all of us, would be open To what your word is for us and what your will is for us. God, I yield myself to you this hour. I present my body anew, and I ask you to fill me with your spirit And as we ask all the time, please speak through me to our hearts. In Jesus' name, amen. Story is told of an elderly woman who lived in uh a very remote area of the country of Wales. It was an area that was without electricity and a lot a lot of the uh modern things that we take for granted. This elderly woman lived there. She was a widow. And uh she determined she was going to get electricity into her house. And so she spent the money and she made the contacts and twisted arms until finally they ran at great expense and great effort they ran electric line back to her house Six months went by, and at the electric company they were going through the records and there was The records indicated that this house that they had spent so much time and money and effort in getting electricity to was using almost no electricity at all They thought there was something wrong with the meter. And so they sent a fella out there to check and make sure everything was working fine. And the meter was fine, the line was good. So finally they confronted this lady and said, Are you not using electricity? And she goes, Yes. She says, every night when it gets dark, we turn the electricity on, we turn the lights on, so that we can see to light the lamps, then we turn it off. That sounds like many re Christians' relationship with the Lord. Nothing more than it absolutely has to be. This woman had available to her A resource that could make her life so much better. A resource that could enable her to do so much more. And yet she used so little of it. Those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we have available to us a resource. That can make our lives so much better. That can enable us to live such a fuller life and accomplish so much more in our life. And yet, so many of us Tap into the Lord Jesus Christ just for the smallest of things. Sunday morning service, maybe a prayer before a meal, and never really Never really experiencing, never really engaging and enjoying all that God has available for us. The Bible, much of the Bible, is a record Of individuals encounter with the Lord and what the Lord did for them and through them, particularly the Old Testament. Some of the New Testament. But men and women's encounters with the Lord, powerful encounters, and the results of that are recorded for us in the Bible. I think of the Apostle Paul in the New Testament, the book of Acts, and what his life was before he encountered the Lord. Angry Hard, self-centered, religious, and then he encountered the living savior And his life was radically changed. And from that point on, he had a new perspective He saw things, he saw life, he saw others, he saw God in a completely different perspective than he had before We could talk about Abraham and his encounter with the Lord and how it transformed his life We can talk about Noah and what God did for and through Noah. We can talk of Isaiah. Experience with the Lord in Isaiah chapter 6. We can speak of David and Elijah. This morning, again, we look at Job. We've looked at Job for the last couple weeks. We brought messages from the book of Job. I've been reading through Job in my personal devotions. And I want to come this morning once again to Job. And in chapters about 38 on of the book of Job, we have Job's encounter with God. Now, Job's experience and encounter with the Lord, I don't know about you. But in my mind, it's disturbing. More so than Paul or Isaiah's or Elijah's or David or any other individual in the Bible. Job's encounter Bothers me for three reasons. One reason that Job's encounter with the Lord disturbs me is because we have a record here of intense suffering. By a good man. Job, in every sense, was a good man God said so himself in the first two chapters. We looked at that last week. And yet, he suffered so intensely Now, I believe we all understand, and if not, it's important we do understand. Life involves suffering. Right? If you're expecting everything in life to be fair, you're setting yourself up for continual disappointment. Life is not fair. Life is not just a pleasure cruise. For the best of people, there's times of heartache. For the best of folks, there are disappointment. Now, some people respond to those disappointments. Some people respond to those heartaches and those failures that they experience. Some people respond with anger and hardness and bitterness. Others respond with faith and try to make the best of it and go forward and be a testimony of the grace of God. But there's something about Job's that bothers me, and that is this. Not just that a good man had a hard time, everybody has a hard time. But Job's experience was so over the top. I mean intense. It's another thing about Job and this whole encounter he had with the Lord. That bothers me. And that is this the insensitivity of Job's friends If you come back and read through the book of Job and really pay attention to what is being said and who's saying it, and and in your mind, put yourself into that setting. And as an observer, watch and listen to what's being said. And these three men, and their fourth one shows up at the end. The insensitivity of these men to a good man who had lost every one of his children. His wife had turned against him. He lost every bit of his possession. And these men who were completely insensitive to that And the things that they said that must have cut Job to the heart. And the actions they took and the things that they did that just absolutely would have crushed any one of us. I tell you, the unkindness that rests in the heart of mankind is hard to comprehend sometimes. The depth, uh uh the the depravity in the heart of man that absolutely insensitizes some people To the hurts and experiences of others is hard to comprehend. And I read of Job's friends And I wonder, did they not have a heart in their soul? Three things bothered me about this story. One, the intense suffering of a good man. Two, the insensitivity of his friends. And then a third thing, the struggle, the struggle that Job had in maintaining his faith in God. Now this doesn't bother me so much, but it stands out in my mind. Job, the testimony God gives of Job in the first two chapters is outstanding. We referenced that last week. And though his faith, as we said before, his faith never failed, it was sorely shaken. And Job actually said some things. That had he not been in his condition, I don't believe he would have said. He questioned God in some ways that Thinking people would hesitate to question God. He made some statements about and to God. That many of us would be very uncomfortable making, not if we thought at all. But one thing that tells me, I believe Job was one of the best that mankind had to offer. There's no doubt. But this tells me Job's struggle tells me that even the best of men Are men at best? In other words, even the best of us still fall way short. Even the best of us struggle. Listen, if you want to find fault with people, you're gonna have a full-time job on your hand because it's everywhere. If your mindset is to tear down good people If your frame of mind is the is to find thought and make accusation against People who are trying to do right, guess what? You're always going to find something. Amen? And the closer you get to people, the more you're going to see faults. And the closer, the more you get to know folks, the more they're going to be obvious. Those failures are going to be obvious. So Job, this this story of Job, every time I get to this in the year when I'm reading through my Bible, it always these things come to mind and it just captures my attention. These three areas that bothered me. We know the story of Job. We've been talking about it. The conflict, the argument, so to speak, between God and Satan. Job ends up being in the middle of it. He ends up paying the price, in a sense, for all of it. His three friends, as we referenced a moment ago, show up and they say all they have to say. A fourth guy shows up in chapter, I think, 36, somewhere around there, and he runs his mouth, a young man, and he starts running his mouth. And doesn't have really much more to say than what the three guys before him had to say, then everything falls silent. And then something interesting happens. God speaks up. And God, beginning in chapter 38, begins asking a series of questions. And if we had time, I would really, I think it would help the message if we had time to go through and begin and take the time to read through these questions that God is asking Job. Now think about it. All before this, Job's been responding to these unbelievably insensitive accusations. He's been questioning his faith. He's been questioning God. Now everybody sit in silence. God says, my turn. And by the way, someday, it's inevitable, someday it's going to be God's turn. Man can have all his say, we can run our mouths all we want. But God's turn is still to come. So God speaks up. And he begins asking these series of profound questions. Now we pointed this out in previous messages. I want to reiterate it here again this morning. When God asks questions, he's not seeking information. Right? God's not asking Job these questions because God doesn't know the answers. God knows all the answers. God is asking questions because he is trying. Now, this is the heart of the message. God is in the process of realigning Job's thinking. Job's thinking had gotten out of whack. And God's questions were designed to put his thinking back in whack. So just I I guess you could say that. And the speech of God's, these questions, are powerful And they had a profound effect on Job. And what God was seeking to accomplish, he accomplished He changed the way Job thought. Now, Job was a good man. He had the greatest testimony of anyone in the Bible, any man in the Bible. But there was something in his thinking that through all this trial, there was a flaw in his thinking that this trial brought out. Much like you take uh like they take metal and they melt the the metal down and the impurities through the heat. The impurities rise and are skin both. Job, through this trial, some flaws came to the surface And God asked these questions to get those flaws, those faults straightened out. And in chapter 42, the verses that Brother Mike read a few moments ago. Job is expressing the impact that God's speech had on him. And I'd like to read that again, if you would. Notice in your Bible. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Alright, God gave asked his questions, God gave his speech powerful. Job says, I know that thou canst do everything. You could write in the margin of your Bible the omnipotence of God. God can do anything. I don't think he's just acknowledging the power of God, but I believe he is also acknowledging the authority of God. God is not just able in might to do anything. God is able in authority to do anything. And notice what else he says. His thinking is changing. And that no thought can be withholden from thee. You could write in the margin of your Bible, the omniscience. Of God. God knows everything. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows the things that we think nobody knows about. God knows them. Here is a humbling, fearful thought. God knows the thoughts of our mind Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? It's interesting, verse 3, that what I just read is actually a quote from chapter 38, verse 2, where God made that statement. And Job is now repeating what God said. The impact God's speech had on Job is such that now he's saying the same things. Therefore, verse 3, I have uttered that I understood not. Job saying, I didn't know what I was talking about. Things too wonderful for me which I knew not. He says, I was talking about stuff that was beyond me. I was questioning things that were so far over my head. Here I beseech thee, and I will speak. And I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. Boy, he's pretty bold, isn't he? It's making some demands of God. But look what the demands are. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee. Wherefore I abhor myself In dust and ashes. And repent myself and repent in dust and ashes. Now, as I said, I would like to, I wish for sake of time we could go back and look at chapter 38, 39, and 40 These questions that God asked, the speech that God gave. If you want to boil them down, this what did God say that had such an impact on a man like Job in his condition? And by the way, at this point, Job is still without everything. He's still under the physical pain God hasn't turned his captivity yet. That's not until later on in the chapter. So at this point, he's still in the ash eep. He's still scraping the boils on his hand His heart is still shattered over his death of his children and his uh his betrayal of his wife. I mean, he is devastated. What did God say that had such a profound impact on Job? We don't have time to look at it, but we can boil it down to this. God is expressing his role as creator. God is reiterating to Job the fact that God created everything. And God is saying to Job, and Job's hearing it. Job says, Alright, I heard of this stuff, and now I see it. He is expressing to Job the overwhelming evidence of God's reality and God's power in the created world. And he make God makes reference to the beasts that He created. God makes reference to the mountains that He created God makes reference to the great trees and the events of the weather events and how the God is in control of all of that. How God just created all of that And he says, How can you question me when I, in my power, have created all of this God is expressing the Job, his actions as Creator And God is establishing to Job his God's authority over Job individually and all of mankind. God is saying, I am your creator. I have authority to do with you and all of my creation however I see fit. Job says, I see it. I see it. You are God. And in verse number six, Job says to God, I abhor myself. I abhor myself. I repent in dust and ashes. Now, that idea of repenting has has messed up a lot of people What does it mean to repent? Huge fusses go on between preachers and theologians about repentance. It's really not that difficult. Do you ever notice man has a tendency to complicate things? Anybody figure that out? Just wait and see what happens with this health care deal. He ain't seen nothing yet. Don't get me going on that. Um what were we talking about? Repentance. Repentance isn't that difficult. I've been rebuked by other preachers that I don't preach repentance. I take issue with that. I don't preach it the way they do. Some people teach that repentance means stopping sinning. I disagree with that. That's not what immediate repentance is. Did you know that in the Bible you know that the Bible makes more references to God repenting than man? You look up, get your strong concordance out. Look up. It says two to one or more that God repents as to man repenting. So repentance cannot refer to stopping sinning. Because God never sins. How could he repent if repentance means stopping sinning? What does it mean to repent? Question. Well, Job was a sinner, of course, but what did God say about Job and then in the natural chapters? He was upright and perfect, righteous. What is Job? What sin is Job repenting of? The term repent and the teaching in the Bible, repentance, means this simply. It means to have a change of mind. It means to change the way I perceive things. To look I look at things differently. I have a different understanding about some things. Now, having said that, If I change my mind about sin, if I have a whole different perspective on disobedience to God, I repent. In this sin, I changed my mind, I changed my perspective of sin. Would you agree with me? That would most likely affect my behavior. Correct? My thinking affects my behavior. So that is where some people miss it. Because we have a change of mind about sin, and therefore I'm not going to engage in. I'm not going to Pursue it like I once did. I want to stay away from it because I see it differently. Therefore, they assume that repentance means I stop sinning. And that's not what it is. Repentance produces That change in behavior, but repentance is not the change in behavior. Repentance is the change of thinking Everybody with me? Everybody okay? How many folks are glad you came to church? Say amen. All right, that's about half the crowd. Praise the Lord. So Job is not some blanton sin that he's repentant. He wasn't getting drunk every night for it, and I'm going to repent, I'm going to stop doing that. No, no, no. It was a change of mind. He was seeing some things in a different way. Now we could give a length of them. One thing Job's perspective changed was his perspective of God. Through this whole experience, through this whole encounter, Job comes out of it Seeing God in a completely different way than he saw God before. Now, we know from chapter 1 and 2, he was a strong believer in the Lord. Amen. No doubt about it. He had a testimony in the community that he feared God He prayed for his children every day. He sought to bring them up in the fear and admonition of the Lord when everything started falling apart. He says the Lord gave and the Lord took away. Blessed be the name of God. He was a strong believer in God. But when he came out of this whole thing. We saw God in a different perspective than we did before. Up till now His faith in God was based upon what he was told about God. Right? Look at verse 5. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. Now praise God, faith cometh by hearing. All we need to do is hear the gospel, believe it, and God will save us. Amen? We believe the Bible is true because it's God's word. We have faith in God. Job believed these things about God. Job believed that the Lord gave and the Lord could take away, and that his name was blessed because he was told that. He believed that He believed that he could worship God. He believed in God's authority in his life before this point. He believed all that because he was told that. But now in chapter 2, he says, I heard of thee, I heard of thee, and I believe in you, but hear you ear. But now, but now I see you. Now that raises a problem. When Job says that he, when he says there, uh I have heard of thee by the hearing of the earth, but now mine eyes see at thee, that raises a problem. Because the Bible says in number of places that no man hath seen God at any time. God said, I'm a spirit. God said, No man can see me and live. Moses wanted to see God, and God put him in the cleft of the rock and covered him with his hand, and just saw his glory as it went by. No man has seen God at any time. So Job says, I see thee, mine eye has seen thee. What's Job saying? Job is not saying, and nowhere does the book indicate that Job literally saw God with his eyeballs. Job is saying, now I see thee, now I understand some things about you, now I have a perspective of you that is clearer as if I saw you. with my own eyeballs. You are so real to me. Your power is so obvious to me. Your authority over man and my life is so obvious to me now. It's as if I could see it with my own eyes. I said earlier, we believe the Bible because it is told to us. But you know, there's some things in the Bible that we believe, not just because the Bible says it, but because we've experienced it. Right? I believe that God created heaven and earth in six little days, the way Genesis tells us. But I don't know that. I wasn't there and didn't see it. I didn't experience that. I believe it because the Bible says it, evidence around supports that, and by faith I believe it's true. I accept it. There's a basis to it. There's legitimacy to it. But I ain't that old. I wasn't there. I didn't see it. No comments from Joy on that one. But when the Bible says whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, I know that's true, not just because the Bible says it, but because I experienced it. I know that's a fact. I've called on the Lord back in May 7, 1979, and he saved my soul. I believe Romans 10, 13, not just because the Bible says it, but because I've experienced it. Do you follow with me? And we could go through any series of things. And that's what Job is saying. He's saying, you know, I always believed your authority, God. I always believed in your power and your omniscience and your omnipresence and your omnipotence. I believed all these wonderful things about you because I heard that that's what you were, and I believed it. But now Through this trial, through what you've displayed to me and taught me, now I know it's true. You are God. You are real. You are all powerful. I see you in a whole nother perspective. It was just as certain to him as if he had seen God with his eyeballs. It's interesting. It wasn't until Job's cattle were dead. It wasn't until his property was devastated. It wasn't until he buried every one of his ten children. It wasn't until his body's health completely deteriorated. It wasn't until every one of his friends turned on him. That he clearly understood God's power and wisdom. What did God have to do? To get Job to the point where he experienced and understood the power of God and the authority of God over man. It wasn't until God removed everything that could get in the way of him understanding that. Do you think for one minute after this experience that Job was ever going to put his trust in friends again? God removed from Job a false trust in man. Now I'm not suggesting, and the Bible does not teach that we shouldn't trust anyone. Some people have that frame of mind. It's not what we're suggesting. Amen? I mean we function in a world. We have to trust one another, and we can trust one another to one degree But not to the degree that it interferes with our trust in God. And God removed every man. From Jove. God removed his his any potential false trust in any man. So that his trust could be completely in God. We begin, we begin with our trust in God. And then we build our trust in man on that. Not vice versa. There are people, listen to me, there are people who are sitting at home from church right now, sitting in their houses, while I'm standing here preaching. Christian saved people are sitting in their houses at home right now because some man failed them Because some preacher didn't live up to the ideal, because some deacon said or did something stupid, because some Sunday school teacher was carnal or wicked or worldly And they got offended and they got hurt. And their trust in man overshadowed their trust in God. And now they're living in disobedience to God because they look to man. And God had to remove that from Job so his trust would be completely in God, regardless what man did. I may be talking to someone this morning. You're bitter. You're angry. You're mad. You're hateful because some man, some human has said or did something that hurts you, that did not live up to the ideal. And now you're living your life in disobedience to God because of something amended. I would certainly hope and pray that I would not fail this church as pastor. That is my prayer. I pray, God help me be a good pastor. But if that would happen, God forbid. I would like to think that the members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church are mature enough in your faith that you understand that your trust is in God, not in this man who stands up here. Are you with me? Yes. And God had to teach that to Job. And his children, his family. It's gone. His possessions are gone. His friends are gone. They failed him completely. And he found out he had nothing left but God. And you know what he found out? That's all he needed. God was everything. And so his perspective changed. You know what? I don't need to have these possessions. I don't need to have my family I don't need to have all these friends to have purpose and fulfillment in life. I don't need all that to have a relationship with God. And his perspective changed God and God alone was what Job needed. God and God alone was all powerful. God and God alone was all wise. He found out God was the only thing he could trust completely. So his perspective on God changed. But also, and this brings us to verse 6. His perspective on himself changed. And let me say this: our understanding of God directly reflects, directly affects our understanding of ourselves. He says in verse six, because my view of you has changed. I abhor myself. What does he mean he abhors himself? Sounds rough. That doesn't that I first read that, I thought that doesn't sound healthy. Right? How many people agree with that? You say, boy, you know, that doesn't sound very healthy. I abhor myself. If somebody walked in my office, Mike walked in my office and said, Pastor, I abhor myself. I said, man, sit down. We gotta poke about this. So on the surface, I looked at it, I thought, wow, that sounds bad. Let me give you the definition of that word abhor, and it gets worse. The word abhor means to despise, to reject. Get this, to consider of no good. Job said, God, I see your power, I see your authority I see you for who and what you are. And now I look at myself and I see myself as nothing. I have no authority. I have no power. I have no rights. All this self-righteousness and this self-defense that I've raised up, I despise it. God, compared to you, I despise myself. How could I worship myself? How could I think so highly of myself? How could I demand my self-will? When I see you for who you are. This was not good self-esteem, but it was very good in his relationship with God Our problem in our world today is not that people think, is not that people don't think highly of themselves. That's not our problem. Our problem is people think too highly of themselves. We live in a society that minimizes God and maximizes man. Job said, I see you in a different light, God, and I see myself in a completely different light. Someone asked, why are the wicked so proud? Why does man get so proud? Why do we get it in our hearts and minds that we deserve to be treated a certain way? Where do we get it in our head that we are somehow deserving of more than what we have? How do we have and as Christians? How have we gotten it into our mind? How have we come become so prayer? That people have to live up to a certain standard, or we're not going to talk to them. We're going to turn our back on them. We're going to belittle them. You know why we've gotten to that point? You know why we as men have gotten so proud? It's because we've forgotten God. It's because we do not have a clear perspective of who God is. And we see ourselves somehow on some level up there with God that just as God deserves to be treated in a certain way, so do we. Job says, I don't see that way anymore. Good grief. Man, I see who God is. I see his power, his holiness, his authority. I look at myself. I abhor myself Remember when Moses showed up to Pharaoh and he said, Let my people go! What did Pharaoh say? Moses said, let my people go. In the name of the Lord I come to you. What did Pharaoh say? Who is the Lord that I should obey him? You know what's sad? We got people sitting in churches with that same stinking attitude. Who is the Lord? That I should obey him. Huh? Then God started showing Pharaoh who the Lord is that he should obey him. And ten plagues later Pharaoh says, Entreat the Lord for me. Here go The oldest kids are dead, the crops are devastated, the rivers are destroyed, Egypt is in shambles. God says, you want to know who I am? I just showed you who I am. And he says, entreat the Lord for me. His view of himself changed when his view of God changed And the reason we got people who are so had such chips on their shoulders, and the reason we have people who are living such wicked lives and so proud and self-centered Because we really don't understand who God is. Therefore, we have an exalted view of ourselves. Job says, wherefore I abhorn myself. Too often we compare our wisdom to the wisdom of other men. And we think we're pretty wise. Too often we compare our lifestyle to the lifestyle of other men, other people, and we think we're pretty good And too often we compare our own righteousness, quote unquote, to the righteousness or unrighteousness of others, and man, we think we're something. And we express it this way. Well, I would never, huh? Can I get a witness? Well I'm not perfect, but I would never right or wrong? You'll never see me fill in the blank. You know what our problem is? We're comparing ourselves to other people. You know what? You can always find someone worse than you. Now some of y'all have to look a little harder than others, but But you know what the Bible says when we do that? You know what the Bible says? We're a fool. When God calls you a fool, you better listen. Comparing themselves among themselves, they were not wise. You know who we should compare ourselves to? God You say, good night. If I did that, I'd look bad. Yeah. You know what the perfect expression of God is? The Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus says, He that's seen me has seen the Father. Let me ask you a question. You think you're something? You think you deserve to be treated better than what you are? How do you measure up to Jesus? Hmm? They spit on him. You deserve better than that. They stripped him, nailed him to a cross, naked, shame. You deserve better than that. Jesus is the most perfect expression of God that has ever mankind has ever seen. That's the standard we're to compare ourselves to. And we can think pretty highly of ourselves until we look to the Lord Jesus Christ, until we compare ourselves to God. Then we say with Job, man, I abhorred myself. I repent in dust and ashes. Who was I to think that I deserved anything? Huh? I remember when I was under conviction. The Lord was dealing with my heart in the spring of 1979, January through May. And the more I read my Bible, The more I understood what God was saying, the less I thought of myself. And by the time it came when I called on the Lord by May 7th, that Monday. You know what I saw myself as? A sorry, filthy sinner under the judgment of a holy God. And when we get to that point, then we'll understand the love and grace and mercy of God when He offers to us forgiveness and salvation. Huh? Job said, I abhor myself. I repent in dust and ashes. I change the way I see. If God is everything we say we believe He is Why don't we agree with him? If God is everything we say we believe he is, then why don't we obey him? I wonder if it isn't because we really don't believe that. You must know Jesus Christ to know God. You must love Jesus Christ to love God. You must be committed to Jesus Christ if you're going to be committed to God. In Job's humility, he experienced God like very few other people ever had. And he said, now I see things differently. I'm nothing. If God never does another thing for me, He's been better to me than I deserve. If nobody ever says a kind word to me again the rest of my life, I've gotten more than I ever deserved. If I never have a bite to eat and I die of starvation, God has given me more than I deserve. Young boy graduated from seminary with his master's degree in public speaking and Bible theology. He walked into a new church, the first church he pastored. And boy, he was educated, he was dressed to the T. He was confident he could do this very, very well. He got behind the pulpit for his first message, and the words didn't come out. The message didn't make sense. And the more he struggled through it, the more self-conscious he became. And by the end of the message, he had humiliated himself so much. That he walked out with his head hung low and tears streaming from his eyes, feeling a total failure, completely inadequate One of the dear ladies said to the lady beside her, if he'd have gone into the pulpit the way he went out of the pulpit. He would have walked out of the pulpit the way he walked into the pulpit. Know what I'm saying? If we humble ourselves before the Lord, he will lift us up. We don't have to lift ourselves up. When Job repented in dust and ashes, God blessed him, the Bible says, with double everything he had before. You know why? Because he had a right perspective now. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Help us to know you, Lord. Help us not Just say things, but help us to believe in our heart that you are who you say you are. You have the authority you claim to have. Help us to see that Lord, help us to agree with you, to see ourselves as nothing but sinners, saved by your grace and your mercy. Help us to live like that. And you've promised that if we humble ourselves, that you would exalt us. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed. How many Christians this morning say, Preacher, I find myself thinking too highly of myself? And I find myself in fusses and angry and upset and pouty. Because I'm so focused on what I'm getting or not getting, or how I'm being treated or not being treated. And you say, preacher, I don't want to live that way. I want to see God for who and what he is. I want to see myself for who and what I am. And I want my trust to be in God. Not in man, not in stuff. Is there any this morning say preacher pray for me? That's the way I want to be. Just slip up your hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to be self-focused. I don't want to be self-absorbed. I want to be Christ-focused And Christ absorbed in my life. How many by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Listen, pride is our number one struggle. Thinking too highly of ourselves and it expresses itself so many ways. I wonder if there's some here say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that God has forgiven me of my sins. I don't know for certain that when I die that I'm going to heaven and not to hell. I know I'm a sinner. I know I've sinned. I need God to forgive me. I think God would give me a new life. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help settle in my heart and mind the matter of my salvation. That I can know He's forgiven me. I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. I need God to help me settle this matter of my salvation. You'd like for me to pray that God will help you. How about it? Any at all? Young or old? Preacher, pray for me. I want to know that I'm going to heaven when I die and not to hell. How about it? Any? Father, bless our invitation. You know our hearts God, you know where we're at spiritually, you know where we're at in our minds. I pray you'd help us to see you for who and what you are, and humble ourselves before the mighty hand of God. We could see you live through us and bless us in great ways. In Jesus' name. Let's