Verse 14, 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 14, Peter is writing to these persecuted believers, as we've been mentioning all through the study And he says, verse 14, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ. Now he uses the word if there, but I'm telling you, they were being reproached for the name of Christ. And so he's not saying, you know, this hypothetical situation where maybe this might happen to you. It's not what he means by that. He's addressing a situation that they are finding themselves in And uh we'll talk a little bit about that. So he says, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, now he makes a statement here that Seems out of place. If you're reproached for the name of Christ, he says, Happy are ye. How many people agree with me? Those two things don't seem to match. Reproached for Christ, happy And he goes on, he elaborates, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you On their part, he's evil spoken of. In other words, Jesus Christ, on the people reproaching you, oh, they'll speak evil of him. They want to blaspheme his name. They want to say all these awful things about the Lord and the worship of the Lord. On their part, he's evil spoken of, but on your part, he's what? He's glorified, he's lifted up, he's exalted, he's magnified. So I want to talk just quickly about being reproached for the name of Christ. Being reproached for the name of Christ. Let's pray together Father in heaven, we thank you for a good day. What a blessing it's been to be around your people and to sing and to pray and to laugh. And to speak of you and your goodness to us. And now, Lord, we finish out the day and we wind this service down by looking into your word. And I ask with all my heart, dear Holy Spirit, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would challenge us and encourage us to stay true and to live for you and trust you. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew as this hour, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And by that, Lord, I mean that you would speak through me And that it would be you speaking your word to our hearts through my lips. Help us to have faith. Help us to trust you. Agree with you. And to follow the instructions you give us. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Peter's continuing on the subject, and we preached on this last week, the previous verses about Suffering for the name of Christ. And that's exactly what these believers were doing. There's an idea that goes around, and I touch on this fairly often because I think it's so dangerous. But there's a teaching that goes around in certain circles of Christianity that if we have faith, that God's will for every one of us, if we will simply trust Him, is to have health, wealth, and prosperity. How many people ever heard that type of preaching, that idea? And it's out there and it's very, very powerful, it's very influential. But I'm here to tell you tonight that thinking, that teaching, is unscriptural. It may appeal, I tell you, that type of preaching and teaching that, oh, if you trust Jesus, if you if you uh have faith in God, you're gonna live in great houses, you're gonna have tremendous wealth You're going to be healthy and strong. You're going to prosper in all that you do. I'm telling you, that may appeal to the religious world But I'm telling you, it is not grounded in Scripture. In fact, I'd suggest that Peter would be appalled that any so-called preacher would try to convince people of that type of thinking. And if we fall into that, and if we buy into that theology, that false theology, that false doctrine If we buy into that and we expect and anticipate that if I just trust God enough, that if I just believe in the Lord enough, That someday I'll be wealthy and I'll be prosperous and I'll have perfect health. I tell you what, you know what's going to happen when we buy into that? We're going to be woefully disappointed Because God has never promised any of that to his people. I'm reading, I have a little, I never thought I'd do this. Who in the world ever dreamed you have books on your phone? You know? We used to take it off the wall and talk to people. Now I read books on my phone. And I have a little book I'm reading when I'm waiting in the doctor's office or somewhere. I go to the dentist tomorrow morning, so I'll be reading it there in the office. And uh I'm reading a little book on the life of John Payton. John Payton was a missionary to Papua New Guinea back hundreds of years ago. And I'm telling you, as I read his experience there, it's his autobiography. I read his experience, how the nationals that lived on that jungle island Turned on him and beat him and threatened to kill him, and he's running for his life. And I think about what these modern day preachers are saying about having faith in God And I'll tell you, I'll take the faith of John Payton over the preaching of these charlatans any day. You'll never find anyone with greater faith than John Payton He reached an entire nation with the gospel eventually, but I tell you, there was a price to pay. The reproach of Christ. The reproach of Christ. To believe this false doctrine of health, wealth, and prosperity and expect this in my life as a Christian will bring serious disappointment And it will cause me to believe in something that is not found in Scripture. If you would, keep your place here. We're going to look up a number of verses tonight, but if you would, come back just a few pages to James, right? The book just before 1 Peter If you come back. And James chapter number 5, the last chapter of James, and if you would, look down at verse number 10. James says, grudge not in verse 9 he says, grudge not one against another, brethren, unless you be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth at the door. And look what he says in verse 10. Take my brethren the prophets Question, prophets, good guys or bad guys? They're great guys. These are the men of God. They're the bad the prophets. Sorry, Zach. I I walked right into that one, I'll tell you right now. He says, Take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord. Now look at this next statement. For an example of what? Suffering affliction. These are the prophets that have spoken in the name of the Lord, and he doesn't say, take them for an example for prosperity Take them for example for wealth. He says they're suffering affliction because they're speaking in the name of the Lord. So Peter is writing to these believers. He's encouraging them, but he's also giving them instruction about Christians suffering because they're Christians. Christians paying a price, being rejected, being reviled because they're believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, because they're disciples of Christ, they're trying to live for God. They're seeking to please the Lord according to Scripture with their life. And they take heat for that and they suffer reproach for that. Now Peter knew what he was talking about He knew firsthand what it was to be reproached for Christ. Now, if you would, I want to look at a few things here. If you would, come to Luke chapter number 22. We're going to get back to this verse. I have a few two thoughts quick from the verse, but I want to show you a few things to begin with. Luke chapter 22, Matthew, Mark, Luke. And you get to verse 22, and here we have the account, the inspired, preserved account of the Lord Jesus Christ's crucifixion. And in verse number 54 is leading up to the crucifixion of Christ. Christ has been apprehended by the Romans. He is being taken before Pilate to be falsely accused and unjustly condemned. Now, Peter is tagging along behind as Jesus is being taken up here to be ultimately he's going to be scourged, beaten, his beard's going to be ripped out. They're going to beat him mercilessly to the verge of death. Then they're going to haul him up on Mount Calvary and they're going to nail him to a cross. Now Peter's hanging back. Peter's tagging along. He's one's curious what's going to happen. But notice what plays out here. Verse 54 of Luke chapter 22, it says, Then took they him and led him and brought him to the high priest's house. Now look at the last part of verse 54. And Peter followed afar off. And I figure it's out of curiosity. He wonders, here's a man he's committed his life to. He loves this man. He believes he's the son of God. And they're taking them, and he's following afar off. Verse 55, and when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall and were set down, Peter sat down among them. Now, these are the people that are going to turn against Christ. But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire and earnestly looked upon him and said, This man was also with him. I wonder if a chill didn't go down Peter's spine. They recognized me. Now notice how he responds. And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. And after a little while, another saw him and said, Thou art also one of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. And about the space of one hour after, another confidently affirmed, saying, of a truth, this fellow was with him, for he is a Galilean. They're saying, You're one of his disciples, you're one of those Jesus followers. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. Now, what was Peter trying to accomplish? Or let me ask it this way: what was Peter trying to avoid? He was trying to avoid reproach. If I come out and say I'm one of his followers, if I admit that yes, I am one of his disciples. You hear one of them? Yeah, I am. I own it. Yes. I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. He was afraid that he would take reproach for that. And here we have Peter, who were studying the book he wrote under the inspiration of God a number of years later. And he is doing everything he can, even to the point of lying, to avoid reproach, to avoid reproach. Now, Peter said, happy are ye. If ye take reproach for the name of Christ, happy are ye. But we think, no, that's right, that's backwards. You wouldn't be happy if people reproach you. Now here you have Peter even lied to avoid reproach. Let's see how that played out. Let's see how happy he was by not being reproached. Look what it says. Verse 61: And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter. Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Look at verse 62. And Peter went out and what? We read Peter's writing later on. He says, you know, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. And we go back, and the first time that Peter is about to face reproach because he's a disciple of Christ, he denies it. He does everything he can, he compromises his integrity, he sacrifices his integrity. To avoid reproach. And the Bible says he wept bitterly. He wept bitterly. If you would take your Bibles now and come to Acts chapter 12. They get through that. Jesus is crucified. The disciples flee. The Lord's buried. Three days later he rises from the dead. And he reveals himself to the disciples, and they see him and they realize he's alive. And Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit of God comes upon them, and they're preaching the power of God And in Acts chapter 12, we have an account of Peter again. And I thought this was interesting. Here he is suffering reproach for the name of Christ, but he's not lying to get out of it He's not seeking to avoid the reproach of Christ. He's embracing it. And look in chapter number 12, and look with me if you would, verse number one. Now, about that time, Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church. He's bringing reproach upon the followers of Christ. He's vexing them And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword, martyred for his faith. And because He saw it please the Jews. Herod realized that killing James pleased the Jews. He kills this disciple of Christ. He proceeded further to take Peter also. Then were the days of unleavened bread. And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison and delivered him to four quarterions of soldiers to keep him Intending after Easter to bring them forth to the people. Peter therefore was kept in prison, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church and to God for him. Now, this is what caught my attention. And when Herod would have brought him forth the same night, Peter was what? Sleeping. Between two soldiers bound with two chains, and the keepers before the door kept the prison. Now, here you have Peter in another environment, another situation Here he's been apprehended because he's a disciple of Christ. He's sharing the gospel. If they would have had gospel tracts, Peter would have been given out gospel tracts, no doubt about it. And he's apprehended, and he is about to be killed, martyred, the next day. And the night before, he is to suffer the ultimate reproach for his faith. The ultimate reproach for your faith would be having your head chopped off for your faith. He's not lying. He's not weaseling around. He's not doing everything he can to avoid this reproach. He's sound asleep Now I don't know about you, but if I got something big happen the next day, sometimes at night I have a hard time sleeping. Anybody again again a witness? You know, I lay there all night long thinking, now if I went to bed and I'm in a prison in bed and I'm break between two soldiers and my feet are shackled. And the next morning, I'm going to be beheaded because of my faith in Christ. I might not be sound asleep, but Peter is. This is a point I'm trying to make. When he embraces the reproach for Christ, he has perfect peace. He is perfect peace. When he tried to avoid, when he resisted the reproach for Christ, he ended up weeping bitterly, weeping bitterly. You see the difference? Now, years later, he's writing to these new believers, these young believers, and they're being hounded, persecuted violently for their faith And he's writing to me, he says, let me tell you something I've learned. If you're reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. Happy are ye. He's speaking by inspiration of God, but he's also speaking by his own experience. And so Peter knew a little bit what he was talking about. I put this down: one of the greatest displays of faith. is to be able endure, is to endure the reproach of Christ. What a tremendous faith. Everybody singing my praises, everybody happy with me, and everybody agreeing and going along with me, that doesn't test my faith. But I tell you what, when I stand for Christ and I profess my faith in Christ, and I claim myself as a disciple of Christ with my lips and with my life. And people turn on me, that'll test our faith every time. Everybody with me? Everybody follow? You agree with me? We've had it pretty good in the United States of America. And because of that, I'm suggesting to you our faith has not been tested that severely. Right or wrong? How many people here had to sneak to church tonight so that the authorities don't find us and if they find us they take us out and d shoot us? We didn't have to do that. You know in Cambodia that happens, I have accounts of that, documented accounts. North Korea, you're caught with the Bible. We've got it pretty good, and because of that, our faith has not been tested like some have. So it the greatest display of our faith, the greatest test of our faith is when we are willing to stand. When those turn against us, when people turn against us. I put, I got thinking about that. If the world that scourged The Lord Jesus Christ with that catna on task. And they whip this back. If the world that scourged the Lord Jesus Christ is celebrating me as a follower of Christ, something is wrong. If the world that plucked a beard from my Lord and Savior and beat a plat of uh a crown of thorns down on his throat uh on his forehead On his crown of his head, and uh and uh pulled the beard from his face and beat him to the point where Isaiah says you couldn't even recognize who he was. If the world did that to my Savior And now they're praising and celebrating me as a follower of his Savior. Something's wrong. The world, if the world is praising the child of God, that child of God, this is what I'm trying to say, if the world is praising and f and and celebrating a disciple of Christ That disciple of Christ is doing something wrong. Now, I'm not saying we should go out and look for reproach. I'm not saying we need to go out and flaunt it and try I have some preacher friends of mine, they love it when people hate them. They love to be hated, I think. You know, if somebody pulls a gun out is going to shoot, they'll stick their head in front of it. You know, they got this complex. I I'm not that way. But Peter's telling us we ought to be willing to stand when the world turns against us. And when the world that hated Christ and nailed him, beat him to the verge of death, and nails him naked to a cross. And then they come and we want them to celebrate us. Something's wrong. That's like, I don't know if this is a good illustration. That's like you have a child and some pervert comes and hurts your child, molests your child, kills them And then you go and want to be friends with the one that did that to your child. How many people agree with me? Something wrong with that. And this whole world crucified my Savior. And this whole world rejected my Savior and spit on him and blasphemed him. And we as Christians want to go and be friends and appeal and want this world to love us and like us and we want to love this world that did that to my Savior. Come on, man, something's wrong with that thinking. In Peter's writing, he says, listen, you get reproached by this world. Happy are ye. Look what they did to the Savior. Peter declared two truths about those who are reproached for the name of Christ. Let me give them to you real quickly. Number one, he said they have happiness. Come back here to Peter with me if you would. He says, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. That's a strange statement That phrase, happy are ye, has this idea, and it's translated various ways in the Bible, has this idea to have a special blessing of God upon my life Now think about that. If I'm reproached for the name of Christ, people turn on me and try to hurt me and reject me, call me names, maybe injure me, because I'm a disciple of Christ Peter says, under the inspiration of God, happier ye. You have a special blessing of God on your life. It doesn't mean we enjoy the reproach, but it does mean in the reproach, God gives us a special blessing. A special joy. Take your Bible. Now keep your place here. If you would come to Matthew chapter number five, real quickly with me. First book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter five. And look what Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount. Now, this is Jesus' words. Matthew chapter 5. And verse number, let's see, I want to start reading in verse number 10. Matthew 5. 10, he says, this is Jesus, Sermon on the Mount. He says, blessed are they, blessed are they, blessed, he says, are they. Which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Huh? For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Look at verse 11. Blessed Are ye when men shall what? Revile you and persecute you And shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Now he points that out. If you're being an idiot and being arrogant and knucklehead and they say things like that, you don't get the blessings of God. But if you're doing it because you're committed to Christ, he said, Blessed are you. Look at verse 12. This is how you should respond. Rejoice. And be what? Exceeding glad. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. He says, Jesus says, listen, when people turn on you because you're a follower of Christ, people give you fits, call you names, maybe they hurt you, put violence against you Commit violence against you because you're a disciple of Christ? He said, man, you've got a special blessing of God on your life. You can rejoice And man, be glad. God notices that. He sees that I give you a special blessing. You get to heaven, you've got a reward in heaven. I'm glad this world is not my home. I'm glad that someday beyond the crystal shore we'll be with the Lord, and there our faithfulness to Him, here, our stand for Him, will be recognized and rewarded. Oh this morning after the service, I I enjoy in the back shaking hands, talking to people as they go out, by the way. I had somebody go out this morning and tell me, Pastor, they leaned up close to me and they said, Pastor, you look exceptionally sharp today. I just wanted to share that with you. And it seriously it happened. I don't know what he means by the other times I'm up here, but But Mabel was back, Mabel was going out. Isn't Mabel a blessing? I just love that gal. And she went out and she took my hand, she pulled me over close, and she said, Pastor. I've just given it all to the Lord. She said, I'm going through some tough, difficult times. Listen what she said. She said, but I know I've got a home in heaven. I said, God bless you, Mildred, or Mabel. Jesus said, this world turns on you. Now I'm putting this in my own world. This world turns on you. They turned on me. That is in the greet. He said, rejoice. Exceeding glad. That's what they did to the prophets. At this point, when he's saying this, that's what they're going to do to me. Man, you got my blessing. So there's happiness in this. Number two, and I'll end with this. He says, come back to Peter. He says, uh, if he reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye! You have a special blessing of God on your life, in your heart and soul. And then he says this, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. If you reproach for Christ, the spirit of glory And of God rests upon you. On their part, he's evil spoken of, and they'll say the most hateful things about the Lord, your Savior, the one you're following. But on your part, He's glorified. When you and I are reproached for the name of Christ, I put number one, we experience happiness, and by that I mean the blessing of God on our heart and soul. And number two, I put it this way, we experience holiness. Now, I use that term holiness because he references the spirit of glory and the spirit of God. What is the name we know the Spirit of God as? The Holy Spirit. And I believe he's telling us here, God is telling us, when you and I are reproached for the name of Christ, we have the special presence of God. Upon us. Now, everybody that's saved has the Holy Spirit. Amen. Understand that. But he says: when you're reproached for the name of Christ, the Spirit of God and the Spirit of glory. Rests upon you. Now I don't know exactly what all that entails, but I know this. It's pretty good. It's pretty good. Take your Bibles if you would. I want to show you a verse or two. We'll quit. Come back to Psalms chapter 46. I got studying this and I got stirred up studying Psalm chapter 41. I'm sorry, 46, verse 1. Now some of you are familiar with this verse, I'm sure. I use it when I visit in the hospitals or people going through a tough time. I use this verse a lot. Psalm 46, verse 1. I want you to see it here. It's a good verse, the whole underscore in your Bible, maybe. He says, God is our refuge and strength. Boy, what a great statement. Now look at this next, the last part of the verse. A very present help in what? Trouble. And this is what I share with folks when they're going through a difficult time or they've got bad news or whatever and all Bring this verse. Listen, God's our refuge, He's our strength. We can trust Him. He'll help us through this. And I'll say this: God is a very present help. He's especially present. His presence is there in a special way when we go through trouble. I believe, when a I believe When a child of God, a saved person, when they pass away, when this old heart gives out and the spirit passes from here into the presence of the Lord, I believe there is a special presence of God there. During that transition time from here to heaven. But I got looking up that word trouble. A very present help in trouble. And I found it's used various ways outside of Scripture in different ways. Has some pretty cool meanings And I found one of the word definitions, how that word trouble is used, is this the envy and mistreatment Of a of a uh let me quote it correctly here, uh the envy and mistreatment of a rival lover. I thought, what? Trouble, the envy and mistreatment of a rival lover. In other words, you got this guy, and um He likes this girl. But this girl over here likes this guy And this girl over here doesn't like this guy liking this girl. This girl over here wants this guy to like her. We're back in high school, by the way. That's what we call today drama. And so the word trouble, this is what I'm getting at. Here's the guy. He likes this girl. This girl here is a rival lover. She doesn't uh she doesn't like that girl because this guy likes that girl, and this girl wants this guy to like this girl And so she gets mad at him, and she starts giving him fits because he likes her and not her. Do you know who the rival lover is? The world. The Christians in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. The Christian is committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's my heart's desire. That's my soul's desire, is Jesus Christ. I'm committed to Him. He's my Savior. I'm in love with him. I love Him with all my heart, soul, and mind. And the world says, I want you to love me. I don't want you to love that Savior. I don't want you to love God. I want you to love me. And so the world turns on the lover of Jesus Christ. And gives them fits. You follow what he's saying? And Psalm 46. 1 tells me this: that when this whole world turns on me because I'm committed to Jesus Christ, I have the special presence of God, a very present help in the time of trouble. Everybody follow what I'm saying? I think, this is my opinion, I believe the Christian that has taken heat from the world for their faith in Christ enjoys and understands the presence of God in ways That the Christian is not being reproached for Christ does not understand. You say, oh yeah, how do you come to that? I want to challenge you. You read the biographies. Of men and women of God who were persecuted for their faith. And you know what you'll find without exception? Read Fox's Book of Martyrs. Read accounts of persecuted believers. You know what you'll find without exception? A peace and a presence of God that those who are not persecuted do not understand. Did you ever read the account of a martyr and say, I don't know how they could do that? How could they be burned at the stake and be singing praises to God? How can they have their uh body torn apart and at the time thank the torturers for doing this to them while they're praising God? Say, how can they do that? You know what I think? The spirit of glory and of God is resting upon them. And they have a pers perspective, and they have an understanding, and they have a strength. That God gives for those who will stand for Him. I think that's what Peter's saying. The spirit of glory and of God rests upon them. And he says, be happy, be happy Now, you and I probably this week, most likely, are not going to be beheaded for our faith in Christ. I mean people understand that. Probably. Probably not going to happen. But I'm telling you, we ought to be willing to stand for Christ even as if we were going to be. And that takes faith And that takes strength of faith. I believe, in studying this, a Christian that is reproached for the name of Christ has a blessing and a presence of God. That others do not understand. New Testament believers, you study these New Testament believers, the book of Acts, particularly, and what they went through. And the joy and rejoicing, how do they come out of prison being beaten? And they say, We praise the Lord, we're counted worthy to suffer shame for Jesus Christ. You know how they do it? The Spirit of God And a glory is resting on them. They've experienced something that those of us that have not been persecuted have not experienced. It's Sunday night. We're going to go into a new week. A lot of us are going to give out gospel tracts. Now I think it's probably small, tiny percentage of some people might give us a hard time if you offer a track to them. But I want to, as we give them out, I want to challenge us. Let's give them out in faith. And if somebody calls you a name and somebody says, I don't want that junk, don't get bent out of shape. Amen. Don't get all work. Don't punch him in the nose. You know what I advise? I'd say, well, glory to God. God bless you. Praise the Lord. I told you this many times. I'll end with this. I was in Loch Lynn. I'd only been here probably a month at the most. 93, 1993. We're going into it's probably early October. Going down the street. Hey, I'm you know, I'm 33 years old. I've got hair. I wasn't as good looking back then, but um I'm knocking the door. I'm this little greenhorn preacher. Hi, I'm the new preacher at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I just want to introduce myself and invite you to come visit our church And most people were like, oh, that's wonderful. You're the new preacher. Oh, wow. Come on in. Have a donut. You know, I mean, most people were nice. I got this one over in Loch Lynn. I can take you to the house. I know they're not people don't live there anymore, so A lady opened the door and said, Hi, I'm the new pastor over here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And she laid as that's all got out of my mouth And you I think she was a sailor. The language she used. I mean she ever I hadn't heard words like that for years I didn't know her from Adam. She didn't know me. And I'll tell you, the old Denny, the old Dennis Rose up and I thought, who in the world does she think she is talking to me like that? Wham, she slammed the door By the time I got out to the sidewalk, I was under deep conviction. And I Matthew 5. 10 came to my mind. I mean, just came to my mind. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. And I bowed my head. I said, Thank you, Lord. That I could be reproached for the name of Christ. Now nobody beat me up, nobody pulled my fingernails out. They didn't tie me in stocks or feed me to lions. But I felt the presence of God, and there was a joy that was not normal. And I believe that's the spirit of grace and glory God puts upon those. Who are reproached for the name of Christ. Follow what I'm saying? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts. And Lord, we live in a good country, a good community where they really don't treat us bad. I pray you'd help us to be faithful. I pray you'd help us stay true and be unashamed The gospel of Jesus Christ. So our heads bowed, I suppose. How many people would say, preacher, I don't know. I need stronger faith for that. I need stronger faith. Any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised I don't know what I read, some of these people go through. God bless them. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm just going to make a conscious decision. If somebody gives me a hard time, I'm going to deliberately on purpose rejoice in the Lord. I'm just going to respond that way rather than the old man way. Anybody? Any like that? Sure. Maybe on a Sunday night you want to commit yourself. Say, Lord, this coming seven days I want to be faithful to you. I want to stand for Christ. I want to be true to my Lord. I believe God will use us. Father, bless your invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together.