Amen. Good to see you everybody. I forgot to mention last night, but I got the uh tape table stuff like that back there and uh That money, just I just wanted to I forgot to let you know last night, but that money we don't we don't use that for uh you know, clothes and steak dinners and stuff like that, but uh that is all used in We pay for everything. Pay for the uh, you know Uh gas or plane fare, motel, uh everything. They they don't pay us a dime. We don't even take a love offering. But uh and so we we just uh we just finished a meeting in Petersburg, Virginia, new church, Petersburg, Virginia. And uh the church when we got there was running about 18 And uh Tuesday night we uh hit seventy-five. And uh during the rest of the week we were running the seventy, so we had a we had just had a great meeting. So uh but uh it it it allows you to have an opportunity in two ministries You can get some uh some good music, which I think is vital today. Good children's music too. Uh there's a number of sermons back there. And uh, but also have a part in a second minute. And so that's uh all that's back here if you're interested. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to the book of Jude. The book of Jude It's uh chapter fourteen for Brother Chip, Jude Chapter Fourteen. He's still looking for Jude chapter fourteen. The book of Jude, and I'm gonna read verses twenty-two and twenty-three And of some have compassion making a difference. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. I want to bring you a message tonight on rescue. the perishing. You say, preacher, what say yeah I I know where you're headed, but what's that got to do with revival? It's got everything to do with revival. You'll you'll never see revival until you start rescuing those that are perishing. You would be amazed at the difference it would make in your attitude, your life, and your outlook. If you started giving out the gospel. Yes, sir. You doubt me? You take a gr you take a grumpy, gripey, grouchy, mean Negative old man. Anyone ever met somebody like that? Huh? I'm looking at one You you take a hey, you take a you take a mean, grumpy, mean spirited old man and put a little baby in his arms In a matter of seconds, does he not turn into a smiley little blubbering idiot? Come on. Huh? Now the point is it folk listen the point is this. If some of you would get out there, just hit the streets and get yourself some spiritual children. Some spiritual babies. Come on. It changed your attitude change your outlook. Just think about that. I tell you what, you you start seeing people get saved as a result of your testimony, your witness, it'll change your life It really would. I want to talk to you about that just a little bit tonight uh tonight. Rescue the parakeet. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening Lord, uh, I pray now that once again tonight you would meet with us. Lord, I pray tonight that uh even right now, even though uh I I know from past experience, whenever you announce a subject like this. Immediately there's the excuses. There's the pride that maybe says, Oh, I don't want to do that. I don't know enough. I'm scared, whatever it might be. But Lord help us tonight just to maybe lower that barrier. And just say in our heart of hearts, I'm going to give the Word of God a hearing tonight. And as the Holy Spirit deals with me, I'm willing to obey. Give us a good service. I pray that if anybody here tonight's not saved, I pray that they'd understand that they need to be rescued. They need to be saved before they die and go to hell forever. And I pray they get saved tonight too. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, if you think about it, the uh the modern church has many sins And uh there's a lot of those sins that I could preach on tonight. But in my opinion, I believe one of the single greatest sins Of the modern church that I'm seeing today is what I call the sin of silence. You say, preacher, what's that? It's Christians who say something like this, well, preacher, I'm saved. Uh, Brother Levi, preacher, I want to see revival. Uh uh uh I I love God, I believe there's a heaven, I believe there's a hell But you never see or hear them telling anybody about the wonderful gift of salvation that Christ has offered to them. You know, you watch TV, you read the newspapers, and w we're living in a day and age where people Y you know in fact if especially if you if you watch any T V there's always these ads uh to uh to get you to get checkups. There's this fear of this disease and there's this fear of that disease and everything like that Could you imagine today, think about this, could you imagine today, say, a doctor finding a cure for cancer and not telling anybody about that cure? Could you imagine how that doctor would go down in history? Could you imagine how we would remember him? He would not be well remembered, would he? But yet, as many of us sit here tonight, we literally, think of this, we literally have the cure. For the most terrible, horrible place in the universe, hell. And we go through life and never say a word. You know, I think of a picture, I I I I don't remember the artist, but uh it's a famous picture. I'm sure some of you have seen it. But I think of the picture that was painted, it's a picture of a of a sinking ship. And uh all around that sinking ship there's there's lifeboats and uh in the water. There's people bobbing around the water. And uh in that picture there is a man in a in a lifeboat and he's reaching over the edge of that lifeboat Over the water, and there's a man in the water, and he's reaching out, trying to grab the hand of the man that's bobbing around in the water. Their hands are just about to meet And one day the dad, there was a dad that took his little five-year-old boy to this art gallery. He saw the picture, and uh that little five-year-old boy, he just looked and looked and looked at that picture He looked at the lifeboat, he looked at the man that was reaching out of that light boat, he looked at the man that was in the water, reaching out, and their hands were about to meet. And after looking at it, he turned to his daddy, he said, Daddy. Is that man trying to save that man or is he just trying to shake hands with him? Now you know what I think that's a question that every one of us needs to ask ourselves tonight. You say, what do you mean, preacher? You know what, if we're not careful, as we go through life, all we become concerned about is just making friends. All we become interested in is talking about sports and politics and hunting And God. Nothing wrong with that. But that becomes uh that becomes the major focal point in our life as we meet people And never one time, as we looked them in the eye, do we think, hey, there is a real soul that has to spend somewhere forever. We never think about that. I'm not trying to make you uncomfortable like I want you to do some soul searching. But listen, have you ever really made an effort to win people to Christ? Be honest, in your heart of hearts, when's the last time you witnessed? When's the last time you you tried to get somebody out to church? When's the last time? Yeah, think of the table up there. When's the last time we even gave out a track? Do you really understand that this what I'm talking about tonight? This is the single highest priority of the Christian life. You say, why is that? Luke chapter 19, verse 10 gives us the answer. For the Son of Man, now who's the Son of Man? Jesus, for the Son of Man is come. This is the reason why he came. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. The reason that Jesus Christ left heaven, the reason that he died on the cross, is to seek and save those of us that are lost. Aren't you glad he did that for you? Huh? Why is this so important? Matthew chapter 16, verse 26 gives us the answer there. For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? You ever stop and think, as you sit here tonight, you have a soul. Your soul, that one soul Is worth more than all the riches in the entire world. Isn't that amazing? You take all the diamonds and all the rubies and the emeralds and the sapphires and the uh gold and the silver One soul is worth more than all those riches combined. You know why? Because that one soul never dies. If God used you, think about this, if God used you just to bring one soul to the Lord Then you have brought to Jesus Christ something that is worth more than the entire world. And yet, I'll speak as an evangelist. I go to church after church after church. And I'm seeing more and more churches where the vast majority of the church isn't soul winners. I was in a church in New Jersey. We had two women come down the aisle to get saved. The pastors right here, two ladies, I'm guessing 30s, 40s, came down the aisle to get saved. The pastor looks at a lady and the lady knew what he wanted to do and uh she just went and then he went over here and another lady saw what he went like Folk, he could not get one person to leave their pew to come and lead that now that's sad. That's sad I'm getting into more and more it just listen, our churches today have almost become a country club. There's really not a burden anymore to see people get saved. We have friends, we have neighbors, we have relatives. And month after month, and year after year, we see them, we talk, but we never say a word about their eternal destiny. We die we we let them die and we let them go to hell without a fight. They tell us, and I believe this is true They tell us that 95% of all Christians go through their entire life and they never win personally one soul to the Lord. Isn't that sad? But can I add something here? That's not the saddest thing. The saddest thing is they don't even cry. But that's not the saddest thing. The saddest thing is it just seems like so many don't even care. Because if we cared, we'd at least make an effort. Am I not right? During World War II, just before Pearl Harbor, the Japanese High Command was having a meeting. In that meeting was a famous Admiral by the name of Admiral Yamamoto. Some of you have probably heard of him. As they considered the strike on Pearl Harbor, Admiral Yamamoto, who got his education in America, was violently against it. He told the other men there that in America lays a sleeping giant. And we're better off to let her lay. Now, folks, I'm gonna tell you something tonight The devil has to look at our churches and say to himself, there lays a sleeping giant. If our churches ever woke up, quit playing games, got serious about soul winning, I mean got a Broken heart for soul. We see millions of people get saved. Hey, we see revival. Hey, preacher, you know, I mean we're out here in the middle of nowhere. I mean we're we're close to West Virginia. Amen. Huh? Come on. I mean, we're just a little, but you know what? This church, think about it. This church I believe this with all my heart. This church is a sleeping giant. It is. If if everybody, listen, if everybody in this church made up their mind that they were going to be the sole winner that got, you turn this town upside down for God Now, in these two verses, verse twenty-two and twenty-three, I believe God gives us three characteristics. Of a soul winner. I want to give them to you real quickly here tonight. First of all, I want you to look at verse 22. And of some have compassion, making a difference. First of all, I want you to notice this: the soul winners, compassion. Matthew chapter 9, verse 36. But when he saw the multitudes talking about Jesus, He was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. As Jesus looked out over this vast multitude, what did he see? He saw hundreds of people, wait a minute, on their way to hell. He wept. Why did he weep? Because it was real to him. The Bible says he was moved with compassion. You see, that compassion caused him to do something. You see, what good does it do uh? And again, I I'm not not I think it's good if we do this, but what good does it do us if, oh you know, we we come to church every service, we dress right, we know the songs, we smile, we carry a Bible, we look good. And yet we never show any compassion. What good does it do? What good does it do if we could define all the theological terms? If we could define what a fundamental independent King James Version that what good does it do us if we can define all those things, and yet we don't know what the word compassion means What good does it do if we if we dot every I and cross every key, but yet we can't spell the word compassion? That's sad. Somebody one time said this: people don't care how much you know until they know how much we care. And that's the truth. I have never understood. If you can explain it to me, man, I'd be glad I'm serious, I'd be glad to talk to you after the service. But I have never understood how how people could receive the gift of salvation. They're saved, they're on their way to heaven, call themselves a Christian, and yet never want to tell anybody else about it. Explain that to me. I have never been able to figure that out When my future wife, I didn't hear the gospel until right after I got off the drill field as a Marine Corps drill instructor. But right after my future wife got saved, Do you know what her number one concern was? Get me saved. Does that sound normal? The night that I got saved, you've heard a lot of you here have heard my testimony. But the night that I got saved, on my way, you know what I thought about? What about my mother? What about my sisters? Six days after I was saved. I got saved on a Monday night. The following Sunday, I had 32 of my family, friends, and neighbors out the church to get them on some gospel. Now I'm not saying you can do but I am saying listen, what I'm saying is this. To me that seems a natural result of being saved I mean, you just naturally want to see other people get saved and go to heaven. Romans chapter 8 and verse 9. But you're not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you, did you notice? If, if so be, if you're saved, if so be the Spirit of God dwell in you, now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, He is none of his. In other words, God's saying, you don't have the Spirit of Christ, you're not saved. Amen. But now, wait a minute, think about this. I'm not trying to be me, I'm trying to help you here What is the Spirit of Christ? The Spirit of Christ is compassion. It's love. It's evangelism. Luke chapter 19, verse 10. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. You see, a person that is really saved, the natural extension of salvation, man, you're going to want to see other people get saved. You're for the first time in your life, you're going to realize how horrible hell really is. And you're gonna say, oh God, help me. I love these people. Help me to reach them. But we don't see that anymore today, folks. Do you know what? I think the single greatest example in the Bible of what I'm talking about tonight is the Apostle Paul. Romans chapter, it is I I I I never read this, but that it just doesn't stun me. Literally, it stuns me. Romans chapter 9 and verse 1. Just listen to this. This is Paul. I say the truth in Christ. I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. He uses three statements here. To underline the fact, hey, I'm serious about this. I mean what I'm about to say. What does he mean? Get this. That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. You know what we call that? Compassion. Compassion. Now, here's the result. Get this. For I wish that myself were a curse from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh What's Paul saying? Paul's saying this. I would be willing to go to hell To see my kinsmen get saved. Isn't that an amazing statement? Huh? Show you how amazing the statement is. Brother we're we're friends. We're good buddies. You may think contrary, but we're good buddies. Amen? Now we draw the line on military service, amen. He's an anchor clanker, I'm a marine, amen. But we're good buddies. Now listen, suppose suppose I wasn't saved Chip saved, I'm not saved. Are you with me? Chip, be honest now. Be brutally honest. Knowing how bad hell is, and knowing that hell is forever. Would you be willing to go to hell forever to see me get saved? Don't give me the problem. I know better. Just say it. No. Are you with me? Come on. Are you with me? No. I'd say the same thing. Huh? This is what makes this statement so amazing. If somebody came to me and said, I'll guarantee you this person will get saved if you're willing to. I said, Oh no, no, no, no, not me. Ah, no. But now here's the point. If I can't give my soul, can't I at least give my time? Come on, that's good. Come on. That's right. I I I am not gonna go to hell for anybody. But you know what I can? I can give my life. I can give a hey, I can give a couple hours every week. Can't I do that? At least do that? To see somebody get saved. First of all, we have the soul winner's compassion. Folks, we just we just don't have any compassion anymore. But then secondly, I want you to notice verse 23. And others say with fear, pulling them out of the fire. First of all, the soul winner's compassion. Secondly, the the soul winner's compulsion. Or we could use that word, I think Pastor Levin, somebody out here brought up the idea of boldness. Who mentioned that? Who said that? I I thought of that. What is composed? That's boldness. Now, it talks about this idea of pulling them out of a fire. What fire is that? Go back to verse 7. It tells us. Verse 7. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, notice this, suffering The vengeance of eternal fire. Hell. Can I ask you a question tonight? What moves ya? Come on, what moves ya? Hey, I'm not talking full-time service. I'm talking regular people in the church. I'm talking dads, mothers, husbands, wives, teenagers. What moves you? What drives you? What motivates you? What excites you? What is important in your what's important? Is it a house? Car, money, things, sports, hunting, fishing, golf? Those things you're going to leave behind? And by the way, I'm not against those things. Come on. As long as they don't become your God. But are you focused on these things, or is it souls? What causes a person to move? What compels a person to move? I'll tell you what it is. It's when you begin to make what I'm preaching on tonight personal. It's when you begin to realize what's at stake. We've if you've been saved for any length of time, we've all heard this at one time or another. You know what would be good for all of us? I'd never want to do it. But you know what would be good for all of us? If the moment we got saved, if God dipped us into hell for about 30 seconds. Our churches tonight would be on fire. Yes, sir. Well, you talk about compulsion, huh? You see, when you begin to make things personal, when you realize what's at stake and you begin to make those things personal, when you hey when you look at your dad and your mother or your grandparent, your son, your daughter, your grandparent. Somebody that you really love. And you look at them maybe for the first time as an eternal soul that has to spend forever in hell if they don't get saved. I'm going to tell you something, it'll become real. That will compel you to do whatever you need to do to get them saved. When I got out of high school, I joined the Marine Corps. In uh late 1966, I got mortars to go to Vietnam. In uh January of '67 I arrived in Vietnam. I got assigned to a rifle company. And uh we did a number of things for a while. You know, we ran ambushers, stuff like that But uh the first major operation, search and destroy operation that I went out on in Vietnam. Was in uh March of 1967. It was called Operation de Soto. You can Google it, look it up on the internet. But it was Operation de Soto. We were uh Attached to what they called the 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines, the 3rd Marine Division. And uh I'll never forget that day, they they loaded us on a number of choppers. I was in one chopper and and uh by then I had made a number of real close we were like brothers, a number of close friends They loaded us in a number of choppers and as the choppers were were coming in, uh they would they would uh they came in over the rice paddies and we began this operation And uh you get about, oh, seven, eight, ten feet off the rice paddy and you jump out of the helicopters into the rice paddy and then move and get yourself up against the berm Our chopper came in, got about seven, eight feet off the ground. We jumped off the chopper, hit the rice patty, and immediately moved up against the burn. In another chopper was the rest of our squad. The chopper came in and hovered, and uh the Marines there began to jump out, hit the rice paddy And uh one of the guys that was uh he was he was probably my best buddy at that time. He jumped out, hit the rice paddy, stood up, and uh you could not have timed it any more perfectly As he stood up along the tree line, the North Vietnamese opened up. And they stitched him right across the lakes with machine gun fire. He fell down in the completely exposed. Started yelling. We were behind the burn. Nobody, listen, nobody looked at each other. Nobody said, uh, what do you think we ought to do? Nobody flipped the coin. Come on. Four of us jumped up, ran out, grabbed him, two arms, two legs, and threw him on one of the other choppers that was already landing. Now, What would make you do something like that? It's a compulsion, it's a compulsion to do it rather than to see somebody that you love and you care about perish. Come on. That's exactly what I'm talking about tonight. I mean when something really becomes personal And you begin to understand what's at stake, you know what's going to happen? It's going to become a part of you. You see, we we we can talk all we want. But if we don't act, if there's no compulsion, you know what we're saying? We're saying this. I really don't care. That person can die, they can go to hell. That's what we're saying. Compassion without compulsion is worthless. We can come down the aisle tonight. And I'm always glad to see when people come down to the old fat. Don't get me wrong. But you know, we can come down here tonight and we can cry and we can slobber and everything else. But then compulsion has to kick in. Amen. We've got to do something about it. If we don't, people are going to go to hell. R. A. Tory, great preacher, R. R. Tory said this. I would like to know What right any man has to call himself a follower of Jesus Christ if he's not a soul winner? That's not me, that's R. A. Tory. Charles Spurgeon. Have you all heard of Charles Spurgeon? Charles Spurgeon said this. I had rather bring one soul to Jesus Christ than to unpick all the mysteries in the divine word. What a scholar Charles Spurgeon was. What a love for the Bible Charles Spurgeon had. But according to Charles Spurgeon, what was most important to bring people to Jesus Christ? And it ought to be in our lives too. First of all, the soul winner's compassion. Secondly, the soul winner's compulsion. But then thirdly and lastly is what I call the soul winner's caution. And I hope you'll listen here. Your preacher almost hit on this. I was afraid you're going to start preaching my sermon The soul winner's conscience. Look at verse 23 again. Hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. Now, stay with me on this. Whenever you start talking about this, some people don't like you parking on stuff like this. But I believe I can tell you why so many of us We know we ought to be soul winners, but why so many of us go through life and we're not the soul winners that God wants us to be? It's right here. The word for garment in the Greek word, it's the Greek word uh for the undergarment. It's the lining that went underneath the tuning. That's the idea here. Now, what he's saying here in this verse is this is that when you reach out to save these people, these are lepers. When you reach out to save these people, the people that you are reaching out to are moral lepers. In the Bible, sin is illustrated by leprosy. Leprosy in the Old Testament was a vile Horrible, get this vile, horrible, important word right here, contagious. Disease The leper needed mercy, amen. But at the same time the leper was unclean. Everywhere the leper went, if he went down the uh down the sh uh the the the main road of the town, he had to cry out, unclean, unclean, and people would literally move out of the way. They had to live in a leper colony And yet God loved the leper. And what God was saying here is this You have to be careful with dealing with a leper. If you are not careful in dealing with a leper, you also can get contaminated. Are you still with me? Point's going to come up here in the light bulbs of one in a second. Amen. So God gives them a warning back in Leviticus chapter 13 and verse 52. Here's the warning. He shall therefore burn that garment. That's the garment that the leper was wearing. Wherein the plague is, for it is a threading leprosy. That's the idea of a contagious. You can catch it. A contagious leprosy. It shall be burnt In the fire. Now, what's the spiritual truth here that I'm trying to get across tonight? Here it is. God's saying this: when you deal with the world You have to have compassion. Amen? You've got to have compulsion. But you never let your compassion and your compulsion destroy your caution. The world is a sinner. The leper is associated with the world. And if we're not careful, get this, if we're not careful, in the day and age that we're living in, we can get so close to the world that it contaminates us. It ruins our ability to be what God wants us to be in the area of rescuing sinners. Broad application, broad practical application. We need to have unsafe friends. Amen. Jesus would have was a friend of sinners. If Jesus wasn't a friend of sinners, all of us today would still be on our way to hell. Yeah, I I've I've had people in your past I've had people come up and say, Well, yeah, I don't have any unsaved friends. I tell them this, I feel sorry for you. Because what you're saying is you're more separated than Jesus, because even Jesus was a friend of sinners. But you don't become polluted by the garment. Practically, what's that mean? You don't get so caught up in things of the world. Money, this, that, that we lose our ability to show other people that we're different. Hmm? I think so many people look at Christians today. I think I said this earlier in the week. So many people look at Christians, they don't see any difference between you and them And so they see no need to get saved. Jesus was a friend of sinners, but yet he lived a holy life He stayed away from the things of the world. You see, folks, if we don't warn other people about Jesus Christ If we don't keep our testimony clean and spotless, their blood someday is going to be on our hands. I'm dumb, but let me just say this. When I was over in Vietnam, we're we're in an outpost. There was another, this is a long story short right here. But there was another outpost about uh oh about four miles away. And uh One of the one of the operational procedures was that uh uh around the entire perimeter of every outpost There were Marines that guarded those you you never allow we never allowed the South Vietnamese to guard an entire wall. You all still with me on that? You know, whenever you north, south, east, west, there was always marines on that wall with the South Vietnamese For some reason, even we don't know what happened even to this day, but for some reason, the Marines of that outpost, 26 of them. They allowed the South Vietnamese to guard one area of that perimeter one night. The South Vietnamese knew that the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese were going to hit that outpost that night. And so in the middle of the night, the South Vietnamese soldiers deserted the perimeter of that entire area, left it completely unguarded. The Via Cong, the North Via, they already knew that. They knew that ahead of time. They came in with their sapper units. That's a a long bamboo pole, sapto chargers, you pull a uh a wire, it w it would blow the bob wire, but they came out with the sapto chargers Blew the wire. They were in the outpost before the 26 Marines could even react. Two of them were two of my best buddies All twenty-six Marines were killed that night. Now, if I were to ask you your opinion of those South Vietnamese soldiers That deserted that part of the perimeter that did not sound the warning, your opinion of them would not be very good. Am I not right? We would brand them as cowards. Come on. I got some of you gunshot. Traitors, criminals, murderers. Am I not right? Let me turn you over to one verse and we're done. I want you to turn back to Ezekiel chapter 33. Ezekiel chapter 33. Read you just a couple verses and we're done here. Look at verse 3. Ezekiel chapter 33. Look at verse 3. If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet and warn the people. Does that not sound like what ought to happen? You see the enemy coming. There needs to be somebody there to warn Those that are inside, exactly the illustration that I was given you. Keep on reading. Then Whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet and taketh not warning, if the sword come and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head We see the enemy coming, we sound the warning. If those that hear the warning, if they don't take heed and they die, that's their fault. But we did everything we could to warn them and save them Verse 5. He heard the sound of the trumpet and took not warning. His blood shall be upon him, but he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. Now look at verse 6. But if the watchman see the sword come, there's not a time I don't read this when I don't think about that outpost. But if the watchman see the sword come and blow not the trumpet, doesn't give a warning And the people be not warned. If the sword come and take any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand Just a moment ago we were nodding our heads. Some of us were saying, Amen. Well, I'll tell you what, what a bunch of cowards, what a bunch of traitors, what a bunch of criminals. But wait a minute, God has placed us on the soul anymore. God's saying, hell's coming. Hell's coming. You're gonna die, you're gonna spend forever in hell. When's the last time we blew the trumpet? Are we even on the wall? Come on, are we even on the wall? We let people die and go to hell without a fight. And that's sad. It's so sad. Folks, listen, there is a battle going on today for the souls of men and women and kids. And we're losing it. We're losing it. Because in our churches, we become complacent. Come on. I'm going to go to the bottom rung here and we're done. Just the bottom rung. How hard is it to give out a track? You'd be reordering and reordering and reordering gospel tracks. Hey, it's not hard, is it? Come on. It's not that hard. Folks, listen. Let's rescue the perishing. Amen? We might, hey, we might be scared. We might think that we don't know enough. Hey, we're all that way. But you know what the amazing thing is? We say God I I don't know enough. God I'm scared. But when you step out by faith and you obey, God kicks in. And he does the impossible He really does. And you'd be amazed. Hey, you I think all of us someday, those of us that give out tracts, I think someday all of us are going to be shocked and amazed at how many people got saved just reading tracts That's why what I'm preaching on tonight is so important. I believe that's one of the great keys to revival. Go back to the old man. You know why so many of us are miserable, grouchy, mean, whatever it might be, never happy? Huh? We're not seeing any little babies. We're not seeing babes in Christ. You start seeing people get saved. Come on. It's gonna make you happy. It will. Hey, it's better than dope And I've never been on dope. Amen. Don't get me wrong. I've never I've never what I just say. Well, I'll guarantee it's better than that. Amen? Amen. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed, every eye closed.