If you go back, and we won't take time to do this, but if we would go back to 2 Samuel chapter 22, we find this Psalm, Psalm 18, almost verbatim recorded for us in Psalm 22. We have no doubt at all because it's referenced in Psalm 22 almost word for word. There's a few variations between the two uh uh passages of this psalm. But uh because of that we are very confident that David is actually the penman of this psalm. Now you notice and I always point this out I did not say that David was the author of this psalm. Sometimes preachers will say that, and we understand what he means. But David is not the author of the psalm. Who's the author? God the Father, God is the author of this, the Holy Spirit of God. And all of Scripture is given to us by God through the Holy Spirit. uh inspiring and then preserving for us today. So uh but David is the penman. David is the one that recorded this and God used him to record this. Because it's referenced twice, and particularly because of the situation in Psalm 22, I come to the conclusion that this psalm, which is really a song that was sung by the nation of Israel, um, was very precious to David. It's recorded twice in Scripture. Um uh I think uh my um my feeling is that this was something that was very dear to David. Maybe I'm just Speculating here, maybe this was David's favorite song, perhaps. How many folks here have a hymn that's your favorite hymn? Anybody here have a hymn? You say that's my favorite. I like to sing that Uh I've got several actually. Uh I have a hard time picking the favorite one. I think that's a good thing. I think it's good to have a hymn. That thing really speaks to my heart. Maybe that hymn is a testimony It reveals testimony of your experience with the Lord. My dad was down and we were talking different things and my dad told me his and I just learned this this past year, his favorite hymn is only a sinner saved by grace. And just talking about it brought tears to my dad's eyes as he said, that's my that's me. He says, just a sinner saved by grace. And uh so perhaps this is David's favorite save favorite song, uh favorite song to sing. Uh by the way, not only is it good to have a favor uh favorite uh hymn or a life hymn, it's good to have a life verse. How many folks have what you call a life verse? Anybody have something like that? I've got one. I go back to. They changed over the years. I had one for a period of time in Bible college and I switched over another. Those are good things to do. Um we look at this and uh we get the um We get the impression here in Psalm reading Psalm chapter 18. I just want to give you a little background of the chapter. I believe it was written after David had gone through, and there's a little debate on the Bible scholars, I looked up some different things Uh it appears that this was written after David had been through a very lengthy period of trials, a pretty extended period, where he was going through some dark valleys. He was going through some very, very difficult times. As you read through here, and we're going to notice a little bit of this here in a bit, it was a time when David was mistreated Um he was treated unjustly by people. Um most likely, in fact if you notice there in the beginning, chapter one If you have the little statement there above it, it says, uh who spoke uh Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who spoke unto the Lord, the words of this psalm, in the day the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. And so of course we know that Saul pursued David unjustly and made accusations. He was very, very jealous of David, felt like David was trying to usurp the throne. And so it was a time of great fear for David. And so he goes through this valley. He's being accused of things he did not do. He's being pursued and uh Saul is trying to kill him for for unjust reasons. And you cannot read this experience of David through the uh the Bible and not see very clearly he was scared. He was fearful for his life to the point where he actually betrayed his people to some extent and went to the Philistines for protection and to get away from Saul. And so for David, the great warrior, the great lover of God, the great lover of Israel To take that action, that tells me David was was very, very fearful. And so the song comes out of that whole experience. It's after the experience, God rescues him from this valley. God rescues him from Saul's attempts to kill him. Uh David made some foolish decisions in my mind, got himself into a mess with the uh the enemies of God, and God gets him out of that. God spares his life, and God rescues him, and as a result of that David records this psalm down, and if you read it carefully, the whole chapter, it's a psalm of uh David rejoicing in the Lord, uh rejoicing in God's care over him and the victory that God gave him, the deliverance God gave him. What you get from this is you see David after the fact, after he's out, he looks back over his experience and he sees God's hand in everything that happened. At the time Couldn't see it so much. Wow was Saul's pursue him. He's out in the wilderness and uh uh all these things are taking place. Maybe David didn't see the hand of God in all this. In fact he's asking, why is this happening? And he's he's very, very frustrated But now he looks back and he sees this. Wait a minute. God was working that whole time. God had a hand in everything that took place, and I can see what God was doing. He saw God's hand in every issue he faced and every trial he faced after the fact. And I'm there I guarantee you there's some of us here this morning we can stand and testify And we could say, you know, I went through a dark time in my life, I went through a difficult period in my life, and at the time it just seemed like uh nothing was going right and everything was against me. But afterward I looked back And I see God was working and God was helping me. Is there anybody like that? Anybody give testimony to that? Sure. Sure. And that's where David is, and that's what this psalm comes out of this. How many folks here recognize this name, A. W. Tozer? Anybody recognize that name? Great author. Wrote some tremendous things of years gone by. He made this statement He said, when I understand that everything happening to me is designed by God to make me more Christ-like, it resolves a great deal of anxiety. But what a great statement. When I see that everything's happening to me, God is allowing that or using that to make me more like Christ. I don't have to worry so much. I don't have to be so anxious about what's going on. I understand God is in control. Fact of the matter is, God is able to take even the most unjust actions, uh the the most severe cruelty, and God can take that and turn that around where He gets glory And I come out of it a better person. I come out of it a better person. And we see that here with uh King David. As most of you are aware, I spent six years down in Chattanooga in Highland Park Baptist Church. When I went down there in 1981, Dr. Lee Robertson was the pastor It was really the church had pretty much peaked at that point the ministries from then they kind of went down. Of course, it's not in existence today Uh but I was able to spend some time down there uh under Dr. Lee Robertson and uh I read an uh uh note this past week uh about Dr. Robertson. Now I didn't experience this firsthand, but I can see it happening. There's no doubt in my mind this is a uh an accurate account. Apparently he was preaching at a meeting out somewhere, some church somewhere, and there's a group of preachers. For the lunch, they had a question-answer period where preachers could ask Dr. Robertson questions. This was later in his life And one of the preachers stood up and they asked Dr. Robertson a tremendous question. They asked him this. They said, what would you say has contributed the most to your ministry, to your success? Uh what what what one thing would you say is contributed most? Now the fellow that was given the account of this incident He said that without hesitating, Dr. Robertson's lip began to quiver, tears filled in his eyes, and he stated, again, without hesitation, his answer was trouble. Troubles have contributed the most to what I am and the ministry I have. And he made this statement. He says, uh everything worthwhile in my life has been born through troubles What a tremendous statement. And he went on to relate that the Camp Joy, which was a tremendous ministry. We spent sent hundreds of kids there over the years back in the earlier days of my ministry That Camp Joy came out of his daughter Joy dying suddenly as a small child. Other instances he went through and difficulties and trials he went through and how God used that To develop him as a man and to develop the ministry to a point where God was able to use him to such an extent. So David here in Psalm chapter 18, he's looking back And what he'd been through and the troubles he had faced. And in many ways, he's saying, you know, God brought me out of those trials. God brought me through that. And as a result of it, my faith is stronger. My understanding of God's love and God's power and God's wisdom is clearer in my mind. because of what God has brought me through. Psalms 18 is a tremendous chapter. It's one of those that just, at least in my mind, stands out um throughout the Word of God. And and the thing is about David was he was he was very careful to express his gratitude. In fact he did in such a way as we pointed out, God has preserved it And given to us here throughout eternity, we have this record of David praising the Lord and expressing his gratitude to God For what God did and how He had rescued him and used that trial through there. It is important, and I take this away from, and I'll get give you my outline here in a minute, but I want to make this statement. It is very, very important for us, for me and all of us When God does something for us, when God answers a prayer, when God helps us through a trial, it's very important that we stop and we recognize what God has done for us. And that we express our gratitude and that we actually praise Him for what He does for us. I think we're probably all guilty of this, maybe some more so than others But we pray and pray, or we have a difficulty, or we have a challenge, or we go through a trial, and we ask God, and we look at it, and lo and behold, God helps us. And maybe God answers that prayer. God delivers us in some way, or God strengthens us to deal with whatever it is, and we come out the other side. And we just go on and we never stop and give thought and say, you know, I ought to stop and praise the Lord a little bit for what he's just done for me. I ought to stop and thank God. I ought to express to others That God is good and God did help me and God does have a plan and God is able to meet needs and solve problems. I think it would help us a lot to grow and do that. David did that, not just with his lips, but with his life. And his whole life was lived with a few failures here and there, and pretty significant ones, but For the most part, David was very, very passionate about giving God the praise and living a life that brought glory to God and was an expression Of the appreciation for what God has done. And isn't that really what the Christian life is? You and I don't live for God. We don't do right. We don't serve the Lord so that God will accept us. So that God will save us. No. We live for God and we serve him. We seek to do right because of all he's done for us, and we love him, and we praise him for that, and we want our life to be an expression. Of the gratitude I have and the love I have for the Lord in saving me and helping me. Does that make sense? And so we see that here with David. Now let me uh uh just give you a few thoughts here this morning It kind of reminds me of years ago I heard a preacher say a preacher had a message prepared and uh lo and behold there was a terrible snowstorm um and uh only one guy showed up for church And the preacher got up, preached an hour and twenty minutes. One guy sitting right there and he's hollering and yelling and preaching and carrying on, spitting and stomping and going on, and one guy sitting there the whole time. And um finally after it was over, um The fellow said, Well that was quite a message there and he says thanks. He said, I've really prayed and and prepared that. He goes, you know, if you take a truckload of hay out into the field to the cows and only one cow there, you don't dump the whole truckload on the cow. So you got the whole truckload here I tell you one thing and I um I don't I don't mean this and I'm not trying to blow my horn or anything, don't horn or anything, but I I those of you have been around I tried very hard to preach as fervently and do as much if there was a handful of folks as if the place was packed. I've really tried to give by all. And I expect that and you know what I found? I found sometimes when it's a small crowd in a snowstorm or something, sometimes that's when God shows up the most. Sometimes that's when God used it the most. So I hope this will be a blessing to you. Here's my first thought this morning. Maybe you want to jot these down. Number one is the reality of trials. The reality of trials. I don't think I have to take much to convince every one of us to understand that the Christian life consists of trials. That becoming a Christian does not shield me or incubate me from trials in any way, shape, or form. Trials are real. I believe And I referenced this a moment ago, but I believe that David loved the Lord passionately. You cannot read those the psalms that were penned by David. You cannot read his experience and not see how uh deeply he loved the Lord and how passionately he loved the Lord. Nevertheless, his love for Jehovah, his love for God did not shield him from injustices. As we referenced a minute ago, King Saul made some horrendous accusations against David. King Saul had the whole Israeli army after him out to kill him for no reason on David's part. And so his love for the Lord and his commitment and dedication to the Lord God Did not shield him from trials and difficulties. And I'm talking to folks here, no doubt, most of not all of us. We know Christ as Savior And that does not mean we're not going to face trials. It doesn't mean we're not going to face heartaches. I'm looking out at faces that I know have been through some heartaches. I'm talking to some folks right now. You're going through some valleys right now, and yet you know God and you love God, no doubt. And so the Christian life is not a life without difficulty, without injustice, without misunderstandings. David faced false accusations. Look at some of the terms he used. Look at verse number three. And these kind of stand out in my mind. He says, I will call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised. There's no doubt he loved God. So shall I be saved from mine what? Enemies. What? Someone that loves God has enemies? Yes. Look at the next verse. The sorrows of death compass me about. Man a lot. That's not just being said. That's not just the sorrow. The sorrows of what? Death. I mean, David at that that is referencing a point where David is at the pit in the pits. He is so sad, it is the sorrow of death has overcome him. Yet he loves God dearly. He is committed to the Lord Look, he goes on. He says, The shores of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid. Why in the world would a child of God be afraid of anything? Nevertheless, we are. And we do find ourselves in situations that are very, very fearful. Many of us sometimes late at night, we end up, can't sleep, middle of the night, laying there, fearful of situations and circumstances we face. Look at verse 6. Or verse 5, the sorrows of hell compassed me about. The snares of death prevented me. In my distress I called upon the Lord. In my distress. Wow. You say that doesn't sound like the Christian life. That doesn't sound like somebody that's sold out to God that they would go through this. Oh yeah. Let me ask you a question. How many people here believe that God could, if God chose to, he could shelter us from heartache and sorrow and challenge? How many people believe? Sure he could God could just put us in a in a bubble and uh never face a heartache, never face a trial, never face a difficulty, never experience a failure. But God has not chosen to do that. God has chosen to allow us to go through some heart-wrenching experiences. God, in his wisdom, allows us to fail sometimes and sometimes fail miserably. And he could step in and he could keep us from doing that. But in his wisdom, he allows it to happen. Now I want to be very careful here. That is not to suggest that everything that happens is what God wants to happen. God doesn't necessarily will, it's not necessarily his will that we fail. In fact, I can assure you, it's not his will that we sin. But God allows us to, he gives us that opportunity, that option. So it's a real part of the Christian life. In his wisdom, he allows us to face these difficulties. In his wisdom, he allows us sometimes to fall on our face. He allows us sometimes to make a fool out of ourselves spiritually. That's real part of life, a real part of living for God and living the Christian life. You can open this Bible at just about any page. From Genesis to Revelation, just about any page of this book, you open up and you'll find God's people going through trials. You'll find God's people having to deal with personal failure, having to deal with the uh uh uh the injustices of others. It is a part of life. It is a part of life. I read a statistic this week, and it's a pretty reliable source. It's an organization that tracks the persecution of Christians around the world. And they said, according to them, there was over 7,100 Christians that were killed because of their faith in the year 2015. Over 7,100 men and women, in some cases children, who for no other reason than the fact that they were believers of some sort in the Lord Jesus Christ, they were killed For that very reason. Now I don't know what that comes. I didn't do the figures on it, but that's a n that's quite a few a day on a daily basis And they said already 2016 is starting looking to be that they'll probably break that record. In 2014 there was um uh uh there was only 4,000 And so it is increasing. Question, could God stop that if he so chose to? Sure. God could God could intervene and say, not one of my children are going to be executed for their faith anymore. God could very easily do that. But God in his wisdom chooses not to. And he allows his people many times, as we just saw here, this statistic, God allows his people many times, not only to face heartache and trials, but actually lose their lives. For no other reason than that they're a follower of Jesus Christ. Follower of Jesus Christ. My point I'm trying to make is this. And I see this in Psalm 18. Trials and heartaches and difficulties and trouble is a part, a very real part of living the Christian life Now, a crowd like this today, I think we all understand that. Person gets saved, but it's important for a new Christian. It's important for someone, maybe that just came to Christ, to understand that accepting Jesus Christ as Savior is not going to keep me from my heart being broken. And accepting Jesus Christ as Savior is no guarantee that I'm not going to fail in my walk with God. It's important to understand. I think sometimes that's where people come up when they think they lost their salvation or whatever, because they do not understand that trials and failures and difficulties and trouble is a part Of the Christian life. And God allows us to experience that. And God allows us to go through that. So the reality of trials. My second thought is this: the reason for trials. The reason for trials. Trials come in many forms. The difficulty that one of you may be facing is not the same as the difficulty I would be facing. The sorrow that you're experiencing may not be the is not the same type of sorrow someone else is experiencing. The failure maybe in the the shortcoming in your Christian life and your faith and your obedience to God, your shortcoming may not be and no doubt is not the same as someone else's shortcoming or someone else's failures. That's why we have to be very, very careful. When we want to jump all over somebody else for failing, we need to stop and remember, I may not have failed in the same area, but I have my own passel full of failures I've got to deal with. And so my point is this: trials come in many shapes and sizes, and many forms, and many categories. And the reasons for those trials are just as varied. What caused the trouble for me may be something completely different than what caused the trouble for you I put down a list here. In fact, I got this list. Dr. Williams was preaching in the fall, and he had made a statement about troubles And I just jotted down real quick different things that bring troubles to the Christian life. I put this one down. Number one, sin brings troubles to the Christian life. Anytime you and I, as a child of God, if we disobey God, if we do not exercise faith and live by faith and trust him and obey him, when we sin, mark it down, we're going to have to deal with some trouble. It is a consequence of liv uh of disobeying God. Ask the prodigal son. Did he have troubles Got selfish, demanded his inheritance, took it, went to the far city, riotous living. How'd that work out for him? Oh, for a while, it worked pretty good. For a while, he was big man on campus. For a while, he was everybody's buddy. But eventually that money ran out. And when we live in sin, eventually the pleasure We'll run out and trouble show up. And trouble show up. And so sin brings troubles. Ask the prodigal son. Hey, let's stop. Ask Samson about that. How that womanizing and chasing women around, how'd that work out for him? Brought all kinds of troubles. He lost his eyesight. He lost his freedom. He blew his testimony. Uh you read the life of Samson. I don't see anybody in the life of Samson that respects him God used him in amazing ways, but he had nobody's respect. Not his enemies, and not his family, and not his own nation So sin brings troubles. Ask Samson, and eventually it cost him his life. Aiken. Let's ask Aiken. How did disobedience to God work out for him? Terrible. It cost him his life. His children were killed. Um, we could go down the list. David, even his own personal sin with numbering the people and the uh the the armies and then of course his sin with Bathsheba he lost his joy read Psalm fifty one he lost it's almost a a category there a list of things that that sin cost him And so sin brings trouble. I was going over this with my wife last night, and I was talking, and she goes, you know, Adanias and Sapphira could testify to that. They lied to God. And may cost them their life. And here we are, 2,000 years later, we have nothing positive to say about Ananias and Sapphira. So when we and I you and I decide, and it happens, and God allows us to make this foolish decision, but when you and I decide we're not going to trust God, we're not going to obey him, we're going to engage in sin We may get a little pleasure out of it. It may seem to work out for a while, but you mark it down. God is not marked. Whatever a man sows, he's going to reap And the wages of sin is death and trouble and heartache. And so sometimes trouble in our Christian life is a result of our sin. We decide to disobey God. But sometimes I put this down: sin brings troubles. Number two Situations may bring troubles. Maybe uh events that we have no control over bring difficulty and hardships to our life. Maybe the company we're working for goes out of business unexpectedly. And lo and behold, I'm left, my hands are empty, I don't know what my future holds, and stress takes over. And it's it's a circumstance. I have no control over it. So A situation I have no control over. And that happens. God allows those things to happen. Sin brings troubles. Situations may bring troubles. I put this one down. Suffering may bring troubles You go to the doctor and the doctor said I got a bad report. Man, all of a sudden you find out you're dealing with cancer or some sickness or some disease. And now your whole life has changed, and now you've got issues to deal with. You've never thought you would have to before. And that sickness brought all kinds of troubles. I think about Job. Of no no no sin on his part, nothing because of anything Job did, but simply an issue between God and the devil And God, this is amazing, this is in my mind what stands out about Job more than anything else. God had faith in a man. Isn't that something? God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? And God puts his faith in a man. And Satan, of course, has at it. God controls it. There's a situation we see very clearly where God is in control. He limited what Satan could do, but God said, pretty much took his hands off, said, you have Adam He'll trust me. He'll stay faithful to me. Now Job had his ups and downs. And that sickness, I think, as much as anything, that sickness, that constant pain, day and night, intense pain Ate away at him, it ate away at him, and you read the book of Job very carefully, and you find Job at some points he starts questioning God God, what are you doing? I didn't do anything. I loved you and I trusted you. What are you doing to me? His faith was challenged, no doubt about it And so sometimes suffering will bring troubles and challenges to our life. Situations we find ourselves in bring troubles. Sin that we engage in brings troubles. I put this one down, number four, sinners. Sometimes bring troubles on us. What the actions of other people, the sins of other people. Will bring heartache and difficulty into our lives. Uh I think America has a lot of people that genuinely love God That are doing right and with all their heart are trying to live by faith and trust God and obey Him. But as our nation drifts from God Those that do love God are going to have to deal with the consequences of a nation that does not love God And that brings issues and that brings difficulties and challenges. What about Joseph? I'm reading him in my morning devotions. Uh Joseph Faithful, man of integrity. I think I came to the conclusion this morning in my devotions, Joseph, without a doubt, we've been working, going over with some of the leaders in the church here on spiritual gifts. I was reading about Joseph. Joseph, without a doubt, had the gift of administration. That guy could organize and get things done and get things in place and succeed. Joseph was a tremendous man of integrity He was gifted at administration, but yet his brothers brought all kinds of heartache and grief to him. You ever read that? Do you ever see that? Joseph was faithful. He did nothing. Just trusting God, trying to do right. But others brought heartache and uh uh and and difficulty to him. So number one, the reality of trials. They're real, they're part of life Um number two, the reason for trials. Maybe a 40 inch snowstorm brings trials and heartaches and difficulties, do you like? And um uh I shouldn't say this, but I got that did I mention I got the snow plow stuck yesterday? Did I mention that Tom did too? That made my day. I was so glad when he got it stuck. Well yeah, I was praying, Lord. God answers prayer, I'll tell you. But I tell you, I that thing was hung up and I did not want to to have to face calling somebody to help me get it out and uh I was just going through it. You know, sometimes circumstances bring troubles and heartaches So the reason for him, and I want to end with this. I want to do what are the results of trials? Here's where we find David Well what David went through it. I mean he went extended period of time overcome with fear. You saw the words there, the sorrows of death, the sorrows of hell. I mean he is in the he is in the darkest valley What was the result of all of that? Look at verse 16 with me. He sent from above God. He took me, he drew me out of many waters. He delivered me from my strong enemy and from them which hated me for they were too strong for me. David says, God rescued me. Now, I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 16, I put May 7, 1979. I bowed by my bed as a 19-year-old boy the day after my 19th birthday. I called on the Lord. Lord drew me out of many waters. That term water is there. The word water in the Bible is used in varying ways. You have to look at the context. Sometimes it simply refers to water, just a body of water. Um sometimes it refers to nations. In the book of Revelation you'll find it will refer to the uh waters as great Hordes of people and great nations. But oftentimes in the Bible, the word water, we refer to troubles and difficulties. And there's various references for that. And he says, God brought me out of this God, and I and I keep saying this, but God did not keep David from his trials, these many waters. God didn't keep him from them God simply did not allow them to overwhelm them. I'm here to tell you this If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, and you're going through a valley, you're going through a trial, I'm here to tell you this. God has allowed that And God's word assures us that that trial will not destroy us. If we will trust God and let Him work. That's hard to believe sometimes when you think this is the end of me. This is going to do me in. I see no hope. I see no way out of this. Listen As long as God is alive, there is hope and there's a way out. And that's what God is saying. That's what David is saying here. God rescued me. It looked hopeless. It was so dark. It was the sorrows of hell. But God was able to bring me out. God was able to bring me out. At a certain point in David's experience, God said, All right, now is time to intervene Now is time to step in and send from above, to use the term he uses there in verse 16, and draw him out. And I'm telling you, God knows when that point is. My responsibility is stay faithful. My responsibility is stay focused. My responsibility is just keep trusting God. I don't see the answer. I don't see a light at the end of the tunnel I don't see how this will ever work out, but I believe there's a God in heaven that does, and I'm just going to stay faithful, and when the time is right, God will step in and God will rescue me. And that's what David is saying. He drew me out. God was going to see him through. God was going to bring him out when the purpose for that trial was accomplished. I mentioned Job. I mean, Job's in the box, he's in the pits, and he sees no hope, and he sees no human reason why he's experiencing this. And just about at the end of his rope, when all his friends have turned against him, his health is gone, his family's gone, his wife has turned against him, and he's at the end of his rope, then God steps in. And God says, Job, listen, where were you when I created this thing? Where were you when I made all these? And he references these fantastic animals. And experiences of earth and all that. And Job says, then I understood. I heard of thee with the hearing of the ear. Now I've seen. Now I understand God. That you are in control. And even in the worst experiences and the worst circumstances, you are faithful God, and you'll see us through. And I understand a whole lot better. And David is saying, I went through this experience. I had Saul chasing me all over the place. I was scared to death. I had the sorrows of hell. But now I look back and I see God was in control. And at the point when the purpose was accomplished, God stepped in and God rescued me and delivered me. Now we have Job and David and many others. We have their testimony. And they went through these experiences. Corinthians says these things were written for our examples. And we can learn from David and Job and Joseph. And the trials they went through, that God is faithful and God does have a purpose. The very fact that God has a purpose Should encourage us and help us. That God has a plan. I put this: the fact that God has a purpose for the trials He allows me to go through changes everything. Somebody put it this way: trials become my friends. Because I know that through that trial my faith will be stronger, my understanding of God will be clearer. My ability to help and be a blessing to others will be more effective. And God uses these trials to help us The day will come when we realize that the valleys we went through were the best possible things that could have happened to us to develop us and make us, as Dr. Robertson said, The greatest influence, the greatest contributing factor to my ministry and what I am are the troubles God has allowed me to face. Everything worthwhile in my life has been born out of troubles. What a profound statement. What a profound statement. Um we had this past year, we had uh uh brother Akeem Devkota. Any remember brother Devkota missionary, deaf missionary to Nepal of all places Brother Dakota made a profound statement, of course, through his wife interpreting. He said, I thank God I was born deaf. Who in the world would say that? I thank God I was born deaf. He said, if I had not been born deaf, I would have never made it to the United States. I would have never heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. I would have died a deaf poor man in Nepal and ended up in hell for all eternity. Thank God I was born deaf. You know what he can do? At the time, I'm no doubt it made no sense. I'm sure growing up he wished he could hear like anyone else. But now looking back, He says God had a purpose. God had a plan. Now he's on his way back to Nepal to reach the deaf there that cannot come to the states and point them to the Lord Jesus Christ. What a plan. What a God we serve. I was saying, uh I'm reading in my morning devotions, I'm reading through the life of Joseph right now. And by the way, every Christian ought to read their Bible every day You really should. I know I harp on that, but we really need to do that. It'll help us. I was reading this morning, Joseph And how he's in prison. And I mean, you can't get any lower than Joseph was. He has no friends, no family. He is in an Egyptian prison as a foreigner. I mean, there is humanly speaking, I tried to put myself in his shoes this morning. Here I am, probably 30s, in his early 30s, perhaps. I don't know how old he was. In prison, no even remote hope of ever getting out of here. He's going to die in prison. The two men that he interprets their dreams, their only hope of escape, and they forget all about him. And lo and behold, God takes that whole experience, gives Pharaoh a dream. And Pharaoh, through the butler or the baker, whichever one it was, finds out about Joseph. And in one day's time, Joseph goes from a hopeless bleak, sorrowful existence in the prison to being number two in the entire nation. Only God can do something like that. And because of Joseph's trials and Joseph's experience, millions and millions of Egyptians' lives were spared. Because Joseph was in the right place at the right time, and the only way he could possibly be there was to go through those heartaches, go through that injustice, go through that unfair treatment. So he would be right where he needed to be when God needed him for that position. Isn't that neat? That tells me there's a God in heaven. That's in control and is able to take even the most horrific circumstances and turn them around and make something good out of them. Now, what about an unsaved person Now I don't know. Maybe there's someone listening in that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior. You say, I'm lost I'm going through all this difficult time. I believe this. God allows unsaved to go through trials for one reason and one reason alone, to point them to Jesus Christ. So they will see, maybe they sin horrifically, maybe they make such a disaster out of their life like I did. The only place they have to look is to Jesus Christ. The only hope they have, and they would have never seen that Had they not made such a disaster out of the life. You follow what I'm saying? I've seen a lot of people trust Christ standing by a graveside where their at heart is absolutely shattered and their world is turned upside down and they have nowhere to look but to God. And God takes and uses trials and heartaches and failures to draw people to Christ. Draw people to Christ. Now, those of us here, we know Christ. Maybe you're going through a trial now. I don't know. God knows. I know some of you are. Maybe things are going great for you now, but there's a whole year ahead of us. Very real possibilities. We're going to hit some valleys this year. And I want to say this, let's do what David did and see the hand of God in everything God allows in our life. And let's respond in faith, trusting God, following his directions. And let him lead us through that and let us stay faithful. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would give us faith to trust you when things don't make sense. When that night is so dark and that valley is so deep, help us stay faithful. Help us to keep our eyes on you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. But I need God's grace. I am dealing with some situations, some trials, or whatever it may be. It's between you and God. But you would say, preacher, help me to see God's hand in this. Help me to see that Lord has a plan and just trust him that at the right time, in the right way, he'll bring me out of this and God will see me through. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I really need the Lord to help me. God bless you. A lot of hands around Now maybe there's some say, preacher, you know, things are going pretty good right now. Maybe you need to get in tight with the Lord and get that Bible reading and that daily walk with God in place because that storm is going to show up eventually Maybe there's some come through and say, I've been through the deepest valley of my life this past year, and God brought me out of it, and I praise him for it. And maybe some of us need to be a little more vocal and be a little more, live a life of more gratitude. Because of what God has done for us. Is there someone here this morning? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Say, preacher, I need Christ to be my Savior. Forgive my sin and give me new life. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts here on this snowy morning in your house, and we ask you'd stir us. And God, maybe you'd help us this morning just to put ourselves on that altar and say, Lord, here I am, whatever you put me through. I just want you to keep me faithful and just use me to bring glory to your name in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.