I've often said, you've heard me say over the years, different times, that a Bible-believing Christian is not afraid of the archaeologist's spade digging up, finding things. We're not afraid of the telescope and what they might find out in space. We're not afraid of what the microscope might find. Every time science makes some sort of verified, legitimate discovery Almost without fail, it'll fall in line with what the Bible teaches. In fact, without fail, it falls in line with the Bible teaches. I saw an article this week caught my attention And it says this, the headline was this, archaeologists uncover the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem just as the Bible describes it. And they were doing some excavating there. And it says that academics are saying the Bible is trustworthy after discovering evidence of the 6th century Babylonian siege of Jerusalem as described in 2 Kings chapter 25. And they go on to say they found um uh different evidence there they were digging through and uh artifacts from Babylon and different things that reinforce that the Bible's history is accurate. And uh I always try to point that out because if we're this old world, the media and unbelieving world, they try to convince us that this book is full of errors, that it's uh myth, that it's nothing to it But every time science discovers something, it falls right in line with what the Bible teaches. So we're not afraid of that at all. Let them discover stuff. The more you dig, the more it reinforces uh what we're what this Bible teaches. So uh I thought that would be encouragement to you. First Peter chapter one, I want to read verses three, four, and five And I tell you, I enjoy studying the Bible. I love it. It's my life. And I have thoroughly enjoyed studying these three verses here, particularly as a Christian. It's great encouragement. Look what it says in verse number three. Now, we looked at this last week. We'll touch on it, and then we're going to get down to verse 4. But the Bible says this: Peter writing under the inspiration of God to persecuted Christians. Now keep that in mind. They've been run from their homes. They've been rejected from the by their families. They've lost their jobs. They're in Asia Min they're in Asia Minor there in these regions he mentions in verse 1 and 2. And they're in dire straits because of their faith in Christ. Look what he says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy Hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Now look at this. To an inheritance Incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed, ready to be revealed in the last time. I noticed in verse number four that last phrase. Years ago, I don't know, some point in my Bible reading, I had underscored that in my Bible, and in the margin of my Bible, I wrote this: reserved seats in heaven. Reserved seats in heaven. How many people ever were going to go out to a restaurant? You had the family. It was a little nice restaurant. You called ahead and made reservations For seats. Anybody ever do that? Or we went up to a Black Bears game here a little while ago in Morgantown. We called, we got seats reserved. And uh those seats are there, they're reserved for us. They protect, they don't let anybody else get in there. We show up, they say, here's your seat. God says that we have a place reserved in heaven. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will to you, Lord, I present my body anew. And I pray that you would stir our hearts. And Lord, help us to see beyond what's here under the sun, just what's here. Help us to see the reality of heaven and hell. Help us to see the reality of the Of the spiritual aspect of our being. Help us to see the reality of salvation and what that salvation produces. Again, I ask, Lord, fill me with your Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you'll read Acts chapter 2, you'll find, if you'll read it carefully, you'll find there that Peter preached a sermon on the day of Pentecost. We're familiar with that, right? Everybody's familiar with that. The Spirit of God came upon him. And he stood up, he spoke up, and he preached an evangelistic message, we would describe it And that message, if you'll study it very carefully, the great theme of that message on Pentecost was this: the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He is alive. He rose from the dead. And that message to those bel those dear folks there in Jerusalem, those Jews there in Jerusalem. had such a profound effect. The truth of the resurrection of Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit that was upon Peter, had such an impact on the hearers that when it was all said and done, 3,000 Turn to Christ, trusting Him as their Savior and following Him in baptism. I don't know about you, that's some kind of meeting, isn't it? And the message of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the fact that we have a living Savior who is alive and active. Is so powerful. If you'll read through the book of Acts, you'll find that the message of that New Testament church, that early church, over and over and over, their message to the world was this Jesus Christ died, was buried, and rose again. The resurrection of Christ, the church uh of Jesus Christ was born. The Church of Jesus Christ was empowered by that one fact, that one truth. That Jesus Christ rose from the dead. That changed everything. That resurrection of Jesus Christ is what makes Christianity unique from all other religions in the world. We have a risen Savior, a living Savior. Then you go through the New Testament writings, the epistles, and all the rest of the New Testament writings, and you'll find over and over and over again The resurrection of Jesus Christ. The resurrection of Jesus Christ. That was and is the church's message to this old world, Jews and Gentiles. Is that Jesus Christ died for us, for our sins, was buried, and he rose again. I always emphasize this in my soul-winning training. When you're sharing the gospel with somebody We go through, oh, you know, we're sinners. Christ died for our sins. Don't ever leave off the fact that he rose again. If all we're preaching is Jesus died on the cross, was buried, if that's where we're stopping with our gospel, then we have an incomplete gospel. Because without the resurrection of Jesus Christ, there is no hope of eternal life. And so the resurrection was vitally important. In fact, if you'll notice here, verse 3, we pointed out That the resurrection of Jesus Christ is what produces a hope for you and I. A hope for you and I. Look at verse 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again, that means born again, saved, born again, unto a lively hope. We talked about that last week. A lively hope. Now, when he talks about having hope here, it's not how we use the word in our day and age. Uh we'll say stuff like we'll say stuff like this. Boy, I hope it doesn't snow this week. Anybody ever say that? I've been saying it all day today. Oh, I hope it doesn't snow. Uh boy, I uh uh I hope uh I hope our team wins the ball game. I hope we win. Now, what do we mean when we use that word hope that way? Oh, I hope nobody falls asleep while I'm preaching. What do we mean by when we use the word hope in that way? What do we mean by that? We don't know if it's going to happen or not something we wish for, right? It's uh uh we wishing for that, but we have no confidence necessarily it's gonna happen. We're not sure it's gonna happen. We just kinda wish and we really desire that to happen, whether it does or not. Now I said all that to say this. That is not how the word hope is used in this passage and other place in the Bible He's not saying that when we're born again and we trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we have this wish that maybe Because of the resurrection of the Lord, we have an inheritance in heaven. He's saying, no, that's not what he's saying. He's saying we have a lively hope. And the word hope, as it's used in Scripture, has a little bit different meaning than the way you and I use it today. It has this idea, and this is the definition. A confident, joyful expectation. Another definition I found was this: a certain anticipation. In other words, when the Bible uses the word hope, we have a hope, a lively hope The Bible uses that term. It has this idea. There is certainty behind that. There is confidence behind that. This is my hope. This is my assurance. This is my expectation. I am confident of this. And so he says we have a hope that is lively. In fact, I pointed out last week real quick Verse 3, I noticed a lively hope. Verse 4, I put it this way, a legitimate hope. And then verse 5, I put it this way, a lasting hope. A confidence, assurance of a home in heaven. It's lively, it's enthusiastic. We're excited about it. You read in the book of Acts, those New Testament believers, they were stirred up about the Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were stirred up. They were fired up about the fact that we can have eternal life and have our sins forgiven, have a home in heaven That's where I would have said amen right there. Problem is for some of us, can I say this? Some of us, I'm afraid we've been saved too long. Huh? We've gotten over the wonder of it all. Doesn't stir us anymore. You say, we get out visiting sometimes. Ask somebody, you know for sure you're going to heaven? Yes! Offered somebody a tract one time. Here, can I leave a gospel tract with you? I'm already saved. So well that's obvious. Yeah. He says God's given us an elely hope, an enthusiastic, a zealous hope. Yes, this world's not my home. I've got a home in heaven. I'm fired up about it, excited about it. How many people here ever uh how many people here ever went on vacation? How many folks before you went on vacation Boy, that's all you could think about. Oh, it's going to be great. I can't wait. We're going to do this. I'm going fishing. And I took my wife on our anniversary. We were Indiana. We took a vacation for a few days. Went down to this big camp uh this cabin, big lakes down in southern Indiana. And uh we went down there as our anniversary. I was so excited. I went fishing all day And um the next day I went fishing and uh it was a great anniversary. We were fishing every day. We had more than just fish. But um But we get stirred up. We're excited. We can't wait. Oh! And uh he says, uh God saved us to a lively hope. We've got a home in heaven, we've got an inheritance in heaven that we can are short of or confident of, and it stirs us up. It's lively. And then we said in verse four two, we'll get here in a minute, it's a legitimate hope. I put it this way, a certain hope. No doubts about it. And then a lasting hope, verse 5, it's safe. There's no danger of losing it. Now, let's get into this. Let's notice this here. Number one, verse number four, I put this down. I want us to notice the people of this inheritance. The people. Got to come back up to verse 3. Who is it that's getting this inheritance that's reserved in heaven? Who are these reservations for? Well, you come up to verse 3 and it says this, which according to his abundant mercy hath what? Begotten us. What's the next word? Again, the word begotten means to give birth to. These are the people that God has given birth to again You say, wait a minute. How can you get birthed again? That's what Nicodemus asked the Lord Jesus Christ, how can a man be born again when he is old? Does he go the second time into his mother's womb? And Jesus says, no, you don't understand. Being begotten again is not a physical, a repeated physical birth. It is a what? Spiritual birth. And he's telling us here in verse 3 that the folks that have these reserved places in heaven, reserved in heaven, this inheritance reserved in heaven, this is the people who have been born again. Folks that have trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, and God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, and through His mercy and grace, births us into spiritual life I had somebody, I was reading a little quote somewhere, and they said this, I thought it was pretty true. It says we have a lot of folks who have been raised in Christ, but have never been born into Christ. Or I'm sorry, let me tell you that back. We're raised in church, but never born into Christ. I tell you what grieves a preacher's heart. I'll tell you what burdens a preacher's heart. I'm telling you the truth now. What burdens a preacher's heart is the thought that maybe folks that grew up And sat under his preaching and ministry and leadership, just simply made professions, just simply went through the motions, and were never born again. And when it's all said and done, maybe the great white throne judgment you see, and you say, There's a young man Grew up in our church, heard the truth, so many opportunities, prayed, wept over them, and turned away from Christ. You see the destiny Of somebody like that. That's a heavy burden. That breaks a heart. It breaks a parent's heart. I prayed with mothers and fathers weeping. over their kids who grew up in church but never came to Christ. Never came to Christ. And he says He says this is this this inheritance in heaven that's reserved in heaven. It's for folks, not church folks Not people that grew up in church, but folks who have been born again, who are saved through faith in Christ and receive that new life, that eternal life. Here's a sad statement, and I'll tell you, this, I don't like this. This bothers me. But as I study the Bible and I see the world, here's a fact. Most people, let me put it this way, a lot of people are gonna die and end up in hell. A lot of people. In fact, I study scripture. I look at our old world. I've come to this conclusion quite a while ago. Most of the people in the world, most are going to die and go to hell. I don't know about you, but that that that's disturbing to me. That bothers me. And people I I meet, I r I ran up to Walmart real quick. I needed some of the I forgot the candies for the memory verse. And so I had to run up there real quick I come out and there's people everywhere, all over, and it's all a little Jewish family. They had their yarmulkas on and different folks there and and uh folks looked rough I come back and I sat in my car and I thought, you know, probably most of those people I just ran by, probably most of them are going to die and go to hell. Man, that's hard to swallow. That's hard to take. And so reserve seats in heaven isn't for everybody. It's for folks who have been born again. And not everybody's a child of God. Not everybody's been born again. Most people have not been born again. So the promise of this inheritance that's incorruptible and undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, you who have been born again, you who have been saved. Listen. You've not been saved if it's just been a show. You've not taken your your salvation seriously. If you've just kind of blocked it off, and when the preacher preached, oh, I'm going to do something else, I'll write notes. I'm not going to, I'm telling you, you're making a serious, serious mistake. You need to be saved. This is for real. So I notice the people of this inheritance are folks who have been born again. The second thing I notice here, real quickly, is the promise of this inheritance. Look what he says here, verse the first part. You who have been begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Verse 4, to an inheritance. I mean, that is a promise there. He's making the statement. You've been born again, the resurrection of Christ, to an inheritance. That's what this new birth leads to. That's what this new birth produces. If I've been born again, if you've been born again, God has promised us this inheritance. Now here's a question. What is an inheritance? Wow, that's a water cup right there. Wonder what's in it? Wow. What's an inheritance? If somebody has an inheritance, what is it? It it's something you receive that you didn't earn. I put it this way. Think about this with me. Inheritance. He says If I've been born again by the resurrection of Christ, I have uh received an inheritance. He's promised this inheritance to me. Now what is an inheritance? This is my definition. This is Dennis Leatherman definition. A property or a possession That is received by virtue of my relationship to another person's life and death. There has to be death. Um the results of that other person's accomplishments. In other words, if you have a person here And uh they're going, they are an heir of this estate. They are going to receive upon the the death of the estate holder They're going to receive from that estateholder the possessions that the estateholder earned, that he worked for, and he He he worked hard and he invested wisely and he handled his money appropriately. And because of this person's relationship with him They have placed them into their will, and when they pass away, they are an heir, and that becomes theirs. They receive that. Because of the relationship with the estate owner. You follow what I'm saying? It's an inheritance is not something I earn. Inheritance isn't something I work for and and produce myself. That would be my estate. It is receiving upon the the death of the of the other person because of whatever relationship I may have with them, child or or uh just a friend, some sort of relationship. They made me an heir And I receive what they accomplished. I see what they produced, what their life produced, and I receive it for myself. And here he's telling us that this inheritance is a promise, this inheritance that God has for us. Not something we earn, not something we produce. We simply receive it by virtue of the fact that I'm a child of God. It becomes mine based upon the death of Jesus Christ and his resurrection. Then I become a joint heir with him. I'm promised of that. I don't know about you, that stirs me up. That stirs me up. Uh if I if there if you were here and uh you found out you get home Uh tom you get tomorrow and you get a call from a lawyer you get a registered letter in the mail and open it up and uh you had a great uncle that uh you were related to uh somehow by blood, you didn't know who they were, and they're uh a multi-millionaire and you inherited two million dollars. Two million dollars you inherited, how many people would be happy? How many people might go, woo hoo! Yeah. We'd be excited about that. We'd be happy. And the preacher gets up and says, Hey, if you're saved, we got inheritance in heaven, last forever. Right? Huh? And this is a promise of inheritance for us. Take your Bibles real quick. Would you turn with me to Romans chapter 8? We're going to look at a few verses here. This is a promise of God. This inheritance is a promise of God to us. Romans chapter 8, and look with me at verse 16. Romans 8. And verse number 16. Are you there? Look at this. For the Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit, that's referencing the Holy Spirit of God, that we are the children of God. Now look at this next verse. And what's the next word? If. Ah, important word. And if, children, if you are a child of God, if the Spirit of God dwells within you. Then if and if children, then we are what? Heirs. An heir is the one that gets the inheritance. Heirs of God. Whoa. What if you were an heir of Donald Trump? Ooh, man, got something coming. Hey, we are heirs not of Donald Trump or some billionaire. Who's that rich guy just died? Koch. Koch. I think it's the name, real m multi-billionaire. If you were his heir, wow, I got something coming. Wait a minute, we're heirs of God. Woo! That's something. Say, oh, I got a flat tire. You knucklehead, you're all moped over a flat tire. You got inheritance coming in heaven. Why why does that bother you so much? Are you with me tonight? I feel like I'm the only one having fun up here, huh? If you're a child of God, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. Oh, a joint heir. Whatever Jesus inherits, we inherit. Woo! How about that? If so be that we supper with him, come over to Ephesians chapter number one. He says more here. Say, well, I hope that's true. We do have hope, not a hope wish so, but a confident anticipation of this. Ephesians chapter 1, look at verse 13. He's referencing Christ in verse 12, who first trusted in Christ. Then verse 13, in whom ye also trusted. In other words, they got saved. After that you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after you believed you were, look at this. You were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. That's the Holy Spirit. Sealed. We don't have time to talk about that. Now look at verse 14, which is the earnest of our inheritance unto the redemption of the purchased possession of the Unto the praise of his glory. He says here, he says verse 13, he says that we are sealed by the Holy Spirit. That's a whole nother great thing to stir you up But he says, the Holy Spirit of God that indwells us is an earnest of our inheritance. Now, what in the world does that mean? Does anybody here, now I'm not a big financial guy, I don't know all this stuff, but I do understand this. Anybody here ever hear ever hear about earnest money? Anybody know what earnest money is? You deal with stuff like that? To simplify, and this is the way I understand it, it's like putting uh sort of like putting a down payment or money towards something that reserves that for me. I'm going to buy this house. It's on the market. I really want that. So I'm going to make a bid. We're going to go. But I'm going to put some earnest money down there. That way they hold that for me They secure, am I right? Are you with me? They hold that. It secures it for me. Nobody else can get it. It's mine until we work everything out and the rest of the money can be done. Well, God is telling us here that when we get saved, the Holy Spirit of God, how many folks here are saved? You know it. Say amen. That means the Holy Spirit of God dwells within you and I. And he says the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life is earnest money, so to speak, for my inheritance in heaven In other words, it's the Holy Spirit is the down payment, so to speak, uh to keep that place reserved in heaven for me. Uh we do not possess this inheritance yet. We don't have it yet. Say, preacher, you know what's his name? Well, we don't have it yet, it's coming, but I have the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life, and that is the earnest assuring me that one day I will have that inheritance That one day I will have it. And what a blessing. So the persons are there. Let me go real quick. You guys are being great. Let's uh look at a couple things. We notice the people of this inheritance, the promise of this inheritance. Number three, notice this, the particulars of this inheritance. All right. He tells us a few things about this inheritance. Notice what he says here. back there in First Peter. To an inheritance. Alright, what about this inheritance? First thing he says, it's in it is inheritance incorruptible. It is undefiled. It fadeth not away. It's reserved in heaven for you. He used these series of very descriptive terms. to assure us of the assurance of this inheritance that we have it. Now let me look at these very quickly. First of all, incorruptible. What does that mean? If something is corruptible, it means it's possible for it to what Decay, decorrupt, deteriorate, degenerate. If it's incorruptible, it is imperishable, is one of the definitions. It cannot decay. One place in the Bible, this word is translated, it's immortal. If he uses the term incorruptible, that means this inheritance is It's going to be around for a while. It's going to be around forever. It's incorruptible. Now, this is what I found interesting. Look at verse 23 of 1 Peter 1. He uses the same term, but he's not talking about a believer and his inheritance. He's talking about the Word of God. Look at verse 23. Being born again, there it is again, not of what kind of seed Corruptible seed, but of incorruptible seed. What in the world is the incorruptible seed that we were born again by? He says the what? The word of God. The word of God that liveth and abideth forever. Do you catch that? The same word he uses to describe and to teach the preservation of God's word He uses to describe and teach the preservation of our inheritance. This Bible's never going to fade away. This Bible will last for all eternity. Heaven and earth are corruptible. Heaven and earth will pass away. But this word will never pass away. And the same word he uses to teach that truth, he uses to say to the people that have been born again, your inheritance is incorruptible. I wish we had more time. I burned up my time here early on, but our our memory verse. Help me start it. Yes, what's the first word? The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth seven times, pure uh furnace of earth purified seven times, thou shalt Keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation. He says, preserve, preserve. Now I wish we had time, but just write this down. Psalms chapter 37 verse 28, he says, it says this, that God preserveth his saints Exact same word. He says, I'm going to preserve that book. That old book is never gone. That old book is never going to be lost. That old book is never going to fade away. That book is going to last for all eternity. That book' The word of God is going to last longer than this universe will last. It's preserved by God. And he uses that exact same word to reference the saints. He preserveth his saints, those who are born again. Tell you what, I wanted to write in the I was reading that and I wanted to write in the margin of my Bible. Woohoo! That's pretty good. I know me. I know what I am. I was thinking the other day, I was driving, I was thinking about Paul, and he said in Romans 7, he says, Oh wretched man that I am. I thought, boy, that Paul, I put her there, buddy. We're in the same club. And I thought that God in his mercy would save me and keep me and Give me inheritance that is preserved just as secure as God's word is secured. That's a blessing So it's incorruptible. Our inheritance as a child of God is secure and preserved as God's word. Let me give you the other ones here, real quick. It's undefiled. That means unpolluted, free from stain. It's unstainable. It's unpollutable. Nothing can diminish the value of our inheritance. You get a nice shirt every now every time I go. to uh uh preach down at the sword of the Lord, I get a nice shirt and then I have to last all year until the next sword and then I buy another nice shirt. And then I I get a nice shirt and spend a little money and get a nice shirt to wear and uh inevitably I'm gonna get something on that shirt, Brother Heinbull. Every time I wear that shirt, Kathy makes spaghetti. I get that, or Charlie will bring some corn macob and I'll be eating that corn. Oh man. And uh I get a stain on the shirt. What happens when you get a stain on the shirt? It loses its what? Value. I can't wear that. It's gotta stay. Or I'll cut myself shaved in blood. And I'm sure that always was a blessing to you to picture that. You have polluted water, it's no value. He says that inheritance in heaven is never going to be polluted. It's undefiled. It will never lose its value. It's unfadable. He says, fadeth not away. The word fadeth not away, that phrase is also where we get our word perennial comes from. It continues on and on and on. It never grows old And then he says it's unremovable, reserved in heaven for you. I love that word, reserved, secured, protected, guarded. My inheritance as a child of God, because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, I'm birthed into the family of God by faith in Jesus Christ. And that birth into his family as a child, I now become an heir of this inheritance. And this inheritance cannot fade away. It is undefiled. It's reserved in heaven for me. It's protected, guarded, secured. Reserved in heaven. I was gotten a plane some time ago, I forget where I was going, and I got on somebody was sitting in my seat. I had my little ticket, I'm walking down, came up uh aisle 12, C B And aisle twelve and they're sitting in C B. I thought, well, maybe my ticket's wrong. And uh finally we looked around and I said, excuse me, but I said, uh aisle twelve, seat B, this is right there. And they said, Well, I don't know. Let me look. And they looked and lo and behold, they were aisle eleven, seat B. They were in the wrong seat. And I said, Get out of there, that's mine. And uh no I didn't But they couldn't sit in my seat. You know why? Because it was reserved for me. That's mine. Nobody else could take it. We went up to a Black Bears game we mentioned earlier, and the other year we went up and we had a ton of people, and lo and behold, there was people sitting in our seats. So we paddle-tailed on him and uh told the guy, he said, we have these seats. And he came down, sorry, you're going to have to move. These receipts were reserved for these people. Nobody else could take that seat away from me. It was mine. Nothing could take it away. And God says to us that you and I as believers, we have a reserved seat in heaven. Nobody else, hey, the devil can't take those seats from us. This world can't take those seats from us. My own sinful nature can't take that seat from me. Jesus Christ Himself, by the power of God, we'll see in verse 5 reserves those seats, guards them for me. And the place of this inheritance is in heaven. As believers, we have no earthly inheritance This earth is temporal, it's empty. I feel bad for folks, Christians out running around and living their whole life for this world, their whole life for just uh fleshly temporal pleasures. I did that for years. I'm telling you, it's empty. It is vain. It is frustrating. Angry all the time. This whole world. It's vanity of vanity. It's all vanity. We try and fulfill our spiritual needs. We try and find spiritual fulfillment in a world that has nothing to offer my spirit, my soul. And he says, our inheritance as a child of God is not this old world. It's heavenly in the heavens. In the heavens. Listen, if God's blessed you with some possessions, rejoice in it. But I'm telling you, don't hold on too tight to them. This world's not our home. This world is not our inheritance. You've got a you you maybe uh uh you say, well, there's some things I like, and that's fine. There's things in this whole world I enjoy, getting out and doing But I tell you, don't put your roots down here, child of God. Don't put your roots down here. This is not our inheritance. Our inheritance over on the other side. People talk about a bucket list. All these things, I want to do all this stuff, I'm gonna do this before I die. I tell you what, we better quit worrying about so much what we do before we die and better start worrying about whether we're ready for when we die. What's on the other side? Life is short. Live it up. No, life is short. You better get prepared. And know you've got that inheritance. A American tourist was over touring Europe And he went through Poland and he stopped by a fellow who in that region was a very well known preacher. And no and uh uh I never heard him but a very well known preacher and he wanted to go by and visit him. He knocked on his door and he came, are you so and so? And the guy said, Yes, yes. He said, come on in. He said, well I've heard of you and understand. And he walked in, he said his house was almost completely empty. Hardly any furnishings, hardly any furniture, anything on the walls, just plain and empty. And they got talking and finally the American tourist said, I'm sorry, but I have to ask you this. Where's all your furniture at? The preacher said, he said, well let me ask you, where's your furniture at? He said, well, I don't have any furniture here. I'm just traveling through. I don't live here. I'm just passing through here. This isn't where my home is And he said, same with me. Same with me. This world's not my home. This isn't our inheritance. Our inheritance on the other side. Our inheritance heaven. And it is reserved for those who are saved. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless now. this message and stir our hearts as we go through the week and we face trials and maybe people give us a hard time and these dear believers that Peter's writing to the persecution they were facing and Lord, He reminded them that this world's not our home. We've got something beyond. Help us to remind that. Remind us of that, Lord. Help us to remember that. And Lord, when this lights of this world try to get our attention Lord, help us to remember we have a reserved seats in heaven. And that's where we're going. With our heads bowed, I suppose, how many would say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me not be so focused on this earth And so focused and caught up on the temporal things. Maybe somebody's giving you a hard time. Maybe you're in a uh some unjustice has been done you, or you're in a little fuss with another believer. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I can just put all that aside. and focus on the things that God has prepared. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. Oh preacher, I gotta keep my eyes on the Lord. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you change everything. We'd be able to see beyond this whole world and look above the sun. And see that there's something more here than here. Is there someone here say, preacher, I'm not saved? I know I'm not. I wonder if me just saying that doesn't send this little stinge, sting through the heart. So I need to be saved. Any like that at all? Any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about it. I don't want to put it off. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.