One in particular he's dealing with, of course, is King Saul. And I want to begin reading in verse number one. I'm going to read down through verse seven. I really want to do this whole, almost a whole chapter in one segment, but um There's no way, uh, because it's all one event here pretty much, uh, at least the first half. But um we're gonna start look at the first seven verses. Notice verse number one. It came to pass When Saul was returned from following the Philistines. Now, how many folks remember from last time what was Saul doing with the Philistines? Anybody remember David was holed up. Remember, he was surrounded. King Saul had him surrounded. It was dead meat. I use this term. He was tightening the noose on David. No escape, he's shrouded, and God intervenes and has the Philistines attack Israel and uh Saul has to go deal with that, gave David an out. So we see God's hand all through here. God working, God working. Now, so Saul went and dealt with the Philistines, and uh he returns from following them. And it was told him, verse 1, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engadai. Then Saul took 3,000 chosen men out of all Israel. And went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. That was out in Engadai. And he came to the sheepcoats by the way, where was a cave. And Saul went in to cover his feet. David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day which the Lord has said unto thee, the day which the Lord said unto thee Behold, I deliver thine enemies into thine hand, that thou mayest do to him w uh as it seemed good unto thee. Then David arose and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privat privily. And it came to pass afterward that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt. And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the Lord's anointed. To stretch forth my hand against him, seeing his the he is the anointed of the Lord. So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul But Saul rose up out of the cave and went on his way. For lack of creativity on my part, I just called this, I just entitled it respect. David's respect for Saul. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to teach us something here. Father in heaven, again, we're grateful for a beautiful building and warm facilities, how you provide for us so wonderfully physically. And Lord, I pray you'd meet our needs now spiritually and teach us, help us to grow. I pray I would grow in my faith, and I pray our church would grow in our faith. And Lord, you just use these truths here tonight to help us. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. All my heart, Lord, I plead that you fill me with your spirit. You be the teacher And help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I think one of the great blessings, one of the maybe Humanly speaking, one of the greatest blessings in the Christian life is the interaction and the fellowship with other Christians. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I absolutely love it. I say this often. I mean it with all my heart. I absolutely love this church. It is my life And the people on a Sunday night, um, you know, I go home on Sunday night and it's just my heart is so full and just rejoicing in being with God's people and what God's doing. Uh I absolutely love and the In the Sunday mornings and before services, I'm just anxious to get there. I like to stand at the door and see people when they come in and greet them. I just one of the great blessings in the Christian life is the interaction with other Christians And the fellowship with other believers is tremendously fulfilling and tremendously a tremendous blessing. And so one of the great blessings of Christian life is uh other believers, interacting with other with other people Having said that, let me say this: one of the great challenges in the Christian life is interacting with other people. Right or wrong? Most people, when they have a problem in the Christian life, it usually deals with another person. Most of the time, if somebody gets been out of shape and leaves the church or whatever, it's because of somebody else Something interaction with somebody and the headphone out. So one of the great blessings in the Christian life is other Christians interacting with them and fellowshipping and rejoicing together. One of the challenges in the Christian life is being able to deal with other people, even believers, being able to deal with other believers who maybe aren't everything they ought to be uh maybe aren't the most pleasant to us. Maybe they may be they may end up being adversaries of ours, yet not allowing their behavior and their actions and their attitude to throw me out of fellowship with God. Everybody follow what I'm saying? That is a challenge in the Christian life. It really is. I was thinking when I went off to Bible college and went down there, I knew nobody down there. My dad took me down, dropped me off. I mean I knew nobody. I didn't know anybody within 500 miles of there. I was there. It was me and the Lord. And uh they got I got assigned into a a dormitory. My first year I stayed in a dormitory. After that I was an apartment most of the time. But um they put me in a dormitory. It was actually an old run down apartment building that the school was overflowing. All the dorms were filled, so they bought this apartment building. And uh they crammed a bunch of us, you've heard me tell it before, but it was a one-bedroom apartment building. I was on the second floor, one bedroom apartment building, we had eight guys in there Four in the living room, four in the bedroom, there was a kitchen and a bathroom. That was it. We were packed in there. And looking back, I realized that my Christian education did not just take place in the classroom. or in the library or in the study. Big part of my Christian education took place in that dormitory room and other apartments sharing with people. I learned I learned the importance of being able to deal with the actions of other people even when they don't necessarily, it's not necessarily a real blessing to me or a real pleasure to me the way they act in their attitude. Now, don't misunderstand, I've had I had some great roommates. I crammed a four-year degree into five and a half years, so uh I had some great, great roommates during that time, some I'm dear friends with to this day. And uh then I had some others that uh I learned a lot from. And so uh I look back and I look and I said, I God was teaching me how to interact and how to deal with people, Christians that are maybe very carnal, maybe very unkind, uh in a lot of ways, and yet not throw me out of fellowship with the Lord. I think that's what David is learning here in his interaction with Saul. Being able to deal with what Saul was doing, as horrific as it was, and yet not throw his walk with God out of whack. Not not for him to get out of fellowship with the Lord. There's no doubt in my mind, for David, it was life was much simpler when he was only dealing with sheep, bears, and lions. I would imagine David would far rather deal with bears and lions than with King Saul in the military. It would be much simpler Life was much simpler then. But if David's going to be used of God, if he's going to influence a nation, if he's going to be able to lead others Into following Jehovah and living for Jehovah the way God intended for them to live, he was going to have to be able to deal with more than just lions and tigers and bears. He was going to have to be able to deal with King Saul's and people betraying him. He was going to have to learn to deal with that without getting thrown spiritually, getting out of wax spiritually. He's going to have to learn how to deal with kind people and also with unkind people. David didn't choose any of this. Did you ever think about that as we're studying through here? David didn't choose any of these positions. He didn't choose any of this. He was just following his father's instructions. Take some snacks out to his brothers who were fighting in the military, and before you knew it, one thing led to another, and here David is. Being hounded and uh hunted like a uh like a like a a fox out in the woods hounded down everywhere he goes. He didn't choose any of this. He wasn't trying to get a position He wasn't doing that. God came and anointed him. God chose him. And nevertheless, uh here he is. You know what I found out? And I see this in David's life, and I've seen it in my life and many, many others. Sometimes God pushes us out of our comfort zones. Sometimes God will push us out of the place Out of a simple life with just a bunch of sheep and taking care of them, God pushes us out of those comfort zones into positions and situations where our faith is tested. And into positions and situations where I've got to learn to trust God. I don't have all the answers, and it's stuff that's beyond my ability to deal with. And I've got to learn to trust God. Often God uses people. Often God will use people To get us out of our comfort zone. God will use people, their actions and treatment of us to get us to trust God. Everybody with me, everybody follow what I'm saying? You're on track with me So David's here. And so David is going through all this as we've been studying, and it's just continuing on But there's two benefits that are being yielded. As I was thinking this through, there's two benefits that are coming out of David's Issues with Saul. Two things. One is David is being developed to sit on the throne someday. He's being developed. His faith is being strengthened. He's learning things He's being stretched. He's being prepared for an incredible position that God has for him down the road. But something else is coming out of this. We are getting psalms that David is penning throughout these experiences that are inspired of God and preserved in the book of Psalms that you and I get great blessing from. And so all that David is going through, yes, it's for him, he's being developed, he's being stretched, he's maturing, he's growing, for a great responsibility he's going to have. But more than that, while this has taken place God is moving on David's heart and mind, and he's writing down what the Lord is teaching him, what he's experiencing, some prayers he's praying. And all this is being recorded, and here you and I are 4,000 years later, and we read them and our hearts blessed and our hearts stirred. How many folks here uh are blessed by the book of Psalms? Oh, I love the book of Psalms. I try to read a psalm every day. I don't always get it. But um oh what a blessing. And it how many people agree with me? Psalm cer certain parts of the Bible speak to your head. You know what I mean? It's information. It's information. But the book of Psalms speaks to the heart. And you feel the emotion. And here you and I, because of what David is going through, You and I are benefiting from that and being blessed. I believe Psalm chapter 7 was penned during this experience here. At least a lot of Bible scholars suggest it was. I don't I can't say for certain myself But I tell you, Psalm 7 is a good chapter of the Bible and many, many others that are recorded during David's time like this. Alright? So having said all that, let's look at our passage here. Let's look at verses one through seven. I put down verses one through three. Now don't react to my the heading on this point here. Hear me out before you react to it But I notice here a remarkable coincidence. Now, if you were going to react to that statement, what word would you react to? Coincidence. Alright, just hold that for right now. We're going to look at that. But I use that on purpose. A remarkable coincidence. If you come back to chapter 23 in the last verse, we notice that David is in this area called Engedi, the strongholds At Engadai, do a little research on Engadai, and of course everything I know about it. I get secondhand through books and whatnot But apparently Engadai, now I've uh I'm never, of course I've never been over there, but Engadai, I'm told, is a desert place. It's a desert place not far from the Dead Sea. And uh it is a desert place, but this surprised me a little bit. I was studying about it. It's a desert place that has many, many springs Water, springs of water throughout the desert. Now I never pictured the desert with springs of water, but apparently uh this desert had numerous springs of water. It didn't have to go very far And they would have water available for troops and families and groups. And it's an ideal situation for David. It's a desert, not a lot of people living there. There's a good number of uh of uh springs that provide water for him, so there's provision. I was told in one one book I was reading about it, they said that it was very fertile, you could grow around these springs You could grow uh um uh uh crops and things like that. And so uh and then the other characteristic of G and Gedai was this, it had many, many caves And they said some of the caves were very deep and dark, it went way back into the ground. A very strategic place. A very rocky place, place there's a lot of big rocks around and all. And so I'm trying to picture all this in my mind. But it would be a strategic place for somebody who was trying to evade danger, evade being pursued. And so this is an ideal place for David to go to to try and uh uh to escape Saul's pursuing him. Now let's look at verse number one. This remarkable coincidence in verse one we see that Saul is returned Saul comes back again. He was distracted. David was dead meat. I mean the noose was around his neck. Saul was about to do him in. God sends the Philistines. Saul has to go and take care of that. David, zing, he's out of there. He goes to Engadai And he's back in here. Saul finishes up business with the Philistines, and we're not told anything about it. And uh he comes back. He's back after David. Um I got thinking about that. I notice it says, when Saul was returned. Um David's not out of boot camp yet. Maybe he thought Saul went off after the Philistines. Maybe this whole ordeal is over with. Maybe this thing is done. Maybe it's behind and I can just kind of rest a little bit. Maybe Saul uh is going to give up on this. Nope. It's all ain't done yet. David's not out of boot camp yet. He still needs testing and training to take place. Did you ever have a situation, an unpleasant situation, and it seemed to be a little reprieve, and you said, man, I'm glad that's over with. And it turns around and the same thing comes right back again a short time later. Anyone know what I'm talking about? How many people agree with me? That's pretty discouraging. You've been through it. You think, oh, that's over with. Oh, I never want to do that again. Boom! Right there it is. Boot camp's not over yet. David's not out of training. And the fact of the matter is, we study the life of David, he's never out of training, his whole life. is training, being stretched, being challenged. And you know what I found in my life? I found my whole life. The whole Christian life, all the way up to the end, is being stretched, being challenged. How many folks here, maybe some older folks you'd say The Christian life, I'm still God's still challenging me. I'm still being stretched in some ways. My faith is being tested. Sure, it's a lifetime thing. And so David's not out of boot camp yet. Saul comes back. Then I notice the return of Saul. In verse 2, I see the regiment of Saul. In other words, his soldiers. Look what it says here. Now this gets a little interesting. When then he found out David's in the wilderness of Engadai, then Saul responded to it. Look how he responds. He took three thousand what? Chosen men out of all of Israel. Now think about this. How many men does David have? What's the last figure we were given as to the number of men that David has helping him? Six hundred. That's the last figure we were given. He may have picked up some more. We don't know, we're not told. So let's say David has six hundred men. Ah, that's a pretty good group. Six hundred. You had a church, if you had a church with six hundred men, that'd be a big church, right? Yeah. So David's got six hundred men, all right. Uh Saul shows up with how many? Three thousand Uh 3,000 to 600. A little little um uh uh lopsided is the word I'm wanting. A little bit lopsided. We got six hundred men here. Hey look out, three thousand. Not only that, it doesn't just say he had 3,000 men, but it says he had 3,000 Chosen men. Huh, what does he mean by that? What does it mean when it says 3,000 chosen men? I looked up the word chosen, had this idea, handpicked. Um uh the other definition was screened and selected. So what Saul did, he's He David's been eluding him, eluding him, eluding him. Finally, Saul is saying, All right, I'm gonna overwhelm him number wise. We're gonna get three thousand. He's got six hundred. I'm gonna get Uh what how many times is that? What's five times the number of men. Five to one. Five soldiers of ours on one of his. And I'm going to hand select every one of these 3,000. I'm going to hand pick every one of them. You know what this 3,000 chosen men were? I put in the margin of my Bible. Special forces. These guys have proved and tested King Saul's picking them out and he's saying these are the guys. They've been screened, they've been through the Um Paris Island, they've been through uh this is SEAL Team Six. Uh these guys are the best of the best of the best. And we're not horsing around anymore. We're taking care of David. And so David's in another situation. Here it is, humanly impossible. How in the world can 600 men deal with 3,000. How in the world? Oh, by the way, these are special forces. This is SEAL Team 6. This is the what other special forces are there? Rangers. This is the Green Beret. Alright, this is um Delta Force. There we go. These guys are the best of the best. These are soldiers extraordinaire. What kind of men does David have, remember? They were what? Disgruntled, they're in debt. They're distressed. Remember that back there a little while ago? I mean David's got this motley crew here, you know, these guys And here come these others coming in. I mean they've got uh this humanly speaking, David is done. This is impossible. We're going to pay attention. You're going to pay attention here. Over and over and over, God's putting David in situations where physically and humanly there's nothing he can do about it. What is God teaching them? He's teaching them that God can do for us that which we can't do. I was praying today about a situation that's so Lord, this is out of my hand. I can't, I'm not able to deal with this. Lord, I and this was my prayer to the Lord this afternoon. I didn't think about it until just now. But my prayer was this, Lord, you're going to have to do what I am unable to do. I'm not able to do this. And that's exactly where David is. And he's learning, listen to this, he's learning that he can trust God to do for him what he is unable to do for himself. And God's just going to prove Himself over and over and over. So you have this return of Saul, you have this regimen, I think that's the word I want of Saul. And then we have Now this gets a little awkward here, a little uncomfortable, but we have the relief of Saul. Look at verse 3 And he came, now David's out in the rocks of the wild goats, and he's out there in Engadai in these caves. And he, Saul, came to the sheep coats, by the way. Where was a cave? And Saul went in to cover his feet. And David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. For sake of privacy, the king of Israel, King Saul, the commander-in-chief, leading these special 3,000 special forces fellas He has to use the restroom. What it is, when it says he covered his feet, he he needed to relieve himself And so he goes into the cave, where's privacy, and um uh that's what he's doing in there. And it just so happens That David and his men are hiding in the very cave where Saul steps into to get away from everybody for a few minutes. What an amazing coincidence. There's hundreds of caves here. I mean this the chances of this just happening are so incredible. David's hiding in the very cave where Saul walks into And there it is. There's the opportunity. Let me say this. I said when I gave my first point here, a remarkable coincidence Let me say this. There are no coincidences with God. Now we look at that and say, man, what amazing. Did you ever go through life, anything happened, and you look and say, that's an incredible coincidence. Anybody know? Everybody know what I'm talking about? Man, the timing of that. It's just incredible that that happened right at the same time. We showed up the same place. I'm suggesting you there are no coincidences How many times I've got up and preached a message or whatever, and there'd be a visitor, somebody would show up that's dealing with the very thing I'm preaching on that day. I didn't know it That they would be there, they didn't know I was going to preach on that, but they showed up. That's not a coincidence. That is God in control And so God's, there's no doubt in my mind, this is the providence of God that he has saw step into this cave, the very cave David is in, the very time that David is in there. And what an incredible coincidence. My second thought in verse number four is there is a reasonable coercion. Now let me explain what I mean by that. What does the word coercion mean? If somebody is coercing you to do something, what are they trying to do? They're trying to convince you, they're what? Putting pressure on you to do something. They're coercing you to do something. Ah, that's what David is facing here in verse 4. Look what happens. And the men of David said unto him, Now this is the way I picture it. Suppose this is the cave. Of course there's no lights. They said it's a very deep cave, so it's dark. Saul steps in. We're back here in the back part of gabe. We're watching Saul out there. One of the guys says, yight, Saul's coming up here. And so they get up and they're up against the wall of the sides of the cave, and Saul's stepping in. They have no idea what he's doing. Maybe he's bringing other guys, and so they're real quiet. They're still it's dark. Saul's coming in the entrance of the cave, and then they see what's happening. And so they get together, and I thought that was pretty good acting on my part right there. Look what it says. And uh the men of David, uh, behold The day which the Lord said unto thee, Behold, I'll deliver thine enemies, and thou mayest do them. I've had this incredible strength. David and his men realize what's going on, and his men advise him they're coercing him to get revenge. Now, humanly speaking, makes sense, right? Humanly speaking, if you're going to use reason, human reasoning, if you're going to go by circumstances Man, this guy's been trying to kill us for a long time. I mean, he's thrown javelins at me. He has pursued us down. He's done everything he possibly can to kill me How many people agree David would have had been absolutely just, humanly speaking, to take Saul out at that point in self-defense? Right? He could have said self-defense. This guy's conhounding me. Here's my chance. Circumstances, my advisors, everybody's saying this is the thing to do. His men advised him to take revenge. Now, they quoted something here, and to be honest with you, I studied this and studied this. The men of David said unto him, Behold the day which the Lord said unto thee. So they're claiming to quote God. Behold, I will deliver thine enemies into thine hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Now to be honest with you, I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God said that to David. And I've studied the commentaries and I haven't found anybody that That uh could suggest where God told David, I'm gonna give your enemies to him, you can do whatever you want with them. Now there's places in the Psalms where David said You know, the Lord delivered my enemies. God would do these things. The only thing I can come up with is this. They took God's statement at David's ordination when he was anointed. That God, he would someday be king. And I think they took that and twisted what God had said to fit this situation. Now we have to be very, very careful that we do not twist Scripture to accommodate my circumstances and even opportunities that are before me. I read this story years ago. I read about a fellow who was walking through a parking lot. He found a hundred dollar bill. Oh, he found an uh he'd been praying, let me back up. He'd been praying for a hundred dollars And uh he claimed the verse that my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. He's walking through a parking lot, been praying for a hundred, he claimed that verse, he walked through a parking lot, and he found a wallet With identification and everything, had a hundred dollar bill in it. And he says, oh, God provided my $100 for me, took the $100 bill out, turned the wallet in. Let me ask you a question. Did God provide that $100 bill for him? No. And by claiming that verse, he's twisting What that verse is suggesting, God was not suggesting that he would provide $100 for him by stealing it out of somebody else's wallet. And I tell you, sometimes if we don't catch ourselves, we're pretty good at twisting scripture to fit our circumstances and opportunities. We cannot do that. I must always view opportunities and circumstances in light of Scripture, not vice versa. And so I have to be very careful. So I think that's what these guys are doing. They're taking some statements of the Lord, they're twisting it around, and they're suggesting that God is blessing David, killing the anointed king of Israel. So we have this I put it this way, those men advised revenge, but then the second part of verse 3, I noticed David exercised restraint. He didn't do what they said. Look at the last part of verse 4. Then David arose and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe tribally. Now he didn't kill Saul. He could have. Here it was. I mean Saul's, you know, in a pretty um uh pretty limited, pretty restricted Situation, condition. And David could have just come up, grabbed the hair, sliced his neck, Saul's done. He could have held his head up to the army. I'm your king, it'd all be over with But David's not going to do that. He doesn't kill Saul. He doesn't want to kill Saul. He's not going to kill Saul. But he wants Saul to know that he could have had he so chosen. And so he uh cuts off the skirt, uh uh how does it say it cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily. Now let me just say this. When he mentions the skirt of Saul's robe, it doesn't suggest that Saul was wearing a skirt for Pete's sake. That word skirt means the corner of. The corner of something. And all he did was whatever robe that Saul had, he snuck up behind and just cut the corner off of it. And just had a little piece of the garment that's of the clothing that Saul was wearing. And he sneaks back. It's pretty incredible. And um and so uh he goes out. I put down two tests of our spiritual maturity. We're learning a lot about David in his response here. One test of our spiritual maturity is how I respond to peer pressure. I respond to peer pressure. How many adults here said uh under how many adults here would say this? You know, I still have to deal with peer pressure even as an adult. Yeah, I do as a pastor. And I get stuff and pre uh guys I used to fellowship with and run with, they're changing. Boy, they put the squeeze on uh when I was out in Colorado, I was interning a church there uh for a few months and um there was a big independent baptist church down in the city and they were going to Presbyterians and all these other stuff and getting all this stuff that was outside, you know, other versions, everything And I'm telling you, they put the squeeze on me. One guy just gave me fits because I didn't say a word. They were doing their thing. I just didn't want to be a part of it. And he would come up and he'd call me and gave me fits because I wasn't going along with it. I said, listen man, I'm not comfortable with that. That's not the direction I want to go. And uh I mean put the squeeze on. So peer pressure is not just for teenagers. They're not the only ones that face it. And even in the Christian ministry there is peer pressure to pusher and pressure us to go directions that uh sometimes we don't want to go. So how we respond to that on the workplace, in school, in the community, at family reunions, Christmas banquet All these types of things. How I respond to that peer pressure says a whole lot about my spiritual maturity. A lot about my spiritual maturity. I might even get up and testify in church and sing loud and teach a Sunday school class But if I can't stand for the Lord out there when the pressure's on me, I'm not very mature spiritually. And so how David responded to his men, good men. advising him to do something and trying to quote God but twisting it, advising him to do something that violated his conscience, and David would not do it. Would not do it. So one is how I respond to peer pressure, and the other one is this, how I respond to circumstances or opportunities Sometimes, man, we can say no to sin and we can say no to temptation as long as there's no opportunity to do it. But then the opportunity comes up, ah, how do I respond then? That tells me how strong my faith is. That tells me how mature I am in my faith. Oh man, we can say no to anything that we have no opportunity to do. But when I have opportunity to do it and I'm able to say no, ah, then that. is spiritual maturity. Uh how many people remember I think it was uh Harold Clayton. Anybody remember when Harold Clayton was here years ago, the white haired guy, he putting the fire out, jumping up and down uh over there. Anybody remember? I think it was uh I think that's who it was. And the guy was a hoop, great preacher, but he told a story that stuck in my mind. He said he was traveling, and it was kind of personal. I was a little surprised he said it, but he was traveling, and uh he was waiting to get on his flight and in a f in a distant city, you know, far away from where he thought anybody was, and he was looking for a book or just get candy in those little news places they have and just kind of looking there, looking through the books, and he wandered over to where the magazines were And he said, there was some bad magazines. And he said, for a split second, the thought went through my mind, you know, I could look at one of those. Nobody knows me here. I could get away with it. But he said, he said, no, I'm not going to do that. That's crazy. I'm not going to do that. And he turned around, and as soon as he turned around, there was a guy there. Hey, Brother Clayton! I never dreamed I'd see you here. And he said he went like this. You know what? That's spiritual maturity. Be able to say no when I have an opportunity for something. You ain't gonna say no all day long sitting in church. But we get out there and then it's there and we're able to say no that's spiritual maturity. Here's David. He's got his men telling him, kill him, kill him, kill him. Here's the opportunity, kill him That that goes against David's conscience. He can't do that. That's God's anointed, and he's able to say no. I'm telling you, um David is showing us a little bit about his character here in that he's able to say no to this. Then notice verse 5 and 7 I put this down. A respectful conscience. He has a respectful conscience. Look at verse 5. And it came to pass afterward, this is after he cut the corner off of David's robe, and Saul went out of the cave. He's finished, he goes out of the cave. Afterward, that David's heart, what? What's it say there? You're allowed to talk to me. His heart smote him. His heart smote him. You know, David could have been proud of his accomplishment. He could have been, ha, look what I pulled it off. How many people could do that? Now think about King Saul. He's a phenomenal warrior in and of himself He's the most protected man in the nation of Israel, King Saul. He's got 3,000 special forces with him. Uh he this would be like the he would be as protected as our president would be to some extent. And David was able to get in uh to the restroom so to speak, cut his robe off, and he doesn't even know it Cut his corner of his his garment off and doesn't even know it. Ah David coulda David coulda went nanny nanny boo boo And he could have really been proud. Instead, his heart smote him. What does it mean when his heart smote him? How would you describe that? What word comes to mind? Conviction. Oh, David's convicted. I shouldn't have done that. Man, what's the matter with me? And he feels bad. He feels guilty. Anyone here know what that and know that know that feeling? What in the world? And his heart smote him. He's convicted. What happened? David had violated his personal conviction to not touch the king of Israel. To not touch God's anointed. I'm not going to do anything to it. And here, he didn't do what the opportunity offered, he didn't do what his fellow soldiers suggested, but he did violate his conscience. How many people agree with me? That's not big it that big a deal. He's trying to kill him, just cutting the corner of his robe off. That's not a big deal. How many people agree with me? That's not a very big deal. But in David's heart it was a big deal Because that's God's anointed. I'm not going to touch him. And I did. And I did. Um I was reading about Marines and they're taught, uh I understand it, the Marines are taught that you don't salute the man, you salute the rank. Regardless of what the man's like, regardless of what the person's like, because of the rank they hold, you respect that. And that's the way David was I think he loved Saul, to be honest with you, but he understood this is God's anointed, and I cannot touch them. Little thing. Cut the quarter of the robe off. Come on, David. Good grief. You could have killed him and justified it. Who in the world, why, why in the world would that bother you? You know, I found that when I'm serious about living for God, when I'm serious about being right with God, I need to take little things seriously. I need to take the little things seriously. When I'm serious about being right with God, I need to I need I I become concerned that every detail in my life is right. When I start justifying little transgressions here and little indiscretions there, when I start excusing them or justifying them or ignoring them, I'm going down a road that's going to lead me far from God. But the little things bothered David. Little things. He wanted the little things to be right, the details to be right. I've mentioned this fellow before. I don't know his name. I know very little about the man But there was a fella down at Highland Park Baptist Church when I was down there, huge church. Been there a long time, got to know a lot of people. Um there was one fella that was always at the altar. I mean the altars were packed all the time, but there's one guy who was always there, always there. An older man. I'm sure he's with the Lord now because he was older back years ago. And he would be out soul winning. He went to Thursday night visitation. He was involved in the church and everything. I never got to know him real well that well personally. But man, he was at the altar every single time, sometimes weeping and crying. And I thought, at first when I saw it, I thought this guy must be like the most sinful person in this whole church. He's at the altar all the time. He must be living in terrible sin. It must be horrible. But I learned something as time went by and I got to know him a little bit and other people. He's one of the most godly men there was. He loved the Lord with all his heart. Faithful, serving the Lord. And I could only come to one conclusion. The guy was just sensitive to every little area of his life. And when God spoke to his heart, he wanted it to be right. And he'd hit that altar. And I found in my own life, if I'll be tender-hearted concerning the little, quote-unquote, little areas of my life, then I won't have as much trouble dealing with the big areas. What did Jesus say? He that is faithful in that which is little will be faithful in that which is much. You know what? David's tender-hearted. He's sensitive, convicted about a little thing he did, but yet it bothered him because he wanted every little area of his life to be right. Verse number seven. So David stayed his servants with these words. Well, let me back up. I didn't read verse 6. And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my master, the Lord's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the Lord. Then look what it says. So David, what Stayed his servants with these words and suffered them not to rise against Saul. I mean, these guys are chomping at the bits. They're ready to cut Saul down and do him in. And he keeps them back. And I put this down. The best way to influence others, the best way to influence others to live for God is to stand on principle without giving in in every little area. Don't compromise anywhere. I put this down. If I'm going to influence others, I need a stand-on principle without giving in in my walk with God. In doing what is right, in being gracious, and being humble. If I'll do that, then I'm going to be able to influence others Oh, if David would have gone and cut off Saul's head, boy, everybody would have thought something of him. No, David says, no, that's not how I want to influence others. I want to be right with God. I want to walk with God and not have any area. I want my heart and my conscience to be clean before the Lord. And in so doing, I can influence others. What was the knights of the round table? Who was the one guy said, I have the strength of ten men, because my heart is pure. Now that's true in the spiritual life. When our heart is pure, our conscience is clear, boy, we can have profound influence. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to learn from David here in this one little event. That to many people might have been insignificant what he did, but Lord, he was tender-hearted. I pray you'd help us be tender-hearted. Don't let us get cold and callous to the small details. Help us to be sensitive. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be sensitive to little things. Maybe God brought some stuff up while I was preaching. And you say, you know, these little things, I want them to be right. I just want to be right. I just want them to be right. Any like that? Any like that with me? God bless you. Hands all around. And I ask the Lord to help us, help us to learn from David. Father, I pray you'd bless now and help us make, just make our pews an altar. And respond in faith there and agree with you. And we ask that your Holy Spirit would be active in our hearts and minds and uh deal with us in every single area and help us to trust you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right.