Psalm one nineteen Gonna read verses nine through sixteen. Verse nine says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee, O let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord, teach me thy statutes. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. I'll pray and then we're going to speak on the subject tonight of responsibilities and rewards. Responsibilities and rewards. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the day you've given us. I thank you for this church and the emphasis that it has on young people. Lord, now as we look at your word briefly, I ask that we would come into this with a with an open heart, Lord, to pray for what you have for us. Lord, I ask that you be with me as I tried to present what you laid on my heart. And if there's anything that I I would be about to say that would go against uh your will, Lord help me not to say it. And um opposite of that, if there's something that you would have me to say uh that's not here in my notes that you would that you would bring that to my mind. And Lord, I just wanna I just want to yield myself to you right now. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Everyone has different responsibilities. Some people have a lot of different things they're responsible for. Some people don't have. very much they're responsible for. I thought of um when when when someone's born and they're a baby, a baby has very little responsibility. They can't walk, they can't talk, they can't Roll over. They don't have any responsibility for themselves, but someone else is responsible to do everything for uh that baby, that infant. And then that child gets a little older, and maybe now they have some chores. You start to give them a few responsibilities, and then they take on even more from there Then you get a little older and you hit high school and now you get a car and now the responsibilities just keep going. Because now you have to go get a job to get gas to put in your car to get to work. So you can get gas to put in your car to get to work and so on. And that cycle is vicious. But then the responsibilities just grow. Then you get a little older and you go off to school and the responsibilities grow from there Then you get married and now there's a whole nother person you're responsible for and everything that goes along with that. And you have kids and and so on and I could keep going. We're all responsible for a lot of different things. We have a lot of different uh responsibilities Um now there's some things that we have res that are we are responsible for and that we should do uh without expecting some sort of reward. Some things we need to do just simply because we need to do them. Sometimes we need to do Right just because we need to do what's right, and we need to take care of our business just because we need to take care of our business. But um there's some responsibilities that we will get rewarded for. When I was a kid Uh not too long ago. Uh when I was when I was a little younger, me and my older brother, we were responsible for mowing the grass. We had about three and a half acres and we didn't have The nicest equipment, um I mean we had we had riding mowers, but um uh the joke my dad used to say is one day we'll take our two junky riding mowers and sell 'em, buy one good junkie riding mower. But um it was me and my older brother's responsibility to cut the grass. And dad used to make this statement. He would say, I'm not really paying you for the work. I'm paying you to take responsibility so I don't have to worry about the work. Now if we fulfilled our responsibility and we cut the grass and he didn't have to worry about it, then we would get a reward. We would get a an allowance for that. But if we did not fulfill our responsibilities, then we did not get the reward. Then I couldn't go down the street and buy ice cream at the little store. But um we all have different responsibilities. Um and like I said, sometimes we ought to do things without expecting a reward, but sometimes we do get rewards. Now there's responsibilities that God has given us As Christians, as believers, there's things that He expects us to do. In some things we ought to do them Just simply because we ought to do them. There's some things God wants us to do, and we ought to do it simply because He said so But there are some things that he will reward us for from time to time. Um and I think that's uh like it goes along with the the kids tonight. They got rewards for things they did. They had responsibilities, they had Verses they were supposed to memorize, they did their work, and they got a reward. And sometimes in this Christian life we'll do things That God has told us to do, and as a result, He gives us a blessing. Tonight we're going to specifically look at responsibilities that God has given us concerning His Word. And I was thinking about this. We need to understand that as Christians, as believers, we have a responsibility to read God's Word. We need to be in it. I I I would say we have uh many other responsibilities, but the one I want to focus on tonight is we need to read God's word. We need to be in the Bible. We need to read the Bible. Study the Bible. Memorize the Bible. We ought to know the Bible. And tonight was a great example. Some kids got rewards for memorizing scriptures. So tonight we're going to look at a few responsibilities that I think God lays out here, and then we'll look at some rewards that we can get if we fulfill our responsibilities. One thing that we must be careful of though is we don't get the reward unless we do what we're supposed to do. A lot of times people just want a reward without doing any work, right? People want money, they don't want to work for it. People want to get a reward, they don't want to do that effort and fulfill their responsibilities. But we need to take very seriously what God has to say here in Psalm 119. The first responsibility that I see God gives us in regards to his word is to memorize it. To memorize his word. Verse 11, here says, Thy word have I hid in my heart. To hide something in your heart, it means to know it so well that you can read it from your heart. You can quote it from your heart, from memory. And I've heard a lot of people say they have a hard time memorizing The Bible, but but they'll memorize other things. People have a uh an don't have a hard time memorizing songs, memorizing quotes from movies, memorizing things that they've seen on the internet and whatnot But they say they have a hard time memorizing uh the Bible. That to me that that just doesn't make sense. But we have a responsibility as a Christian to try to memorize it. He wants us to memori God wants us to memorize Scripture. Memorization is very important. One reason I think it is here in verse 11, it says, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Memorizing Scripture will keep us from sin. It remi um it reminds us of what is right and what is wrong and when we're tempted to sin that that the verse will come to mind. Um you know when you when you you you all understand what I'm talking about You'll be getting ready to do something that is sinful, and a verse comes to your mind, and it makes you second guess what you're about to do. Makes you think twice, I guess you could say. And that's that's a good thing. 1 Peter 3. 15 says But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you. Another good reason it's good to memorize Scripture is it helps us share the gospel with someone. It y it sometimes you're maybe you're on the phone, maybe your your your Bible's not in your back pocket, I don't know, maybe you don't have a track on you, but because you have memorized the scripture, you can share with someone how to be saved. That's a big deal That's a very big deal. Talk about responsibilities. We have a responsibility to share the gospel with everyone we can. Um and if we memorize God's Word, and we fulfill that responsibility, just makes it that much easier to share the gospel with someone. God has also given us the responsibility to meditate in His Word. And in this law doth he meditate day and night. I thought about that verse as well. Meditate, it means to think on something, right? It means to think, it means to ponder. w we're we're in a a I guess a society you could call it where we just don't want to think. Um we don't want to muse. We don't want to ponder and Proof of that is amusement parks. There's all giant parks dedicated to going somewhere so you don't have to think. But we need to be people that think. But we also just don't need to think. We need to think on the right things. Like scripture. We need to think on God's word. We need to muse on it a little bit. Have you ever done that before where you are reading a verse and you end up just thinking about that verse all day, musing on that? That's a good thing. Um and we're supposed to be doing that, just like we're supposed to be reading the Bible, we're supposed to memorize it, but we're also supposed to uh think on it Second Timothy 3. 16 says, Studied to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. God wants us to meditate and to study His Word. God also wants us, this is probably the most important, but God wants us to take heed to his word. Verse 9 says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? The past few days we've been putting an emphasis on young people. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed There too, according to thy word. He wants us not only to hear, but to listen to what he's saying I'm I'm pretty good at at at hearing Courtney when she talks to me, but I'm not always good at listening. You know what I'm saying? I can be totally ha looking at some looking at something else, doing something else Totally involved 100% in whatever I'm doing. And she'll be talking to me and say, what did I say? And I can repeat what she said, but I have no clue what she said. You understand what I'm saying? So some love you. Sometimes I probably shouldn't have told everyone that. But sometimes um I'll be I'll be hearing her audibly without Taking heed, changing what I'm doing, and taking what she is asking me to do and implementing that. Does that make sense And it's very easy to do this where we open the Bible for our devotions and we sit down and we read the Bible. But we're we're we're we're hearing what it's saying, but we're not making application, we're not listening to it, and we're not letting it read us. Does that make sense? It's one thing to open your Bible and see the words. It's another to take heed to the Bible. Um, I was really thinking about this. One reason you'll hear you'll he you you'll hear people say I try to read my Bible, but I just don't get anything out of it. And I think this is why. Because we don't want to get anything out of it. We read our Bible so we can check off that we read our Bible. But we don't want to take heed to it so we don't get anything out of it. Does that make sense? Maybe one reason you don't get anything out of your Bible is because you know what you're doing is wrong, so you're scared to read your Bible, so you just rush through it real quick or something But if we go into our Bible reading with an open heart and ask God before we read it, say, Lord, instead of me reading this, let this read me. You'll get something out of it. I I like in our in our in our bullets and we have those questions as well. Um when you're at a spot and it's like, man, I I'm I'm trying Ask these questions. They're in our bulletin, I believe. Is there a sin I should avoid? Is there something in this passage that I should be staying away from? Is there a promise I can claim? Is there a command to obey? Is there an example to follow? Oh, those are great questions, Pastor Matt. Where can I get them? Where can I get them in your bulletin? Get them in your bulletin. Take it home with you and use that when you read your Bible. But God wants us not just to see the words. He wants us to take application with what we're reading And he wants us to not just hear it but listen to it and and do what it's saying, to take heed. That's what it means to take heed. So we have uh several responsibilities um in regards to God's word. Best way I can sum it up is just say just Just read your Bible. Just get in it. Just get in it. I have a short say if you say I have a short attention span, we'll keep going back to it. Just uh just do something. But if you if you say, oh, well, I I have a hard time reading, I have a short attention span, I'm slow, whatever you think, just don't just throw your hands up and say, I can't do it. Keep going back to it. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. The only way we can live the way God wants us to live is if we read the words He's given. To us. We've got to have this in our heart. We've got to have this in our mind. We have got to just stay in the Bible. We have got to do it. And I and what's nice is I think when we do this, when we stay in our Bible, not when we not just read it, but when we study it, muse on it, think on it. um and take heed to it, we get some things out of it. One thing we get out of it, I think, uh in verse fourteen, so I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies. David saying, It brought me joy. Yeah, God's Word will bring you joy. There is things in there. I I was uh reading something this morning And when and then Pastor walked in and and uh and I said something to him, it uh something I had read, it has just brought me joy. And so we talked a few words there and it it was it's just neat because we you'll read something and it just helps you you can't help but smile. And um it'll bring you joy. A lot of people are looking for for for joy in the wrong stuff. If they would just read their Bible, they'd have it. They would get that joy that they're looking for. And I'm talking about Christian folks now. Um next thing it will cleanse our way. Verse nine says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. And we just looked at what that meant to take heed to something. Not just to hear it, but to listen to it and do what it says It wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? There is a lot of people in this world that are looking for ways to clean their life up. There's a lot of under the sun type programs that people offer to try to clean their life up And I don't doubt people's intentions, but the only way a man's life is going to be cleansed is with the Word of God. The only way a man's life is going to be put back on the right track. Is by the word of God. By taking heed to it. You might say, Pastor Matt, you don't understand. I've got this problem. I've got this habit, and I can't seem to break it The only way you're going to break it is with the Word of God. I don't know what your problem is, I don't know what your sin is, I don't know what your addiction is, I don't know maybe there's something something you're thinking of specifically, maybe there's someone you're thinking of specifically. The only thing that'll cleanse someone's way is not by taking heed to some anonymous group or whatever. It's by taking heed according to God's word. Friends are good, but it's no substitute for the Bible. Programs, people have good intentions, but it's no substitute for God's Word. I don't care how hard you try to break some habit on your own, you can't without God's word. How is a young man going to fix his life? By taking heed, not just by reading it, not just by sitting under preaching. Pastor will preach a message from the Bible And if all you do is listen to it and go out and you don't take heed to what he has just preached, it's not going to change your life. It's not going to cleanse your way. But when you hear a pastor preach a message from the Bible and it hits you, instead of just saying, oh well, that was nice. Why don't you let that message, that Bible that he read from, read you? Make changes accordingly and take heed. Or else your life isn't your way's not going to be cleansed. And again, it keeps us from sin. And of course, we're not talking about sinless perfection or anything like that. But when we hide God's word in our heart, we are much better equipped to resist temptation. There's also rewards that I that I think that we get if we don't take heed. We the um negative rewards I guess you could call them. But if we don't listen to God's word, we don't read God's word, we It just sits on the shelf and collects dust till next Sunday. There's some rewards we're going to get as well. They're negative rewards, no joy. If you want a life that's empty, you want a life that's meaningless, you want a life that's bitter, you want a life without happiness or joy, then by all means you don't don't read your Bible If you want to l continue a life in sin, by all means, don't don't read your Bible And you know, um you can you can look at someone that has lived a life of sin and you can see the effects that sin has on a person's life. Do you understand what I'm talking about? If you young people listen to me, if you if you want to have a rough life, if you want to have a miserable life, then just then just don't read your Bible. If you want if you just want to have, I don't know how other way to put it other than just a rough, miserable life. Then then don't read your Bible. But if you want that life of joy, you want that life of fulfillment, you want that life of God's blessings. Then you have got to get in it. You have got to read your Bible. You've got to study it. You've got to meditate it and fulfill the responsibilities that we had looked on before. Responsibilities And I'll be done here. Responsibilities are simple that we see here, and this is by no means an exhaustive list, but to memorize God's word, to meditate God's word, to read it, and to let it read us. This is something that we could do in just a few minutes every day. That's not not something that's necessarily hard to do, but the rewards are big either way. The Word of God is such a powerful thing, and I don't think we treat it that way. I think we just think of it as sometimes we'll say it's the Word of God, but we don't realize how important it is We'll think it's important for someone else, but we don't use it ourselves. Can I can I encourage you, not not just young people, can I I encourage everyone to spend some time in your Bible every day. It's so important. It's so important And and it yeah, especially young people. Because it's gonna shape the rest of your life. It's gonna shape the rest of your life. Read the Bible and let it read you. May God help us to just get in the book. Heavenly Father, I thank you again for the day you've given us. I thank you for the young folks here. Lord, I thank you for your word. Lord help us to take this seriously t and and understand the the importance uh of this that Your word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path, Lord. It's what's going to give us direction, it's what's going to give us wisdom, it's what's going to give us uh knowledge and discretion. And Lord, without spending time reading your word, memorizing your word, Lord, we're really missing out. And help us to just understand how important that is to our life Lord, I thank you for it. I thank you for all the uh men throughout the years that that have gave their life for it, and all the men throughout the years that have of um that you have used to um put it to where it's just in our hands today, Lord, and making it And Lord, I thank you again for all the other things you've done for us, most of all for sending Jesus to die for our sins, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name that I do pray. Amen.