Mr. Schofield was my father. You can call me Brian. And I know that's sometimes tough for kids in the way they were raised, but Um I don't know, I've kinda always I've kind of always felt that way. Boy. This has been it's been a while. You talk about nervous. If there were six more people here tonight, I'd probably fall on the floor, just faint dead away. Okay. What you see before you is what you're going to get. Okay? If you have your Bibles this evening, I want you to turn with me. The Gospel of Mark, chapter six. I'll tell you the verse in a little bit Oh, by the way, don't don't anybody panic if I faint. If I hit the floor. If I happen to hit the floor, it's because it's I'm just It's uh just my faint dead away. Okay. So what's that Yeah, you can pick me up or or kick me around, whatever you want to do. It doesn't make any difference. Okay. Most of you don't Most of you n know me. Uh we've been we've been coming here for almost twelve years. Be twelve years in I think March, the end of March, Sandy and I have been coming here. Uh there are people here that have known me a little bit longer. Okay? And there's people here that have known me for a little shorter length of time. Okay. Um But I'd like to tell you, I'll tell you a little bit about myself by telling you a little story. Uh I got saved when I was 16 years old. I got saved 13 days before John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963. That's when I got saved. 16 years old. But I had lived in a house that I was living in. Uh we moved there when I was uh three and a half years old, 1951, in uh early part of April. And before that we had lived I had lived with uh my mom and dad at my grandparents' house, my other grandparents' house, then uh there was some government housing. Dad was a World War II veteran. And government housing opened up and so we lived there for about a, oh, I think it was fourteen months. And then in uh nineteen fifty-one I moved to the house that I lived in It was right beside, I had an aunt and uncle that lived beside us, my mother's sister and her husband. Right behind us was their family business, which was greenhouses. We lived uh I lived in an area that had lots and lots of greenhouse complexes. I had two uncles that worked in greenhouses, my grandfather worked his whole life for the largest carnation grower in uh in New England at the time. And uh from my house, if you went about a mile and a half in any direction, it was uh fourteen I think 14 or 15 greenhouse complexes, businesses, where they grew flowers, roses, mostly carnations, chrysanthemums, roses, that kind of thing. The place where I grew up at was 12 miles north of Boston, but when I when we moved there, it was a boys' paradise. It was a young boy's paradise. There were fields. There were woods. There were streams. There was a little bit of swamp. I mean it was it was. for for me when I was growing up i it i i i i you know th though that area gave me everything I wanted. Uh When Sandy and I were back there in November, uh you don't see the woods very much, and there's no fields anymore, no swamps. The streams usually run underground or they have them in culverts or something. And there's lots and lots of traffic, lots and lots of cars, and lots and lots of people Town I live I we moved to only had a population of about 3,000 people when we moved there in 51. When I graduated in 1965, there was 28,000 people in town. And so the town grew very, very quickly just being outside of Boston and after the Second World War Behind my house there was a pond. All it was was a drainage pond. It was about two acres. A drainage pond. It was oh maybe 125 yards. in back of my house and it was a it was a wonderful place for me. It was mud and turtles and frogs and snakes and and all that stuff. All that good stuff, you know, that when you're a boy you you get interested in But the most important thing about that pond was about the middle of November it would freeze over. And I could go ice skating. And play ice hockey on that pond. I just I just love that place. Kids from we lived on it just the edge actually the border between two towns, the town we lived in and the next town over. And there were kids from both towns that would come and ice skate on that pond. And I got to meet a fellow that I was very impressed with as a hockey player. He had great speed. and great stick handling work. He was my age, about the seventh grade, I met him. And um He he wasn't as b he wasn't as big as me, but uh I noticed there was something different about that fella. And we would play ice hockey and stuff and we would talk a little bit and uh his name was Dave. And uh I got to know him quite well. Uh later on when I got saved, I found out that he went to the church that I went to In the seventh grade, they started building this church. Oh, maybe about as far from where I'm standing to the barn, from my house, across the field. And they start they took a corner of that field and they built a church there. Often wondered what that was all about Okay, I w I had gone to Sunday school as a boy, but I quit Sunday school because it had didn't have any meaning for me. It didn't do anything for me. So when I got into seventh grade I was I was out of there. No more church for me. But it was at that church where I got saved. Okay? There was another fella in that church that I met, very good friend of mine, and it was Dave and this other fellow, Danny. Dave and Danny, that when I became a Christian, sort of took me under their wing and and helped me out and explained a lot of things. to me. And if I had any questions I could go to those two fellows and ask them. And they were just just wonderful guys. Just wonderful guys. Danny later became, when I went to Bible college, he was my roommate my first semester in Bible college. He later became the best man at my wedding. Danny's a very interesting character. His father was the pastor of the church. Danny It was I guess we hit it off because we both had a little bit of an ornry streak in us. You know, just a little fun-loving, not mean, not nasty, but just sort of fun. When I went to Bible college, they had a tradition that if they put your picture in the Bible college yearbook, that you could put a scripture verse. You know, with your name and picture. And this is supposed to be like your either your verse for the year or your life verse or whatever you thought. Danny put a verse in there. Of course Danny had a sense of humor. And he put in Mark chapter 6, he put verse 31. And I'll read it for you. And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and rest awhile. Andy said I was all I've always been interested in rest, resting as much as I could. So this was his life for us. I mean People in Bible college have a sense of humor and a lot of times they they they uh they use it. Um I seem to gravitate toward those kind of fellows because I had another roommate Who lives not too far from Chambersburg, Pennsylvania today. And uh this guy was really off the wall hilarious and funny in Bible college. I'll tell you one little story about this other fellow. His name was Louie. We were having lunch one day at the Bible College. Lunch on a weekday a lot of times meant leftovers. You'd have a couple of days, you get leftovers. Okay. And they would ask a student to come up and say the grace. And you came up to the front of the dining hall, and there was a table there with the president of the Baba College and the professors around him. And right right there they would hand you the mic and you would say, well let's pray. They would have grace Louis went up there one day and got the microphone, and this was his grace. Again, we thank you for this food, Lord. Amen. Okay. Leftovers. Okay. And uh but d this was Danny's life for us, and this is This gives me the title to what we're going to talk about what I want to talk about tonight. And the subject I want to talk about is rest. is rest. Now you and I when we use the terms rest, you might think of one thing, I might think of another, but you know, you think of sleep, you think of relaxation, you think of that. But if you look at the word rest and how it's used in the Bible, there's a tremendous amount of meanings for that. It's used as a verb and it's used as a noun in the Bible. When it's used as a noun, it has a completely different meaning from what we would normally think of as As rest, okay? We normally would think of rest as meaning, you know, relaxation, sleeping, you know, just resting, okay, relaxation. And in this particular verse right here, Jesus used the verse, okay Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and rest a while. He used it as a verb. When it's used as a verb, it usually means Relaxation. Sleeping. Okay. When Jesus was in the garden, he left his disciples and he came back and they were sleeping and he woke them up. Okay, and then he went off and prayed again and he came back, they were asleep again. And he said, Go ahead and rest. So we he we're using that word rest in the in the term that it's it's meant to be used in, and that is sleep, relaxation. Okay? But there's another word for rest which is I think very, very important that we find in the Bible. Okay? And to do that we have to go back into the Old Testament. So I would like to go back into the Old Testament now. Oh, don't don't think just because I'm speaking to you you're not going to use your Bible Because we're going to go to several different places in the Bible tonight. Let's go to Exodus 33. Exodus 33. And This is uh I'm going to start reading in verse 12. Read down through verse 14. Moses said unto the Lord, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Now therefore I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, Show me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight, and consider that this nation is thy people. And he that is God said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest. This rest isn't used as a noun. And it gives us, the way it's used here, a little bit of a clue As to the meaning, I will give the rest. Now I want you to think about this because the children of Israel came out of Egypt, basically carrying the belongings that they had with them They crossed the Red Sea. They went into the desert. Okay? And I will tell you that that, if you've ever been in the desert, even in an automobile. Being there is not necessarily restful. Okay? And I mean in the terms of relaxation So rest here has a completely different. I give you rest. Okay, I will give you rest. And what this rest is God said, God said, God said, My presence shall go with thee. And I will give thee rest. Now let's think a minute about the presence of God in the wilderness. Does anybody remember there were two things That they followed. Okay, they followed in the wilderness. Helen? The cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. And what did the cloud and the pillar of fire represent? The presence of God. It represented the presence of God. So God said, I'm going to go with you. Where I go, you go with me, where I stop. You stop. Okay? So they would follow the cloud by day. When the cloud stopped, that's where they would be for the night. At night? The pillar of fire was there representing the presence of God. There was a couple of times we read about in the Old Testament where they did move at night and they followed the pillar of fire Okay, which was the presence of God. This gives us the really the true meaning of what rest is. Rest. Is almost synonymous with the presence of God. The presence of God Okay, and w we'll look at this a little bit further. Let's go to Deuteronomy chapter 8 Uh Deuteronomy chapter oh, chapter twelve, excuse me. Chapter twelve verses eight and nine. Ye shall not do after all the things that we do here, this day. Every man whatsoever is right in his own eyes. For ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the Lord your God giveth you. Now does anybody have any idea, or do you want me to tell you? Does anybody have any idea what That rest and inheritance that God had for the children of Israel was Heritage is the promised land. The promised land, the land of Palestine, was always looked upon as being a place of rest. Okay? It wasn't a place of relaxation. It was the place where God was and where God wanted his people to be. Okay? So I I want to Put something in your mind. Rest is not just relaxation in the Bible. It's not just sleeping. It's the place where God is, and the place where God wants you to be. That is rest. That is rest. I wanted you to get the thinking about that in your mind because it's very, very important in the Christian life. I meet so many people today, so many Christians, and they are not at rest. They are not at rest. Just talking with them I can tell. They're not well, I you know, they tell me I well I I don't know what I should be doing and I don't know if this is the job that I'm supposed to be working at and And I I don't know this and I don't know that and I don't know about this or that or something else. They're not aggressive. They're very restless Okay? I question, when somebody talks to you like that, if they're a Christian, you I believe you have the The right to think. Is this person really at rest? Is this real person really in the place where God wants him to be? Or her to be Okay? Because rest is where God is and where God wants you to be. Okay? That's Deuteronomy. When he talks about the rest, he's talking about something very specific here. The rest. And the rest is the promised land. Okay? And I want to develop this idea a little bit before we uh Before we move on to the New Testament idea of rest, because it's it's it's it's crucial To our understanding of a lot of the events in the Old Testament, God had a specific place in mind for his people and he wanted his people in that specific place and he would be there He would be there. Let's go to Joshua chapter 1. Joshua chapter 1, just a few pages over. Joshua chapter one, beginning in verse thirteen. Remember the words Which Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, saying, The Lord your God hath given you rest, and hath given you this land Your wives, your little ones, your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side Jordan But ye shall pass before your brethren, armed, all the mighty men of valor, and help them. I'm going to read another verse, but let me explain this to you. When Moses died and Joshua took over, and they were going to go into the promised land. Tribe of Reuben and Gad and Manasseh thought, hey, it's pretty nice on this Western Bank here. On this side of the Jordan River, how about if we stay there? God said, okay. He said, okay. Your the other tribes, your brethren, will help you Drive out the people from that land. But when it's time to go across the Jordan, it will be your responsibility to send men To conquer that land from those two and a half tribes. Half of Manasseh stayed on the West Bank, half went across the Jordan River. And that's what he's referring to here, that your wives, your little ones, your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side, Jordan. But you shall pass before your brethren armed. In other words, you bring your arms with you because we're going to need them All the mighty men of valor and help them until the Lord hath given your brethren rest. As he has given you. And they also have possessed the land which the Lord your God giveth them, then you shall return. Under the land of your possession, and enjoy it, which Moses, the Lord's servant, gave you on this side, Jordan, toward the sun rising. Okay? This sets up a a very I don't know, I look at it and I smile because I think it's very humorous myself Okay, I think it's tremendous. I think it's funny. You may not think it's funny. But can you imagine they had to can you imagine Imagine they had to go in and conquer the land and drive out the other people. Many times God instructed them to kill the other people because they were heathen I said kill them, get rid of them. Drive them out. This land is yours. So it doesn't sound like rest and relaxation to me. Was it for you? Oh, no. What are we talking about when we talk about rest? It's the place God wanted this to be. Place where God wanted them to be. Where God Himself. So they went they went across and I'll tell you what For a long time, up until the time of Solomon, before the land had any peace, peace and quiet in it. It was all the time at war, you know, uh the Philistines, uh the Midianites, the you know, there was so many other Amorites. Uh the the the the all these people, okay, they took Israel took possession of a lot of the land, but not all the land until the time of Solomon. Okay. And he said giving you rest. Giving you rest. That's your inheritance. That leads me to a conclusion. For a lot of people it is that then there's a movement to do Say I don't particularly like. Astor doesn't particularly like it. I don't know if you do or not, that's up to But the Christianity is true Christianity is easy. It's easy. I become a Christian. God's going to give me everything I had a person one time that he told me that I know that one day God's going to give me one of those great big homes up in McHenry on Obama. Bob Deep Creek Lake. God's going to just give it to him. Where do you get that idea? But she said, I believe that. Okay. I've been a Christian almost fifty-five years. The Christian life is anything but rest and relaxation. That's part of it. Okay? That's part of the Christian If you expect the Christian life to be easy, okay, if you expect that God's not going to put things, obstacles down and lead you right into those obstacles. perhaps, so that you can go around, he can lead you around the obstacle. If we're mistaken. The Christian life is not An easy life when it comes right down to it. Most of us uh if I was looking for a rest, I wouldn't have had to work for a living for years and years and years. Okay. Why does God have us work for a living? Why does that God have us do labor? You know? I often wondered when I was a kid, Mom would make me do the dishes. My me and my sister do the dishes. I often wondered Well this this is this is this is too much like work. I don't I don't need this, you know. Well I'll tell you what, if you're looking for a bed of ease when you become a Christian You better not look to Jesus because he'll have easy times for you. But he will also, he also talks about, he will give you a burden, something to do Well, one of the things that I didn't realize till I was an adult, okay, um, well I I guess it was I was when I was 16, went out to work one summer between my junior and senior year. I was a Christian, went to work, and of course I went to work in greenhouses. And um I learned a very, very important lesson. I'm going to share that lesson with you tonight. The man I worked for came from Sweden. There was a lot of Swedes that worked in the greenhouse, a lot of Germans, Irish, Italian, Swedes Swedish people worked in the greenhouse. And he talked in the Swedish brogue, and you really had to listen. You didn't quite understand what the boss was trying to tell you And uh one of his favorite expressions, I remember hearing it one time and I said, Well I better remember this because the next time It's liable to be me. And the next time it was me. We had to uh clean out all flower plants and we heaped them up on a wheelbarrow. We heaped them up Up till they were about eight feet high and fallen over the wheelbarrow. And you better not tip that wheelbarrow over till you got it to where you had to take it And sometimes you'd be a little tipsy with it till you got started. And there was oh six or eight young fellas my age Maybe a little bit younger, and we worked in those greenhouses, and he knew each one of our names, but he called all of us Sunny Boy. And he would in that Swedish brobe of his say No, no, no, 30 boys, the old barrel. You know, he had that Swedish accent. And sometimes you'd get mad. You'd get, you know, he'd scare you. Okay? But he was one of the he was one of the nicest guys. He didn't want anybody to know it. He was one of the nicest guys you'd ever meet When I worked in the greenhouse, the minimum wage was a dollar and a half an hour. Okay? Dollar and a half an hour. But I got paid big money. I got two dollars an hour for what I did in the greenhouses I asked my uncle, why does Mr. Peterson pay me $2 an hour? He said, You ask him. My uncle, I think, knew the answer. My uncle wouldn't tell me. He said, You ask him. It took me weeks to work up the nerve when Mr. Peterson brought my paycheck one Friday afternoon. I said, Mr. Peterson, can I talk to you for a minute? He said, What is it, Sonny Boy? I said, why do you pay me $2 an hour? And he told me something which has stayed with me my whole life. You know what he told me? He said, Well, Sonny boy, you do a man's work. Deserve a man's pay. Told me that. Wow. Most of those first generation immigrants that came over on the boat Most of those guys, no matter what their nationality was, Italian, Irish, German, Swedish, whatever. Most of them believe that. You do a man's work. You get a man's pay. I said, whoa. I said, that's That's stayed with me. And I've tried to use that when I have been in a position to pay somebody. You do a man's work. Or if you do a woman's work, you get the accompanying paycheck. Okay? But it isn't easy. It's not easy. I found out as a young man that One of my greatest enjoyments in life was working in the garden. And I love to work in the garden. I love to plant. Whatever I plant in the garden. I love to weed the garden. Most people say you've got to be nuts. I love that. You know what weeding the garden is for me? It's relaxation. I found it true relaxation. And these people say that's that's odd. So maybe I am an odd person. Okay? But God didn't offer the children of Israel, He didn't offer them relaxation, but He said, Your land is a land of rest. Can you imagine? I can imagine. When they went into the land and they went to Jericho and they saw that city, Wall City Jerek and Joshua said, This is what we're going to do. I can imagine what some of those people said. You know, we've got to be nuts I thought, you know, we talked about rest. This is not restful. This is serious business here. This is work. Well, that's the way it is. Rest is where God wants you to be and where He is. That's what rest is. I'd like to go over to Hebrews, which references the Old Testament story. Hebrews chapter 3 Now we don't know who the writer of Hebrews is. But uh but I guess Paul wrote it, okay, so that'll tell you who I believe wrote the book of Hebrews, okay We're not told, but maybe it's Paul. For this Hebrews chapter 3, verses 7, and I'm going to read down through verse 11. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, today if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness. Now Listen closely now. When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their heart, and they have not known my ways. So I swear in my wrath. They shall not enter into my rest. Okay Now when they went up to the Jordan River, Moses sent the spies in, the word came back to the camp. Joshua and Caleb said, Let's go. Everybody else said, whoa, wait a minute now. They decided we're not going in. God sent the children of Israel around that desert for 40 years. That was certainly not restful. Very taxing. God provided the food for them with manna. God provided them with all the water they wanted from the rock that followed them. When they complained that that manna, that that bread stuff, that's just not cutting it anymore. We need something more. God sent him so many quail That they got sick and tired of eating quail. Okay. Kind of hard for me to imagine. But they did, okay? God sent them. So God took care of them But God said, you won't go into my land, my rest. Okay? I'm mad at you. And so none of you, 21 years and older, are going to go into the rest. You're not going into the land. They do always err in their heart, they have not known my ways. They shall not enter into my rest. Now, when you see that word rest in the New Testament, you want to find out if it's a noun or if it's a verb. But be open to the fact that it's not talking about relaxation, it's talking about the place God wants them to be. The place of blessing, the place of usefulness Okay, and the place where God is Himself. That is God's rest. Okay And it gives us another principle. And the principle is good for us today as a Christian. Disobedience to God leads to God not allowing you to go to the place He has for you. Huh. It's about time some of us Christians woke up to that. Okay? Disobedience to God leads to God not allowing you to go to the place He has for you. You can never get to that place if you disobey God I learned that when I graduated from high school. My mom and dad were dead set on me going to college. I said, don't want to go to college. Well, you're going to college. Whether you like it or not, I said, well, I'd like to go to Bible college. Bible college? Bible college? What do you I got all this So I said to myself, okay, I'm going to apply to one college. I hope that I don't get accepted. And I'm applying at a pre-med program. And I hope I don't get accepted. Yeah, you guessed it, I got accepted. And I went. I went to Northeastern University for four months. It ended up being the most miserable. Time of my life that I can remember, other than the time before I became a Christian. But since I became a Christian, it still is the most miserable time I ever spent in my life. Over Christmas vacation, I said I can't take it anymore. I gotta get things right. I went to a fellow that It was a Bible college student, older fellow than myself, and I said, hey, I gotta get this thing right. He said, we can straighten that out now. I said, yeah, we did. So we prayed He said, meet me at the church tomorrow. I said, tomorrow's New Year's Day. He said, meet me in the church tomorrow. He said, I said, how are we going to get in? We'll get in. Don't worry. Okay? We get in, saw the pastor, on New Year's Day, I decided I'm going to Bible college. That wasn't a hard decision. You know what the hard decision was? The night before I was to go back to Northeastern University to tell my dad and mom that I wasn't going. Now that was hard. That was hard. I realized now that that was something that needed to be done anyway, so I went ahead and did it. I got my ex I had to be there on the 19th of June January for the second semester. I got my acceptance on the sixteenth of January. Took the bus, drove to Washington, DC, and went to Bible. I left dad says, You're on your own now. He said, Don't come back. Don't come back. About the third week of April I got a call from my dad. Somebody said, Your dad's on the phone. I hadn't heard from dad the whole time I was in Baba College. Your dad's on the phone. I thought maybe somebody had died or something He said, uh, Dad said, you gotta understand my dad was kind of a hard man. He said, your mother wants you to come home this summer. So why don't you come home I said, really? He said, yeah. I said to s to to to l to live at home? Yeah. I said, okay. So I went home. But I was absolutely convinced that that Bible college was the place God wanted me to be in the first place. Why was I so miserable? I uh I had never had problems sleeping at night. But when I went to Northeastern I had trouble sleeping at night, I had trouble with everything I'll give you an example. I never had trouble with mathematics in my life. I'd had some calculus in high school, but when I took calculus in college, It was like taking a foreign language for the first time. I didn't understand any of it. As soon as I left Northeastern University and started reading those math books again All of a sudden calculus made a lot of sense to me. Now, I think it's kind of I think it's kind of humorous. Maybe God just confused me. Maybe God just uh Did something here. Maybe he didn't do anything. Maybe it was all in me. But I wasn't in the place of rest where God wanted me to be. And I'm afraid today we have a lot of Christians that aren't in the place of not doing what God wants you to, where he wants you to live, what he wants you to do with your life. I'm going to look at some New Testament references. Let's look at Matthew, Gospel according to Matthew, verse chapter 11. We'll do this quickly so we can finish up here. Matthew 11, 28 and 29. Here's the thing. As a Christian, what does God call you to do as a non-Christian? When God calls you as a non-Christian, what is he asking you to do? Okay, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find Rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Jesus doesn't say you're going to have an easy Christian life. He says, No, there's a yoke and a burden. But you can handle it. I'm not gonna give me give you anything that you can't handle And you come to me, I'm going to give you rest. You will be with me in the place I have for you. A place I have for you. Let's look at uh Hebrews chapter four. Starting at verse nine Very interesting, Burris, in case you're wondering. There remaineth, therefore, a rest to the people of God. For he that is entered into his rest, he has also ceased from his own works as God did from his. Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief For he that is entered into his rest, he also has ceased from his own works. A rest to the people of God. Place God wants me to be, where God is Okay. Okay. You don't have to get to a place where you You just have to work on your own salvation. It's finished. It's done. Only thing God wants you to do, He wants you to Come to the place where I am and the place I have for you. Without that You're going to be a miserable Christian. You're going to be a miserable Christian. If you aren't in the place that God wants you to be, you're going to be a miserable Christian. And it's so interesting. He sees from his own works, but he says, let us labor. He says, no, no, no, I got things for you to do in the place I have for you. That's the place of rest. It's a very unique place. Only you can fill that place. Only you can fill that place Okay? And yes, you're going to labor. You're going to labor. Let us labor there, therefore, let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall or af fall after the same example of unbelief. And in Hebrews, the unbelief he's referring to is the unbelief of the people that wouldn't go into the promised land. Okay? What he is saying here is if you refuse, as a Christian, to let God lead you to the place that he wants to lead you You are suffering from the sin of unbelief. And that sin is a miserable, miserable thing Maybe that's why we have so many miserable Christians today around us. People say, I'm a Christian, and they are so miserable. Because they're not in the place that God wants them to be. The last place we're going to look is in Revelation 14. In verse thirteen. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Now we're talking about somewhere in the middle of the tribulation period before Jesus comes back to the earth again. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. Okay. There is ultimate, there is an ultimate place of rest. That's with God in eternity That's where God wants you to be. Okay? That's where God wants you to be The question seems to be in our Christian life, in many people's Christian life, it was that way in mine. I know it's that way in many other people, because I've talked to many other people I would like that place to be in that place of rest where God wants me to be, where I can have peace. Or I can labor for God doing what He wants me to do. Whatever that is. Okay? Whatever that is. Might be, it might even be weeding the garden. Okay? Rest with God, where God wants all his children to be, and eventually with him in eternity, and that is the ultimate place of rest. What I want to do is I just wanted to get across to you in your minds tonight that when you come across the word rest In the Bible. Oh, we just so many times we come to a word in the Bible and we say, oh, I know what that means, and we just go on. We just read it. It's just words. But words have meaning. So when you see the word rest, ask yourself, are we talking about rest and relaxation and sleep? Or are we talking about rest? where God wants me to be. Most of us, most of us interpret the word rest as relaxation and sleep, no matter where we see it in the Bible. But I want you to know that about oh sixty to seventy percent of the of the times you'll see the word rest in the Bible, it's talking about place God God wants you to be, and he's there already. So do you have rest today? Hmm. I rested today. Because I knew what was coming this evening. So I rested today. That's rest and relaxation. But I have found that the best place to be, the best place to be, the absolute best place to be, is to be in God's rest. And I hope you find it too. All you have to do is ask yourself, am I miserable tonight? Am I miserable tonight, or can I say I'm in a place that God wants me to be? If you're miserable tonight need to get right with God and say, God, you put me in that place that I need to be. Okay? You have me do that job that you have for me, in that place you have for me. Because I know you'll be there. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for Your rest, that you have a place for each and every one of us, and a labor for each and every one of us to do. And we know your burden is light, the labor is not that difficult. It's just a question, will people go? Will people be willing to go to your rest? We pray, Lord, that you would still continue to speak to us if we get ever get away from that place of rest, that you not give us sleep, you not give us uh peace of heart, peace of mind, until we get back to that place where you are and where you want us to be Help us, Father, to understand your word, not only tonight, but the days that follow, that we might grow spiritually. Help us to be the spiritual beings that you want us to be. These things we pray and ask in your name. Amen.