Psalm chapter number 51, I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number 12 if you have it there. Would you read that with me all together? Verse 12. Here we go. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. We got a little series going on this summer. I've enjoyed it so far. It's our third in our series on a summer of joy You say preacher of all summers of 2020, a summer of joy. Yeah, a Christian can have joy even in the midst of trials. A Christian can have joy even in the midst of a lockdown, quarantine, whatever you want to come up with, hurricane, whatever's going on, a Christian can know the joy of the Lord. And that's what we've been talking about. Now, here's the thing. Sometimes a Christian will lose our joy. We can lose it. David lost his joy. And in Psalm 51, verse 12, he's praying to God, God, give me that joy back. Restore unto me. The joy of my salvation. So I've entitled the message Restoring Lost Joy. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we ask now you would bless this message. This is a powerful portion of Scripture, Psalm 51. And I pray that it would not just be me up here talking, Lord. I don't want to get in the way, Lord, of what your spirit wants to do in our hearts and lives, our church And so please help me, Lord, to be fully yielded to you and that you would have full control of my mind, my body, my tongue, my voice. And that you would speak to our hearts. I have no doubt whatsoever, Lord, that I'm talking to some folks today that have lost their joy Things have gotten to them, something's gotten in the heart, and I pray that you would restore unto us the joy of our salvation. Fill me with your spirit. Be the preacher, I ask, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody said once that We all live, now listen carefully this, get where I'm going with this. We all live on the verge of disaster We all live on that razor edge of disaster. And in other words, what they were saying was this. You and I are one decision away of destroying our lives. At any given time, in any given moment, in a careless moment, We can make a decision. We can do something that we that affects us the rest of our lives. on the verge of disaster, one careless decision away from a lifetime of regret. One careless decision away from destroying our lives. We referenced in Sunday school this morning, 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 8, where Peter Writing to the New Testament believers there under intense persecution. And he said this: be sober, be vigilant. What's he saying? Be careful, be alert, watch out. Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary, for the devil as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I'm telling you, Satan, Satan is alive and well on planet Earth. And he is just watching, he is just waiting. He is just plotting for you and I Make some stupid decision to let our guard down and he can ruin us for the rest of our lives. September 19th will be 27 years that my family and I have been here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, 27 years as pastor. Can't hardly believe it all these years. I have tried, I've failed, I've had my ups and downs, I haven't done as well as I would have liked, but I've tried very, very hard in these 27 years to have a good testimony. In the church and in our community. I wanted to have a good testimony. And I tell you, I could go out one evening And be careless and be stupid and ruin a testimony that has taken me 27 years to establish. We can ruin in one evening, in one decision, we can ruin that which we've invested our lives in. My dad, we're going to have a little memorial service for him tonight, and we'll say more about that in a little bit, but uh he used to say this, especially the last year or so, a couple years of his life, he would say this He'd say, son, I just want to have a good testimony. My family, the people around. I want people to see Christ. I want people to see the Lord in my life, God working. I said all that to say this. David had a good testimony. He's mentioned in Scripture in reference to the Lord Jesus Christ more than any other human being. David and Jesus, the Son of God. David referenced to Jesus more than anything. More than Moses, more than Abraham, the father of the faithful David. You'll read statements like this, particularly through the Gospels. Jesus, the son of David. The son of David. Imagine that. Jesus, the throne, he's going to sit on the throne of David. David was an amazing man. He was a man after God's own heart. We're studying David on Wednesday nights. We're studying his life. We have been now for about seven decades and um long time. We not quite that long, but uh What a, I tell you, the more I study him, the more I admire this man, the more respect I have for David. I look forward to the day we get to meet him. And David was a man after God's own heart, a tremendous man of God. In every sense of that phrase, David was a man of God. He was a man of faith, tremendous faith in God. He's referred to as the sweet psalmist of Israel. You read through Psalms, and the vast majority of the Psalms were penned by David, of course, inspired by God. And David knew the joy of the Lord. He knew, David knew what it meant to sing with a joyful heart unto the God of creation. He knew what it meant to praise God joyfully and to rejoice in the Lord. He knew what it meant to do that with all his heart. He knew what it meant to go into the house of God with God's people and to be filled to overflowing with joy and peace and the love of God. David experienced the presence and the joy of the Lord as perhaps few others have. David knew firsthand what the joy of the Lord was. However, However, one careless evening, David was somewhere he should not have been. Nation was out at war. David was to be leading the soldiers. He stayed back. He's up on this rooftop of an evening. Maybe it was a full moon like last night. Clear. One's supposed to be there. He was supposed to be out leading his armies. One careless evening, David ended up somewhere he ought not to have been. And he was looking at something he ought not to have been looking at. A woman across the way, on her rooftop, bathing. And he saw her. And the Bible says that word saw there has the idea he's gazing at her. He's staring at her. He's locked in. Somewhere he ought not to have been. Looking at something he ought not to have been looking at. Careless And he made a decision that had consequences for the rest of his life. Devastated his family destroyed his testimony. In fact, Nathan, the prophet, that eventually confronted David about his adultery He says, you have given the enemies of God opportunity to blaspheme God. You talk about hurting your testimony. You talk about devastating a foolish decision to commit adultery And led to a lifetime of consequences. Oh, David knew what it meant to have the joy of the Lord. Oh, he knew what it meant to praise God and be happy in the Lord. One night, foolish decision, and he lost it. The joy is gone. Now getting together with God's people is mundane. No joy in it all. In fact, it's forced, uncomfortable. Now, singing the praises of God, or that song is gone from his heart It's all gone. It's all gone. Nathan, the prophet, after about a year of David trying to cover that up and hide his sin, and can you imagine the misery and the unhappiness? in the heart of David for that one year. Finally Nathan shows up. He has a little parable of a fellow with a little lamb and A king comes and takes that man's lamb, and David gets mad, that guy needs to pay for that. And Nathan says, David, you're the man. You took another man's wife. You had him killed. Nathan confronted David. David responds in conviction and repentance. Somebody said we all need a Nathan every now and then, don't we? We all need somebody to come and say, hey, you need to get right. You need to get right By the way, I think that's part of the responsibility of a church service. I think that's part. Now the preacher needs as much as anybody That's part of the preacher's fault. I wouldn't give you a plug-nickel. I don't even know what a plug nickel is. I wouldn't give you a plug-nickel for a preacher that doesn't preach against sin. Good night, if there's ever we needed preaching against sin in the United States of America, it's now David, you're the man. You're living in sin. You need to repent. And David did repent And David responded exactly the way God intends for a sinning saint to respond when confronted with their sin. He responded with repentance and humility. And that leads us to Psalm 51. Psalm 51 is David's prayer of repentance, his prayer of confession and his prayer of repentance. I think Psalm 51 is the most famous confession of sin in all of history. Every now and then you'll uh uh well it happens probably more often than uh probably happens a lot, but err uh every now and then you'll uh some politician will get caught with their hand in the cookie jar. You know what I'm talking about Ah, they'll get exposed to something going on somebody and uh and uh what do they do? They get out and say, Oh I was wrong. Oh sorry, oh I will never do it again, I promise. If you re-elect me, I'll never do it again Like yeah, right. Oh, famous confessions. Uh sometimes preachers get caught Get on TV, I've sinned. Now listen, I'm not trying to be unkind. I'm not trying to ridicule anybody. But I'm telling you what, nobody has ever confessed and repented of sin as thoroughly and as publicly as David did in Psalm chapter 51. For all of eternity, David's confession and acknowledgement and repentance of his sin, this prayer of repentance, for all eternity it's recorded in the Word of God. Ten million years from now. We'll still be reading David's confession and the Word of God, the eternal. Is heaven and earth going to pass away someday? Yeah. Is God's word going to pass away someday? No For the rest of eternity, this prayer of confession is in the Word of God. There never has been a prayer of confession as same as famous or as Well known as this. I want to give you a quickly I want to give you a little outline of the chapter. I I'd uh we could spend uh decades on this. This is such a powerful passage. By the way, I think every Christian ought to be familiar with Psalm 51. Every Christian ought to be familiar. This thing is powerful. Let me give you a little outline of it. My first point, and this isn't a message, just an outline of the chapter. First of all, it's David's prayer of confession, verses 1 through 6. I'm telling you, you could do a series just on that. David's prayer of confession, the first thing you notice there, he acknowledges his sin. He acknowledges, yes, I've sinned. How many times do we how many times do we justify and excuse and try and explain, well, it wasn't really what it looks like? Well, it's not really that David says, yeah, it's exactly what it is. It's sin. Look what he says there. Have mercy upon me. By the way, a prayer for mercy is a confession of guilt. He's asking for mercy, then he's admitting he's guilty. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the molds of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin. My transgression. My sin. Against thee have I sinned. I wonder what in the world ever happened to sin in our world today. David says, I've sinned. He acknowledged it. This was sin. So first thing he does is he acknowledges his sin. Second thing I notice under his prayer of confession is he accepted personal responsibility. It's my sin. I made this decision. I took this action. I committed this sin. I am responsible for my actions. I'll tell you what would solve a lot of problems in America today if people just take responsibility for our actions He's not blaming anybody else. He's not blaming Bathsheba. Could she have done things differently? Perhaps. Not blaming her husband. He's not blaming his wives. I did it. I am personally responsible for the actions I took. And then he agreed with God as to its severity. This is bad. This is really bad. How many times I've witnessed people try and win them to Christ, they'll say something like this: Well, I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. Uh yeah, we are. So first of all, we have David's prayer of confession, verses one through six, and then we have David's prayer for cleansing. Or for correction, you could say, verses 7 through 14. David acknowledged that he did sin. It was my decision, and it's bad. And he says, God, I want you to cleanse me of this sin. I don't want it to be in my life anymore. Purge me of this. I want to be clean and pure. I want you to correct that which is wrong in my life. I want you to uh cleanse me of that which is in my heart and mind that's impure. Take it away. And then verses 15 through 19, you have a prayer of consecration. And then he says, God, I want you to have all of me. I want to be yours. I want to be sold out, dedicated, consecrated to you. 100% I want to be all yours. What a powerful chapter Psalm 51 is. Every Christian ought to read this and get familiar with it. It is important, and we need it when we do fail. When we do fail. David's sin had devastating effects in his life. And one of the effects was this It took away that which was so prominent in his life. It took away his joy. That which he was characterized by, that which was was uh he was noted for his praises of God, his joy in the Lord, and that was gone He prays for God to restore the joy that he once had but had lost to this sin. And notice it's interesting. Look at verse 12. He says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Now I'm not going to spend time on this, but it's important to notice. He doesn't say, restore unto me thy salvation. David lost his joy, but he didn't lose his salvation. He lost the joy of his salvation. First of all, here's my first thought this morning on this matter of restoring joy. I think if we're going to get if I'm talking to somebody this morning that has lost joy, the joy of the Lord isn't there That rejoicing deep down in the heart is gone. The first thing we need to realize, number one, is the reason that he had the joy in the first place. What was the basis of his joy? And look at verse 12. What does it say? Restore unto me the joy of my popularity. No, David was very popular. That's not where his joy was. His joy wasn't in everybody loving him. You know, I found out sometimes the most popular people in the world are sometimes the most unhappy people in the world He doesn't say, rejoin to me this joy restore to me the joy of my popularity when everybody loved me. No, no, no, that's so isn't the basis of his joy in the first place. He doesn't say, Restore unto me the joy of my prosperity. I'll just say this very bluntly. David was rich. He was very rich. He had humble beginnings, but God had poured out his blessings materially on David, and David was a very, very wealthy king. But here's the thing, he didn't look for joy in his wealth. You know, sometimes folks will be, oh, if I just had if I just had a little more money, then I'd be happy. If I just had one more digit on my income, boy, then I'd be happy. Some guy said, I want to have an income that's like my phone number. Seven digits. Or how how many digits in a phone number? Ten with a z there you go He goes, oh, if I just had more. No, it's not the joy of my prosperity, it's not the joy of my popularity. He doesn't say, restore to me the joy of my pleasures. I tell you, we have a pleasure-made society. And we have a miserable society. Oh, there's joy and there's pleasure in sin for a season. So what was the basis of David's joy in the first place? He's lost it, it's gone. There's no happiness there. There's no joy there. There's misery. There's emptiness. There's depression. There's discouragement. There's no joy in David's light The sin, his sin has completely sapped it out of his life. He says, Lord, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. That's where it was in the first place. That was the basis of it in the first place. I think joy is one of the centerpieces of salvation. A person gets saved, one of the chief characteristics of a Christian's life is the joy of the Lord. Listen to me, listen to these verses. These are statements Jesus made. John chapter 15, verse 11. I'll just quote them to you. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy may remain in you. Listen to this, that your joy might be full. Jesus wants and Jesus expects his people to have the joy of the Lord filling their life. That your joy may be full. Listen to John chapter 16, verse 24. Hitherto have ye asked nothing my name, Jesus speaking Ask and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. Listen to 1 John 1 and verse 4. And these things write we unto you that your joy might be full. He says one of the reasons God gave us the Bible. So that our hearts can be filled with the joy of the Lord. One of the chief characteristics of the Christian life is joy. 2 John 1:12. Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink, but I trust to come unto you and speak face to face that our joy might be full. The basis of David's joy in the first place, the whole reason he had any joy in his life at all, was because he had salvation. He had salvation. There is a joy available to mankind that only God can give. If you're here or you're listening in, And you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, Jesus Christ can give you a joy that nothing in this world can give you. Not in the bottle. Last night there was folks sitting in bars, sitting at home, drinking themselves drunk Trying to find some joy, trying to find some peace, some sort of escape. And I'm telling you, they wake up in the morning worse than they were when they started. I'm telling you, God can give a joy, God can give a peace in the heart and life that the bottle will never give God has a joy available in salvation that uh that the uh uh adulterer's bed can never give. Oh David, he had a night. But the joy was gone. No joy there. The bottle, the bed, the bar room, money All these things can give a temporal pleasure, but never a lasting joy. I tell you, the uh this pleasure, this happiness, this quote-unquote joy that the world offers to us. is very, very temporal. I like Dairy Queen. Anybody here like Dairy Queen? And you know, if you order one of those, um I always forget the name of it. Blizzard! I tried getting my wife to go out last night and get ice cream. She wouldn't do it. So if you get one of those blizzards, you go down there, you know what they do? They bring it out to you, you know what they do? They turn it upside down. And if it falls out, you get it for free. Well, I don't want it. After it falls out, why would I even want it? Actually we had some Bible conveyances we took down that were you alone? Uh took down the other year and the lady came out and didn't have it and it fell on his lap. And um I tell you, and especially you get a big one. You know, you get that big blizzard. Here's the problem. And you take a big old spoonful of that, start wolfing it down. Oh, it tastes so good right at first But what happens? You get an ice cream headache. Anybody know ice cream headache? Brain freeze. I think they uh back home we had 7-Eleven. There's one downtown in there. Uh 7-11. We used to go to 7-Eleven. What do you get at 7-Eleven? Slurpee! Oh, we love slurpees. We get extra large. You know we did a hot summer day, be out working, get there and get that slurpee and Oh, it's so good. And then all of a sudden, ah, headache. I got thinking about that. That's kind of the way the world's pleasure is. And it's so good. And then you got a headache. And you got a headache Oh, if I could just that, if I just had this, I just enjoy that, if I just could do this, that would make me happy, and that would give me joy, and that Got people running after every ungodly, wicked, perverse thing in the world, trying to find some joy, some temporal pleasure. And all they end up with is a headache. That's the way sin is, except it's not a headache. We die in our sins unsaved, spend eternity away from God in a place called hell. David's joy. David said, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. That's where peace is. That's where joy is. When I am right with my creator, the God that created me in his image, the God that created me for purposes that he has in mind, and I get in tune with him, and trust in Christ, and my sins are removed. I'm one with my Lord and God. That's joy. That's peace. David said, I want that joy of my salvation to come back. That was the basis of his joy. Years ago down um got a canoe back years ago. I love my little canoe. I like fishing, I have my little canoe, and on um out on um sand flat road. Just before you get 219, this was years ago, um my wife will remember this, there was a boat setting in beside this guy's house, and I kept seeing that boat. I mean it was nice, had a big motor, trailer, nice big fishing boat. I thought, boy, I would have stopped and talked to him about that. And there was weeds growing up all around it, so he wasn't using it. And I thought, man, if I had that boat, I'd be happy. If I had that boat, that would be real joy. I could go out fishing, I could back that thing in, that motor, I'd just race over. I'd uh man, I'd be a happy man. I'd be a happy preacher if I had that boat So finally one day I stopped and said, I see this boat sitting there. It's all grown up. I said, um, what are you doing with that? What's the story? He goes, you want it Said, sure. Says, it's yours. Oh, I was so happy A boat and it's got a motor and a trailer and everything. And I got that thing, brought it home. Some of you all remember years ago. That sat beside my garage. And I got started cleaning it up, getting it ready, I found out there was catastrophic failure in the motor. And I had guys come by and look at that thing, and Mike Stubler came over and Uh, I had that thing for, I don't know, six months or a year. And I it was shot. It leaked. It was it was terrible Finally I said, Mike, I don't I'm not gonna be able to I had a guy look at it, he says, you might as well buy a new motor. This motor is there's nothing you can do. And so uh Mike, I said, Mike, what am I gonna do with this boat? He goes, Well I know a guy up at the lake, he takes it's like a boat junkyard. He goes, we'll haul it up there and just give it to him. I said, all right. We hauled it up one Saturday. God took it. I was so happy. Happiest day of my boat owning career was when I got it, and the next happiest day was when I got rid of it. That's the way it is with the world, isn't it? Oh, I gotta have this. Oh, this would make me so happy. And we get it, and it's just ashes. Just a bag with holes in it. Miserable. David says, I need that joy of my salvation back. That's where joy is. That's where it's at. You know the problem is with so many people in the world? is they're satisfied, they're content with being unhappy. Content living a joyless life And God has so much more available. God has so much peace. God has so much joy. God has so much purpose and fulfillment available to every man, woman, and child. Through the Lord Jesus Christ, but we're content living miserable, unhappy, temporal pleasure lives. David said, I want that joy of my salvation. I knew. I knew what that was. I knew what that was like. God's salvation is deliverance from the greatest danger ever known to man, eternal judgment in hell, and there is no greater joy than knowing that God loves me. Enough to die for me, that God would save me from eternity and hell under his wrath. God loves me. There's no greater joy than that. The world can't touch that So the basis of David's joy was his salvation. If you're not saved, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ, you may be religious You may be just doing your thing, say, preacher, I don't care about that. I'm telling you, if that's the case, you don't care about the most important thing that you need in your life. So the basis of his joy was his salvation. If you're not saved, I plead with you. Trust Christ and get saved. Next thing I noticed, the removal of his joy. The removal of his joy. That was sin in his life. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. It is possible for a Christian to lose their joy. It is possible for a Christian to allow sin in their life to make a foolish decision. to get involved in something and it that joy is gone. Sin is costly Notice here, let me give you, and again, you could do a whole series on this, and let me give you real quickly what Psalm 51, some things that Psalm 51 says that sin Will do. And I'll just give you the reference. If you want to jot these down, I can give it to you later if you want. But I put these down. Ten things from Psalm 51 that sin will do. Number one, it stains the heart Verse 2 and verse 7 and verse 10. Created look in verse 10. He says, Create in me a clean heart. Sin has stained it. I tell you, there's nothing more miserable. The knowing that my heart is stained with sin. To look in the mirror and know in my heart that there's sin. Tell you there's nothing more miserable than that. Look what else it says. It enslaves the mind. Look at verse 3. For I acknowledge my transgression. Look at this. My sin is what? Ever before me. I can't shake it. Man, it's just on my heart all the time. It's on my conscience. I can't shake this thing. David was miserable. His heart was vexed by this unconfessed sin. Number three, it stings my conscience. Verse 9. He says, blot out all my iniquities, all it's on my conscience. Get it out. Get it out. Number four, it suffocates my joy. Verse 80 says, make me to hear joy and gladness. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, verse 12. It sickens the body. Again, verse 8. Make me to hear joy, glad, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. David was sick in his body because of the sin. It sours our attitude, verse 10. It shakes our assurance, verse 11. It steals our strength, verse 12. It stifles our soul winning, verse 13, and it shuts up our praise, verse 14 and 15. Look at verse 15, O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. Sin took all that away from him. Sin is costly. Sin is killing our country. It's killing our churches. It's killing our homes. It's destroying the joy that is so available in the lives of Christians. Sin It is possible to be saved and be unhappy. It's possible to be saved and yet not have joy. Every one of us has the potential of wandering from God. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, and turn to Psalms chapter 16 with me, if you would. Psalm chapter 16. You say, preacher, I thought you were preaching about joy. Well, we are. But if we're going to have it, we need to realize that which takes our joy away. Psalm 16, look with me at verse number 8. 16, verse 8, it says I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. This was written by David before his sin. Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth. My flesh shall rejoice in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to seek corruption. He's talking about his salvation. That was the basis of his joy. Now look at this. Look at verse 11. Thou wilt show me the path of life. Look at this. In thy presence is what? Fullness of joy. In the presence of God, there is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures evermore. You know what David's saying? He's saying the closer I am to the presence of God, the more joy I'll have in my life. The farther I get from the presence of God, the farther I get out of the will of God, the farther my relationship with God deteriorates. the less joy I will have in my life. And thy presence is fullness of joy. The farther you and I get from God, the less joy we're going to experience. The closer we get to God the more we'll have of the fullness of his joy. I read about an 80-year-old man was dying, Christian man. Eight years old, he was on his deathbed. He called a family member over. He says, I want you to take a certain amount of money, and I want you to send it to this Christian publisher. I said, why would you want us to do that? He said, fifty years ago, I stole a book from that Christian bookstore. I never paid for it. I walked out without it deliberately on purpose. He said all these years that sin, quote unquote, little sin has haunted me. It's haunted me. I want to pay that Christian publisher back. I want you to include interest. Because I don't want to go to heaven. That's stained my heart. You say, oh brother, taking a little book, how big a deal is that? I tell you, when it comes to sin, it's a big deal. David said, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. I've lost it. I'm talking to some folks. There used to be a day you loved coming to church. Oh, you loved it and to sing those songs. Just sing it out. Eager to get the Bible. What's the preacher going to preach on today? See God's people. Not that way anymore. Drudgery. We going to church tomorrow. Yeah, we gotta go. If not, preacher will get all over us. David said, I want that joy back. I want it back. Sin has taken it from me. It's been removed. And last of all, say, all right, we get the point, preacher. The restoration. Of this joy. You know how to get the joy back? You know how that joy can be restored? Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. You know how you get it back? I think we do three things. Number one, we confess our sin. Number two, we repent from it. And number three, I submit to the Lord. Submit to the Lord. Say, Lord, I'm going to do it your way now. I'm going to submit to you. I want you to have your way. I always said there's two things a Christian should do with sin. There's only two things to do with sin. Confess it and forsake it. Proverbs chapter 28. We're too satisfied with living with joyless a joyless Christian life. We're too content living a joyless Christian life, and we have this little sin here, and this little Attitude there and this little area of disobedience here, and we have all these little foxes that steal the grapes of joy from the garden of our heart, and we tolerate them And we're content to live that way. David said, I'm not content to live without the joy of the Lord. There's so much more available. And he confessed his sin and he forsook it and he submitted himself to God. God restored the joy of his salvation. You read some of the Psalms that David wrote after this event And they are filled with joy. He got it back. He got the joy back when he confessed, forsook, and submitted. Restore, the word restore means to put back in place. It means to return to its original condition. You get an old piece of beat-up furniture that great-grandma had. Uh my dad's had a rocking chair that was his grandmother's mother, am I right? His grandmother's mother's rocking chair And uh we got it there and and uh number of years ago, dad it was getting worn out. He used it every day, he's getting worn out, so he took it to um uh place That fixes that stuff. And he got it he got it restored. They put it back to its original condition. The way it used to be. Got it back. David said, I want to get back the way it used to be. I want that joy back. God, I said, I did wrong. It was sin. And I repent. I put it out of my life, and God, I submit. Whatever you want me to do, I'll do it. I yield to you. Might mean forgiving somebody. Maybe it's the sin of unforgiveness Maybe it's a sin of anger. It's taken your joy. Maybe it's a sin of dishonesty. I don't know. We could just go down a list. I know this. Whatever it is, we know what it is. The Holy Spirit's very good, better than I am at pointing out the sin in our lives. We don't have to question that. We know. The other night, last night I took the dog for a walk late. And did you see that moon last night? Anybody see that thing? I got new eyes. This is a whole new world I'm living in. It's like, wow Anybody see that moon last night? Good. I don't know if it's full moon, but it's very close. If not, it's right there. And the dog was for a change, was being very nice. And we're walking, I just looked at everything. And I got, I heard the moon talking to the sun That's where I got this message from. And the moon said to the sun, I sure enjoy Reflecting your sunlight off of me. The world looks and sees your light reflected off of me, and it guides their ships at night. And it gives them light and direction and joyment. He said, but something happened. And that light, the sun reflecting off of me, got less, less and less. And one day there was no light at all. The joy and the sh and the glory of the sun was missing from my life. The moon said that. The son said, I'll tell you what happened. The world got between you and me. It's an eclipse. The world was between the moon and the sun, and it took out all the glory. You know what happens to Christians? The world gets between us and the Lord. Some attitude, some sinful endeavor So bitterness gets between us and God, and that joy fades, disappears. The moon said, how do I get it back? He said, get the world out from between you and me, and the glory will come back. If you and I will confess our sin, forsake it, get rid of it, I'm telling you that joy will come right back. Come right back. Father, help us. Restore unto us the joy of thy salvation. In the midst of the crazy, wicked darkness of this world, help us. To have the joy of the Lord. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many folks here this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I know the Lord is Savior. I've trust Him, no doubt about it. But you'd say, Preacher Things aren't now the way they used to be in my Christian life. And I need it back. I like David. I want it back. Now it might not be some doltery like David was, murder. It doesn't take much. Doesn't take much to steal that joy. How many would say, preacher, pray with me? Please pray with me. I can get that back. Know that joy. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I want it back. God bless you, hands all around. Now it's up to us. God restores the joy. God gives it, God restores it, but in response. To us. And I can decide, say, Lord, you're right. This needs to be out of my life. I need to fully yield to surrender to you. And God will fill us with His Spirit and with His joy. Any others, preach or pray with me? I can have that feeling, that joy that the Lord wants me to have. God bless you. Bunch of hands. How many of here would say, preacher, I'm trying to live for God, I'm trying to have a good testimony? You'd say, pray with me that I'll be extra careful, be vigilant, be sober. Trust the Lord to help me be wise and not lose that which I've had. Is there anything like that? We try and get careless sometimes, but get on the edge there. We need to be sober. We need to be vigilant. God bless you. So some here this morning are online. Say, preacher, I'm not saved. I'm not happy and I'm not saved. I need the Lord in my life, bad. He'll come in if you'll trust Christ. He'll forgive your sin, give you a new life, take you to heaven. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get this matter settled. I need the Lord in my life I need to be saved. Any at all? How about any at all? Father, bless her invitation this morning, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen