I keep chapter three. If you haven't found it yet, just look intelligently at the Bible like if you're actually there. Nobody will know the difference And what I want to do is read verse number 2 of Habakkuk chapter 3. And you say, preacher, that's our memory verse. I know it. And I want us to read this together here in unison, if you would read it with me. Habakkuk chapter 3 and verse number 2. Everybody got it there? You ready? If you found Habakkuk, say amen. All right, that's everybody. Let's say it together. Verse 2. O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years make known. In wrath, remember mercy. I've titled the message, Revive Thy Work. This year our theme is Revive Us Again. Wilt thou not revive us again? that thy people may rejoice in thee. I don't know about you, but our churches uh uh I see our churches in America desperately needing revival. And I love our church and I believe we have a good church and I thank God for every person and what God's how good God's been to us. But I'll be honest with you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church could use revival A new stirring of the Spirit of God, a new movement of God, and that we fall back in love with Jesus again and and uh we have a love for one another and for the Lord and trying to reach the lost and living godly And uh we need revival. Our homes need revival. Amen or not. Our homes. And um I need revival. We were praying last night Here at the altar, a couple of us, Dale and Pastor Matt and myself, were praying. Every Saturday night we pray. And fellas, you're welcome to join us at 9 o'clock And we just pray for God's blessings on our services. We pray there'll be souls saved and and lives changed and and hearts hearts renewed. We just want God's hand on what we do. All the ministries around here. We want God's hand on it. And I got praying while it's while we were praying there, it just kind of s hit me. We've been preaching on revival, praying for revival in our church, and it's like the Lord spoke to my heart And I thought, maybe the one that needs revival is me. Maybe it's me, it's my heart that needs it. And so we're praying for revival. And so with that in mind, uh we're looking at Habakkuk's little prayer here. Wilt thou he says, O Lord, revive thy work. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we come now to your word this morning, and I trust, Lord, that our hearts are hungry To hear from you. And Lord, if we're not hungry to hear from you, I pray your Holy Spirit would stir up that hunger and put a desire in our hearts to know you better than we've ever known you before. And God put a hunger in our hearts to experience your power and live lives that you intended us to live. And be the testimony you've instructed us to be. And experience the blessing and joy you long to give us. And so search our hearts, God, this morning. Try us. Lord, if there's some wicked way in us, Lord, stir us to repent and put it out. Lord, if there's some lack of faith, unbelief, Lord stir us and help us to choose to believe Lord, we want you to be glorified. We want your dwell done in every one of our lives. So I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit now for this message. Is that my body, Lord, just an instrument in your hand that you could speak through me and help us to be open-hearted, open-minded to your word? And then responsive to how you deal with our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Habakkuk. It's one of the shortest books in all the Bible. It's probably could maybe say it's one of the most obscure books in all the Bible. How many uh l let me just say it's this I uh maybe I shouldn't do this, but I wonder how many folks you had a little hard time finding Habakkuk there. How to dig a little bit. Anybody have to go to the index in the front? Yeah. You're no dummies. And um it's a l it's an obscure book. We understand that. It's small. Tucked in the end of the Old Testament there with what we call the minor prophets, the major prophets being Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel's usually included in And we call them major because of the size of the book, not because of the it doesn't imply the importance of the book. They're all important Then you have the minor prophets, and we call them minor because they're short, they're brief. Habakkuk is in that list. It's a little-known book. You ask somebody, what's your favorite verse from Habakkuk? And they'll look just look at you probably. Unless they memorized our verse this month. It's a little noticed. Brother Wilbur and I were talking yesterday, we were visiting yesterday, and he says, I don't know if I've ever heard a sermon from the book of Habakkuk. And I got looking, Wilbur, I actually did. I think I have two sermons I preached from Habakkuk over the years. Not a lot of attention given to the book of Habakkuk. Yet Habakkuk is vitally important. It's referenced numerous times throughout the New Testament. Did you know that? Habakkuk. In Acts chapter number 13, verse 40 and 41, Paul is referencing Habakkuk chapter 1 and verse 5. He quotes it almost verbatim. Paul was very familiar with the book of Habakkuk. Um in uh in uh Romans chapter one and verse number seventeen, Galatians chapter three and verse eleven and Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 38, those all three quote, Habakkuk chapter 2 and verse 4. In fact, why don't you just look over? It's the next page over there, and look at verse 4. See if you haven't heard this phrase before. Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him. Look at this last phrase. But the just shall live by faith. How many people have ever heard that phrase before? Sure, it comes from Habakkuk Would you agree with me? That's a vital truth. The just shall live by faith? Goodness. That's the core of the Christian life, living the Christian life by faith. So I'm trying to convince you this morning. I'm trying to convince everybody this morning that the book of Habakkuk is important. Paul was very familiar with it. He quotes it. He quotes it again in these other books we mentioned: the just shall live by faith. The fella Habakkuk. I mean I don't does anybody here ever name your kid Habakkuk? I've never come across anybody with that name. The name itself, it means to embrace or to hold to, to cling to. Whatever his mother, when he was born, she named him embraced. Hold tightly, hold firmly. Now that implies some things here. We don't know, we know almost nothing about this fellow, this Habakkuk. We don't know when he was born. We don't know when he died. We don't know how he died. We don't have any certainty as to who his parents are. How he was raised? Was he raised wealthy or was he raised in poverty? Did he grow up in the city or did he grow up on the countryside? We don't know. We don't know any of that. We know nothing about him personally, almost. We know nothing about his background. He just shows up on the pages of Scripture here in the book of Habakkuk. As I said, his name means to embrace. He identifies himself as a prophet. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 1. He says it right there. He says, uh He says, the burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. So we know he's a prophet of God. Again, in chapter 3, verse 1, a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet. And so he identifies himself, the Bible identifies him as a prophet. We would assume that he is a, what in use our terminology, he's a full-time prophet. He's not a part-time prophet. He doesn't work a job. He's not a mechanic on on chariots. on the side and go and do profit uh do profit stuff. Uh that he's as far as we can tell, I mean this is his livelihood. This is he lives by faith. And his occupation, his whole purpose of his whole life is to declare the Word of God as it's given to him, as it's revealed to him. And so that's pretty much the extent of what we know for certain about Habakkuk. Now, there are some legends. About Habakkuk. And you know, legends can be interesting. Ancient Jewish scholars suggested Now you have to know your Bible a little bit to appreciate this, maybe, but ancient Jewish scholars suggested that he was the child of the Shunammite woman. Remember the Shunammite woman built that little uh cottage, uh little built uh little prophet's chamber for uh Elijah? Coming by and then uh uh got and Elijah wants to do something for it and she goes, No, I'm good. You don't have to do anything. She built this little prophet's chamber where when Elijah's coming through, he would go and stay there And um he says, what can we do for you? I can speak to the king, I can do something for you. She goes, No, no, I'm good, I'm good, it's all good. And uh his assistant says, you know, she doesn't have any children So he says, you know, you're gonna have a baby, you're gonna have a child. And she goes, oh get out of here. It's in the Hebrew, oh get out of here. And lo and behold, she does. And when a child small gets sick, dies. And she calls Elisha. Anybody here remember that story? She calls Elisha back. And he prays for the child and he embraces the child. And the life comes back to the child. That's why they think, because his name means embrace. And so these Jewish, ancient Jewish scholars. believe that that's that little child was Habakkuk. Now I don't know how that fits in the time frame there as far as when what he's prophesying here, but that's interesting. Some others have suggested the book of Apocrypha, which is not not inspired, it's just writings. But in the book, one of the books of Apocrypha it says that Habakkuk Was sent by an angel of God to go give uh let me see, I got it written down here, uh, to give um uh pottage and bread To Daniel, when he was in the lion's den, when the king sent through Daniel in the lion's den, an angel sent Habakkuk to go down and give Daniel some pottage and bread. That's an apocrypha. Now these are legends, and you know what legends are? They're legends. Well we don't know what credibility can we put on them, we don't know. And so I come back to my first statement. So we know very little, if anything, about this fellow Habakkuk. He's possibly a contemporary of Jeremiah. And the reason we think that is because some of the things he's prophesying about, the coming captivity and the invasion of Israel, is the same thing Jeremiah is preaching about, prophesying about and uh the coming judgment of God on Israel. And so they're they have their s their message is very, very similar. And so we are led to believe he probably was a contemporary of Jeremiah. So that's a little background of the man and the book itself. Other than that, we don't know a whole lot about him. But we do know this. In studying the few little chapters here, Habakkuk was a troubled prophet. His heart was unsettled. I almost want to put it this way: Habakkuk was frustrated with God. He was frustrated with the circumstances and situation he's found himself in. Now we hate to admit this. But I wonder how many of us that know the Lord as Savior, have we ever been to a point in our life where we got a little bit frustrated with God? Come on, anybody? On timing? God, why why is this taking so long? Um I I I I have to admit I was there's a number of years ago a situation and I just got I hate to admit it, I'm ashamed to admit it, but I got aggravated with God God, why are you doing this? Why are you letting this in my life? Why is this happening? Thank God we've come to a point where we trust Him. We understand he's wise. I'm 63 years old, and I figured one thing out. God's smarter than I am. Anybody get to that point yet? That's a good place to get. God's wiser than I am. He knows the end from the beginning. And you know what I found out? It's a whole lot better to just trust Him. Then walk around aggravated all the time because I don't understand. Well, Habakkuk was aggravated. There were several things going on that He didn't understand he was frustrated with one thing was he was frustrated, he was troubled by the spiritual condition of God's people They were backslidden. They were extremely backslidden. I mean, they were these were God's people living as bad, if not worse, than the people of the world. And and and Habakkuk, it bothers him. You know, a child of God ought to be bothered when the church of God isn't what it ought to be. It ought to bother us when Christians are backslidden and carnal and worldly. That ought to bother us. When we get to the point where it doesn't matter whether we're right with God or not. That's a bad place to be. And a back's heart is burdened. He's troubled. God's people are so backslidden. The nation of Israel. They were preoccupied with the things of this world. They were what we would call materialistic in their thinking. In other words, things, material things, had a higher priority in their lives and in their thinking than the things of God. Stuff they could possess and and uh and they could hoard up and get and money and possessions and popularity and pleasures All of that, they were living for all of that, and the things of God, the eternal things, the things that matter, they pushed aside and had little value, little concern. I remember before I got saved those months leading up in 1979, the months leading up to May, beginning of May, when I did get saved, those weeks and months leading up to that, God was convicting me And I'll tell you, everything I was living for was here and now, was for this world, for what made me happy, what brought me pleasure, what uh satisfied me And man, God's Holy Spirit is convicting me, and I'm making such a mess. I'm again praying, God help me, God help me. And he led me to read the Bible. And I began reading. I come across 2 Corinthians 4, verse 18. It says this. For the invisible thing, it says, um, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. Now listen to this. For the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. Did you know there's a whole lot more to this world than the house you live in? There's a whole lot more to life than what kind of car you're driving or what kind of threads you wear. I tell you, we're spiritual beings. There's a spiritual world out there that you can't see and you can't touch and you can't smell and you can't hear it. But it is as real as this pulpit right here, the spiritual world we live in And what was happening to God's people, they were so caught up with the material things they completely forgot, they completely neglected, they completely put aside the spiritual realities. And their standing before their God and Creator. And the relationship with their God. And what direction their lives were heading. I'm telling you, when God's people value material things more than spiritual realities, we need revival. And Habakkuk is burdened. God's people are preoccupied with the things of this world to the neglect of their spiritual well-being. Here's an interesting, here's here's uh an interesting observation I made. I see Christians saved, I have no doubt about it, they're saved. And uh uh man, we're investing all kinds of time and money and effort into our homes, into our cars, and into our hobbies. And those are fine. They all have their place. But all our time and effort and our focus and our affection is on these material things and never give a thought to the fact that one day I'm going to stand before God And give an account to how I live my life. I'm telling you, that ought to stir our hearts to get our priorities back in line. Amen. Are you with me? Everybody with me? I see unsaved people. I've observed this. Unsaved people. They buy insurance on their house in case it burns down. They buy insurance on their car in case it's going to r it they have a wreck. They buy insurance on their uh snowmobile or whatever, their toys in case they get stolen or wrecked. You don't buy insurance on your house because it's going to burn down. You buy insurance in your house in case it burns down Hopefully it won't. But they never give one thought to their soul, which will One day go out into eternity, either heaven or hell. Why are we so concerned about the material things? Why do we place such a high priority on the physical things? And completely miss spiritual realities, our eternal destiny A relationship with God, the judgment of God that Christians face at the judgment seat of Christ, the judgment of God, the unsafe face at the great white throne. And Habakkuk looks at the people of God and he sees them running and playing and buying and selling. All pleasure and fun. And he looks and he says, no one even thinks about their God. No one's paying a bit of attention to their spiritual well-being. Their Bibles are dust-covered. The house of God is empty. There's no family devotions. There's no personal prayer time. There's no talking of the Lord. It's all stuff and things and material. Read the book. Abak's burden about that. He's troubled. He's troubled, they prioritize their own will over God's will. You know what I've learned This uh this past May, it was forty-four years that uh I that I've been knowing the Lord. So I'm coming up on forty-four and a half years that I've been saved. I can't even believe I'm that old, let alone been saved that long I thought it would take longer to get to this age than what it did. But um I'm trying to remember what I was gonna say there now. Oh All these years, there's been some times when my will, now see if you can't relate to this, there's been times when my will contradicted God's will. There's this conflict. Any can I get a witness? Anybody? This is a this is what I want. This is the way I think it ought to be. This is what I think should be done. This is what I need to And I've got my will set up, and I come to the Word of God, and all of a sudden I find out God's will doesn't line up with my will. It's like And so there's a decision that needs to be made. Right or wrong? I gotta decide. Am I going to press on in my will? Or am I going to set aside my will and submit my will to a perfectly holy, wise, all-knowing, good, just God? Now, how many people think it would be smart to submit my will to the will of a perfectly wise, all-knowing, good judge? How many people think that would be wise? How many people think it would be stupid? For me to press on in my will, knowing it's not the will of God, how many people think how many people think I ever did something stupid? Wait a minute But that's the way we are, isn't it? And that's how God's people were. They didn't care about God's will. They don't care about we had a little kid in a bus down in Chattanooga. And uh we were in the inner city projects and picked up these kids and it was a hoot and they come from just sad situations. There was one boy, um, I don't even know what his name was. Everybody called him cornbread So we just called them cornbread. And um we'd be I'd be up there preaching, I'm a young preacher boy, you know, and I'm fired, I'm I'm preaching to these kids a whole Fifty, sixty kids on that buzz, I'm preaching to them. And old cornbreads sit back there and go like this. He's like, you knucklehead. I don't see anybody do it physically, but I think sometimes we as Christians we do this to God, don't we? I don't want to do your will, God. I want my will. I want my will. I want my will. Did you know there's a way that seemeth right unto man? But the end thereof are the ways of what? Death. Death. I've never regretted. I have never ever regretted submitting my will to the will of God. Not one time. I have regretted insisting on doing it my will and disregarding the will of God. And Habakkuk's burden He looks at the people of God and they don't even care about God's will. What God says is non-issue. It's going on. Going on. Highway to hell. Highway to God's judgment. Highway to the wrath and curse of God upon them. They didn't even care what God's will was. And it stirred his heart, broke his heart. And there was something else that bothered Habakkuk. Look with me of wood at chapter 1 and verse number 2. This is this fellow Habakkuk. We don't know anything about it. We don't know where he's born. We don't know where he died. We don't know his parents. There's some legends about him, but we don't know. But we do know this. It bothered him when God, when it seemed like God wasn't answering his prayers. Look with me at chapter 1 and verse 2. O Lord. How long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear? Even cry unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not say. Look over, if you would, chapter 2 and verse number 1. Look what he says here. I will stand upon my watch and set me upon the tower and will watch to see what he will say unto me. And what I shall answer when I'm reproved. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I prayed and I prayed and I prayed. And there's violence in the streets, and there's sin in our homes, and there's rebellion and ungodliness and worldliness And God, I've prayed, and I've prayed and I've prayed, and you won't answer me. Would you agree with me? It's hard when it seems like God doesn't hear us. Anybody here ever pray and pray and pray? And it's like the ceiling is cast iron Anybody know anybody know what I'm talking about? I tell you, it can be discouraging. Did you ever ask this? God, where are you? God, where are you? That's where Habakkuk was. And then verse 2, to his credit, he goes, God's not answering. I'm going to stand here and I'm going to wait until he answers. And I'm going to keep watching, and I'm going to keep watching, I'm going to keep waiting. And by the way, that's good advice when you're praying. When it seems like God's not answering your prayer, just keep right on praying. Just keep right on trusting, keep right on waiting. You know what I've found? I found out that God is never late Another thing I found out, God never, almost, in fact I want to say, never, works on my schedule. Don, I'm going to put this in my calendar here. You're going to answer this prayer on Thursday at one o'clock. Doesn't work that way. And so Habakkuk is a troubled prophet. Reminds me a little bit of Jonah. Jonah was troubled. Now his trouble was God was going to show mercy to the Ninevites. And Jonah, don't show them mercy. What are you kidding? They're terrible people. Judge them! Burn them up! God says, no. If they repent, I'll show them mercy, I'll forgive them, I'll spare them. And that didn't set well with Jonah. Now God dealt with them, right? Well here we have Habakkuk. God's about to judge his people for being so backslidden and worldly. And Habakkuk's saying, God show mercy. God show mercy. And he just sees things getting worse and getting worse and getting worse. And there's rumblings of the Syrian, the Assyrians and the Babylonians, and they're invading and they're moving uh west towards Israel and and he they see it coming and Jeremiah is preaching Captivity's coming. You don't get things right. God's judging. Judgment's coming. And they look to the east and they see these wicked, violent nations approaching with their armies and their war machines. And here's Habakkuk and he's saying, God show mercy to us. And it seems like God doesn't answer. And it seems like God doesn't show mercy And the wickedness goes on, and the rebellion goes on, and the unconcern and apathy goes on. And Habakkuk says, God, I'm just going to stand and watch. Well, lo and behold, God does answer Habakkuk. And he assures them that I'm going to deal with Israel. And they're going to be chastened for their sin and their rebellion. They're going to be judged for it And this isn't a popular message. And I know you say, preacher, I worked hard a week, I had a tough week. I come to church, and you tell me this, but I'm here to tell you, there is judgment coming. There is a day when God will judge the earth. And the world can deny it, the world can mock that, the world can ignore it. The world can make fun of that truth, but I'm here to tell you, God's word is true. Judgment is coming. We better pay attention. And so God says, Yup, I'm going to deal with it, Habakkuk. I'm going to deal with it. He says, but I'm going to do it in my time. Look at verse 3 of chapter 2. He says, For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie. Though I tarry, wait for it, because it will surely come, it will not tarry. So God says, judgment is coming. If you look at chapter 2, verse 6, in the middle of the verse he says, Woe unto him. Look at chapter 9. Or verse 9 of chapter 2. Woe unto him that c coveteth an evil covetousness. Verse 12, Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood and established a city. by iniquity. Look at verse fifteen Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor to dr neighbor drink, that puttest the bottle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look upon their nakedness, drunkenness, and shame and covetousness and violence. God says, I'm going to deal with it, Habakkuk. I'm dealing with it. In my time it's going to be dealt with. And then he tells them, you be patient and you trust me. And we get to chapter 3, and I'll end with a couple thoughts from our verse. Chapter 3 is a prayer of Habakkuk. If you notice in verse 1, he says A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon a Shegeanoth. That word is used twice in the Bible. It simply means this, a poem. It's a poetic prayer. It's a prayer that's written in poetic form. Now we don't see in our English so much, but in the Hebrew it's pretty clear. And he says in verse 2, O Lord, I have heard thy speech. Was afraid. He said, I've heard you say you're going to bring judgment. You're going to judge your people. It scares me to death. He says, O Lord, please revive thy work in the midst of the years. That phrase in the midst of the years, I understand it, means now. Don't wait before now. Lord, we need a revival now. In the midst of the years make known. In your wrath and judgment, please remember mercy. Habakkuk's praying for revival. And we as a church, and I trust many, hopefully most of our church folk this year, we've been praying for revival. And we believe the Bible. And we believe that God does not wink at sin and He doesn't ignore apathy. And there's a price to pay when living outside the will of God. And we want God to revive us. And we want God to make our hearts right again. And we want God's joy and His presence to anoint our homes again. And we want to be a witness. We want to see people born again, saved, lives changed. We want to see the power of God upon our ministries. We want revival. And that's what Habakkuk's praying for. We're in good company when we ache and long and pray for revival. I put this down, revival comes in response to prayer. Habakkuk's praying for revival. I think one of the most effective things Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can do to see revival again, I mean old time, old school, Holy Ghost Bible revival. The best things we can do is pray. One of the most effective things we can do is pray. Revival comes in response to prayer. There's no revival when there's no prayer. I think I believe behind every soul saved there's a praying Christian. I'm convinced of that. We were uh several about five, six years ago we uh went to um Australia with uh um Byron Fox down there. We were preaching for Lewis Howe, Australia, New Zealand. And we were in the Sydney, Australia, and we're out in this like shop uh this like open uh uh plaza area. It's kind of like that place down in Cumberland where it's a street but it's blocked off and they got all the stores and people play different instruments. Everybody know have any idea what I'm talking about? And so we're there giving out gospel tracts. And there's thousands of people. It's a big city. And we're giving out gospel tracts and there's all nationalities and we got into it with some Muslims and going back and forth. And different and finally Byron Fox he goes, Brother Leatherman! He yells across this whole thing. I don't know anybody else there named Leatherman, so I look around and uh he says, Come here So I go over there. He's got this fella just moved there from India and um just lived there a few months and Byron Fox he comes up and I don't know why he did this. He goes, Brother Leatherman will tell you how to get saved. Now I thought to myself, why don't you tell them how to get saved? But I said, okay, so we went over a wall there and I got my Bible out and I went through the plan of salvation. And I'm telling and this guy's fresh off the boat from India In Sydney, Australia. And I'm telling you, he is glued. And he's a sinner. He knows he's a sinner. He's broken. And he believes Jesus died for him and rose again. Yes, he believes that. And he calls, he bows his head right there with me, earnest, calling on Jesus Christ to be his personal Savior. And the old boy got saved. We got talking, we thought, what in the world, the guys out of India, that's not really a Christian nation in the sense there's a lot of Christians there And I told Brother Fox, I said, I have no idea of how I could know this. I have no idea whether this is true or not. But in my mind, I'm convinced there's somebody, a Christian, back in India, praying for that boy to get saved. Maybe a grandma came across a missionary, somebody and knows him and is praying. And I can't wait to get to heaven to find out if I'm right or wrong about that. I was out in Boulder, Colorado. They had a Pearl Street, it's called. It was a very similar situation street. They blocked off, and there's musicians and all these shops and everything. And we were street preaching. We had some young men, Bible time guys, uh they're preaching and I'm standing we're out in the crowd and the people get together and making fun of them, yelling, and these guys are up there preaching the gospel away And uh finally he talked about how to be saved, and there's a fellow standing beside, I'm standing there looking at this guy, and man, he's glued to him. And so when it wound down, I went over, I said, uh, what do you think of what he said? He goes, because I've heard that before I said, do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? He goes, no, I don't. He said, can I show you? He goes, yeah. So we kind of slipped under a light. It was at night. We slipped under a light there and I did the same thing. Went through the plan of salvation with him. And he was right on board. He said, I've heard this before. I know this is true. And I don't know why I said it, I just asked him. I said, do you have a Christian mama? Christian mama somewhere praying for you? He began crying. He said, back in Iowa. My mama's been praying for me. So why don't you get saved? Answer her prayers. No boy bowed his head and called him the Lord Jesus, be a Savior. Mama back home praying for him. I'm telling you the power of prayer. Can reach around the world, can reach from state to state I said, you need to call your mom and tell her you got saved tonight. He said, as soon as I get home, I'm going to call her and I'm going home. A praying mama. Habakkuk's praying for revival. I believe behind every soul saved, there's a praying Christian I believe behind every restored prodigal is a praying Christian. I'm talking to a heap of folks here. You've got some kids that are out away from God. Am I right or wrong? I know. I'm telling you, prayer can bring that prodigal back. We had a lady in Indianapolis, and I've got a line down here, but we had a lady in Indianapolis, a dear older lady. She wasn't old, she was older, eighty, somewhere around there. And um but she had a daughter that was saved but is away from God. She all the time, she would say, priest pray for And I I don't remember her name, but pray for my daughter, pray for my daughter, pray for my daughter. She'd pray, she'd be at the altar praying for her daughter. She had us praying, the Astral staff praying One day the dear old dear lady died. I never saw her daughter. At the funeral, the daughter shows up. Baxton, prodigal daughter. She comes at the funeral, and my pastor I was working under, he just gave a simple little challenge from the Word of God. Give our lives to the Lord, live for Him, honor the Lord. I'm telling you, that daughter broke. And she stood there at that grave weeping. You know, she came to church the next Sunday. Sunday morning. She came back Sunday night. And when we eventually moved away, that old that girl was faithful to church every Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. You know what? Mama's prayers were answered. She'd have gone on to heaven, but her prayers still were effective. Behind every soul saved I believe there's a praying Christian. Behind every prodigal that comes back, there's a praying Christian. Listen, you got a daughter, you got a son that's away from God and out away from living in sin. You pray for them. Wherever they may be, your prayers go up to heaven, and from heaven it reaches to the ends of the earth and can bring them back. Abactic pray. Revive thy work again. Behind every healed marriage, there's a praying Christian. I believe that with all my heart. It's been a number of years ago, but I had a got a phone call a couple. Can we come and talk to you? They're not members of the church. I never met them before. I I didn't know. They just called up. I said, yeah, come on in. And they were members of another church. For whatever reason, they came over here and I went through a short amount of salvation. I believe the lady trusted the Lord as Savior right up front. They said, we're having a hard time. And I think one of them had moved out, if I remember. He said, can you help us? I said, I'm not a big counselor. I don't have great wisdom. I said, I think I know something will help you. He said, anything. What should we do? I said every day, maybe at night, you two get together and get on your knees. And you open the Bible and you ask God to speak to you and teach you and show you what you need to do. I mean together, the two of you. Read scripture together. And then you bow your heads and you pray, husband and wife, you pray. That God heals this. And God does what you cannot do. You know what? They did it. Come back a week. I said, how's it going? We're making progress. She's still a knucklehead, he's still a knucklehead, but we're making progress. And we met about three, four weeks, and that's basically all I said. Just guys read get on your knees. Read your Bible. Ask God to do a miracle Then they went on, I hadn't seen them. I mean it's been years. Every now and then I pass them somewhere with hey, that's it. The summer I'm at the fair booth. One evening we had the booth at the county fair. I'm standing there and lo and behold, they come walking by hand in hand. I said, guys! Oh Peser, let him in. And before I could say anything, they go, Oh, you helped us so much. We thank you. Thank you. Oh, you just can't believe what you've done for us I said, whoa, whoa, whoa, it wasn't me at all. God did it. God did it. What I'm trying to say is this, there's not a home situation so messed up that God, in response to prayer, can't fix it. Our God is a powerful God. And He specializes in cleaning up messes. And fixing broken things. But we have to pray. We have to pray. I believe, uh would you agree, our country's a mess. I believe if we could just get husbands and wives praying together, it would change our country. Change how the kids are growing up. Revival comes in response to prayer. And I got to end with this. Every revived church, behind every revived church, there's a praying Christian. Now I hope you understand what I'm saying. God did it. God did it. But in 1993, January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August of 1993, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church was in dire straits. Am I right or wrong, Helen? This church was on the brink of total collapse. Brother Harry knows what I'm talking about. Donna knows. I mean it was at the end of the rope. And I thank God for a handful of people like Hallen and And Donna and others who have gone on to be with the Lord. I thank God and and Ron I think was involved. And Dennis and Betty, I thank God for a handful of people that said, God, revive that church. And Paul and Mildred were in on it, and Stu was just a little pumped, but um not that little But thank God for a handful of people that believed that God could turn this thing around And we're not the biggest or the best of anything. But we've sure experienced the blessings of God at 1005 Broadford Road. And we've seen God do some amazing things, and the ends of the world have been touched by the ministries of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church because a handful of people got a hold of God in prayer and said, God, revive us again. I'm saying what God did then he can do again. And the homes that God has healed in the past, He can heal again. And just the same way He saved old hardened sinners in the past, he can do it again. But we have to pray. Have to pray. Revival comes in response to prayer. Preach the men's rally this week. Man, God got in that thing. There was men at the altar broken. There was one fellow about 35 years old. I mean sobbing broken. Gotham gave testimony and he said, I need to start being the daddy God wants me to be. I've been a sorry witness to my kids. And I didn't need to get right. And a couple other guys said the same thing. There's a fellow came up, there's a pastor, he has a little church that's in a very similar situation to what this church was, just struggling. And he said, Pray for me, Pastor Letterman. He said, I've just taken this church. And he says, it's it's a mess. I don't know. I said, brother, you plant your feet there You anchor yourself down, you get a hold of God, and you preach the word of God, and you pray, and you pray, and you pray. You see what God see what God won't do. Amen. Revival comes in response to prayer. So let's pray. Let's pray. Father. I pray you'd use this this morning. We've been hounding this matter of revival for months now. And God, we're looking to you and we're waiting on you. And Lord, uh I wanted to say, but revival never came to Israel. Never came on a national level, it never showed up. What what Habakkuk was praying for didn't happen. Not on a national level. But it did come to his heart. And he was revived. The end of the chapter 3 is revival. I pray, Lord, if you if you would spare our nation, that's what we want. But God, if you don't Send revival to our hearts. Help us be our homes, our church, be what they ought to be. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many with me say, Preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. They're dear to me. I want them to be saved. Say, preacher, I'm going to commit myself to pray. To earnestly pray for their salvation. Anyone like that, oh, they're heavy on my heart. I'm going to pray. I'm going to pray. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got a son or a daughter, a brother, a sister, they're away from God, they're far from God. But I'm going to pray that wherever they're at, God gets a hold of them and brings them back. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. What if there's some, and you don't need to respond to this, but in your heart, home struggling, need the joy of the Lord there again, the presence of God. Why don't you pray? Pray. Pray for our ministries. There's someone here, say, preacher, I'm not saved. If I die now, I don't know I'd go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me. And that he'll take me to heaven someday and not go to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. Any at all. Preacher, pray for me Father, I ask you bless now our invitation. Have your way in Jesus' name