We'll be doing our first chalk drawing tonight and uh of course we'll be giving them out on Friday night and so we have to go quickly over these rules I know after this many years, everybody knows them by heart. However, there are maybe somebody here. Is there anybody here that's never seen me do a chalk drawing? Let me see your hand. You never saw me do a chalk drawing Okay, we got one or two. The rest of you can go out and I'll cover these things with Alright, some of you may have forgotten them, okay? I see some gray heads out there. I know they forgot it. Okay, here's what the the rules for the contest uh uh are First of all, what is a visitor? A visitor is anyone who has not been in a previous service during the revival week. That's what a visitor is. It may be if somebody brought a visitor this morning and you want to count 'em, it's okay with me. Okay. So there you go. If somebody brought a visitor this morning. But uh anyway, uh visitor is any but for instance if uh Uh you get somebody that has not been in any of the services on Sunday, Monday or Tuesday, you get them here on Wednesday, they can you count 'em as good. Even if they're a member of the church or deacon or even if it's a pastor. Okay, if he wasn't here We know he's not all here, but we we don't know whether But anyway, that's what a visitor is. Uh that's that's for the little dig there you got on the deer, okay? Okay Then uh the second thing is you cannot give your visitors away. And uh that that is to keep grandmas and grandpa from giving their visitors to their grandkids. All right. We don't like grandpas and grandmas, so we do that. Um Anyway, you can't give your visitors away, all right. Now I don't mind if mom and dad, the children that are living under that same roof, work together for a chalk growing. I like to see families work together and of course if grandma or grandpa's uh you know, living there with you, why of course include them into it. Um the uh see once a visitor comes a They uh they once a visitor comes, then they are eligible then to work for a chalk drawing. They must come at least one time before they are eligible to uh get their own visitors and work for chalk drawings. And then you must uh invite your visitors off of church property. You can't wait till they walk through the door and say, Will you be my visitor Okay, so you have to get 'em if you can get 'em down on the road there, flag 'em down, why you know, you can do that. So I think that pretty well takes care of it. Now, on the back table, uh Um or some of my some of my artwork. If you're interested in uh some Christian artwork, why there it is. I'm a Christian and I did that work, makes it Christian artwork. Okay Uh there's uh there the uh Eagle Print back there has uh the memory verse on it and uh uh in uh one of these days we're gonna try to get a memory verse or a a Bible verse on uh all the pictures that we sell, but at this point we haven't done that. Uh to try to make it uh uh more more spiritual for those of you who are spiritual. And if you're not spiritual, then you can get the ones without the Bible verse. We'll have those too. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2. Now be back to the table every after every service to take your money. And she's been doing it to me for a long time and so she'll probably do a good job with you. I just want to uh just pull out uh just a portion of this one verse, and then we'll go from there. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2, the Word of God says, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Let's pray. Our Father, we bow before you this morning. First of all, to acknowledge uh our need, our weakness, we ask for your power. We ask you to cleanse our hearts. Pray for uh Father that you would uh stir us this morning. Pray that you would uh search out uh that sin that does so easily beset us. And uh give us the the wisdom, the strength, and the the willpower to uh cast it out that you might get victory I pray, Lord, for that one who may be here this morning that has never been born into the family of God. Perhaps they're not even sure what being born again is And I pray that this morning, if they do not know that they're saved and on their way to heaven, they might walk this isle and let us take an open Bible and show them how to be born into the family of God. Lord, we ask for your presence to be manifest here in the hearts of people. I pray that you'd speak to us. Use this evangelist, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Back in uh 1992, I was saved in ninety-two, February of uh 1992, 1962. Uh is that right? I better check my notes. Yeah, that's my one. 1962 and February, uh I trusted Christ as my personal Savior. Uh Nan a couple days later did the same thing. And then Uh we were living up in uh in Loch Lemp on top of the hill up there. We called it Snob Snob. And uh Uh after we were saved, we decided that we would buy a piece of ground up there and build a house. And so we bought a a corner lot up there and and uh on Snob's Knob and we uh dug a hole in the ground and put a basement up. uh put the flooring and everything on that and and we didn't have enough money to build the whole house so we just lived in the basement for for a time. And uh During that time though, I we wanted to make the basement homey and so uh you know, we had a kitchen down there and the and the the living room and And the end uh one end of our living room, uh, the wall, I wanted to put a fireplace. So we put a fireplace in there and then we wanted to put a stone cut stone fireplace. And uh So I had a f good friend, uh probably many of you in here remember June Paul. He's going on to be with the Lord now, but June Paul's a good friend of ours and and uh he was an encouragement. He and I coon hunted together And uh but anyway he was a stonemason so he said if you wanna put a cut stone fireplace up into your living room, he said uh if you'll if you'll face off the stone and mix the mortar He said, I'll lay it up for you. And I said, That sounds like a deal. So we went out to the Rock Quarry and got the rock and to make a long story short we started putting the thing up. Well, I wanted a a split mantle piece on there You know, I wanted a mantle over here, and then I wanted the the other part over here, and then in the center I wanted my deer head that I had gotten that I had mounted, see. And so that's the r the whole reason for that mantle and the fireplace was my deer head. I mean I didn't tell man that, I just w told her it was just to make it look pretty down there But I wanted to place them out that deerhead. And so anyway, I went out to the to a uh a place that uh had a bunch of old lumber and I told him what I wanted. I wanted a piece of cherry And uh uh I told him, explained it what I wanted, they said, okay, I think I got just a piece for you, and he brought me out a great big hunk of wood. And the thing was I guess three or four inches thick, I don't know, it was about like that. And uh about ten inches wide. And uh he said, This'll make you a good piece of this cherry. And he said, when you finish that thing off it'll be beautiful And so I took that thing home, you know, and and uh I uh began to work on it. I planed it all off, make sure it was all smooth, run it through a planer, you know, got the all the sides smoothed out, and then I began to work on it And I took sandpaper and I sanded and sanded and sanded and got it all, you know, sanded all the sides, and uh then I put a coat of varnish on it And uh then I took some really fine sandpaper and I sanded the over the the dried varnish, sanded it again, and I put another coat of varnish on it And I did that over and over six or I guess five or six times, something like that. And uh then on the last coat I took that uh uh uh the the sandpaper was was uh uh wasn't fine enough so I got some really fine steel wool and I f steel wooled that mantle uh all around and then I put the final coat of varnish on it Boy, I'm telling you, when I when I finished that and it dried and everything, that was the most beautiful punk o two hunks of wood that I had ever seen. I mean the green stood out, it was of reds and oranges and just it was just absolutely beautiful. And uh then we of course I mounted up there and and uh it wa it it was a well, how can I explain it? It just made it made the the whole fireplace just stand out, that cherry mantle The reason I mention that, the scripture that we just read, just looking into Jesus, the author and the uh finisher. Of our faith. The final coat on that uh piece of uh uh cherry wood, the final coat after I'd used the steel wool that just I mean it made it it made it just a a glass finish on that thing. And that is the that's what really finished it off and made it what it was. There's some things in the scriptures that I want us to look at. I call this message the finishing the finishing touch. And I trust that God has had a finishing touch in your life. We start out. You have to realize where you're coming from. Man in the Garden of Eden fell from God's grace. He sinned against God, and God cast him out. God commended his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But uh man was lost and undone without God. He was a sinner by nature and by choice. And though that was the conditions that existed from uh uh from the Garden of Eden In fact, throughout uh throughout man's history. But the Bible says in the book of Galatians, it says, But but when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law In the fullness of time tells me that God had a plan. God had a time, God had a plan set in motion. that would uh take care of this the situation that man uh had uh put himself in. That is his lost condition So God had a plan, and the plan was to put his son down here on this earth, who of course became a man uh it took to the human flesh. In order to uh taste death for every man he had to have human flesh. And so uh we know the story is three and a half years, but then we see Calvary And we look at the verse of Scripture, and we all know it by heart, where the Bible says, and Jesus, as he hung upon the cross, he said, it is finished. It is finished. He bowed his head and gave up the ghost. Into thy hands I commend my spirit. Then he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. But the the point I want us to look at is this this thing of the finished work of Jesus Christ, uh the finished work of salvation When Jesus died on the cross of Calvary, it did away with a number of things. It completed the Mosaic law of sacrifices. All these sacrifices have been made from actually from the book of Genesis all the way through uh uh uh uh the Old Testament. All those sacrifices Jesus had put it in had completed the sacrificial system that the Jews that God gave Moses. So when Jesus said it is finished there on the cross of Calvary, that was one thing that was that i it uh it finished. It finished that. But also It paid for man's sin. It it finished the work of salvation concerning the matter of sin. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. And so so uh uh Uh man has uh has a debt to pay God, and that debt is death, because the only way he can pay for his sins, and even that doesn't take away the sin, he just must pay for that sin. uh through death. Not just physical, but the spiritual death. And so Jesus dying on the cross of Calvary takes care of that situation. Because when hi his death and his blood that was shed cleanses us from all sin, that individual who will trust him, who will reach out by faith and so to speak touch the hem of the garment, receiving him as personal savior can can have eternal life because Jesus finished, that is, he did the work that was necessary to complete that transaction, to pay for man's sin. But see, the real finished work of the gospel is not found in the cross. That's where the price was paid, but that's not where it was all finished. Or it was three days later That he rose from the dead. He died for our sins, but he rose again for our justification. And that finished the total work of salvation for mankind. You know the good thing I I think about I think about the work that Christ finished and what a finisher He is Because the Bible tells us not only did he finish the work as far as salvation is concerned, but in your life and mine he finished that work also. The Bible tells us the book of Colossians that we are Complete, finished. We are complete in Him. I don't know about you, but that says a whole lot to me. That tells me that I'm safe. That tells me that I'm secure That tells me that that uh there's no place that I could go or be or uh nothing that I could do that I could get away from the love of God. And to me, that tells me that the finished work of Christ, as far as salvation is concerned, is a beautiful piece. Beautiful piece of work that he did. It's finished. Also, there's the uh there's another, there's there's two verses in the Bible that that has in it, it is finished. Two verses. The one we've already talked about where Jesus said it is finished. But there's another place, over in the book of James. And you don't usually Put the two together, but let's look at James chapter one and verse fifteen. In James chapter one and verse fifteen it says this. And then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. So now we see the finishing touch of sin. We saw, first of all, the finishing touch of salvation, how Jesus came into the situation in man's lost condition. Died on the cross in order to take care of our sin, and then rose again the third day to justify us. And provide the total finished work of salvation for man. But now we look at this this uh this matter of the the uh finished finished The finish work of sin. In that verse of scripture It says that uh and and when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. You see, the final product of sin is not beautiful like the finished work of Christ. The final work of sin comes out very destructive and hideous and horrible. But it starts out with man's sin nature Since we've all sinned come short of the glory of God, and since we are a sinner by nature as well as by choice, it starts right there. It says, when lust has conceived It bringeth forth sin. Lust is just uh illicit or illicit desires. I guess that's as good a way as you can put it. And then comes the enticement When Mr. Lust and Miss Enticement get together, they conceive and it brings forth sin. And when sin is finished, it brings forth death. That's the finished work or the finished touch of sin. It's not very pretty. As a matter of fact, when sin comes forth, it brings forth death. I think of the the death of the family that sin brings into a family when there's unfaithfulness in the spouses. Or when there's when there's the the just the the general the tragedies that come in families that do not know Christ, that do not have Christ centered lives. The things that come into the lives that destroy and separate I see that the death of peace and happiness and the guilty conscience that's involved when sin comes in and uh uh does its work in an individual's life I see the the the death of the financial financial well well being. Uh it's it's sad when people I know they're in Kentucky, I don't know w I don't know how it is here. But in Kentucky they they uh have now they allow the the gambling casinos and so forth And of course the horse racing is big in Kentucky. And somehow or another, uh people have it in their head that that if they can spend enough money, they'll eventually hit the jackpot and be a millionaire But you know, it just doesn't happen that way. And they keep they keep getting deeper and deeper in debt. And then when they get a a little payback Well they think, wow man, I got a hundred dollars that time. Maybe the next time it'll be a million dollars. And every little bit they get back, they don't realize they paid ten times that or a hundred times that to get what they got And the tragedy is that that it just keeps going and going and usually it becomes a a becomes habitual to the point where they can't do without it. And uh uh when that happens, uh financial destruction uh is at hand. I see the death of the conscience. The one thing that that continual sin does is it hardens the heart. It puts a cowus over that conscience where at one time, whenever you stepped out of line, it would cry out, guilty, you're guilty, that's wrong. And now Now you it's such a still small voice that's so far back that you can't hardly hear it and it doesn't bring a response any longer. And even Christians today can have have this hardened heart This tragic tragic tragically, the hardness of the heart uh brings a total defeat as far as the faith life is concerned, the Christian life, the spiritual life. The hard heart is that uh which prevents the Holy Spirit from from uh uh teaching and preaching and and convicting and searching. But sin's also progressive. When I say it's progressive, I'm talking about uh uh I'm talking about uh If you allow sin in your life and you do not uh scripturally respond to that sin. We the Bible tells us if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Sometimes we We think that just that just that off the head, just off the top of the head uh confession, well Lord, I guess I messed up again and go right back. Uh that's not what God's looking for What God's looking for is for you to come to the place where you face yourself and acknowledge that you've sinned against a holy and righteous God. To see that sin as God sees it, to recognize it as as that which offends a holy and righteous God. Whenever we come to that place, then the willingness to confess it, that's what brings the the peace of heart and the peace of mind. But the tragedy is that if we if we do not respond to it scripturally, it takes us down a spiral road. we become disappointed, discouraged. Then we we have uh uh uh hit depression and d despair and till finally uh we have the final finishing touch. which is death once again. It also leads to addiction. I believe that all sin is addictive. Every time any any sin you get involved with will demand more and more and more of you. Every sin. You say, well I you think I I it does you know it doesn't control me. I got news for you. Uh it won't be long. It won't be long. Mark it down. Sin has an addictive power. There's something about it. Uh I wish Bible reading was addictive I wish and and by the way, it can be. It can be where you you set a time and this is your time and you you uh commit to that But there's a difference between commitment and addiction. Commitment deals with your willpower and your desire to be into the book. Addiction is where you don't have it anymore. Uh your willpower has been been uh uh washed away, so to speak, because of your uh because of your arrogance. And as a result of that, uh you find that uh it it's something that you just can't give up on. You can't do it without it. It becomes aggressive to the point where you must have it no matter what. Uh the tragedy you hear on television so often where uh somebody has uh committed such h uh hideous crimes uh to get money in order to pay for a a drug uh uh uh addiction that they have. Tells you the fact that that you can get to the place where you have to have it no matter what We play around with sin like it's just some little toy that you can throw it over in the corner when you're done with it, but sin isn't like that It keeps coming back like a bad penny and and uh the next thing you know it's addictive and it becomes aggressive and of course the final end is this matter of the finished touch, which is always death when you're dealing with sin The final touch is always, that final finish is always going to be the matter of sin. And it's death. Death, with all of its horrors and pain, and with all its suffering, that's the finishing touch of sin And then there's another finishing touch. And I call it the finishing touch of service. Back in the book of Hebrews in chapter twelve again in verses one through three it says this. It says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame. And is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your mind. The Apostle Paul in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 7 says this. He said, I fought a good fight, and I finished my course and I've kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. And not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. Paul's life was a life first of all of discipline. Over in the book of 1 Corinthians, he says this in verse 27 of chapter 9. He says, But I keep under my body, and I bring it into subjection Lest that by any means that I have preached to others, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. The Apostle Paul uh Consider self-discipline an important thing. Back in the book of Matthew in chapter 16, Jesus is talking to his disciples, and he tells them what a disciple is. And he said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Each one of those things require a matter of the will. And discipline is a matter of the will. It's a matter of the will empowered by the Holy Spirit that has sway over your life. a disciplined life. It takes discipline to read your Bible every day. It takes discipline to spend time in prayer every day It takes discipline just to live the Christian life. It takes discipline not to eat that extra piece of cake. Which some people don't have. Okay. But I'm talking about it takes discipline. The Christian life is a life of discipline. The Apostle Paul in 2 Timothy equates the Christian life with being a soldier of Christ. And there he talks about enduring. uh the hardships of a good soldier. He talks about the necessity and one of the characteristics of a of a soldier is a matter of discipline A soldier without discipline is no soldier at all. He's just simply a uh a warrior that gets out there and does what he wants to do. Matter of discipline is uh means that you're you're brought under uh uh some uh uh how can I say it? Um Just talk to each other until this thought comes through. If it comes through again I'll stop it, you know. You see me go like that, you'll know I got it in there and I Keep it for a while. It means put putting yourself under a a set of rules, biblical standards that that uh uh that we should live our life by that glorifies God. The discipline The Apostle Paul's life was a life of discipline, but it was also a life of discipling, also, in the book of Acts. Well we read in Acts twenty and and verse twenty and and twenty four also. It says, And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house Uh the matter of of uh doing the the the house to house, door-to-door uh knocking that it takes to win people to Christ. The Apostle Paul is involved in that And then it says in verse 24, But none of these things move me, and neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I may finish my course with joy And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. None of these things move me, neither can I myself my my life dear unto myself The most important thing was to him was the ministry, was the gospel and getting the gospel out and reaching people for Christ and discipling them that they might become productive for his God. And then I see he was a life of dedication. In Second Timothy chapter four and verse six and uh uh six and seven it says, For I'm now ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight and I finished my course. I have kept the faith. So I see the Apostle Paul here. As he comes to the end of his life, he had a finished life. I see it was a life that was that was radiant with the with the work that he uh he did for the Lord Jesus Christ. His ministry was that shining thing that one day he would stand before the Lord and give an account of The finished touch to his course was to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord And that's what I look forward to one day, and I trust that that's what you look forward to. The beauty of the finished touch of your life depends on what you do with Jesus Christ. And if you let his blood wash away your sin and let him direct your life, your life will have a beautiful finishing touch. So the question that I have for you simply is this. Number one Have you availed yourself of the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt if you were to die right now that you'd be in the presence of the Lord. Be absent from the body, to be present with the Lord. That's what the Apostle Paul said. One thing about Paul was, listen, he'd already had a taste of heaven. He knew he knew what was a store in store for him And he tried to pass it on to us and tell us how wonderful it is. And it it doesn't take a whole lot to figure it out, you know that. I mean The Lord Jesus Christ, when he provided salvation, the salvation we have that is safe and secure, such a beautiful finished work that he performed there. It doesn't take much to imagine the finished work that he has, that he's been preparing now. I can't wait for the finished product, amen. It's bound to be something. And I'm can't I can't wait to get there Is your service, does it have that finishing touch on it? Is it going to be something that you can stand before the Lord and say, Lord, this is my work? Well I took the sandpaper and I worked that thing smooth. Then I varnished it. And Lord, I didn't stop there, but finally after a number of coats, I I finally I decided to to go with even something finer. And Lord, I've really worked at this at this thing of discipl discipline and discipling and and and and dedication for you. And and I've got this now. I've used the steel wool on it and I'm going to put the final coat on this thing. And this is my finished work And it's all for you. And when he looks at it, is he going to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant? You've been faithful over a few things, I'll make you master over many? Or uh are you going to hear the other side of it My question to you is, how's your how's your the finished work of your life? We can uh allow sin to come in and do its its work and it's going to end up in death. Or you can allow the Lord Jesus to do his work in your life, and it'll be a life that you can be proud of, and a life that you can pass on a heritage to your children that they can be proud of. Are you saved tonight? Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Nobody's looking around. I wonder I wonder this morning. How many here can say without a question uh uh without a question at all in their mind or heart, I'm saved, I know I'm saved. If I was to die right now, I know I'd go to heaven. Would you slip your hand up right now as a testimony of that? I'm saved and I know it. Amen. God bless you. Maybe you couldn't raise your hand I'm not trying to embarrass you. And I can say this without a shadow of a doubt. It's not a shame to be lost. I say it's not a shame to be lost. Because everybody's lost till they get saved. But it is a shame to stay lost after you know how to be saved. Now the question is, what are you going to do with the message this morning? Jesus has already finished the work, and all you have to do is receive it. As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name You can receive him today and have the finished work of Christ applied to your life. And you can begin working on that life that is dedicated to Jesus Christ that one day you can be rewarded for Or you can go the other way and let the finished work of sin destroy you and bring you to that place. that uh is prepared for the devil and his angels. I wonder if there's one here that say, Brother Williams, I'd like for you to remember me in prayer. I I'm not sure that I'm saved or I'm not saved and I I don't want to die and go to hell, that's for sure. I want you to pray for me. Just slip your hand up quickly and take it right back down. I'm not going to embarrass you. Yes, God bless you. I saw that hand. Someone else quickly just slip it up and take it down. I'm not going to embarrass you. You have my word. How about it? One more Five seconds. Three, two, one. Heavenly Father, I pray now this morning. Lord, I pray the Spirit of God would convict us of our sin. I pray, Lord, that you'd you'd help us, give us the courage to step out in the aisles, come down to this old-fashioned altar and deal with their sin. I pray especially for this one who raised her hand indicating that they need to trust you as Savior. Help them to come Lord and let us take a book, the good book, the Bible, and show them how to be born into the family of God. And to start down that that that uh that path that uh you've already got set out for them where they can stay with the apostle Paul, I've fought the good fight and I've kept the faith. God help them to come. I pray it all in Jesus' name for his glory in Jesus. Amen and amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The pianists are going to play through a couple of verses of invitation. God spoke to your heart. You raised your hand. Said, Brother Williams, pray for me. Now I'm asking you to step out and let us take a Bible to show you how to be saved. Do it right now. Will you do it? Come on. How about it? Christian, if God has spoken to your heart, you know your life does not have that finished touch of of Calvary on it. Why don't you come this morning and say, Lord, you know I've kind of Been kind of laxadaisical in my Christian life, but I want you to do a work on me. I want you to put that finishing touch in my life You raised your hand a moment ago and you said, Brother Weeze, pray for me. I'm not saved. You know, if I could get saved for you, I would. Honestly, I would. I'd I'd I'd get saved a thousand times over if I could do it, just to keep you out of hell. But I can't do it. You must do it. You're the one that must take the initiative. Why don't you come right now? Pastor. Alright. Working in your heart, things have been happening. Things that have been happening in your life make you think about heaven, about hell, about death, about your own standing before the Lord, and these events have been taking place What that is God trying to get your attention, He's dealing with your heart about your salvation, about where you'll spend eternity And now this morning he wants to finish that work he's begun by having you trust Christ and settle that matter and know that your sins are forgiven. You're going to heaven. We invite you to come. Maybe there's some this morning and You've been dabbling in sin. Your heart and your attitude and some of your actions, you know they're not the way the Lord would have it to be. And maybe, perhaps, maybe this message has gone to someone who Satan has been working in your life, and he's just about to finish it. He's just about to get you to cross a line where you can't go back. Do some damage that can never be repaired. Why don't you come say Lord I'm not gonna let Satan finish this in my life? I'm gonna repent. I'm gonna come to Christ. I'm gonna make things right. Maybe you're a Christian and God's been dealing with your heart about serving the Lord. You know I need to be involved. I know I need to be doing something for the cause of Christ. And this morning you need to just surrender to the Lord and say, Yes, Lord, I'll do what you've instructed me to do. I'll serve you with my life And God can finish that. What he's working and dealing with your heart about. He can use you in a great way for the Lord.