For forty-four years, one day I have preached for nearly forty-seven years, and I know I don't even look that old. I uh I I know that I look much younger than that, and you don't have to say amen or anything to that. Don't include yourself into my lie. But uh my hair betrayeth me But it is so good to be here. Now God has got me traveling and loping around the world. My sweetheart travels with me in the States most of the time But I've just about drugged her to death and so she stayed home this week to catch up on some needed things to be done around the house, business wise and things of that nature, you understand that. But she sends her love and her prayers to this meeting. I'm old enough to know that either we're going to just meet Or we're going to allow God to meet with us. One of those two things. Oftentimes as pastors, and I'm not accusing your pastor at all, I had no right to and wouldn't for anything if I had a right. But oftentimes we set ourselves in such a mode that we do things habitually, but not necessarily for benefit. It's the thing we do at the same time, same, same, same, same. And you know, I am glad that this is your Spring revival. Maybe it'll bring spring, hopefully. But I pray it's in your heart. To really desire for God to do something to you and through you. That there's a hunger in your heart for this to happen. I'm a reader. I'm an avid reader. I have a library, some 8,000 books. And I'm always reading something. I have something in my briefcase constantly. and pick things up and read them, give myself to them. They're not all good things, they're not all positive things. I I want to balance on certain sides. I want to see what people make people tick. And there's some people I don't want to be like. So I find out what made them that way and I read about them. But you know there's one thing I love to read about, but I'm I'm weary of. I'm tired of reading how it used to be. And uh people telling me this happened when they were young. This happened when they were young. And that now that I have reached this position in my life, I have people quite often say Uh brother Green, have you ever really seen revival? I have seen touches and reflections. But I really have not, I really have not seen honest to goodness revival. I've seen personal revival. I've never seen really a honest church revival. And what I mean by that is this. To me true church revival isn't something that happens for the moment. It changes the situation for the cause of Christ that lingers. And if you study historically, you're going to find that that is true. Some of the greatest revivals come through the simplest things. For instance, there was a revival in 1861. In America. It started in New York. There was a gentleman that loved the Lord deeply. He was a factory worker. And he uh would go to work and at lunchtime instead of eating his lunch he would leave the factory and someone noticed it. They stopped him, they said, Do he knows you don't eat lunch? You leave every lunchtime. What are you doing? And he said, well I'm hesitant telling you. The guy insisted. He said, all right, he said, I'm a Christian. I'm a born-again believer. And he said, I'm a lover of God. And he said, my heart yearns and is burdened and is broken for revival. There's a little church down the road, and I travel down there every day. And while you're eating lunch, I'm on my knees in the basement of that little building praying for revival. Later on that day, that man came back and said, I'm a Christian as well. I'm out of the will of God. Can I go with you? He said, Only if you mean business. Only if you mean business. So the next day the gentleman went with him, and that got in his heart. Then it turned into three and five and eight and ten. And in those days it became so permeated that they no longer needed to go to a little church building. It caught fire within the factory. And at noontime they had a season of prayer. The revival broke out in the factory. Can you believe that? In the factory. And out of 1861, a revival began to burn out in New York City and literally swept the land of America. One man. Just one. Who are you? Was that person better than you? No, I'm not saying he's better. I didn't even know him. Don't even know his name. But he had a hunger that we need to have. He had a want that we need to seek for. Why don't you take your Bible and turn with me and I'll give you time to turn there because I'm sure you didn't read it this morning We should turn to the book of Habakkuk. The book of Habakkuk, I'm going to help you out. It's after Nahum. Oh. So I'll give you time to find the book of Habakkuk. And uh it's before Zephaniah, didn't that help you a lot? Just look towards the end of the of the Old Testament, you'll find it. It's labeled as one of the minor prophets, although it certainly is not minor. It's called minor because of the length of the book. And when you find the book of Habakkuk, I'd like for you to turn with me to chapter three. Chapter 3 of Abakuch. And I want us to think about revival. I prayed about how to open this meeting in many ways. Just like the word worship, we talked about that in Sunday school, is sadly misunderstood and even void in most of our lives. The word revival, I think, needs to be reintroduced, redefined. I'm going to make a statement that is crucial. If I were to ask you this morning, what do you equate revival to? And uh Oftentimes here's the here's the word that comes back. Revival to me is saying soul saved. You know, I love to see people get saved. But that's the result of revival. That's not revival. The word revive or to be revived means something has passed out. I don't know if you've ever fainted. I have. And uh I have a pretty strong constitution and a high standard of pain. A lot of things happen in my life physically. But I remember I had major surgery, I've had several major surgeries, but I had a major surgery. And at night the nurses came into my room and said uh they knew who I was in my community and they said, Pastor Green said, you've got to get up and walk. I didn't even feel like being there let alone getting up and walking. They said, you have to walk. They said, Now what we want you to do is we're going to help you sit up, and then you slide to the foot of the bed We want you to stand up. Said all we're going to do is take about six steps and we'll put you back in bed. So that's all we're going to do. So they helped me get up. I slid to the foot of the bed and they said, Now stand up. Well I was just used to standing up Well I stood up too fast. Next thing I know a nurse is bending over me and she said, Don't you do that anymore, like I did it on purpose. I I said, well I'll do my best not to do it anymore. I passed out, I fainted The point being this is when one is fainted, they're without emotion, without feeling and productivity. When we talk about our church needing revival, That is what we're dealing with. We want to be brought back to feeling emotion and productivity. You say, no preacher, you're putting us in a position where you're judging us. No, I I don't want to judge you. I'm not trying to judge you. But we're having a spring revival. That's the title. That's what it's called. It's in your bulletin. A revival. And lots of times we equate revival that the man is going to bring it. No, revival is not brought. Revival is sent. And it's sent from God to man. And uh we need a contact with God. And I want you to look what it says here in Abak chapter 3. Stand with me, would you please out of the respect for the Word of God. Now as you stand here, uh people I had someone ask me this, preacher, why do you have people stand when you read the Bible? Because it's biblical And if you read the book of Nehemiah, when Nehemiah sent for Ezra to bring the book, when he opened the Word of God, they all stood. And so that's that's one of the reasons I do it. I respect the Word of God. But I just want to read verses one and two and the first phrase of verse three. And the first phrase of verse 3 has nothing to do with the text. It's just interesting, and I'll tell you why. Chapter 3, verse 1, a prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet upon Shiganah. So we know that's a prayer. Says it is. Now here's his prayer. O Lord, I've heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of years, make known in wrath Remember mercy. Now I'm going to deal with chapter verse 2 here in just a moment after we say amen. I want to show that little phrase, God came from Tima. Do you ever wonder where God came from? Well right there it says he came from Temon. Now if you were to look up the heart of Temon, the word Temon means nowhere. God came from nowhere. He's always been. Amen. So let's bow for prayer. Father, help us today. Enlighten us, encourage us, convict us. Find that place in our heart where you can not only find lodging, but you can control. God may be hunger, thirst, be broken over what must take place if we're to see God do anything. And it begins in us. Enable me. May I be your servant. Use me well, I pray. And for that which has accomplished all the praise given to thee, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated I'd like for you to take your attention to verse 2, and it's not lengthy comments that we have here. But first I want you to notice the brevity of his prayers. Not lengthy, it's right to the point. It's basically this, I want you to revive us, and I want you to show mercy and judgment. I asked the same thing. I'm not a Habakkuk, but I'm a child or a brother of Habakkuk in faith. And I'd love to see, and do we ever need it? We need it personally, we need it within our church, we need it in our nation. I mean, we are a mess. And it doesn't and that's not a political statement, that's a spiritual statement. A country's in a mess. We walked away from God. We have a form of godness, but deny the power thereof. He has a simple prayer. He says, Revive thy work in the midst of the years. Do you realize that only God can do that? No one else can do it. You can't you can't produce it. You can't uh make it happen. It's not an equation that if you do this, if you do this, and when they put together here's what you'll have. That's not how it works. And uh revival is the touch of God upon the saint of God and upon the work of God. And uh your pastor called a good time back and asked if I could come. be here with such an honor and a privilege that he's asked me. I don't take this lightly or indifferently. He's entrusted this pulpit and you with me. And uh I leave here Thursday and he's left with the aftermath of whatever it is and I stood I had a place like this for forty four years. And uh and I I don't want to make a mess for him. I want him to be able to follow something that can say God met with us. And I think that's in your heart as well. But we gotta be determined we're gonna be here, we're gonna get what God has from us through his servant. And see what God can do with us. But I want you to go back to chapter 1 and verse 1, and I want you to see where it started in the life of Habakkuk. Look what he says. The burden which Habakkuk, the prophet, did see. Now that's an interesting thing because he doesn't say a burden that he felt. He says a burden that he saw. Jeremiah put it this way in the Book of Lamentation. He said, My eye hath affected my heart. Revival is a heart issue. It's a spiritual issue. It's not necessarily something that my emotion has has worked up. See, emotion changes. People think that love is an emotion, and it isn't. It's a decision. And now that decision, then emotion becomes involved. But if I if love were an emotion, I'd there's sometimes I'd love my wife, and sometimes I may not love my wife because of my emotion My emotions change. But the decision that I made many years ago to take her as my wife, for better or for worse, for rich or poor, for until until death should part us And that's coming up close to fifty years now. And uh I meant it, and that was a decision that I made. But here it says a burden that Habakkuk saw. Let me ask you a couple questions. What do you see? Now, that's not a loaded question, and it's not a single question. It's a multifaceted question. And here's what I wanted you to think of, church. First of all, I want you to be able to walk to the mirror of faith and the Word of God and say, what do I see in me? What do I see about me? Look into my life. Be like David said in Psalm 139, search me, O God. Know my heart. Search me. That's surrender. That's yielding to God. We're going to touch on that a little bit. But first of all, what do you see in your life? One of the most dangerous things I've witnessed in my life is this. People that have been saved for many years get used to it. And then when they get used to it, they begin to be indifferent and they don't think the message is for them. Well, let me tell you something. What I'm preaching these days is meant for you, whoever you are Where are you at in your spiritual walk with God, your devotional life with God? Where are you at today and compared to where you were last year or five years ago or ten years ago? Where are you at? In your spiritual life. What do you see? See, I can't determine that. I can't answer that question for you. That's a personal question that only you can ask, and only you can answer. Well, I used to be, and then you can start labeling. Oh, where are you in comparison to that? All right, not only what you see in yourself, but what you see. In your church? In your family? How's your marriage? How's your children? How's your home life? How is it in comparison to what it was? What do you see? What do you see in your church? What do you see in your pastor? And I'm not saying that ugly. I'm saying what do you see in his preaching, his teaching? What is it today compared to what it was? What do you see in your nation? What I'm trying to tell you is this we are in need of what this meeting is titled. We're in need of a revival. And it begins not in a collective motion, it begins in the heart of one person that says, Let it be me. Let it be me. Now, let's look down through this for just a moment. See the word Habakkuk means one who embraces God. That's what his name means. One who embraces God. I must ask you this question. Do you find yourself embracing him? There's nothing like an embrace. I love embraces. I love my wife to put her arm around my neck, welcome me home. I look forward to that. I travel overseas quite a bit. She she won't fly. You'd have to get her drunk to get her on a plane to get her over there And so she won't go distances. She wishes a plane would go up and come down every fifteen minutes. She'd like that. She'd she'd take short trips with me in the States. But she'd never get on a long flight And uh sometimes I'm gone just like I was in the Philippines three weeks. I couldn't wait to get home. I called her. I have a Filipino phone that I can call back and forth and I love to hear. I there's twelve, thirteen hours difference in the time and I'd always get her up and put her to bed. I'd call her at least twice a day reinforcing. I couldn't wait. Come off the airplane, see all those hundreds of people around baggage claim. There's only one face I'm interested in. A little white headed grandma that's given herself to me faithfully for all these years. I I love that embrace. And in that embrace I love for her to kiss my cheek and even my lips for that's allowable, you know And for her to tell me, I've missed you. It's good to have you home. Let me spiritualize that for you. When's the last time you embraced God? When's the last time you kissed him by faith and put into his ear, I love you, Lord. You're everything to me. When's the last time you embraced him? Gave him your affection, your heart. I'm not talking about out of habit reading your Bible. I'm not talking about out of that emotional time of just sitting somewhere and whispering a prayer. I'm talking about the intimacy walk, that time where you hold hands with him. And Enoch had this testimony that he walked with God. That he walked with God Let's look at something here. I love to read about revivals, and one of the great revivalists of history was a fellow by the name A Finney. And uh Charles Finney had a list. He had in his Bible, they found it when he died He had a list in his Bible of things that he disciplined himself in order to maintain a heart of revival. I want to give you that list. I want us to open this meeting with this list. And I want to see how it fits into your life. I want you to see how you give yourself to it. I want you to see also this. Where does it touch me and revealing to me this is what I need to correct? This is what I need to do in order to really see God work in my life. See, revival is an infectious thing because as it affects me, it affects those that are around me. And let me give you this list. There's nine things on this list. I'll give them to you as quickly as I can without a lot of elaboration. They pretty well reveal themselves. But a revival, Charles Finney, first of all said this. In order to be revived, he wanted to become thoroughly dissatisfied with himself. And the other bankruptcy of his own human nature and the race that he lived. Bankruptcy as long as you think you have a self sufficiency and ability in yourself, you're not going to yield to God There's always going to be an element of self that says, I can do it, or I want, or I can, or It's my life. Leave me alone. Allow me to do with it what I want to do. I've got to remind you something. If you're born again in the Spirit of God, if you're a saved individual here this morning When you went to the cross and in repentance of faith trusted Christ as the Lord of your life and the Savior of soul, something transpired, and that is this ownership of who you are You no longer own yourself. You were bought by the grace of God. And therefore, in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, he says, Glorify me in your body and in your spirit, which belongs to me. You belong to him. You're not your own. And Finney said, I want to always see and claim the total bankruptcy. And be dissatisfied with myself. And that puts me absolutely dependent upon God in my life. I can't, but he can. Where does that touch you? Looks at number two. He says, in order to be revived, I want to set myself on having a changed life. Now that's powerful. That's a powerful statement. I want to change life. See, here's the problem with us today, dear people. And that is this, we're satisfied with who we are. We're satisfied with what we are, we're satisfied where we are, and as a result of that, we're not yielded to God, we're given to ourselves And then given to ourselves, we're not dependent upon God. And listen, if we're satisfied with ourselves, we'll never see the wrong of what we are, because we won't admit it. We won't admit it. See if we're not given to the Word of God, if we're not given to a bent knee, if we're not given to a devotional life, if we're not given where we' Convicted by sin in her life If we can still sit and listen to things that are shady and are and are not honorable to God, if we're still sitting and watching a television show that is not honorable to God that tends itself even in the slightest way to slide away from spiritual thought and heart. We are headed towards the flesh and God cannot. It's not that he will not bless us. It's he cannot bless us. Why is that? God will not put his honor in dirty vessels. He will not put his holiness in that which will taint the image of who and what he is. Finney said, I want to look at the bankruptcy of my own character. And I want a changed life. Right now where you're at. Are you hungering for that? Are you hungering for that? You need to have a a brokenness, a want. He says, I have a burden for what I see. Number three, he says In all that I find in myself in its sweetness, I recognize God is able. God is able. Here it is. You say, but preacher, I've tried this over and over and over again. I've rededicated my life, rededicating to life, rededicating to life, and it just seems like it's failure after failure after failure. You know why? Because you're trying to do it You're trying to do it. You're trying to make the changes. You're trying to do that which is needed in your life. But Finney said, it is absolute surrender to where I hand God my life And say, I can't, but you can. He is able to do for me what I cannot do for myself, and he proved that at the cross when he redeemed me, when he saved me. Because salvation is not of myself. Salvation is of the Lord. I could not save myself in a thousand lifetimes. It took some power outside me to do for me what needed to be done And I relied and I rested and I trusted in Jesus Christ. See, I came out of another denomination. I came out of a side that was drenched in the efforts of your own works and vanity. When I saw the grace of God and it was finally presented to me, and I saw the reality that salvation comes from God, that it is a work of God. It's finished in the person of Christ. on the cross and there was a reliance and a death to myself and a trust in him, then God began to enact himself and do things in my life that only God can do. It's the only way he can explain it You're having lack of victory in your life. Here's what it is. It's your trying, for you are trying to do what is only God's ability to work through you. God is able. And God, I'm yielding myself. I'm yielding myself to your authority. Number four, do a thorough job of repenting. See, I don't know what's wrong in your life. You don't know what's wrong with my life. I know what's wrong with my life. The things You know, Hebrew says this, laying aside the weight and the sin that does so easily beset me. Now, I I know that we have a besetting sin, but I don't think that's what that verse is talking about between you and I I think that it is a reflection of what's already revealed in chapter eleven. That's chapter twelve, verse one. And I think chapter eleven is the chapter of faith. It is what is accomplished by faith. And the besetting sin of my life is the lack of faith. It's the lack of faith in my life where I yield myself to God to work through my life. But it is also a lack of faith to allow myself for God's Holy Spirit to reveal to me what is in my life needed for change See, we have our little pet sins and things of this nature that we don't want to get rid of. I have a message I've never preached. I've only alluded to it. It's called little drawers. It's not the ones I wear either. If I were to come into your house today And uh I were just to say you were fixing me something to eat or whatever and I needed a spoon to stir my coffee. You wouldn't just say uh it's in a drawer over there, because there's a drawer over there you don't want me to open. Huh? Can you relate? Because everything that you don't know what it is goes in that drawer. But you don't know what it is, but at the same time you say, I may need that someday. How are you going to need what you don't know what it is? It's full of junk. And just recently my my sweetheart said this. She said, honey said, uh you need to go and here was her label, you need to clean out the drawer. She didn't say you need to clean out this drawer. She just labeled the drawer the drawer. You need to clean out the drawer. She said, I can hardly open it. So I went over there and it's true. I mean it was just it was packed full of stuff. I took the drawer out, set it on the table, and I started going through the drawer, and it was amazing. It was amazing. First of all, I found stuff that I didn't know what it was. Secondly, I found things that I forgot I had. Thirdly, I found things I didn't know why I saved it. Just stuff. Just stuff. You know, in our life we have stuff. We put stuff in the recesses of our life and in our heart because of the convenience of it. But it's a hindrance. It's a hindrance. It's a weight. It's something that is keeping us held back from the potential that God has for our life. D. L. Moody was sitting one day hearing a preacher preach, and the preacher that was preaching to D. L. Moody made this statement. It is yet to be seen what God can do through one man totally surrendered to the Holy Spirit. D. L. Moody sat there and made this decision. He said, God, I'll be that one man. I'll be that one man. Without reservation, I give you all that I am. And you can make me all that you wish me to be. I want the power of God on my life. The rest of it is history. Turned the world upside down with the gospel. Preaching in England one time and he boo he butchered the King's English. A businessman said, I'm going, he was an unsaved man, he said, I'm going to go hear Dale Moody preach And his wife was amazed, said, Do you want to hear the preacher preach? He said, No, said I just want to be entertained by how he butchers our language. Businessman went one night, went two nights, three nights. His wife was captured by it, Shafant. She said, Are you having that much entertainment with Mr. Moody? He said, No. So I don't know how he speaks my language, said, but he's on fire and I just go watch him burn A man given to God one day walking through the streets in New York City. Dio Moody, the power and the presence of God was so mighty for his life, he thought he was going to drop dead. Thought his heart was going to stop. Couldn't breathe. He was about to suffocate because of the presence of God. And by his report, he stepped into a doorway off the street and said, God, just for a moment, let me breathe. Dear people, do we really know who God is? Do we really experience the touch of God in our life? Are we so selfish with ourselves that we're more important than He is? Finney said this, I want to change life. And God is able to do it. And I'm repenting of all that I know I should repent, even that which may not be sinful, but it's a hindrance. Because this is what I want for God, and then number six, I'm going to be given to reading and meditating on the Word of God daily. This is an active book. See, here it is, and I'm not going to elaborate along on this, but this has got to be the authority of our life. It's not just something we read, it's something that we give ourselves to that it will give itself to us. And then number seven, I'm going to give my life to times of prayer. See, prayer isn't just a position of the knee. Prayer is a position of the heart. It is me giving myself to times of prayer. And I'm going to be preaching a couple messages, Lord willing, if the Lord gives me leadership on prayer this week. And tell you a story I did in the car last night of one of the greatest men I've ever known in life is Dr. Hyman Appelman He's home with the Lord now, but powerful, powerful man. But I'm gonna give myself to prayer. I love my daddy. Probably one of the sweetest men I've ever known in my life. I loved him. Self little man, sixth grade education, but wise, had a lot of common sense He's so well versed he became a supervisor for Kimberly Clark. Sixth grade education, pretty good step, isn't it? Love God. Love the Lord. God called me, put me in the ministry, and I traveled and I pastored church away from our home, our family. I remember one day I got I got soul. uh so hungry to see him. I couldn't get to see him so I called him. Man he was excited. He said, You don't know what it means to hear your voice. Just to hear your voice. I I know this is human, but I wonder if God ever gets lonely to hear us. His child that he's redeemed, he's purchased. How often do you find yourself not necessarily to ask to receive, but just to say, I love you? Thank you, honor and adoration, praise and thanksgiving for his goodness in our life. See, we're thankful for what God has given us, but are we thankful for what God hasn't given us? Expression, pray. I'm going to give myself to prayer. And then number nine eight, he said, I'm going to begin to speak to others about the Lord. That's Thursday night. But that's more than Thursday night. That's Sunday through Saturday. That's when you meet people. That's when you hand a track. That's when you give an invitation. That's when you just simply say you know God loves you. Got on elevator, I do this every once in a while, I got on the elevator in the hospital. I'm standing by the buttons, I do it on purpose so people can't get 'em. 'Cause I want 'em to ask me to press certain buttons. And uh but I asked them this, where are you going? They think I'm talking about the floor, and they'll say, uh would you and this is a southern, would you push? Would you push number whatever? Up in Michigan they say, Would you press? Would you press such they say, Would you push number three or whatever? And I say, Oh yeah, oh you're uh earthly you're going to floor number three, but where are you going? Oh, what do you mean? Gives me an opportunity to tell 'em, you know, Jesus loves you. I'm going to hire one day, are you? Opportunity just to drop a word. You don't have to preach a sermon. You can just give them a word of encouragement, who Jesus is and what important he is in their life and their need of it. I'm going to witness I'll know the what I say, but how I live, and then number nine, I'm going to expect God to revive me revive me. He's gonna bring me back where I have feeling and emotion and productivity, a desire to serve him and want to be with him. See, when I married my wife, now listen to this. I'd been going to my house to my old farmhouse with my mother and father for nineteen years. Nineteen years. I've been driving in the little barnyard going to the animals for nineteen years. That's what I did. But on November the 26th, 1966, I stood with a little girl in a church about this size, packed with people, and she had so many girls in her wedding I had to go out and make friends just to match the girls I got married six thirty, november twenty-sixth, nineteen sixty-six. I never ever had problems of going to the wrong house after that. From November the 26th, I went to 460 Linden Avenue, little house, and gone now. But I went there on the twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth, till we moved someplace else. What I'm trying to say is I knew from a devotion. was to be. My faithfulness, my commitment was going to be, expect God, I expect God. Listen, I wonder what the potential is in this room, preacher. I wonder what the potential is. One man caused a sweeping revival to come into this country out of urgency and broken of his own life. We're talking about today and through Wednesday. Are you going to be here tonight? Are you going to be here Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday? See, that's a want, a desire, and a hunger to see God do something to you and through you. But if he does that to you and through you, it's going to affect this. And not only this, it's going to affect what's outside this and where you are. Lord, we revive our work. We already read the text, Lord, that thou not revive us again, that thy people He says in Psalm 85. Now if you were to go down through this and let me give you this, I'm not and I'm going to close. You know what revival in the heart? Let me give you several real quick things First of all, it begins with a burden. Are you burdened by what you see in yourself, in your marriage, in your family? In your friendships, in your church, are you burdened of what you see? Number two, not only does it take a burden. It takes a vision of a holy God. That's what happened with Isaiah. And it affected him. It changed his life. If I really see God in his holiness, it reveals me in my humanness. I saw the Lord high and lifted up. And his train did fill the temple. Then number three, it's a willingness to be reproved. I'm willing to put myself that God will correct me I don't know everything, and some of the things I think I know are not correct. They need to be corrected in my life, and I'm willing to yield myself and be pliable that God can change my life To his honor and to his glory. Then I have an undaunted faith in God. He makes no mistakes It's impossible, please God, without faith. See, I don't see tomorrow, but I know the one that does. And I rest in him. I rest in him. And then number five, pray specifically for revival. And you know, I don't think that's just A twice a year thing, preacher. I don't think it's something I pray for at springtime and the fall. I think it's something that I have the propensity to fail and co cold grow cold and indifferent and callous every day of my life, every day's different circumstances, different confrontations are different. And listen, my dear friend, if I do not make myself pliable, that God would keep me revived, I had the propensity to faint. Let us not grow weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap and not faint. Then a plea for his mercy. Dear God, I don't deserve this. But I'm asking that in judgment you'd be merciful to me. Be merciful. Give me one more opportunity. But I want to sh end on something. Would you turn to the very last chapter of Habakkuk? This is an interesting thing, and you're gonna I'm gonna define it and then I'm gonna quit. And I'm gonna turn the decision over to you, what you do about revival. But I want you to look at verse seventeen, would you please? Chapter 3. Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines, the labor of the olive shall fail and the field shall g yield no meat, the flocks shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will join the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength. He will make my feet like hindsfeet, and he will make me to walk upon my high places to the chief singer on my stringed instruments. Here's how I'm going to title my closing thought. I want to live constantly in the yet. You still don't understand it. I don't think you would. That's the reason I need to define it. If you look at the verse before verse 18, which would be first seventeen. Habakkuk is talk about the potential of God's judgment falling upon that nation. Not reviving the land, not bringing blessings upon the land, but God cursing the land. God not giving him the desires of his heart. God not responding positively to his prayer. of revival. God, if you don't do any of these things, if you don't bring blessing to my home, if you don't bless my children, if if you don't bring revival to my marriage, If you don't and you live to all the things, and if the church continues, and not that you are, but if the church gets cold and callous and indifferent and never changes yet Will I serve you? I'm not going to depend on what happens to others to be the guardian of what I allow to happen to me. Dear God, if you bring judgment I'm still going to serve you. I'm still going to love you. I'm still going to be the revived one. See, too many times we're waiting on what's going to happen around us to affect us. What about this theory? What about allowing God to affect me so I can affect what's around me? Here's the illustration and I close your enclosure Bible. With five boys, and some of you can relate to this, with five boys. We had to have a house of discipline. I mean they were boys. They did gross things. They would fight and fuss with one another. And uh they get off one another. Now they're grown men. My oldest son's forty-five, almost forty-six, and uh they're each other's best friends. They love they love each other very, very, very much, very deeply. But every once in a while I'd I'd hear 'em in a scramble of some kind in the house. And maybe I wasn't around there. If I was, I'd take care of it, but they'd be fighting. And I'd hear their mother say Not in this house. And you're not going to treat him that way. That's your brother. Now, you go over there and you hug your brother. Have you ever seen two boys want to hug one another? Maybe in this day and age, but not not then. Yeah. Now then and my wife says that's your best friend. You love him. You're not going to treat him that way. Because we're not going to allow your obstinates to affect this house negatively. Listen to me What you are affects what's around you in this church. How you feel about someone, what you think about someone, what you say about someone. Fix positively, negatively. I've come here not to work a miracle because I'm not a miracle worker, but I have come here Hoping that God will allow me to speak to the heart of people to say, that's what I want. That's what I want. See, the times are different, but God's not. Circumstances change, but God doesn't. And the God of promise of yesterday is as good to his promise today as he ever was. Now I'm not asking collectively, I'm asking personally And Hezekiah had a burden because of what he saw. And it led him to say, Lord, will you revive? How about you? How are we going to start this week out? Not thinking of the person next to you, around you, in front of you, but you. What do you want? And I'm asking you this morning, I wonder how many, first of all, Christians will come and kneel and not be in a hurry. Kneel before God and say, Lord, here's my life. I've tried to run it, I've tried to rule it. When in truth you purchased it, I'm giving it back. Everything. I'm giving it back. And Lord, I want your power in my life. I want your truth in my life. And what I see really needs the touch of God. I want it. Would you stand with me with heads bowing eyes closed? Because there's a man or a woman, a child in this place today that's that's not Christian, not saved. If you were to die right now, if you were to die right now. Where you're at, how you are, you die unsaved and you die and go to hell. And in your heart you know that And we're not talking about denominationalism, we're talking about a truth. That Jesus looked at a religious man and said, Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. It's not a good thing, it's a necessary thing. You say, but I'm not a bad sinner. The fact is, you're just a sinner. Being that sinner, you're under God's judgment. Righteously so, and if you die without that relationship, there's no hope, there's only hell. But the Bible says that today is the day of salvation, now is the accepted time. See, the only promise you have is of the moment. As of the moment. I buried my mommy when she was 98. I preached her funeral. She was ninety-eight. But also preached for my little nephew's funeral when he was eight. Died of leukaemia. Eight, ninety-eight. We have no proof, no guarantee of anything other than what we have. That's the reason Paul says redeem the time. Take advantage. God loves you. Jesus loves you. This church loves you. I don't know you, but I love you in Christ, and my grace desires that you know Christ passed from death to life. See, Jesus died on the cross to pay your sin debt. Because sin is going to be paid for one way or the other. Either you die and go to hell and pay eternally for your sins. Or you trust Jesus having borne your sin on the cross and paid for it, and you accept Him as your Savior and your payment. If you were to come Dave, we can take the Bible and show you how Jesus said to be saved, how you can know you're saved before you leave this building. Don't go away without Christ. You don't have any proof of anything, no promise of anything other than the moment. The greatest decision you ever make in life is what you do with Jesus Christ. It's the greatest decision you ever make. And it's the greatest gift you ever give to your children is a mom and daddy that loves the Lord. It's the greatest gift you ever give them. Father, as we begin this invitation, we pray the Spirit of God is working in the hearts of people. Father, I first of all pray for God's people that are honest and hungry, to see God do something that can only be said, God did it in and to and through them. Would this church be moved to come and spend time with God and surrender and yieldingness of themselves? That Father out of this service would be born. In these days, things that can only be pointed to God would to come Father, I'm suspicious that in a crowd this size, that there's surely someone here that needs Jesus. They may be good, but unsaved. Well they may be terrible and unsaved. Would they come and say, I want Christ? I want him as my Lord and my Savior. May they trust you today. Oh God, may they be obedient to the hunger that beats in their chest. And Father will thank you for that which is accomplished. With his bow and eyes closed, I'm going to ask the pastor if he would come. We take the invitation preacher.