That was a good day today, wasn't it? What a blessing. And uh we praise the Lord for his goodness to us. Our church. Glad always glad when we hear folks trusting the Lord as Savior. That just kind of puts a little icing on the cake when we hear that so we're glad for that. James chapter two We're going to look at a bunch of verses, so keep your Bibles handy here. I know sometimes you read the text, all right, he's done, set it aside. Don't do that, because we're going to be looking at a number of verses. Let me get turned on here And uh I think we got rewired, huh, James? Did we get this thing rewired? So it is red hot now. Okay, very good. James chapter 2. I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. We're actually going to look at verses 5 through 7 But I want to get the whole context here just to keep it in front of us. Verse one of James two says, My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect to persons For if there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring in goodly apparel, and there come also a poor man in vile raiment, and you have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place. And say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool. Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my bret my beloved brethren. Now notice that. He he injects that little phrase in there. Let me read verse four again. Are you not then partial on yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren. It's kind of like a preacher is preaching and in the middle of a message he'll say, are you listening? You paying attention? He's he's reiterating the fact they need to pay attention here. Then he goes on, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But ye have despised the poor Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called? I want to look at those last three verses I read, and I've just called the message rich and poor. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for the book of James, or it's been a challenge. And I pray that you would use this passage and a few thoughts from it, Lord, to help us grow in our Christianity, help us to be better Christians I pray you'd help us be compassionate and see people the way you see them. And so please fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many people recognize the name Mahatma Gandhi? Anybody recognize that name? He died in 1948. He was assassinated. He was an activist in India Uh and you're familiar with him. His big thing was um was peaceful civil disobedience. He was against violence, all this nonsense going on in our country right now. He was against all that. He was he was okay with uh disobeying the civil government but in a peaceful way to advance various causes. One of the things he hated was the caste system in India, among a number of things And if you're familiar with your history in India, and I believe it's still that way, Andrea could testify to this firsthand, but um it's still that way. India was uh had a very profound caste system Where you had certain levels or casts of people, and you did not interact, and the lower you were down on that cast, the worse you got treated. And he hated that. And Muhammad Gandhi, for he had some good qualities about him, he was determined to try and do away with that way of thinking in this country. He began, he was looking for ways to do that, and he began reading, as I understand it, he began studying the scriptures, the New Testament in particular. And he became convinced, according to the record I have, he became convinced that Christianity was what could eliminate the caste system in India, the teachings of Christ The theology and the and the lifestyle of Christianity as given in the New Testament, he was convinced that that was the answer to the caste system in India. And at this point, I say to you, I agree 100% with them. I believe the teachings of Scripture solve any problem in the world. He decided, when he came to that conclusion, the record goes, tells us that he decided he was going to go to a Christian church. And he was going to talk to the minister, the preacher there, and learn more about Christianity and try and see if he couldn't incorporate this into the society in India. When he walked through the back door of the very first Christian church he'd ever been in, they saw who he was, they saw what caste that he was put into there in India. And they made him stand in the back in a corner. He could not mingle with the others who were part of a higher caste. And he turned around and walked out. He said, Christianity has nothing different to offer than what I'm already dealing with. And later on he made this statement, which he became very well known for. He said, I would have become a Christian Had it not been for Christians. That's sad. I would have become a Christian had it not been for Christians. Sometimes I wonder if the Lord's greatest liability isn't his people. I know it's not his doctrine. His doctrine's pure. His doctrine's good. One of the hallmarks of biblical Christianity, according to the scriptures, is that all men can be saved. Anybody can be saved, regardless of his skin color, regardless of his standing in society. I think I just went dead again here. I am going to be saved I'm just going to take it off, Dave, because it distracts me more than it helps me. If you come in here tomorrow morning and you see a little mic Microphone smash the smithereen in the driveway. Don't come crying to me. Alright. Let me start over This is what I'm trying to say. Christianity, according to Scripture, should be marked Are identified as the truth that anybody can find forgiveness of sins. Anybody can be saved. White people, black people, yellow people. Red people, even purple people, even purple people eaters. Regardless of their educational background Um I l uh one of the things I love about the gospel is a little child can understand the gospel and can be saved. Uh eighty-nine year old, is that what you said the lady was? An an eighty year old lady can understand the gospel via saved. A PhD in astrophysics or whatever, what do you got? Oh in astrophysics can be saved. A man in his thirties that never passed eighth grade, my father Can believe the gospel and be saved. What a wonderful thing the gospel is. And that's one of the hallmarks of Christianity. All men can be saved, whosoever will. Can be saved. Another hallmark of Christianity is the fact that all men have access to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. One thing I despise in religion is the idea that only certain people have access to God. And that they have to pray for you and they have to intercede for you because you, just the regular folk, can't have access to God. They have to be some special person. That's baloney. The throne of God is open to all through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. If I know Jesus Christ is my Savior, I have access to God. love the story I won't take time but uh I told you many times of um uh old Jimmy McRobie and up in the hospital in Pittsburgh. You remember the story? And he had to have the preacher come and pray and a lady said He's two and a half hours away. It's the middle of the night. He can't come now. He can come up tomorrow. He goes, I need somebody to pray for me. And uh he was scared and finally lay in there and God impressed upon his heart, he can just pray to God himself And he learned a great lesson. Um, take your Bible if you would. I want to show you a couple verses that a lot of times don't get much attention, but I think are very significant. Galatians chapter three. Would you turn over there. Galatians chapter 3 verse 28. Am I coming through okay, everybody? Alright. Galatians 3. 28. Turn there if you would. And I wonder I could just read this to you, but I want us to see these verses because they tie into what this message is. Galatians 3, verse 28. Notice the Bible says, uh, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all what One in Christ Jesus. What a great truth. Come over to Colossians, if you would, and chapter three. Colossians chapter three and um verse number eleven Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, scythian, bond nor free But Christ is all and in all. Look at verse 12. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God holy and beloved, bows of mercies. Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another The whole basis of verse 11 of 12 and 13 are the fact of verse 11 that we are all one in Christ. If I know Jesus Christ as Savior, there are no distinctions in color or background or nationality or anything like that. And that's an important principle of Scripture. Now we come back to James. And this whole passage here in James that I read, verse 1, all the way down through verse number uh 9, really, 7. uh and down to nine is dealing is is dealing with uh uh what he's doing is contrasting how God treats people with how people treat people Do you ever notice a lot of times people treat people differently than God treats people? And he says that's a problem. We ought to see others. We ought to have the attitude towards others that God has towards others. We ought to see people the way God sees people. And that was the problem we're having here. Now I want to give you just a few thoughts real quick. I really encourage you to jot these down. I like to take notes when I hear a message and jot thoughts down. I put these down in such a way that maybe uh it would be a little easier to just uh keep these and and record these. Number one, Christians must be especially careful in our attitude and treatment of others. We as Christians need to be especially careful. In our attitude and treatment of others. Because we have a very sinful nature. And that sinful nature will have a tendency to treat people differently than God treats them. And I must be very, very careful about that. One thing that distinguishes a believer as a disciple of Jesus Christ is love and compassion towards others. What did Jesus say in John 13, 35? He said this: By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. Because you carry a great big black King James Bible. No, he doesn't say that. Now I think you ought to carry a great big black King James Bible. I don't think you ought to have a read one. You ought to have a black one. Kidding. I'm listening we ought to have the right Bible. Amen? But that's not what distinguishes me as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know the Mormons carry King James Bibles around with them? with them? By this shall all men know that you're my disciples because uh uh because you go to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Listen, I think a person ought to be in church every time the doors are open. I just think that's the way it ought to be. But that's not what distinguishes us. As a disciple of Jesus Christ. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples are my disciples if you have love one toward another. That is what distinguishes us from As Christians. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32 puts it this way: and be a kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And so what he's teaching these new these believers here that James is writing to, he's teaching them, listen, as Christians, we need to be very, very careful. In our attitude and treatment of others, we are to love people. We are to be characterized by compassion and by love for others. Now, I want to reiterate right here very, very carefully. I want to state very, very clearly That having compassion does not mean I have to compromise my convictions. And some people have this idea that if somebody's in sin or somebody's not living the way they should and and I've got these convictions against that and they're good solid Bible convictions that I have to be mean to that person that's not living the way I think they should be. That is ungodly. How many people hear God was mean to you before you got saved? None of us. How many people hear God was awfully patient with you before you got saved? Sure he was. Uh how many people here since you've gotten saved? Uh this is listen, this is just family tonight, so we'll we can be a little honest. How many people here since you've gotten saved, you've ever, at least for a little period of time, gotten out of sorts with God? Anybody in here. If you didn't raise your hand, you're out of sorts right now. How many people hear God got mean to you, was unkind to you but when you got out of sorts? No, he didn't God's very compassionate. And does God compromise his convictions? No. Does God compromise with evil? Listen, I'm saying we can have good, strong biblical convictions and still be nice. And still be kind and still be compassionate. In fact, we ought to be. And so we have to be very, very careful. I put the second thought down from these verses. Poor and needy people have always had God's special attention. Poor and needy people have always had God's special attention I got my concordance out. I looked up all the times that all the places in the Bible where the term poor and needy are mentioned. You know where I found it was mentioned the most In the book of Psalms, where in the Psalms over and over again it would how God cares for the poor and needy, how God watches over the poor and needy, how God has tender mercies towards the poor and needy. You know what I even found out in the book of Deuteronomy twice in Israel's law. The law Said that they were very to be very compassionate and very careful to help the poor and needy. They have always had God's special attention. Now let's look at our passage here. Look at verse 5. Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith? Now that word chosen caught my attention. The word choice there means it's actually it comes from the uh that Jesus used the same phrase in the Gospels where he chose his disciples. Now this does not mean that God chooses only saved people to be, it's not limited to the poor whom God chooses. But what it's saying, generally, as a as a class, poor people are more receptive to the gospel. If anybody's been here and been out soul winning on any length of time, you tend to see a pattern. You know what I see? I often told my preacher friends, I often say, if I if I want to get cussed out I'll go out soul winning and get cussed out and get treated rudely. I'll go up around the rich folk around the lake that are vacationing in the summertime Brother, the last thing they want to hear is some independent, bald-headed, fat Baptist preacher knocking on their door, telling them how to be saved from hell. You know what, if I go out, if I want to go out and find I'll go find some little holler where the car's broke down and there's five dogs in the yard and uh they're living in a ramshackle, little uh it's hard paper Shaq, I'll knock on the door. You a preacher? Yep. Come on in. And I found that people living in trailer parks a lot of time are more open to the gospel than living people living in mansions Huh? A lot of times Kathy and I'll be out and we'll drive some area and it'll be kind of a poor area. I'll say that looks like a good fishing hole to me And go in there and win some people to Christ. And generally speaking, generally speaking, folks who are poor and needy tend to be more receptive to the gospel. He says here, look what he says here. God has chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised. He says they're rich in faith. They're poor in bucks, but boy, they're rich in faith. And poor people generally have an opportunity to be rich in faith. Now, I got looking at that word poor. Now here's where a difficulty comes in. You and I, listen, you and I have no concept of what it means to be poor, as it's used in this verse here. If you have a cell phone, you are not poor. Not according to this. Not what this term poor means here. This term means abject poverty. Owning nothing. These are people who do have no idea where their next meal is coming from. These are people who own nothing. You and I cannot comprehend what that is like. We've never lived in a situation where people were as poor as what these thought. The poverty level in the United States of America is filthy rich compared to the folks he's talking about here. You and I are the rich people in this passage. Do you understand that? We're the ones, in this time frame, we are the filthy rich compared to these poor people. And he says this: these folks who are an abject part, if they would walk through that door, they cannot afford soap to wash their bodies. They do not have food to put in their stomach. And they walk through the doors, he's saying, and you are partial against them. And you are ashamed of them. We're going to look at this here. And you push them off to the side. Because you are pushing aside the very people who have the opportunity, have the greatest faith in the world. Because they are trusting God for their very sustenance Their fa they're trusting God for their very next meal. I'd I'd venture to say there's no one in here that has to absolutely trust in God. You understand what I'm saying, to have your next meal. You get enough food in your refrigerator You get enough food in your shelves, you get enough food in uh your uh uh freezer that you wouldn't have to pray uh for maybe the rest of your life and you could survive just fine. Come on, am I right or wrong? But these are folks, they've got nothing And they have to learn to trust God. How many people recognize the name George Mueller? George Mueller, great man of God in London years ago, had the children's homes And they would literally pray every meal in, trusting God. He says, that's the way these folks are I get the impression studying this, he's saying rather than putting these poor folk down and pushing them aside and despising them, you ought to be honoring them for the faith they have in God. For what they're doing. It's difficult for us to understand the level of poverty. Their very survival was dependent upon their faith in God You know what I found? Now this is a general statement. I could maybe get criticized for this, but I found uh for the most part atheists and liberals, for the most part, are very wealthy. They don't need God. They've got all their needs met and all of that. And I'm saying for the most part, they're generally very wealthy people. And so he says here, the poor and needy, they've always had God's special attention. You want to find a place where God where God is specially focused on? What did Jesus say? He says, I came to preach the gospel to the Poor is what he said to the poor. Here's my third statement. Christians are susceptible to partiality Now I didn't believe this at first. I got looking at this and I said, I don't see how that applies. But the more I study it, the more I tend to agree. Look what he says here. Look in verse 6 Let me read verse 5 again. He says, Hearken, my brother, my beloved brethren, listen, pay close attention to this. Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, heirs of the kingdom? Which he hath promised to them that love him. Now, verse 5, the first part. Who's he talking to? What type of person is he talking to? First part of verse 5. The brethren. Who's that? Christians. Now look at the first part of verse 6. But Ye! He says, you Christians have despised the poor. We have a sinful nature. And if we're not careful, that sinful nature will look down and have an attitude, a negative attitude, a despiteful attitude towards folks that are lower than us, haven't attained a what we are. How hypocritical is it for a Christian to look down on someone because they're poor? I want to remind you that it is our own spiritual poverty that makes our salvation necessary I spiritually speaking, I am in abject poverty. I have absolutely nothing to offer to God to make me of any value to Him. I have absolutely no merit whatsoever before God I am absolutely in poverty as far as spiritually speaking is concerned. I am completely dependent on the grace of God for me to be saved and stay saved and to uh have anything in life, right or wrong It is not our spiritual goodness, it's not the wealth of our spiritual goodness that makes us acceptable to God. And then we turn around because somebody doesn't have financial wealth, then we look down on them. Is that critical, hypocritical or not? That's what he's saying to them. The word despise there means to treat shamefully, to insult them, to dishonor them, to treat with contempt. And when I realize how poor I am spiritually, I think it will help me be more compassionate to folks who are poor financially. Now I thought I said I I th I got thinking of myself saying this, I don't see this in America so much. And I think and I but it's there, there's no doubt it's there. But I think America is unique in the sense That we have had scriptural teaching underlying our society for years and years and years and years and years, and it almost almost to the point in some circles where the rich are despised You follow what I'm saying? And so uh I got looking at this and I thought, but nevertheless, it's there. To look at someone, they're poor, they're dirty, they're not everything Well, we kind of look down on them. We we'll just make sure uh they're here, you know, and just be careful where you sit 'em and just watch them, be careful. And I'm not saying be foolish, but I'm saying we've got to watch our attitude. Why are people poor? Proverbs gives a lot of reasons. Some people are poor because they make foolish decisions. Right? They just make foolish decisions. Proverbs teach Some people are poor because they lack character. They can't discipline themselves to be careful on how they know what they they know the right decision, but they don't have the discipline to say no or whatever Some people are poor not because of the fault of their own. Maybe they were poor born in a poor situation, never able to work themselves out. Maybe the poor circumstances or whatever helped came on, a lot of different reasons, not a not no fault of their ours, uh their own Some people are poor because they give of themselves to help others. Do you know Jesus became poor? The Bible says in 2 Corinthians, he became poor so that we can be rich. And so we have to be real careful. Christians are susceptible to this. In Galatians chapter 2. Peter is giving Paul instructions. Paul's recounting that Peter gave them instructions, and he said, one of the things Peter instructed us to do was to remember the poor. He didn't want the poor to be neglected, that they were to be had the same treatment as others. I must not make divisions among people that God does not make. Rich and poor, black and white, educated, uneducated, smart, dumb. Those are not divisions that God makes He doesn't make that at all. And this church here, these believers apparently were doing it. They had caught into the world's mentality, especially at that time where the poor are to be despised and the rich are to be admired. And God says, none of that, none of that, none of that. My last statement is this: prosperity tends to attract and nurture corruption. Sometimes the worst thing that can happen to a person is prosper. Huh? I've seen it. I've seen folks come, boy, everything's going bad, they don't have nothing to do nothing we'd buy them food, we'd do different things. Oh boy, they trust Christ. I'm thinking of one situation but do you they trust Christ and they got their feet on the ground and boy things started coming together and they started uh prospering a little bit and next thing you know you didn't see them. They got this job and that job, next thing you know, you're out there, and prosperity destroyed them. Prosperity can destroy nations. I think what I think this is just my opinion. I'm just speaking off the top of my head. I think prosperity is hurting America right now I had a fellow in Bible college years ago and I at first I thought he was nuts but he would say he said you know this was back in nineteen early nineteen eighties he said you know I think the best thing happened to America is we get hit with a depression. And people have to start looking to God again and get rid of our prosperity. I don't know. Look at verse six, the last part of verse six. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seat? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which you are called? Now he's making a generalized statement here because not all rich people do. There are a lot of rich people in the Bible That loved God and were very gracious. David was incredibly wealthy, and he treated the others very graciously. Job was extremely wealthy, and he was a gracious, godly man. So this is a general statement, but wealth will often stifle compassion and generosity. I worked out at the hospital um uh down in Chattanooga, and one year we were getting toys and stuff for the bus kids and we put and the church was raising up, we were gonna give out toys, bus kids. So I got these big boxes, big cardboard boxes. I put 'em I thought, man, surgery department, these guys are loaded. I'm my bus route's gonna have the these kids are gonna have the best toys that have ever hit the plane. They're gonna have Nintendos and they're gonna have uh Walkmans and they're gonna No, that's right, they didn't invent that stuff back in that day, but um they're gonna have all these great toys I put another one down in the housekeeping department. I put a box down there. I had a couple up in the surgery, the doctor's uh lounge was, and a couple down in the housekeeping where us peasants l worked Guess which boxes were filled to overflowing? The ones down in housekeeping. Guess which ones I barely got two, three little stuff thrown in there. Up in the surgery department. The wealthiest people gave the least And those dear black ladies down there that were just working trying to keep their family together, and I don't think any of them one lady, one was a good Christian lady, she had a uh her husband lived at home, and the others just were rough, broken homes, just rough And those dear folks would bring in toys and bring in things and they'd buy something there at the store. They'd see something, I'm gonna get one of those for uh Brother Denny. They call me Brother Denny's bus route And those boxes were packed full. You know what I found? Wealth, a lot of times, will steal compassion and generosity from our hearts. Not always, it's a generalization. First Timothy six Says the love of money is the root of all evil. And we won't take time to turn there. I wanted to look at that passage, but he talks about people coveting after riches. And their faith failing. We have to be very, very careful. I want to remind you: we are the rich people in this passage. That's the classification we fall into. You say, I don't believe that. Brother, you don't know much about the world we live in then, because we are incredibly wealthy. And we have to be very, very careful. We must not make divisions that God does not make. I put this thought down. I had it while we were singing one of the songs. I was thinking through my message. I thought of this, and and then And uh I'm gonna share it with you. We must value people not for their assets, but value people because of their personhood. You follow what I'm saying? A lot of times we get this way. Well, that person is a blessing to me. That person makes me feel good. That person makes me happy. Therefore, I highly value them. This person over here, well, they don't have much to offer me. They don't have much they can do for me. They don't bring a lot of pleasure to me, and we value them very lowly. And that is the very thing this passage is condemning. I don't value people because of their assets, I value them because they're created in the image of God. And this is what I'm asking God to do in my heart. This was a tough passage to study because I was trying to apply it. And this is what I'm asking God to do in my heart. I want God to make me more compassionate. How many people feel that way? How many people would like for God to make you more compassionate? I would Because I look at myself and I think sometimes, man, God help me to be more compassionate. And I just think maybe after these verses. Be good for God's people. Just kneel in Alder and say, God, make me more compassionate, dear God. I think Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church folk ought to be the nicest, kindest people in all of Garrett County Lord has been awfully good to us. We are so poor spiritually, and yet God has blessed us and gave us so much. I'm not talking go out and throw money around and just throw it out. I think we need to be wise. But we need compassion and we need to be kind and not value people because of their assets, but see each and every person as As a person created in the image of God that Jesus died for. And let's ask God to make us that way. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, please bless us. And I ask, Lord, you teach us that we would never fall into this way of thinking that's addressed here in James. That we would not despise people because of what they don't have or think lowly of people because they have no assets. That will benefit us. But Lord, help us to see people as you see them. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I already had us raise our hands, but I wonder how many say, Preacher, I really feel that way. And I really want God to help me to be a kind, compassionate Christian in my relationship with others. Again, how many how many say that? That's true, Pachel. That's what I want. Amen. Let's ask God to help us. We need the Lord to do that. We need God