Or I'd like for us to read verse four and five. Anyone recognize these two verses? These are our memory verses for the month of uh December. And I'd like for us to read verse four and five together in unison. I know we quoted this at the beginning of the the service for our memory verse. But I'd like for us to read it together, just kind of set the stage for our message this morning. Verse number four of Galatians chapter four, we'll read four and five. Everybody have it there? Ready? Let's read it together. Ready? Begin. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. There is a lot of truth in that statement. There's some great theological truths there about adoption, about the st You and I being saved and being born into the family of God or standing with God. There's so many uh truths, spiritual truths there, but I want us to zero in. What struck me was that first phrase there, but when the fullness Of the time was come, God sent forth his son. I've entitled the message Right on Time. Right on Time. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. Lord, it sure is good to be in your house. And I Lord, it's such a blessing to be around your people, to talk and laugh and sing and uh share uh things with each other. Lord, my heart is blessed this morning uh just to be with your people. And now we've opened our Bibles, Lord, and we're looking at this passage. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit as I try to preach on this. And Lord, there's a lot of theological truth here. But help us, Holy Spirit, please help us to see what you're saying and how it applies to our lives. That we could be the people you create us to be. And those of us that know you as Savior, that we could live that Christian life that you saved us to live and know your blessing and bring glory to you. Lord, if there's someone with us this morning that does not have assurance of their salvation, Lord, that's our heart's desire and our prayer is that everybody would come and trust Jesus as Savior. and have eternal life. So again I ask, Lord, you fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body as best I know how, Lord, and ask that you would speak for me Through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The book of Galatians, I don't know how familiar are with it. I I think Christians ought to read their Bible. I think every Christian ought to spend some time every day reading their Bible. A little bit every day. You ought to schedule that in. Make a difference. How many people have ever done that, you've done that, you've read your Bible on a regular basis, and it's made a difference in your life? Can we get a witness Sure. I don't know how you are, but uh on the rare occasions when I miss a day, I notice it. I notice it. There's a difference And so if we read our Bibles, um, and I think every Christian ought to get to some point in your Christian life where you start reading that Bible through, all the way through, every book of the Bible. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, all of it is profitable. And it helps us. And at some point you'll read through the book of Galatians. Now Galatians is a Pretty theological book, of course, in the Bible, but he touches on some uh great doctrinal truths, and some uh you need to study a little bit uh exactly what he gets to But um Galatians is a tremendous book. Just a little background before we get to our text. Galatians, of course, is written by the Apostle Paul. We notice in verse number one of chapter one, it says Paul, an apostle, not of man. uh neither by man, but by the Lord Jesus by both by Jesus Christ and God the Father, uh who raised him from the dead, and all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia. So Paul is the penman. Who is the author of the book of Galatians? God the Father. God is the author. God's the author of all scripture. But uh uh Paul was the penman. Paul is the one that God used to record this. And this is actually a letter that Paul wrote to these churches in this area of Galicia Some Bible scholars have suggested that this is possibly the very first letter that Paul wrote to any of these churches. Of course, you have a number of others in our Bible, Ephesians, Philippians, Thessalonians. All these Romans, he wrote these, Corinthians. But this is possibly the very first letter that Paul wrote while he's on his missionary journey. He writes back to these churches that were established there in this region called Galatia. Um it's not written to any particular church. Now that's kind of unique from some of his other uh uh books we have in the Bible that Paul wrote. Um uh Corinthians was written to a very particular church in the city of Corinth. Ephesians was written to a very particular church in the city of Ephesus. But when he's writing to Galatians, there's numerous churches that he is addressing. He's writing it, and they're going to share this thing, send it back and forth, and share it with one another. Book of Galatians is a very personal letter Paul references himself, some of his personal history of coming to Christ and his beginning years in the ministry and in the Christian life. The first chapter or two, he references his personal history a good bit. And then it's also personal in the sense that Paul shares his heart with these churches. If you would notice with me chapter 2. And verse number 20. Now I don't know. I've had a life verse uh for many years, Mark 11, 22. Jesus answering said to them, have faith in God. And I'm going back to that verse. But if I would ever change my life verse. I think Galatians 2. 20 would be a tremendous verse. And Paul is writing to these believers. He's writing to these churches. And he makes a statement about his heart. He's sharing with them what his Christianity really is. Look at verse 20. He says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Now look what he says. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God. Look at this statement. Who loved me and gave himself for me. What a tremendous statement Paul makes. I'm crucified with Christ. I mean sharing with them, saying, listen I'm not living the life, this isn't me, this isn't, uh I'm not pursuing my dreams and my plans and leaning on my understanding. He says I put all myself aside And I've given myself fully to the Lord. And it's Christ in me. It's Christ living through me. It's Christ producing these works. It's Christ producing this life. And really, genuine biblical Christianity is not something that you and I work up, the Christian life. Genuine biblical Christian life is something Christ lives through us. Am I making sense? You understand what I'm saying? Uh before I got saved, uh you know, I was under conviction and living such a mess And I ca and I and I kept saying to myself back then, I said, I don't want to be the man I'm becoming. I don't want to be this kind of person. Uh I I I uh I I wanna uh uh I this is not what I wanna become. I saw the direction I was going and my friends. And I began praying and calling out to God, help me, help me, God. God direct me to the scriptures, and in the scriptures I saw that I was a sinner on my way to hell under the judgment of God. My only hope was the Lord Jesus Christ. Only hope of my life being changed. Only hope of being delivered from the sins that controlled me. Was by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. And I bowed by my bed one night, called out on the Lord to be my personal Savior. And God saved me. And God changed my life. Dramatically and in my case, instantly transformed my life. And uh folks would say, says, man, what they would say at work when I got to work, what got into Leatherman? What in the world happened to Leatherman? And the only explanation was it was now Christ in me. Jesus Christ has changed me and now he was living his life. It wasn't something I worked up. It wasn't some change that I grit my teeth and I'm going to change my it wasn't that at all. It was a Christ now in me, the Spirit of God living his life through me. That's what Paul is saying here. This is a very personal letter. He's sharing the very heart of his Christian life. It's Christ in me. It's Christ in me. But Galatians is a very stern letter He is in many ways rebuking them for a very, very serious false doctrine that was coming into the church there. Now, I'm sharing all this to lay some groundwork, to give the background here of this church. If you study the book very carefully, you find out there's nowhere in here that Paul praises the churches. He gives them no commendation. He doesn't commend them for anything. He doesn't praise them for anything. He doesn't not one time does he say, I thank God for you or what you're doing. Now in other books, Philippians and others, he says that over and over. I thank God for you. I praise God for what's happening. But he doesn't do that It's a very, very stern letter here because there is something seriously, seriously wrong in the churches of Galatia. And it must be addressed. And what was happening was this. There were certain men, Jews, had come into these churches from Jerusalem, no doubt. And come into these churches, and they were introducing what a term that we use, they were introducing legalism. How many folks are familiar with that term? Ever heard that? Legalism. And what that is, is simply this. It's you must keep the law to be saved. You must keep God's law to be saved. Legalism. And so they were coming in and saying, You've trusted Christ, you've accepted Jesus, the Messiah, that's wonderful. But if you want to be saved, you also got to keep the law. You've got to be circumcised. You have to keep these Old Testament holy days. You have to go through these ceremonies, these Jewish ceremonies, and they were introducing this idea of works, living a certain way, keeping certain rules and regulations, along with trusting Christ, in order to be saved. Now that is legalism. And he's addressing that. And by the way, legalism is a false doctrine. The Bible very, very clearly teaches that we are saved by grace through faith, that not of ourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. In other words, there is nothing I can do. There is nothing you can do. Living a certain life, a certain lifestyle, keeping certain rules, going through certain rituals that makes me acceptable to God. There's only one thing that makes me acceptable to God, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And when I trust him, all the righteousness, all the holiness of Jesus Christ, the Bible says is put to my account And God sees me as righteous and as holy as Jesus Christ. Not because I really am. I'm not, in and of myself, but through faith in him, his account is put, his record is put to my account. And God sees me as righteous. And it's all of grace. It's all of grace. The grace of God. And so these Judaizers were bringing in this teaching that they had to keep the law. And of course it disrupted the people. They're worried. We had trusted Christ. I'm not doing this, I'm to that, I need to do this, I need to do that, uh for God to accept me. And Paul's addressing that there And so you say, Well, that's uh back long time ago, I want to suggest to you we still have legalism in our churches today The same teaching that says you've got to live a certain lifestyle, you've got to do this, you've got to do that. Some churches teach that you need to accept Jesus as your Savior, but for God to accept you, you have to also be baptized. Now listen, you hang around here for long, you know we believe in baptism. We're Baptists. We baptize everybody and everything. No, not really. But uh baptism is a very, very important step in the Christian life. You've heard me say this hundreds of times I believe baptism is the most important thing for a new believer to do is to follow the Lord in baptism. Come out and out for Christ. Identify him a follower of Christ, I trust them, ought to be baptized. If you study the Bible very carefully We're studying this in Bible Institute on uh in Monday nights. We finish up the semester here in a week or so. By the way, we're starting a new semester for Monday I'm injecting a little advertisement here. We have a new semester Bible Institute in January. We're studying future events. Prophecy. And so um sign up now and uh we'll give you a special early bird discount maybe. But uh that's my advertisement. But we're talking about the church, and uh we are talking about baptism, the ordinance of the church, and baptism, as I said, is one of the most important things for a new believer to do. Once I accept Christ, I'll be baptized. You study your Bible very carefully, studying particularly the book of Acts, when they got saved in the book of Acts, immediately they got baptized. You're hard-pressed to find anybody in the New Testament that is a believer and is not baptized. You're hard-pressed. I can think of one. Anybody think of one that was saved but was not baptized Deep on the cross. Deep on the cross. You say, why wasn't he baptized? Uh he was nailed to a cross. It's kind of tough. Now I said all that to say this. Baptism is important. But if somebody comes along and starts teaching and saying you've got to be baptized before God will accept you, before you can have assurance of sins forgiven on your way to heaven. That is legalism. That is legalism. Church membership is important. But somebody says you've got to be saved, but you've got to be a church member. You never make it to heaven. That's legalism. You gotta do this, you gotta do that, you gotta give this, you gotta take part in that. No, no, no. For by grace are you saved. The jailer, Philippian jailer, came to Paul. He said, Sir, what must I do to be saved? Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thy house. So there's a very serious problem going on in these churches in this region called Galatia. There's this teaching coming in, and it's disrupting things, and it's actually hindering people from being saved. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 2 and verse number 16. Now again, I'm laying some groundwork here. I want to get practical here in a little bit. I'm tempted to say this. I probably shouldn't. I don't think we're going to be very long this morning A great chorus of confidence. That all right, look at verse chap look at chapter 2, verse 16. Listen to very carefully what he's writing to these believers here in these churches. Knowing that a man is not justified by what? Works of the law. That doesn't make you right with God. The works of the law. A man is not justified by the works of the law, but by what? The faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. Look at this next statement. You can't get any clearer than this. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. Now let me say this. Maybe you're here this morning and somebody would ask you, do you know for sure? Your sins forgiven. God accepts you into heaven when you die. And you say, Yes, I know I am, because uh I do this and I've been baptized and I give to missions and I teach Sunday school. If you list anything you're doing as a factor in your acceptance to God according to the Bible, you're not saved. You know, just be frank, you're not saved. It is only by faith in Jesus Christ. We had a man visit our church a number of years ago. uh many years ago and uh fine fellow he was an older fellow and he's he was coming to church visiting uh just out of blue he started coming so I went out and visited him And we got talking a little bit, and I asked him, finally I said to him, I said, uh let me ask you a question. I always do this. So let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, and uh that you'll go to heaven, not to hell? And he says, absolutely, I know I'll go to heaven. There's no doubt about it. God will accept me. I said, well, that's I'm glad to hear that. I said, what gives you that assurance? What makes you so sure that God will accept you into heaven? You don't go to hell? And uh he said, this was his statement. He says, I've been a Sunday school superintendent for 41 years in the church I came from. You know what that is? That's works. He's trusting, and I did this, I did this, I did this. Now, is it a good thing to be a Sunday school superintendent for 41 years? Yeah, sure Uh brother James is our Sunday school superintendent, forty one years, he'll be a hundred and ninety-seven. And um But listen, being a Sunday school superintendent doesn't doesn't take my sins away. Being a Sunday school superintendent doesn't pay For the times I've broken God's law, there's only one thing that can pay for my sins, and that's the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And by faith, I trust what he did for me, accepting him as my personal Savior, putting my confidence in him to forgive me and save me and get me to heaven. And that's what Paul was addressing. This is a very, very important book, doctrinally important book, the book of Galatians, addressing this matter of legalism. Legalism. And we must be very, very careful about it. It is a danger in our churches today. Now, several months or so ago, I was reading through in my devotions, I read through the book of Galatians And I came across our text, if you've come back there. And I read verse 4 and verse 5. And This passage struck me. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? You ever just read through the Bible and it's like one verse. You maybe read it 40 times. But you read it and man it just shouts out at you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, it's just like wow, it's like I never saw that before And I was reading through here, and I saw verse 4 and 5, and God just struck me as I was reading this. Look at it again. It says, but when the fullness of time was come God sent forth his son. I underlined that in my Bible. That you could put in the margin of your Bible, you could say Christmas. It's what Christmas is about. When God sent forth his son, when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. I believe that that statement right there, verse 4, and you could include verse 5, I believe that is the biblical message of Christmas in a nutshell. Now I don't know about you. Some folks, you know, there there I I worked for a fellow in a ministry years ago and uh he didn't he didn't believe in celebrating Christmas and uh he was gracious about you and kind of he just they didn't they didn't celebrate Christmas For whatever reason. And by the way, there's no biblical command for us to celebrate Christmas. Nowhere in the Bible are we told to remember the birth of Christ. We are told to remember the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ But we're not told to celebrate it any certain way, specific way, the birth of Christ. By the way, neither are we forbidden from that. So I like it. I think it's a good thing. I like celebrating Christmas. I like uh decorating a little bit. We don't as much as we as we did when the boys were small. Uh now uh the The big thing now is uh buying presents for the grandbaby. Wow, that's that's uh that's number two be s uh be that that's uh that's uh one just above getting presents from people. But um Uh getting uh I like Christmas. Uh for some people Christmas is different. Some people Christmas is all the focus of Christmas is family. And that's a good thing. I think it's a great thing for a family to get together. We thought uh here a month or so ago we thought both the boys are going to come in. We'd have uh all the family together and we are real excited about that and their jobs uh situations came up and uh they're not able to come in. But it looks like this year uh Kathy and I are going to get to go out, fly out west and uh spend Christmas uh with our oldest son and with the grandbaby. Uh yeah, my son will be there, but it'll be the grandbaby I tell you, family is a wonderful thing. How many people enjoy getting together with family at Christmas time? Sure. Get around and and And have fun and fellowship. What a wonderful thing that is. For other people, uh Christmas is getting together with friends and having Christmas parties. I love Christmas parties And uh get together. I uh one of my favorite things about Christmas parties is eggnog. And uh anybody here like eggnog? No, I don't put anything else in it, just eggnog. But uh and getting together with friends together and and doing games. One of my favorite things is our New Year's Eve party. We all stay after and play games and fellowship and eat and uh we'll do board games and we'll have singing and we'll eat And uh we'll do some other stuff and then we'll eat shrimp. And uh just getting together with friends is a wonderful thing. Some people, that's the whole focus of Christmas. Family, some's friends. Other people, it's fairy tales Gets this big fat guy red suit. I'm not addressing anybody in particular in here. Um but uh And you know, he brings the presents and rides the uh uh the um the the sleigh, but the the horse not horses, um the reindeer. I kept wanting to say caribou. And um I tell you, I see one of them, they're coming down. Shhh. And you know, you want to do that, that's fine. But family and friends and fairy tales. But I tell you what, as a Christian, as someone that believes the Bible is the Word of God, I tell you, for me, the focus of Christmas is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we're not commanded to, there's nowhere, as I said, we're not commanded to do that. But there's just something about stopping and focusing and rejoicing and singing about God. becoming man on my behalf and suffering and paying the price so that I can be forgiven, escape hell. And live in the presence of God for all eternity. Have a new life here and now. That God would do that for me. That God would love me and become a man. Leave the throne of glory. And become a man. I tell you, that that to me is is my focus of Christmas. And when we look at Galatians chapter 4, verse 4 and 5, I think we have that message In a nutshell, in the fullness of time, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. To redeem them that were under the law. What a message. I got two thoughts real quick. Told you to be short. One is this. This is what struck me as I read this in my devotions. Number one, God keeps his word. You mark it down. God keeps his word. In the fullness of time. Would you say that point with me? God keeps his word. Would you say that with me? Ready? God keeps his word. If you don't get anything else out of this message this morning, I hope you'll walk out of here with this burden in your heart and mind. God keeps his word. If God said it, it's so. If God says something's going to happen, you mark it down. It is going to happen. God cannot lie. God never fails. He is all powerful. He says it, mark it down. God keeps his word. In the fullness of time. The Bible is full of promises from God. I mean from Genesis to Revelation, we have promise after promise after promise after promise from God concerning a whole spectrum of areas of life. Some promises in the Bible are for the nation of Israel. There's a little song folks sing sometimes, and there's, you know, it's okay, but it's not real accurate. It goes like this: every promise in the book is mine. Every chapter, every verse, every line. I forget the rest of it, but that phrase there, that's not really exactly correct. Because some promises in the Bible are specifically to the nation of Israel. And God gave Israel some tremendous promises And by the way, they will still be fulfilled. There's a coming day when God will re-establish Israel and he'll reign as Messiah and King of Israel. So God gave some very specific promises to the nation of Israel. The Bible's full of promises. Some are for the nation of Israel, some are to specific individuals For instance, God made some promises to Abraham. He told Abraham his offspring would be as the number of his offspring would be as like the stars of the sky and the sand of the sea, innumerable. Now God didn't give that promise to me. When we first got married, Kathy said, I want to have ten kids. I said, all right, this will be interesting. We had two, and she says, we're through. And there was factors involved there. But um but uh but that promise of this great, great number of offspring is uh uh was given specifically to indiv uh to Abraham individually. So some of the promises in the Bible were made to very specific individuals Some of the promises in the Bible are to the nation of Israel. There are some promises in the Bible specifically to the New Testament church. Jesus said that the gates of hell cannot stand against the church. In other words, he makes some promises specifically to our church. We are the pillars. And the ground of the truth. He says, someday he will present the church to God as a chaste bride, pure and righteous So there's some promises that we as a church can claim that are made specifically to the church. Some promises in the Bible are given to all believers For instance, Hebrews chapter 13, verse number 5, he says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That's to believers. Unsaved person can't claim that verse. They don't have Christ. He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He says, uh he says, uh seek ye first the kingdom of God. All these things will be added unto you. I'll take care of you. I'll meet your needs. I'll provide for you. You seek me first. Promises, promises, promises. All through the Bible. Some promises are made to all of mankind. Everybody's included. How about this one? Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise every single person you'd meet this week. That's a promise to that person. They'll call on the Lord. They'll turn to the Lord. God will forgive them and save them, give them new life. So, what I'm trying to say is this: the Bible is filled with promises from God to you and I. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, and again, for sake of time, we won't go there, but God makes this amazing promise to Eve. They had disobeyed God. The curse of sin had now come upon mankind. And God promised to Eve that there would be a coming, and I hear God's words, seed of the woman. That would someday come and would bruise the head of Satan. Now think with me for a minute. Now, biologically, the woman doesn't have a seed, right? Woman doesn't have seed. So what does he mean when he says the seed of a woman will bruise the head of the serpent of Satan? What does he mean the seed of a woman? Biologically, a woman does not have a seed. That is obviously a reference to the virgin birth. Of this coming one who would bruise the head of Satan. Genesis 3. 15. You can see it right there. And so God made this promise that someday The quote unquote seed of a woman, a virgin, no man involved, no seed of man involved, she would bear a child That would eventually bruise the head of the serpent, the head of Satan. Now I got looking at that word bruise there. That's an interesting word It mends it. Now you and I think of bruise, you know, you get uh you know you got boxing them, boom, and you hit him and boom, he gets a bruise there you know, and uh black eye and uh it's all swelled up and bruised. That's what we think of. But the word bruised there means this, to crush To absolutely incapacitate. And in Genesis 3. 15, God, very early on in the history of mankind, says to Eve, Adam and Eve, And said, there's coming a day when the seed of a woman, a woman without uh the involvement of a man, is going to bear a child And that child is that that one that is born of that virgin will bruise, will crush, incapacitate Satan. You know what that's a reference to? The virgin birth of Jesus Christ and the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. All through Scripture it bears it out. That's exactly what he was talking about. And Jesus Christ on that cross, Jesus Christ on that cross brought a death blow to Satan's power and influence. Now he's still alive and well on planet Earth, but I'm telling you, his days are numbered. He's been bruised through death by the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have these promises and all through the Old Testament, promise after promise after promise of a coming Messiah. A coming Messiah, a coming Messiah, a coming Savior, all through the Old Testament. And now he says here, look at this. But when the fullness of the time was come, In other words, you could put it this way, just in time. When the time was right. That word fullness there has this idea to completely fill up till there's no room left. To completely fill up. Brother Mark brought me a little glass of water up here. Taking some medicine, it dries my mouth out. But um question, can you see that? Is that is that completely filled up? No. I just sipped some of it out of it. But um to that word fullness would mean that thing was absolutely level to the top. Did you ever go to a restaurant and she's filling her uh tea up and she gets distracted And see, anybody know I'm talking about and it's right there? That's the idea. When the fullness of time, when there was no more time left to be fulfilled That word is used in the Gospels a couple times where it's talking about filling the Bible term as bottle, it would be like a flask for us, but of new wine And you fill that up with new wine. You fill that flask full. There's no more room. It's also used when Jesus did a miracle. Uh with the little boy. Remember the miracle? The little boy had uh had some barley loaves and a couple little fishes. Remember there's 5,000 people. We don't have any food. What are we gonna do? Disciples said, send them away And uh Jesus says, oh no, uh, you give them to eat. Us give them to eat. We don't have anything. Andrew says, here's a little boy. He's got a little happy meal. Um Some barley loaves, a little fish. What what's that among so many? And Jesus says, Alright, get the people sit down. And Jesus thanked God and blessed it, and they fed ten thousand plus people with a little happy meal. And what does it say they did afterward? They collected up the fragments that remained, and they had 12 baskets full. It's the term here, fullness. Completely no more room to put any more cheeseburgers in there. I mean, uh actually it would be filet of fish. Um No more room. Now what's he saying? The fullness of time. He's saying when the time was just right, everything that needed to be in place, everything that needed to happen, has happened, and now it's full. The time is full. Let me give you some practical thoughts here. Number one, some things take time. Some things in life take time. Over and over in the Bible, we're told to wait on God. How many folks here are old enough to realize some things take time? Yeah. We live in a world we want it now, right? Anybody here ever pray for patience? I'm telling you, I want patience. I want it never. But you know what? Some things in life take time And there were certain things that had to happen, had to be in place before Jesus Christ come. And when those all were in place, the fullness of time uh uh God sent forth his son at just the right time when everything was where it needed to be. Oh, four thousand years went by, waiting, waiting, waiting, uh offering the blood of bulls and goats and uh uh oxen for the coming Savior, waiting for him. And now, oh, it's here. Fullness of the time. Send forth his son. Some things take time. Over and over in the Bible, we're told to wait on God. Wait on God. Um how many people like to wait for things? Anybody here go to Walmart? You have lines and you're standing line. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? And you get in the 10 item thing and the lady in front of you has 11 Yeah. And um but but but God tells us to wait on him. Wait on him. I put a few things down. One, God's in control God knew exactly right the time to send Jesus. He's in control. And by the way, he knows exactly what you and I need and when we need it. We just need to wait on him. I have some things I've been praying for for years and years and years and years and years. And I believe God's going to answer that prayer. I believe God's going to answer that prayer. But I need to learn to wait on him, learn to trust him. Him. God's in control. I need to trust him. Here's the thing. God doesn't always work on my schedule. In fact, I changed that. I had down God doesn't always work on my schedule. I scratched out always. God doesn't work on my schedule. He doesn't work on my schedule. Um he's never early he's never late. Very seldom is he early But God's in control. My problem isn't so much trusting God's faithfulness. I know he's faithful. My problem struggling with his timing. I want it now. I'm going to do it now. And so, one, I put this down. Some things take time. Number two, I put this down. God has determined certain things take place at certain times. God is a God of order. God is a God of schedule. For instance, in Genesis 15, 13, he said that Israel was going to spend 400 years in Egypt. He had that scheduled out. When that four hundred in years was up, then it was time for raise up Moses and bring them out God had certain things had to take place at certain times. For instance, the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now, I'm not talking about the rapture. Let me ask you this: when's the rapture going to happen? We don't know. We're not told. We don't know the day or the hour. When is the second advent when Jesus comes back to earth? When is that going to happen? We know when that is, right? Seven years after the rapture. At the end of the seven-year tribulation period, Jesus is going to come back. There's certain things that have to take place, certain things have to be in place, and then he's going to come back So the Israel is slaves in Egypt had a certain time, certain things had to take place, the second coming of Jesus. Hey, by the way, the day of our death is scheduled. Hebrews 9. 27, it is appointed unto man once today. That word appointed means there is a day and a time Very specific time when God has that our time here on earth is done. He'll take us to heaven. Scheduled. We don't know when that is. By the way, you don't know when it is for you and I. God knows. God knows. And so we need to be prepared. So certain things, God has determined certain things take place in certain times. And that was true of the birth of Jesus Christ. Now here's my question. Why in the world? Why in the world did God wait 4,000 years? After Adam and Eve sinned, why did he wait 4,000 years till he sent the Savior? Why did he do that? I got looking in scripture and studying. I read what Bible scholars say. You know what I found out? We're not told. We don't know. God doesn't tell us why he waited that long. Nowhere does he say that. But I know this. God knows what he's doing. God has a plan. God works on his timing, not mine. Now we can speculate a little bit. Why did he wait that long? certain things to be in place. When Jesus Christ came, was born in that manger, it was a very, now we don't realize this, but it was a very, very unique period in history The Roman government was powerful, but they were on the decline. It was the backside of their heyday. And there were certain things taking place in the Roman government that was the most powerful nation at the time, certain things taking place. For instance, a lot of their false religion and their philosophies was coming out that it was false. It provided nothing. Their society was somewhat unsettled. They were looking for answers. They wanted solutions. As I was studying this, I couldn't help but think of our own society today, grasping at anything and everything and just going uh uh following the most crazy ideas And we live in a world similar to the days that Christ was born when people were hungry. How many people agree with me? Our world is messed up. Man, don't know if they're male or female. Don't know what marriage is. All these things just so confusion and nonsense. But you know what? In the midst of all of that, I believe this, there's an emptiness in the hearts and lives of people that only Jesus Christ can fill. And in a day like this, the answer, the solution is Jesus Christ. Ah, nobody gets saved these days anymore. I don't believe that for one minute. I believe we give the gospel out, people are hungry, their hearts are empty, their lives are empty, and we can present them the truth of Jesus Christ. Can meet those needs, give purpose and meaning and direction and some uh some uh uh answers in life. And that's the way the Roman world was, hungry for somebody or something. That can give us direction and bring meaning to our lives. The Roman world was unique in that they had perfected to an extent the roadwork of that day. I mean they had they had almost highways between cities. They had facilitated transportation in an amazing way for that day and age. You say, what does that had to do with the birth of Jesus Christ. I tell you what, you get from one city to another city pretty quickly, pretty easily. You know what that means? The spread of the message. Can just scatter. You read the book of Acts, the Christianity exploded. And it just spread throughout the known world then. You know what? One of the reasons was I believe the timing. Was at a time when that could happen. Physically, they could transport the message of Christ around. Another thing in the Roman world was they had an established language. Latin, primarily Greek though. And you could go just about anywhere and speak Greek and people would understand what you meant, what you were saying. Or Latin, perhaps. And so, what are you saying, preacher? I'm saying this, in the fullness of time, when the time was just right, everything was right in place. God sent forth his son, and maybe one of those factors, maybe, was the condition of the Roman world then when this message, Christ could come, meet the needs of the hungry hearts, and that message spread and and uh very easily. Uh another reason might be the condition of the nation of Israel. They were the prom they were the God's people They were the ones that God had promised the Messiah to. And uh what was going on in Israel? Well, they had been in captivity for 70 years. Um it's been a few hundred years before this, but that time in captivity had a profound effect on Israel. It weeded out their idolatry. Now I'm spending more time on this than I wanted to. But before they went into captivity, Israel kept struggling with idolatry. They worshiped the stupidest stuff, pagan gods and Baal and all this stuff. But when they went into captivity, God got their attention And from that point on, you don't find Israel horsing around with idolatry anymore. It was God. Monotheistic God. Another thing happened in captivity is the Old Testament Bible books of the Old Testament were brought together in one canon, we call it, into one volume, so to speak. And now all these promises are not just scattered books, but now all these scriptures are brought together into one volume. And boy, they could study and learn. In fact, Jesus rebuked the Jews for not knowing the times. You should know this. You've had this in your scriptures. I promised my coming. Another thing in the nation of Israel was the idolatry was removed, and the canon was finalized. And also they developed the synagogue. Where they would gather together in one place and worship, and that facilitated getting that message to them. Jackie's always interrupting stuff. That's okay. And so, why four thousand years? God has his timing. God has his So my first thought was this. Some things take time. Number two, God has determined certain things take place at certain times. And let me end with this. We can trust God to come through. We can trust God to come through. A lot of people in Israel struggled with Jesus' claim as a Messiah A lot of people in Israel, in fact the whole nation of Israel, rejected Jesus as the Messiah. Why? Because they couldn't see how this could be, that he could be the Messiah That Jesus could be the Savior. But God was right on schedule. Jesus is exactly who he claimed to be. He came exactly when God planned for him to come, and he was the Savior of the world. God keeps his promises. If you don't get anything out of this message, I hope you get this. God keeps his promises. God keeps his word in the fullness of time. It's another thought. I don't have time, but God loves the world world. Number one, he keeps his word. Number two, he loves the world. Fullness of time. God sent forth his son. That sounds like John 3. 16 to me. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. God sent forth his son. God loves this old world. God loves the sinners. You watch the news and you see some of these people and what they're saying and what they're doing. I've got to keep in the back of my mind, God loves them. Enough to die and suffer hell. Old TJ came to me, he was here Wednesday night, and I don't mean to put him on the spot, but TJ just got saved here, what, a couple weeks ago, got baptized last Sunday He came to me Wednesday. He said, can I talk to you after prayer? We sat over here. He said, Pastor Letterman, he said, I just want to thank you for helping me in my life He says, God's working in my life and God is changing my life. I'm so grateful for what all he's doing. We prayed together. I walked out and I thought, you know, God loves old TJ. God loves him. Die for him. Give him a new life. Save him. God loves Victor, uh uh Virginia, Victor And God loves uh Garrett, Sander. God loves you, you, A. He loves us so much that he would give his son So that we could be forgiven. So that we could escape hell and go to heaven. I'm telling you this: nobody in this world loves you like God does. Nobody loves me. That's not true. Oh, if God loves me, why is this happening? Don't you call God a liar. God loves you. He died on the cross for you and I and rose again so that we can have eternal life. We just need to trust Him. Once we trust him, then it's no longer us live. Let Christ live through you. Let him lead you and direct you. Follow his word. God will bless you. Let's spread this message. Father, I pray that you could use these thoughts this morning. Lord, help us to be patient, wait on you, claim your promises, trust you with our burdens and our needs Lord, we believe you'll come through every single time. We believe you will not fail. We ask that you would help us to have faith. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed How many would say, preacher, I have some needs in my life. I have some situations. I've been praying and praying and praying. Sometimes it just, I wonder if God is ever going to come through on this. I'm here to tell you, in the fullness of time, he'll come through. We don't understand his timing. We don't understand all his reasons, but we know he loves us and he's good. We can trust him. Is there any? Say, preacher, pray for me. There are some things, some burdens. I'm just waiting on God and looking to him, trusting him, and asking him And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be patient. I'll just take God's word. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. The Christian life is a life of faith, just trusting God, letting him lead me and following him. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I got some folks that are dear to me, family or friends. They don't know the Lord is Savior. They're struggling and their lives are empty. It's obvious. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, and I'll be a good witness to them. And they'll come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. And maybe you'll see him at Christmas or something. But you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I'll be a good witness. Any like that at all? Any like that? God bless you. My hands raised. There's some here this morning to say, preacher, I can't honestly say I know for sure I'm saved. Can't honestly say I know for sure I've been born again. And I need to get that settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled, my heart and life. Any at all? Any at all. Now Father, I pray you bless our invitation time and help us to trust you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.