2 Peter 2, verse 13. Speaking of these apostates, he says, and they shall they and shall receive the reward of unrighteousness. We looked at that a couple weeks ago The reward of unrighteousness. Then he says, and this is what I want us to look at, this little phrase, they shall receive the reward of unrighteousness as they that count it pleasure To riot in the daytime. Count it pleasure to riot in the daytime. So that's what I talk about. Rioting in the daytime. Let's pray, ask the Lord to uh teach us tonight. Father, we come before you this evening again with grateful hearts. And Lord, it's already been such a blessing just to be in the house of God and fellowship together a little bit. The singing's been a blessing And now we're looking into your word, Father, and we're asking you to teach us from this passage of Scripture. Father, I recognize tonight as the preacher that this is not the most pleasant passage of scripture in all in the Bible. Lord, it's not uh it's not designed necessarily to encourage us, but God, you want to instruct us and warn us So I pray you'd help us to heed that warning. Help us to be open-minded to your instruction God as the pastor of this church, I ask, Lord, that our church would be what you intend for it to be. That we would please you in what we teach and how we operate and how we live. So we need your Holy Spirit to help us. I yield my will again tonight to you, Lord, and present my body anew with all my heart, I pray, that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. Teach through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peter is, like nearly every other New Testament penman, uh warning Christians about this infiltration of apostasy in the church That's what's all chapter two and into chapter three. That's what he's dealing with. That's what he's addressing. And we've been looking at that. And um about apostasy creeping in the church and not just By apostasy we mean the teaching, unscriptural teaching. And the term apostasy is we've repeated uh over and over, but the term apostate is not is not uh does not apply to someone ignorant of Bible teaching, but somebody that deliberately rejects it It's so important to understand that. Someone that says, no, I do not buy that, I do not believe that, I'm rejecting it. And he's warning that folks are coming into the church and are teaching Apostasy, to reject the word of God, to teach, to reject the clear teachings of Scripture. So he's warning them. And if you read your New Testament carefully, Nearly every penman to some degree or another references or warns their hearers about Apostasy and false teaching. Even Jesus in the Gospels warned of false teachers, false prophets, false Christs. And so it's a significant theme through the New Testament, and not just their teaching, but also the lifestyle that they're introducing, ungodly not living, ungodliness. And as we're studying this, I'm coming to this conclusion more and more all the time. God takes doctrine very, very seriously. God takes the accurate, true teaching and preaching of His Word very, very seriously. And we see the consequences that are given to us here about folks that teach false doctrine, bring in this false teaching, and how God deals with them. God takes godly living very, very seriously We live in a day and an age where Christianity is playing down doctrine. Much of Christianity, or at least I should say a segment of Christianity, is playing down accurate Bible doctrine and put it playing down the importance of living godly lives, holy lives. We live in a day and age where almost anything goes. And I'm here to tell you, God takes doctrine and godliness very, very seriously. Satan hates God's people. He is not our friend. Satan hates the church In fact, let me make it a little more personal. Satan hates you. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Satan hates you as a child of God. Satan hates you. He doesn't love you. He doesn't care for your well-being. Anything and everything he does to influence us and affect us is not for our good. It's for our demise. He hates Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And any influence that Satan can have on our church is not for our good, is not for our spiritual well-being, it's for our demise. What does 1 Peter 5:8 say? Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, like a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may what? Devour. Destroy. God takes doctrine very seriously. God takes godly living very seriously. Satan hates the church. Satan hates God's people. And Satan will stop at nothing to undermine biblical truth. He'll distort the Word of God with modern versions. He'll distort the teaching of the Word of God through compromising preachers and compromising teachers and compromising authors of books. Stops at nothing to corrupt the people of God. And we live in a in a in a day where we are under a barrage of ungodliness. Am I right or wrong? On every hand. Now it's possible now for a person to observe Ungodliness at levels 50 years ago you could not find in the back streets of New York City. And now we have access to it in our living rooms Satan hates us. Satan hates our church. Satan hates you and he hates me. And if he can get into our head, If he can influence our thinking and what we believe and influence our living, it's not for our good, it's not for what's our our spiritual being, it's to destroy us as a church and as individuals. So Peter is going to great lengths here to expose this influence that back then was coming in the church and has been attacking the church all these many years. Jude does the same thing. If you're in adult Sunday school class in here, we've been studying Jude, almost verbatim, Peter and Jude, just to uh being and very, very vivid And their description of these people and the influence that they have. And so Peter, like Jude, is going to great lengths to expose them. But he exposes what they're teaching, but not just that, and this is what we're getting to here. He is exposing what kind of people they are. What their character is. These false apostates were not moral people. They were very immoral. And, you know, and I think we're aware of this, but much of the people that are influencing our society Government and education and entertainment are not moral people. They're very immoral. They're very ungodly. And Peter's exposing that. And these churches, these early churches, were allowing, uh, well, they were, but they were negligent In protecting the churches from these immoral people coming in and affecting and having an influence. And so he goes to great lengths to expose not just what they're teaching, not just their apostasy, but their ungodly lifestyle. And their immoral character that they are. Notice verse 13 here, if you would, the first part. And again, we preached on this two weeks ago. He says, They shall, and shall receive the reward of unrighteousness. And what he's saying here is these apostates are going to pay a heavy, heavy price for their apostasy. God is not ignoring it. God is not overlooking it. He's paying attention, and there is a reward for unrighteousness. There is a consequence. I put this statement down. Disobedience and rebellion against God never comes cheap. There's a price to pay. When someone chooses to rebel against God, when someone chooses to disobey God's word, there's a heavy price to pay, the reward of unrighteousness. And then he goes on and he makes this statement, and this is the basis of our message tonight: that we receive the reward of unrighteousness as they that count it pleasure to riot in the day. What a vivid term to describe what these people are. He's not talking about what they're teaching, the the the false teaching they're bringing. He's talking about what they are, how they live. It's a description of these false teachers. They're rebellious. They are irreverent. There's no fear of God. There's no reverence for the things of God and the house of God and the Word of God, rebellious, irreverent, and now he's bringing out their very sensual. We study this in Sunday school in Jude. They're very sensual. They live for the gratification of all physical senses. They counted a pleasure to riot in the day. Three thoughts tonight, real quickly, I want to give them. Number one, I notice, first of all, their unrestrained sensuality These people are very sensual. They count it pleasure. That phrase count it has this idea to make a high priority To be high on the list of priorities. They count it pleasure Pleasure is a high priority for them. In other words, feeling good is more important than doing right. Having fun is more important than honoring God. Fulfilling my desires of my flesh is a higher priority than obeying God and honoring God and glorifying God. They count it. They make it a high priority. They make it a very high on the list of priorities. Pleasure. That word pleasure there is an interesting word. It means this. Sensual desires. In other words, other places in the Bible it's referred to this way: the lust of the flesh. How many people are familiar with that term? The lust of the flesh. The Bible talks about it, New Testament particularly. The lust of the flesh. If you will keep your place here, I want to look at the rest of these words here, but come with me back to Galatians chapter number 5. And Galatians, Paul writing to the church at Galatia references the sensuality of the flesh, the lust of the flesh. And Galatians chapter 5, notice with me verse number 16. Galatians 5, 16. He says verse Verse 16, this I say then, walk in the Spirit. Look at this, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh, the pleasures the sensual pleasures of the flesh. Walk in the Spirit, you'll not fulfill them. Look at verse 17. For the flesh Lusteth against the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, and these are what? Contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things you would What's he saying? He says there's a sensual part of us. Every one of us have what we refer to as the flesh. Now, when he says the flesh here, he's not talking about bones and muscles and our physical flesh. He's talking about what? Somebody talk to me. The old nature, that old simple nature. And he says in every person, every child of God, there is this battle, this contrary forces. One is the lust of the flesh, the desire to gratify the desire, the desire to gratify the pleasures of my flesh, to gratify the desires of my flesh. That's one for Swithan us There's another one, I trust Christ as Savior, I'm indwelt with the Holy Spirit. We talked about that in Sunday school. And the Holy Spirit of God wants to uh lusts or desires for me to live a godly life, to live a life pleasing to the Lord, a life that brings peace of mind and clean conscience, a pure heart. And so we have this struggle going back and forth. And he says, these guys, they count it pleasure, they put at a high priority, not to please God, not to honor the Lord, but to follow Fulfill and gratify the desires of the flesh. Are you listening, fellas? And that's what these apostates are. Their priority is sensuality, and they're unrestrained in that. If you would come back to 1 John chapter number 2. 1 John chapter 2 addresses this, and verse number 16. 1 John 2, 16, not the Gospel, John, 1 John. He says, verse, chapter 2, verse 16, he says, for all that is in the world, now look at this, the lust of the flesh And the lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, it is of the world. And so these apostates are Unrestrained in their desire and their priority pursuit of fulfilling the lust of the flesh In other words, the sinful desires of my fallen nature govern my actions, govern their actions. It's the center of their life, is fulfilling the desires of my flesh. They count it. They make it a high priority. When they get up in the morning, I want to fulfill the lusts of my flesh. Go throughout the day, they're seeking ways to fulfill the lust of their flesh. That old sinful nature, that bent towards you. I want to fulfill that. What did Paul say? Paul said in Philippians, for me to live is what? What was he saying? What do you mean? What did Paul mean when he says, for me to live is Christ? He said the most important thing of my life, what makes up my life, is to honor the Lord Jesus Christ, to love him. For these apostates, their saying wouldn't be for me to live is Christ. They're saying for me to live is the flesh. Is to gratify the desires of my flesh. For me to live is pleasure. They were governed by the pleasures of the flesh, not by principles of God's word. Now, if we're not careful, we can let that creep into our living. Now we might not be as blant as them. But I wonder how many times what we feel like doing dictates our actions rather than what we should be doing. Come on now, am I right or wrong? Sometimes it's like, uh, you know, I'm just gonna do, I know I should do this, but you know, I really feel like, and we give in. If we can get to the point in our Christian lives, if we can get to that level of maturity as a child of God where the principles of right and wrong dictate my life rather than the pleasures of my flesh. We're getting along in our Christian development. Christian development. So they were unrestrained in their sensuality. They were governed by the pleasures of flesh without restraint. They didn't, they didn't, uh maybe you could put it this way, they didn't say no. to the desires of the flesh. If that was desire was there, then we pursued it. Then we pursued it. That was the apostates creeping in the church. I couldn't help, as I was studying this, I couldn't help but think of society today. Is it does this not describe our society today? The pleasures of the flesh, anything goes So they were unrestrained in their sensuality. Number two, I put this down. They were unashamed of their sensuality. They weren't ashamed of this. The most base desires of the flesh, the most vile desires that this flesh can come up with, they reflaunted it. Notice what it says there. They counted, let me come get back here in Peter. He says, um He said they let me get here real quick. He says, and uh and they that count it and as they that count it pleasure to riot in the daytime. To riot in the daytime. In other words, their sinful desires dominated them. Riot. It controlled them. It was out of uh they were out of control and they were unashamed of it. They rioted in the daytime. Well, the daytime is when responsible, principled people are working. Get up and go to work. How many people here work in the daytime? I worked the night shift for a while. I hated it Go in at 11 o'clock at night, get done at 7 in the morning, and uh I don't think God I know you coal miners and some of you guys, but I don't think God intended us to be moles, you know And uh, but anyway, they're rioting not at night. Remember several years ago when our nation was there was riots everywhere. Remember several years ago? Primarily the rioting was at night. And then when the sun came up in the morning we'd we'd see the damage. And the stores looted and buildings burned and uh cars destroyed. That was at night. Not these guys. They're riding in the daytime. In other words, they're not ashamed of the most vile desires, fulfilling that. They'll do it out in the middle of the public. Out for all to see. They glory in their shame. They put their perversion on display They celebrate the most vile desires of the flesh. That's who Peter is describing. That's who's creeping in the church and promoting this lifestyle, this thinking. Making sin normal and acceptable. And if you're if you're not paying attention if you if you don't understand this, you're not paying attention. We live in a day where sin and perversion is being promoted as normal. And godliness and purity and righteousness is being promoted as abnormal. That's what these guys were. And I want to remind you, he's not talking about people that are living this way and promoting this mentality. He's not talking about folks out in society. He's not talking about folks in the entertainment industry promoting this way of thinking, this way of living. He's not talking about folks in the government that are promoting the think this way and promoting this lifestyle, these types of lifestyles. It's not people in the education system promoting this type of thinking and this mentality. These are people in the church Promoting and is celebrating and advancing unashamedly the most vile desires of the flesh. It's happening in the church. Listen, what's going on in 2024 in our society and in our churches is nothing new. They were fighting it 2,000 years ago In the church. And Peter's warning them. Peter's warning them. They're promoting good as being evil and evil being good. So number one, they're unrestrained in their sensuality. They counted a pleasure. It's high priority. They're not holding back Number two, they're unashamed of their sensuality. It's in the public, it's in the daytime, rioting in the daytime, living this way, flaunting their sin in the daytime. And then thirdly, last of all, I notice they are unwise in their sensuality. They're unwise. He said there at the very first part of the verse, and shall receive the reward of unrighteousness. There is a price to pay for disregarding God's standards and disregarding right and wrong. Are you with me? Take your Bible, if you would, go over to Hebrews chapter 11. Say, preacher, I thought we'd come tonight and get encouraged. And well, not everything in the Bible is designed to encourage us. Some of it is to warn us. And that's exactly what Peter's doing here. He's warning us in 2024, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, hey, he's telling us this is a very real threat to our church right here. If we're not careful, if we're not sober, we're not vigilant, we can go down the same road that thousands and thousands of other churches and other denominations have gone down, and by God's grace And with his help, this church will not go down that road. We are determined to stand on the Word of God. I appreciate all, I'm getting a little off the radar here, but I appreciate all the facilities God has blessed us with. And I'm still not over that new building over there. I still just walk in there and I'm just in awe and praise to God But I prayed many, many times, seriously, and I mentioned this before. I pray, if this church ever gets away from the Word of God, I pray an earthquake. Or something happens and everything collapses, because I don't want these yard birds using these facilities for their wickedness That's why we work so hard to keep Accident Baptist Church open, so some some of these guys didn't get that building. These are dedicated to Christ, amen. And the advancement of the gospel. And they're coming in the churches But they're unwise in their sensuality. Let me say this: we give in and let the desires of the flesh and the sins of the flesh, we let that take over our lives. We are fools. Look at Hebrews chapter 11. Look what Moses said in verse 25. What said of Moses. Verse 24, he says, By faith Moses, when he was come of years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing, look at this, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin of the flesh, that old simple nature, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for what? A season. Moses said, I'd rather suffer affliction than displease my God. It's better to suffer affliction. It's better to be persecuted. than to give in and do wrong and and uh be a part of this type of lifestyle. And I tell you, it's better for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church for us to be hated by society and pleasing God than to be loved by society and displease our God The pleasures of sin for a season. Is there pleasure in the flesh? Is sensuality pleasurable? What's the answer? Yes, absolutely. We're not denying there's pleasure in the desires of the flesh, the lusts of the flesh. Sure, there's desire there's pleasure there for a Season. For a while. For a while. I'm talking to somebody that has come out of drug abuse. I'm talking as somebody who lived for the pleasures of the flesh for years. And I'm here to tell you it gets old awfully quick. And you need a little bit more, and you need a little bit more, and you gotta go a little bit farther, and you gotta go a little bit farther, then that gets old, and you need a little bit more, and a little bit more. What breaks our heart, and Pastor Matt and I pray and and weep before the Lord, we see people, and not just young people, but often young people going down a road seeking to fulfill the lusts of the flesh and they want to fulfill the desires of their body. And they're going down that road and we know where that road leads There is a heavy price to pay when we fulfill the lusts of the flesh. The Bible is very, very clear. Moses said, I'd rather suffer affliction of the world than the pleasures of sin for a season. I put this down. This is, I think, a good quote. The pleasure of sin is never worth the price of sin. There's pleasure for a season, but I'm here to tell you. Can I is there any older folks in this church you would say, preacher, I know exactly what you're talking about from firsthand experience? Got involved in stuff and man paid the price, paid the price. I tell the I tell I've said over the years, young people You ought to listen. Listen, you ought to listen to some of the older folks when they warn you about the direction you're going in life because they know what they're talking about. Then down that road. If you're going down a road and there's there's two roads and you're undecide which one is the right one to take And there's somebody coming down. They said, Oh yeah, I've been down that road. Don't go down that road. That's a bad road. That'll take you to a dead end. Don't go down there. I've been there. I've been living here for years. I know about that road. Go down this road. This is the one that'll get you where you need to go. How many people agree with me? You'd be a fool to disregard that advice. That's what Peter said. That's what we're saying. The price of sin, the pleasure of sin is never worth the price of sin And here's the thing. I heard a preacher say years ago, when I was young in the Lord, an old preacher, he said this, God doesn't always pay his bills on Friday. What do you mean by that? The consequences aren't going to always happen right away. They may be down the road aways. They're unwise in their sensuality. Two verses, and I want to end with this. Come back to Proverbs with me if you would So often we end up in Proverbs. And look with me, first of all, chapter 22. Proverbs 22. And these are a couple good verses to underscore and commit to memory, to be honest with you. Proverbs 22 and verse number 3. If we can just get a hold of this one concept that Solomon gives to us here in Proverbs 22, verse 3, he says this: a prudent man What does he mean by a prudent man? Somebody talk to me. Smart or what would be another word? Wise. Somebody that's not a dummy. They're prudent. They think things through. They're wise in the decisions they make and the actions they take. A prudent man, look at this, foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. He sees what the consequences of this action is going to be, and I'm not getting involved in it. He looks beyond today. He sees where it leads to. The prudent man, the wise man. He stops and thinks about if I give in to this, if I live for the pleasures of the flesh, where is it going to lead me to? What's going to happen? Prudent man says, Nope, I see where that's going. I ain't going down that road. I'm not doing that. I see where it goes to. But look at the rest of the verse. But the simple What would be another term for simple? Foolish dummy. Um My wife gets on me for this. A moron. A knucklehead. Alright, are you with me? That's Leatherman version. The simple, what do they do? They pass on. And what happens? They pay a heavy price. They pay a heavy price. They pay a heavy price. Proverbs 27, come over there. Would you agree with me? If God says something once, we ought to pay attention. Right? My folks used to say to me, I'm not telling you this again. Anybody ever hear that? God tells us something again. Look at verse 12 of Proverbs 27. Verbatim, a prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple Pass on and are punished. They just go right ahead. These apostates, can I put it this way? These apostates coming in the church, Peter saying they're fools. They're fools. They don't see, they don't they don't they don't have the foresight, the wisdom to see what their actions, their lifestyle is leading to And they come under severe judgment. So you say, preacher, what's that have to do with us? Number one, we need to be careful. Our teaching and preaching lines up with this book. Number two, we need to make sure our living, our thinking, and the way we live our life lines up with this book. Amen or not? We ought to preach righteousness, amen. We ought to preach Bible doctrine, amen. And we ought to be very careful to contend for that faith and keep this church on track. That's the preacher's responsibility, but it's also the church vote. Church vote. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts. And Lord, they're kind of strong tonight, but I pray That you would guard our church, guard our hearts and minds, our homes. Pray you'd help us not to give the devil a crack. Lord, help us not to give them an inch, but to stay true to you and stay strong in the Lord. Give us pure hearts and clean minds and pure motives. We want you to be glorified. We want you to be pleased. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, preacher, I need to be diligent in my life. To keep things on track, to keep things in line with the Word of God. How many people would say, I've been challenged tonight in that area. Be careful, be careful, be said. Well, God bless you. Hands all around. Now we're coming to the Lord's Supper. We want to be sure we come With a pure heart. We want to deal with if there's something there in our heart and life that ought not to be, let's address that. Let's do what we need to do to get that taken care of. God promised that we confess our sin. He's faithful, just to forgive us. So Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.