Um I've got a message this evening from Genesis chapter number 19. Genesis chapter number 19, and uh way back in Genesis again, it's sort of a continuation of the story of Abraham, but we're going to look at lot tonight And uh it's not necessarily a Father's Day message. We did that at uh 1045 this morning. Um but this one will give us something to to think about It's something we can all relate to as we look at this scripture here this morning, uh this evening. Genesis chapter number 19. We're going to be looking at verses 23 and following there. But God, it says, God saw the wickedness of Sodom. Uh just an introduction. He saw the wickedness of Sodom and at times it reminds me a lot of America, some of the changes that America has gone through uh the wickedness that's in our streets. I'm thankful for being born in America to where I could hear the gospel preached and and get saved and raise my family in a free country and I thank the Lord for our military our uh but there are people that are following after the devil, falling after Satan, uh that are trying to destroy our freedoms. They're trying to destroy America, uh, but I'm still thankful for the great nation that God raised up In Genesis chapter number 19, now I'm going to read this part right here, verse 23 through 26. The sun was risen upon the earth when La entered into Zoar. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground. Total destruction. It was like a nuclear blast went off and it destroyed everything in its path. Verse 26 says, But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt. She became a pillar of salt. And then I looked at Luke 17 and verse number 32. It's just a simple verse with three words in it. Remember Lot's wife. Remember Lot's wife. The Bible tells us in the New Testament how important it is to recall what happened to Lot's wife. There is a reason in Luke that he put that scripture in there. It is inspired of God. It is it and he gives us a warning and he gives us some information here. Um But tells us uh about Lot's wife and the story of how she died and became a pillar of salt Let's pray. Our Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just use the message tonight in a mighty way. Help us, Lord. Father, we need you Lord, our uh as we as fathers need you to be able to train up our children the way they should go. Uh we need wisdom, Lord, in these last days how to direct our families and how to live a Christian life out in front of people. Lord, help us to take the message tonight. Speak to our hearts. Help us, Father, and we'll thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to be preaching about Lot, and I'll try to be brief tonight, but uh just to give you a brief outline about Lot. Lot grew up around the altars of Abram. Uh he he uh Abram knew how to build an altar, he knew how to worship God, he knew how to sacrifice, uh uh so he was raised in church so to speak. Now it wasn't church like we know it today. It's not the New Testament uh Bible church uh as we know it today But he was raised watching Abram at the time worshiping. He saw how Abram worshiped God. He knew about the Lord. He knew about the things of God Uh he he was probably like a sponge. He just wanted to know everything that he could, but we find that Lot began to pitch his tent towards Sodom In chapter 13, verse 12, Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent toward Sodom. He begins a downward spiral It's so easy to do if we're not careful. He isolates himself. I use the word isolate. He isolates himself from the righteousness of God. He does his own thing. He's moving his family out there. He saw the well-watered plains. He said, this is where I want to go. I'm going to get the best of everything. And it was his downfall. Then by chapter 19 and verse number one, I'll read that very quickly And there came two angels to Sodom at Eden, and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom, and Lot, seeing them, rose up to meet them, and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground. So they came and eat him, and Lot, seeing them, rose up to meet him, and bowed himself to the ground. He was in the very gate of Sodom That's a place of authority. That's a place of influence. He should have not been there because of the sin, the wickedness that was there in Sodom So here we see he not only isolates himself from the righteousness of God, he acclimates himself with Sodom. Acclimates, that's a big word for somebody from Denton, North Carolina. I looked it up. I had an idea and I wanted to know what the word acclimates means. So What it means is he became accustomed to a new climate or conditions or culture. He became accustomed to a new to what they were doing. They had an influence on him instead of him having a godly influence on them. So he acclimates himself. Lot becomes familiar with Sodom, even sitting at the gate Uh, you know the uh we used to call it in the old days the spit and whittle club. Do y'all have those up here? Uh the spit and whittle club, that's the men that sit around the gas station, play checkers and Uh just talk gossip's what it is. Uh they just gossip. Uh we talk about women gossiping. Hey, men uh back in that time it was rough. I'm gonna stop before I get stoned to death right here. But so It didn't take Lot long to go from church to looking towards Sodom to sitting in the gates of Sodom. Don't you see how the progression of sin takes place? And how quickly it can happen. I don't know how long the the time was. Psalm 111 speaks of blessing, but also a warning. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. That's the first thing that Lot did. He started walking. And he pitched his tent toward Sodom. Then it says, nor standeth in the way of sinners. He didn't rebuke them. He didn't try to show them a better way, God's way. Nor's nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. He ends up sitting right there in the gates and is acclimated. We all know and understand this. We see kids getting caught up in all kinds of things today Uh young people, this church is trying to help you, this pastor is trying to help you, and Pastor Matt is trying to help you so that you don't have regrets when you get older. Uh I don't know what it is today. I think they call it vaping. There's vaping today. Uh it's a good way to to get pneumonia for one thing. I don't understand breathing in steam. I I d I don't understand that uh with nictin. That is a drug Uh it's not cigarettes, it's vapa, and then it'll turn into cannabis or marijuana, then the harder drugs and turn it into alcohol, and and it ends up ending up with homelessness usually And uh so we've seen the progression and the road that sin takes folks down, and let me tell you, it's a dead-end road. Seek the things of God. You will never go wrong. Seek Him early. Study all you can in the Word of God. Listen to Pastor Matt and Pastor Leatherman. as they teach you about the things of Jesus Christ and how you can be saved and trust him at a young age. I wish I'd have gotten saved at a young age. I think uh um Harold Seitler was four years old when he trusted Christ as Savior. I think he guided, amen. Uh with all that he did. It doesn't take long for sin to get a hook in somebody and it drags them farther than they want to go And it keeps them longer than they want to stay, and it'll cost them more than they can ever pay. We've seen the results of sin in people's lives So here Lot's holding a position in the city. And we see that the wickedness of this city is so great that God is going to destroy it. In verse number four of that same chapter, chapter 19, the Bible says, But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round about, old and young, all the people from every quarter. The old and the young alike were wicked. There was none good, no, not one. It was a horrible place to raise a family. Uh and we we can look at our own children and grandchildren and say they're good. My my children are are perfect. My my grandchildren are really perfect. Amen Uh there's something about those grandchildren. They just tug at your heart and they they wrap you around their finger and and uh they're just awesome but but your children are are imperfect. You know, mine are perfect, my no They're all bad. They're all born under sin. All born under sin We can usually see in others, but but not our own. But the Bible says they were wicked, old and young. They're in Sodom. So God gives them specific instruction in verse 17, as God always does. What's been there long enough and away from righteousness that he not only acclimates, but he assimilates into the culture of Sodom. He identifies with them in verse number seven, calling them brethren. I cannot believe how far, how low can a man of God? He said he vexed his righteous soul with the filthy communication with those of Sodom. He he he wanted to fit in Young people don't fit in with this culture around us today. Stay in church. There's a lot of people that's been brought in on a bus that did great things for God. The there's um a pastor over in Yakinville, he's gone to be with the Lord now, but but uh he ran a a church bus and And uh there's a man, a little rowdy kid by the name of Alton Beale, and he rode that bus and and said he was something. They by had to sit on him to get him to behave in church, and now he's the president of Ambassador Baptist College and he's a The mayor of Lattimore, amen. See what the Lord can do? One of these young people might be the next D. O. Moody. Might be a missionary or a pastor's wife or missionary's wife here It's just don't limit God what he can do and always uh put your heart, set your heart towards him and not towards the things of the world He assimilates. He identifies with them in verse number seven and said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly Calling them brethren. He's absorbed into their culture. He's associated with them. His attitude changes. His actions follow Whenever his ata his attitude starts changing and and it's to the point where his his son-in-laws, his sons-in-law, uh look at him as a man that mocks. So they don't take him seriously. He's lost his chance with them. He tries to justify himself, but he's now in the shape he's in because of the choices that he's made. And in verse 17, it says And it came to pass when they had brought them forth abroad that he said, Escape for thy life. Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the plain. Escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed. That's the warning that Lot received. God always gives specific instructions on how to escape judgment if we'll listen. First Corinthians ten thirteen says, There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able But will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. Anytime judgment or chastisement has come in my life, I've had plenty of warnings and plenty of opportunities I thank the Lord for chastisement. Amen. When I go off an a astray, away from him just a little bit Like the old hymn writer wrote, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. He tugs at me, he draws me back. He says, Go this way, turn around, come back this way. And he's always standing there with open arms, ready to forgive. A person doesn't just go to hell because God sends them there. Our rejection of Jesus Christ sends a person there. Hell wasn't even made for us. If a person dies and goes to hell, he's a trespasser. It was made for the devil and his angels. God has always been merciful and given people opportunities to get saved. So verse 17 Uh we look at it again. It came to pass when they had brought them forth abroad that he said, Escape for thy life, look not behind thee, neither stay thou it at all in all the plain, escape to the mountain. Lest thou be consumed. God says, Lot, here's what I want you to do. I'm going to destroy everything, and it's important that you escape to the mountain unless you're going to be consumed in in your ini in this iniquity in this city. Unless you want and your family to die in the judgment of God, you've got to escape to the mountain. You gotta get to the mountain. You've got to go there. Stay with me, I'm going somewhere here. Verse 26 again says, but his wife looked back from behind, and she became a pillar of salt. This has always stuck out in my mind, even as a little child, a woman looking back and turning into a pillar of salt, a literal pillar of salt. How could that happen? There's all kinds of uh things that people are saying today that cause that. Uh one thing about it being so close to the Dead Sea that was salt there and then the nuclear blast of The uh uh the fire and brimstone falling when she turned back, all that explosion hit her and literally turned her into a pillar of salt. I don't know, but I I I believe the Bible I know what it says that she looked back and she turned into a pillar of salt. I sort of pictured in my mind. But God gave them instruction on how to escape this judgment. They escaped from Sodom, but she died somewhere between Sodom and where God wanted her to be at. She didn't make it to the mountain. She didn't get to the top of the mountain. She died on the road in between Sodom and the mountain where God wanted them to be. With the Lord helping me just a little bit, just a few moments this evening, I want you to think about this thought, and I think we can all relate to it, roadkill. Roadkill. That's a nice thought, isn't it? Roadkill. First thing I want you to notice on the thought of roadkill Now we've all seen some roadkill. We may have eaten at the roadkill cafe from and their slogan on the sign says, From our grill from your grill to ours. Amen. That's roadkill. Uh that's not a pleasant thing to think about, but it's something we have to deal with all the time. Uh it's sometimes we have to drive around it. Um But I want you to notice, first of all, the indecisiveness of roadkeel. The indecisiveness, not being able to make a decision. That indecisiveness of roadkill. That's why the animal died in the road in the first place. Why did the chicken cross the road? To prove to the possum it could be done There was a duck going across the road, and the chicken said, Don't dunch, you'll never hear the end of it. All those chicken stories. We've all been driving down the road and seen that precious little bunny rabbit. And it's standing right in your lane. Or that squirrel that works for Gato. Back and forth, back and forth. Or a possum or raccoon or deer or whatever it might be. It's very important for that animal to be in your lane at that point in time in history It's important. It's like he is drawn there by a magnet. He is there. And you're getting a little bit closer and you think, well, it's going to be all right. There he goes. He he goes to that side of the road He says, Oh no, I don't need to be over here. I'm going to get back over here. And he's back and forth, zigzagging and going back and forth. And then by the time you're up there, he's under your wheel, and there's nothing you can do about it. He's roadkill Pavement pelt, they called it. How many times have you seen something like that? Happens all the time. I know I'm not the only one. I've actually seen animals back and forth zigzagging. I'm thinking, what in the world is going on in that animal's mind? Sort of like drivers when they come to a four-way stop. You try to be nice, you come ahead No. You you go ahead. And both of you start at the same time. And then we slam on brakes and say, you go ahead You go ahead. Both on us at the same time. It's a wonder we ever make it anywhere. All these roundabouts, all these four-way stops that are everywhere How indecisive this animal is. Just pick a side and stay on it, eh? Just just stay where you're at. Blow the horn and and that don't help sometimes. They might run into the woods and be away from you and everything, but sometimes you blow the horn and and they just standing right there. They don't know what to do I wouldn't kill you if you just pick a side and stay on it. Doesn't that remind you of some Christians today? Some that are weak? In the faith that have left the righteousness of God behind, and they're blown around with every wind of doctrine. You know some folks like that. It reminds me of my old life sometimes, my own indecisiveness. And even some today I've I'm the world's worst after church. I we'll get in the vehicle, leaving the church and everything. I say, where do y'all want to eat? I ain't gonna I'm taking my hands off of that decision They say, oh, wherever you want to, we don't care. You make the decision this time. Nope, not going to. I'll just drive on home. 1 Kings 8. 21 says, And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt you between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. Answered him not a word. They were listening to him. He had their attention. You want to know why some churches are so dead and so quiet? You want to know why they can't get involved in the things of God? It's because they hadn't made up their minds which side of the road that they want to be on. Ezekiel 16, 49 says, Behold This was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. Pride. Oh, how many times has that been associated with Sodom and Gomorrah? Pride Fullness of bread, they had plenty, they had everything they wanted, and abundance of the idleness was in her and in her daughters. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy That's why I'm thankful for this church. It's busy. You look at the schedule. It's busy. You're constantly active. That keeps you out of trouble. Amen. He helps you to make some decisions and stick with them. Well, you know, we want to be in Sodom and Gomorrah. There's plenty of bread there, and I don't have to work. I can just Go to Sodom and Gomorrah, those cities, and I can just rest back. Government's going to take care of me. Don't have to worry about nothing Wouldn't go anywhere else. Then they might have a change in their heart just a little bit. We want to go up to the side of the mountain and preacher, we we might want to be somewhere in between at times On that road, and you will become roadkill. We see indecisiveness in our own lives. Matthew 6, 24 says, No man can serve two masters. Listen to your options here if this is you. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. You cannot serve the devil and God at the same time. You say, well, I'm going to serve myself. It won't happen When you're serving yourself instead of God, guess which side you're serving? You're serving the devil. We've got a mess in our country In these last days, you look at politics and what's going on, you look at the flavor of our country, the spiritual temperature. We're in a mess tonight. It's not time to back up. It's not time to let up. It's not time to let go. It's not time to back down. It's time to stand for what we believe. If we're going to be Christians, be Christians. If we're not, then don't. I want you to see she died in the middle of the road. Not only the indecisiveness of road kill But I want you to see the identity of roadkeel. The identity of roadkeel. I've seen animals and and uh sights on the road those pavement pelts I talked about, but sometimes I see something strung out from you know, from this part of your lane that goes into the other side. There's blood, there's there's stuff just smeared on the road and I'm thinking, what in the world was that? I can't even make it out. Was it a cat? Was it a dog? Was it a deer? Something about this big still there? I don't know what it is. I can't identify it It's a gruesome sight. And I'm thinking, you know, that's a waste of meat. Nobody's gonna come along and get that and take it home and fix it. There ain't even a brisket left on it. I mean it's about this big, don't know what it was. Possum, raccoon, cat, dog, I can't tell anymore. It had no identity about it. Hosea 7, verse 8 says, Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people. Ephraim is a cake not turned. Hey, he had no identity anymore. He was indecisive for one thing, but he joined himself. Ephraim had joined himself with the strange people. The strangers, the idol worshippers, and all them. And and it was uh you couldn't even identify him as Ephraim anymore If we're here at church and we're one way, and we're at work and we're another way, and we're at home and we're a different way. When we look at our life as a whole, what do people see in us? If they really knew who we were, I hope we're the same everywhere that we go. Do people driving down the road look at you and say, what in the world was that? It don't look like he used to, or she don't look like she used to. What happened? I have no clue. Or do people come up to you and say, you must be a Christian? Could it be that you have standards? Could it be that they see something in you, a sparkle in your eye or a smile on your face, because you just got out of church and and uh you love the Lord and you're willing to tell people and give them out and hand out Bible tracts? Well, they may say, I know they go to church, they say they're a Christian, but I can't believe they would say something like that. I don't understand. Hey, we don't need to be indecisive, and we need to have an identity as Christians. That means Christ-like. That means follower of Christ. I can't believe they would use language like that. I can't believe they would dress like that. I can't believe they would blow up like that. I can't believe a Christian would do that. I can Can't believe a Christian would wear that or go there I'm not being mean. I I I'm preaching to me today. And I want to be right before God. I I don't want there to be any uh break in my fellowship, having perfect fellowship with God, when somebody comes up and says, Would you pray for me? I've got this knee. I don't need to be repenting for twenty minutes uh and and uh getting things right with God before he'll even hear my prayer. If we regard iniquity in our heart, he will not hear. He hears the repentance. Now I only got married forty years ago. September 7th, we'll be married 40 years. And I'm trying to learn patience. Really, I am. Forty years uh it's gone by so quickly and everything, but but I'm trying to learn patience. Pray for me You're thinking if he ain't got it by now, there's no hope. It takes work. Any of you been married less than a year? Anybody? Hang in there, buddy. Two years, five years you've been married five years or less. Anybody like that in here? Oh, you've got a lot coming your way. No, it takes work. Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church. gave himself for it. You know my wife she said sometime back, she said, you know, you always say you'd give your life for me, but you never do try and get rid of me. You never do. Christ has always loved me and treated me with mercy. And we need to display that towards others, especially our spouses. Don't give him a cold shoulder. He's never given me a cold s shoulder or slammed a door. The Lord's always, always, always been good to me. When the world looks at you, what do they see? Do they see a Christian or a carnal worldly person? That's what's destroying our churches today. The church has gotten worldly, the world's gotten churchy. And you can't hardly tell the difference anymore. I can tell the difference when I walk into Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I thank God for that There are still churches doting our our landscape all across the country that still believe truth and still have standards. Because the world thinks they don't need the church because the church don't look like anything different from the world The world says if that's what church is, I don't want to go. If that's what a Christian is, I don't want to be one. I'm already like that Be careful. We're preaching about Lot's wife. Genesis 1926 says, but his wife looked back from behind him And she became a pillar of salt. Being in torment. He did not have an identity anymore, and Lot's wife, all we know her as is Lot's wife. She lost her identity. We don't know her name. We don't know if she was saved or lost or what she was. She had no identity. Revelation 3, verse 15-16 says, I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot I would thou wert cold or hot, so then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Growing up we would ride with the windows down because we didn't have air conditioning in the car. We was in a 73 Chevy Vega muscle car. Four cylinder But we had the winds roll down because it was hot in the summertime, especially in North Carolina. Hot And then sometimes he'd say, let's go see Uncle Max down in Florida. Oh, why do we have to go in the summertime? Let's go in the winter when it's only 80 degrees down there But we ride with the with and even when we got the car with air conditioning in it, we still rode with the windows down. Dad said I'm conserving. I I don't want to waste gas. Well, with all the technology, you don't really save any gas uh riding with the windows down. You got all that draft, all that pull going in your window, hitting the back windshield and using just as much gas as if you turned the air conditioning on. And enjoyed it, but that said it saved money. Some say that's not true with with all the technology, but Since I have COVID sometime back, uh, when COVID came around, I have trouble breathing, especially in the summer, so I use the air conditioning now It don't matter if the windows are down or up, if you drive up on a gruesome site, some decaying taking place, deer with moving rice on it, you know what I'm talking about Or a skunk, you can identify it right quickly if you got the windows down or if you got the windows up. You can identify what it is We roll them up because we don't want to smell it. The smell gets in anyway, makes me sick, but I I don't want to be near it I don't want flies getting in the window that are coming off of those animals. Those flies, they they're a different color. They green. I think about what God says here. He will spew thee out of his mouth because we're lukewarm. You know, when we die in the middle of the road from being lukewarm, it makes God sick. It makes us useless, and I don't want my life to be a stench in the nostrils of God. The Bible speaks of the incense and sacrifice at the tabernacle as a sweet smelling savor That's an example of our prayers being offered up to him, the sacrifice of prayers that we offer up to God. When we have an emergency or someone asks us to pray for them, I want my prayers to be I don't want to be an awful stitch. I want to be a sweet smelling savor and say, yes, I'm going to take care of that request that you have That intercessory prayer on that you've given in behalf of that person. I'm going to answer that prayer. But if I'm lukewarm I've been worldly and inconsistent one minute and go to church the next minute. Do you see the imbalance of that that life like that makes It confuses people. I want a firm testimony. And see how God sees us and makes him sick, just like Roadkill does us. When I call on him in prayer, I want him to smell a sweet fragrance of obedience in my life. I want to be real. And I want to have an identity about me. I'm not perfect, but I want my family to see and know that I am, and those around me at church and the world to see Christ in me and his mercy in my life We're not perfect, but it ought to be in our heart to want to be perfect and be real, amen. Number three, the effects of roadkill are irreversible. They're terminal. They last forever Once that fido gets hit and he's stops breathing, he's gone. He's not coming back Once that deer is hit, that roadkill, it's irreversible. This woman sometime back, they said she was crazy. She found a stray cat hid on the side of the road, and she took it to the vet And it needed nine thousand dollars worth of surgeries. I know I'm on the internet and everything, but you know what I was thinking? You know what I'd do? Yeah, that cat's lived a long life. He's been good. He he just he was just at the wrong time at the wrong place at the wrong time. And it ended his life. Yeah, I'm a animal lover. I I do love animals, but I'm not paying nine thousand dollars to fix fee fees. That l that cat's lived a long life anyway, amen. Thank the Lord for the days the cat did have, right? But she saves the cat and they go in debt and talk about how hard things are. And it causes a division between her and her family and and all these things happen. It's just a chain reaction. Because they got the rogue killed before it became killed, I guess. Because of saving the cat. Hey, the effects of roadkill are irreversible. It don't matter how much we love the bunnies and the kittens and the dogs. Once it's dead in the middle of the road, there's no bringing it back. What's done is done. I thank God for mercy. I thank God for grace. Thank God for forgiveness. Hey, God will forgive you for anything and save you no matter what you've done. But the effects of roadkill last forever. Don't be roadkill. Don't be Christian carnage out there in the middle of the road and people coming by and say, what is that? No identity. Indecisiveness You can make a decision in the next five minutes that will affect you for the rest of your life. And you'll lose your testimony. Keep that testimony. It's precious. It takes a whole lifetime to achieve a testimony or a split second with the Lord when you trust Him as your Savior. You start building that testimony, but it won't take but a second or a minute to lose it And it's hard to get back. The effects of roadkill are irreversible. We've seen the effects of texting and driving and drinking and driving and it doesn't kill them. If it doesn't kill them, then the effect So them may last them the rest of their life. I've got a guy that was a couple years younger than me and uh he he loved life, he was always doing sports and and doing all these things. He was after enjoyment, he was after entertainment uh his whole life and he went skiing out in Colorado and he had an accident and severed his spine. Now he is paralyzed from the waist down. It la it will be with him the rest of his life. He'll be in that wheelchair. One decision, you only get one chance at life. Thank God he loves us. Thank God he forgives us. Thank God for his mercy. We all deserve to go to that awful place called hell. I'm nothing without the Lord. I don't want to be roadkill and y'all drive by me one day and say, was that Brother Miller? I don't want to be shipwrecked. I don't want to be put on the shelf. I know I'm saved, but I I don't want to be put on a shelf or shipwrecked or dead on the side of the road. Not useful for the Lord. Parents, don't let your kids see you as road teal The effects are permanent. I've hit a snake before and look back in my rearview mirror and see it squirming back there. I can't leave him like that. He's suffering So I back up, I I I go back and I I get my rear wheel well, back then it was rear wheel dry, but I get the front wheel on it And I uh uh I put my foot on the brake and I rev the motor up and I let go of the brake and I slide and it just shoots him back. I call that backsliding Now I can't leave him suffering like that on the road. He's got a mama. I've heard of people having abortions. That's a horrible thing. It is murder, but people can be forgiven. for that. Or they get in trouble with the law. Things happened and they don't come back. It it's permanent. There's people on death row. They can still receive mercy of the Lord. I've seen people that were put to death Um heard about them in the news and everything that they were put to death for a murder they did, but they had trusted Christ. Even being in the bonds of a prison somewhere, they could be set free spiritually Kids, while you're young, do something for God. While you're young, before you have scars, before you get in this world and you see how wicked things really are before you have regrets, before you make a bunch of mistakes, before you wake up and you're 30 and you wish that you could go back and take all those years back. Do something for God while you're young. He can use you as you're young. Don't say these are my teenage years. I'm going to live it up. Sin's not living. It's death. It bringeth forth death. Living for the Lord, having a testimony, praying, reading your Bible, being close to God. Praise God. That's living. That is true living. That is true fun. the the greatness of get sharing the gospel with somebody and you see that light come on in their eyes and they trust Jesus Christ their Savior There's no fun at an entertainment place or no fun at an amusement park that could compare to that, seeing somebody born again by the grace of God. Hey people, young people, I love you. I'm for you. I want to see you brought up in this church and stay here and serve God. Not only is roquio irreversible, it also brings an infestation. It's eerie to see the trees lined with buzzards. You know there's something dead close by. It might be on the side of the road, got slugged up on the right-of-way or something. I drove by a funeral home in North Carolina, no joke, and there was buzzards lining the roof of that place. I thought, what? Hmm, that that that ain't right. It's eerie. It's creepy. An old buzzard with its wings spread over something dead is spooky. Roadkill always brings an infestation. Verse 16 says, and while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand and upon the hand of his wife and upon the hand of his two daughters and the Lord being merciful unto him and they brought him forth and set him without the city And while he lingered, God said, get out, but Lot was lingering. He didn't want to give it up. He didn't want to leave It doesn't say his daughters were lingering or his wife was lingering, but Lot was lingering, and because he lingered, his family faced the consequences. In chapter 18, uh Abraham's praying. He says, Lord, will you destroy the whole city for fifty righteous people? If there's fifty righteous, will you destroy it anyway? And he said, No, I won't destroy it for fifty. And then he goes down to forty-five, to forty, to thirty, to twenty, to ten. God said he went and destroyed the city for ten righteous. You've got Lot, you've got his wife, that's two. Uh you've got his two daughters. At home. That's four. Verse 14, you've got his sons-in-law, and it's estimated he probably possibly had six daughters But even without the the uh sons in law, there were ten people if Lot had just raised his family right If he had kept the Lord ever before them and and told them, hey, I remember Uncle Abram out there giving altars of sacrifice to God because that's the way he set things up that he didn't. He assimilated. He he moved in and became them. If Lot was the father and husband he should have been And if he didn't allow himself to become road kill, and if he held the standards and if he had an identity and he stood for God and had principles and he loved the Lord and would have said As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. We're going to do right. We're going to live right. We're going to love the Lord because He first loved us. He could have saved the entire city But he lost his influence. He flip-flopped back and forth. He was indecisive. He couldn't make up his mind which side he wanted to be on. You say that's That's a good message. Maybe someday, but not today. I'm happy the way I am. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I've never seen a time the way Satan is devouring, trying to destroy churches, trying to destroy pastors trying to destroy Christians trying to destroy families. Sodom and Gomorrah are destroyed people. Uh and uh there's people on the mountaintop have their mind made up, but on the road between is who he's after. The ignorance of Rogue Keel Driving home from Maryland at Christmas time at two o'clock in the morning, we were near Waltons Mountain between Charlottesville and another place that's where the Waltons, uh that family Uh they that's where that family was from from the old TV show back in the seventies and and um There was road work, so we had to detour at 2 o'clock in the morning. They were working on the road and we were going like 20 miles an hour and there were deer on both sides of the road. We were going twenty miles an hour. We had slowed down to a stop They were does on the right side, and this buck was on the left side. We're stopped and this buck brads his nose in the side of our van. It was a white van. The moon was full outside. It was wintertime, and he bratted his nose right in the side of her van. I thought, what is he doing? That has got to be the silliest, the craziest thing I've ever seen an animal do in my life. And he he fell down, he shook his head, and then he went around to where the dogs were Verse 1 got angels coming to get Lot, saying, We're getting you out of this place. Verse 13, they bring a warning. Verse 16, they literally drag Lot and his family out by their hands. And you might be here today and had opportunity after opportunity, mercy, grace, God says, why don't you follow me? Love me, obey me, get saved, junk your pride and sin. Nobody has to die this way. Nobody shall die this way. Please don't make roadkill out of me He says, get off the road, let me safely get you to the mountain. Let me, I've been merciful. He's kept cars away from hitting you. Gotten roadkill deer before. My son-in-law's one of those. If he sees a deer that's been run over on the way home and and uh the car's gone, the truck's gone, he'll stop and get it, if it's not bloated or anything, he'll eat it. But there's sometimes he'll get it and he'll skin it out and it's bruised, it's broken, it looks fine on the outside, but on the inside it's a bruised mess What a waste. God can do something with your life. Give it to him. Get saved. Or if you are saved, draw closer to him. God wanted Lot on the mountain, but he gives Lot his wish. Something easy for him. God said, you want to be hard-headed? You want to be stubborn? I'll still protect you. You want to rebel against me? I'm still going to love you. After his wife died, he was afraid to stay in the that place because God wanted him on the mountain. Lot said, I'll do my own thing. I've got it figured out. I want to ask you tonight, have you got it figured out? Are you going to become a spiritual roadkill on the side of the road of life spiritually? I give you this final warning. Turn to God. If you're here tonight and lost Put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He paid the sin penalty for each and every one of us, for the sins of the whole world, if you but believe and trust him and ask him to save you. Or if you're a Christian here tonight and you say, well, I still want to live worldly, I still want to live my own way, you're going to be roadkill. Don't be indecisive. Pick what side you're going to be on and stay there Stand behind your man of God. Stand behind your church. Keep God ever close to you. Father, I pray that you'll take the message now, Lord. Do that I can't do. Bless the pastor, bless his church, and I thank you for all that they've done for us this week. Lord, we love you in Jesus' name. Amen.