Matthew chapter seven, verse number you all were wondering where is he going with this, right? Uh Matthew chapter seven, um verse number twenty-four is the only verse I want to read to get us started here In fact, let's read this verse together in unison, if we would. Matthew 7, verse number 24, if you got it there. Let's read it together. Ready? Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. Jesus is speaking here. He's finishing up a sermon, Sermon on the Mount. We'll talk about that in a bit. And he ends with this story, this illustration. Of a fellow that builds his house and he builds it on a rock, and then he has another fellow that he illustrates a truth with, uh, that builds his house and he builds it on sand And so I've entitled the message Rock Solid, Rock Solid. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts now this morning. Father in heaven, we come to you with our open Bibles on our laps here in front of us. We're asking you to speak to us. I am, Lord, asking you to speak to all of us from your word. Address us where we are, Lord. You know our circumstances. You know our situations we're in. You know what our spiritual condition is better than we do ourselves. And so, dear Holy Spirit, I pray that you would please fill me. And that you would speak through me and apply these truths to our lives as you know that we have need. I yield my will to you. I present my body. I pray with all my heart that you be the preacher, dear Lord, that you speak through me and have your way in our lives. Help us to make good decisions. Help us to respond properly to what your word teaches us here. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Our text here, this verse we just read and the passage that Pastor Matt read, are the final statements the Lord is making in his famous Sermon on the Mount. How many people have ever heard of the Sermon on the Mount? Sure, most of us you've been in church much at all. You've heard of the Sermon on the Mount. We preached a series on it here a number of years ago. Uh I always say, I always describe the Sermon on the Mount as the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a tremendous message. And um but the question comes up, how did it get the name Sermon on the Mount? Anybody want to take a guess? It was preached on a mountain. How about that? Come back to chapter 5 and look with me if you would at verse 1 and 2. That's when the sermon begins. This is a three-chapter sermon. And uh chapter one, or chapter five, verse number one, it says, and seeing the multitudes, he, Jesus, went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them saying. And then from verse 3 on to the end of chapter 7 is the Sermon on the Mount. So it gets its name. Just typical, nothing sensational about the name. He's on a mountain and he's preaching. Who is the audience? Look there at verse 1 and 2 of chapter 5. Who is he preaching to? He's preaching to his disciples. And so that's significant. I think it's important for us to understand. Who Jesus is addressing, who he's speaking to, because if we understand that, then we'll understand a little bit more of the purpose of that sermon. He's not preaching to unsaved people He's not preaching to folks that are out criminals and publicans and all these people living out there in wickedness. He's not preaching to the self-righteous Pharisees. He's preaching to disciples. This is not, and it's important to understand this, and I always point this out anytime I reference the Sermon on the Mount. This is not an evangelistic message He's not preaching this message to get lost people saved. These are folks that are already saved. Now, what is a disciple? A disciple is somebody that has trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. It is impossible to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ without first trusting him as my personal Savior. Now, everyone that gets saved, everyone that trusts Christ as Savior, is not necessarily a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh Jesus gave qualifications and this isn't the purpose of the message. You could preach a series of messages on the qualifications of discipleship. And he said you've got to take up your cross daily. Got to forsake, deny yourself and uh uh forsake all and follow him. He says, you can't be my disciple if you don't do that. We are saved by grace through faith, trusting Jesus our Savior. Discipleship then is a level of commitment on the part of the one who has trust in Christ to live for the Lord, to follow his teachings, to follow his instructions. Everybody with me? So he's preaching to disciples here, folks that have trusted him as Savior. They've recognized he's the Messiah. They have committed themselves to follow his teachings and be his disciples Now he does later on, we'll see here in a bit, he does touch on the matter of salvation, clarify some things, and give some warnings. But uh he's preaching to disciples. This is the way I like to look at this uh this uh sermon here. Jesus is discipling his disciples That's what he's doing. He's teaching them, say, you claim to be my disciple, you say you're a follower of me. Alright, this is what should be true of your life, then. This is what disciples do. This is how disciples think. In fact, if you look there, beginning in verse 3 down through verse 12, he gives what we know as the Beatitudes. And he's basically saying this, you claim to be my disciple, then these are the attitudes you ought to have. You ought to have these attitudes Then he goes on. He says, if you're my disciple, then here's the purpose you have in life. You are salt of the earth. You're the light of the world. Then he goes on and says, To be a disciple, it means we have different standards that we live by than what the world lives by, as a disciple of Christ. We interact with others, particularly our enemies. As a disciple of Christ, we interact differently than the world interacts with their enemies. You follow what I'm saying? He's giving them, he's discipling them. He's saying, this is what a disciple does. This is how a disciple interacts. This is how a disciple thinks. This is the purpose of being a disciple. This is how a disciple serves God. He goes all through here How we pray, how we view materialism. And so he's going down through here and he's basically saying this. As a disciple of Christ, as a follower of Jesus Christ, we live by different standards than what the world lives by. We think differently than the world thinks. Can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? How many folks here, you got saved and you say, I want to try and live for Christ, and you found yourself thinking differently than you did before you knew Christ? Yeah. Yeah. We live by different standards. We think differently than the world thinks. We have a different worldview. We see mankind. We see our lives. We see our possessions differently than the world sees mankind. The world views their possessions. A disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's teaching his disciples. He's discipling his disciples. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. I hope that's true. How many folks here would say, preacher, I'm not everything I ought to be, but I'd like to consider myself a disciple of Christ. Anyone like that? I I'd like to consider myself disciple of Christ. committed myself to live by the teachings of God's word and follow the teachings of Christ and live for Him like He instructs me to. I'd like to be a dis I'd like to consider myself a disciple of Christ If that's true, then we ought to be very familiar with this sermon, because that's what this whole sermon is about, being a disciple of Christ. Living for the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not an evangelistic message, so to speak, but it is teaching us how to live for the Lord Jesus Christ as a disciple. Now, come back to chapter 7. I want to get to our text here And as he's winding down this sermon, as he is bringing it to a head, anybody here ever hear a preacher say, and in conclusion, anybody ever hear a preacher say Don't believe that for one minute. He ain't concluding. He's just plowing on. Well, Jesus is actually concluding his message And he finishes up his message with three warnings, I see. If you would look with me at verse number 15. Down through verse 20, he says this, beware, there's your warning, there's a danger. Beware of what? Beware of false prophets. People who claim to be a spokesman for God, but they're lying. They're false prophets. They claim to have a message from God and they don't. Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly, he word, inwardly they're ravening wolves. Say, well, how in the people must have been thinking, how in the world do we know? If outwardly they look like sheep, but inwardly they're full they're wolves, how do we know? He tells them. Verse 16, ye shall know them by their what Fruits by what they produce, how they behave, how they act, their lifestyle, their actions. Do men gather grapes of thorns? The answer is no. Figs of thistles? No. Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast in the fire, wherefore by their fruit ye shall know them. He puts a warning out here, and it's a warning of false prophets. A warning of false prophets. Jesus said later on in Matthew, he preached another sermon about the conditions of the world when Jesus Christ comes back, Matthew 24. That's a good chapter to study. And one of the things he emphasizes is in the days preceding the return of Jesus Christ, one thing is going to characterize society, and that is this Deception and false teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ and the things of God. I'm telling you, we live in a day of deception and false prophets and false teachings about the things of God and the coming of Christ. And Jesus is discipling his disciples, and he's saying, Listen Not everything that claims to be of God is of God. And not everybody that claims to be a spokesman for the Lord is actually a spokesman for the Lord. Say, preacher, how do we know the difference? By their fruits, in other words, is what they're saying and what they're doing and what they're promoting, does it line up with the Word of God? That's the acid test right there. Does what they're producing, what their fruits are, what they're promoting, what they're putting out, does it line up with this book? If it doesn't line up with this book, it is not of God. Mark it down And so there's a warning here. In his sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, as he's winding down, he says, hey, hey, beware of false prophets. Later on he says there's going to be a heap of them in the last days. Now that phrase heap of them, I don't think that's actually in the Bible. I just said that But that's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. So he has one warning, uh a danger that he warns about, is the danger of false prophets. Then, if you would, look at verse 21. And he warns of the danger of false professions. False prophets, false professions. Look at verse 21. This is a sad statement in the Bible, but it's true. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. Huh? You know what that sounds like? False profession. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name we've cast out devils, in thy name have done many wonderful works. Oh God, I did this for you, and I did that for you, and I served this and I served that and I did this and I did that. I'm really something. I earned heaven. I am earned salvation. Look at the next verse. Look what it says And then will I profess unto them, look at this, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Say, man, that's a strong statement. You know what he's saying? If a person claims to be saved and they're basing their salvation on their works, on all these good things they're doing, that is a false profession of salvation. Not one person can be good enough to earn heaven. No, you say, well, I've been I had a fellow tell me years ago, he said uh Uh he visited our church. I went and visited him, an older fellow. He sat in his living room. I can remember it like it was several years ago. I remember very clearly. We're sitting in his living room and we talked a little bit and I asked him the same question I asked all the time. Uh I'll say I said this, do you know for sure? I said, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure That when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? He said, Absolutely, I know I go to heaven, no doubt about it. Well, you don't usually get that answer. The answer you normally get is what I hope so. I think so. I think probably. Yeah, I hope I would. That's normally what you get. He was very confident. Yes, absolutely. I know I go to heaven when I die. I said, well, let me ask you this. What gives you that assurance? What are you basing that confidence on that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? This was his answer. I was Sunday school superintendent of our church for 40 years. I've taught Sunday school. I've served as an officer in the church. I'm going to heaven when I die. You know what that was? That was a false profession. He was basing his salvation on his works, on his service. on his ministry. Nobody ever gets saved. Nobody ever escapes hell and goes to heaven because of the good things they do. For by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works Lest any man should boast. If anybody gets to heaven, they get to heaven by the grace of God through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, period. Period. And so Jesus is warning his disciples. And he's warning them of the danger of false prophets. There are going to be people. And by the way, since Jesus ascended, since the beginning of the church, way back yonder. All through these years, and increasingly as the Lord comes, there have been, there are now, and there will be false prophets. False teachers. They're on your television. They're in the bookstores. They're everywhere. False teachers. If it doesn't line up, I'll say this again. I tell you, if you don't get anything out of this message this morning but this If it doesn't line up with this old book, it's not of God. It's not of God. And then he warns about false profession. False profession. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save one person's soul. You can be a Sunday school teacher, you can be a deacon, you can sing in a choir, you can be the pastor. But if you've not trusted Christ, you will not make it to heaven. It's only through Christ, and Christ alone, where salvation is found. So he warns them of false prophets, he warns them of false profession. Now we get to our passage here, and he's warning them of foolish neglect. Did you catch that? Foolish neglect. Look what he says here. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, so far so good, and sayings of mine, and what doeth them. I will liken and do with them. I will liken him unto a wise man that built his house which built his house upon a rock. Here's a fellow, disciple. He's heard the sayings of Christ, he's heard this sermon, he's heard this message, this teaching, this discipling that's been given to him, he hears it, and he does what any what? What did it say? He does it. He hears it. And then he incorporates it in his life. He applies it to his life, and he follows the instructions the Lord has given him. And he said, that's the guy that builds his house on a rock. Come down a couple verses. I think it's verse 26. Look what he says here. He contrasts it. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, same thing he said about the wise man, heareth these sayings of mine, uh-oh, and what Do it and not. He heard it. He received the same information. He got the same teaching. He got the same instructions. But he doesn't do it. He doesn't apply it to his life. He neglects it. He disregards it. He says he shall be likened unto a foolish man. Which build built his house on the sand. Too many too many Christians. Here's something that concerns me, and it has for a long time Too many times you have folks and they'll say, oh yeah, I'm a sinner. I know I'm a sinner. I've broken God's law. I'm under the judgment of God. I understand that. And they'll turn to Christ and they'll trust and say, I believe Jesus died for my sins, was buried, and rose again. I'm going to put my faith, my trust, my confidence in Christ. They make a decision. I accept Jesus as my Savior. God forgives them. God saves them from hell, and then they're satisfied with just being saved. You follow what I'm trying to say? And rather than receiving the instructions as a child of God, rather than receiving the instructions and becoming a disciple of Christ, oh, they hear it They'll come to church and sit under the preaching. Oh, yeah, they'll listen to it, they'll hear it. But they'll just push it aside and walk out and never apply it to their lives. And Jesus says to neglect. The instructions and the teachings of Christ is foolishness. It's foolishness. And it's like a man building his house on sand. So he warns them, if you would, take your Bibles real quickly with me and come back to the book of James. Now, if you go back towards the back of your Bible, you'll run into Hebrews. There's 13 chapters in Hebrews, right after Hebrews. You run into the book of James. The book of James is a very practical book. Our memory verse comes from the book of James this month. Book of James is a very practical book. And James, who, by the way, was a half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, was a disciple of the Lord Jesus, became one. He was a pastor of the first church there in Jerusalem. I like to call it the first Baptist church of Jerusalem there. And notice what he said, something very almost identical to what the Lord Jesus said. In chapter 1, and come down, if you would, to verse number 22. He says something right along the same lines as what Jesus is finishing, this great sermon. He's winding it up And uh bringing a conclusion, and this is what James, this is how James puts it. But be ye, what's that word? Doers of the word. I circled that word doers in my Bible But be ye doers of the word and not, look at it, hearers only. Did you catch what Jesus said? He that heareth my word and doeth it not, he's a hearer only. Now look, he goes on. Uh be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. Look at this, deceiving your own selves. Would you agree that's foolishness? Deceive yourself. The stupidest thing you can do is lie to yourself That's foolish. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. Now the word glass there would refer to what we might call a mirror. Looking in a mirror, looking at his reflection. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. In other words, he's illustrating, he says, if you just hear what God tells you to do, if you just hear God's instructions, you don't actually do what he says You're like the knucklehead gets up in the morning and he looks in the mirror and his hair's a mess and his his uh bags under his eyes and he's half shaven and he looks a disaster and he looks in and says, Oh yeah, it's okay, and just walks away. Now, guys tend to be that way. Do you ever notice ladies? Watch when your husband looks in the mirror. They do something like this. They'll look in the mirror and they'll kind of go Yeah. And the walk am I right or wrong? Yeah, it looks good. This morning I looked in the mirror, I looked, said, Wow, yeah, pretty good. Now a lady when she looks in the mirror, oh my nose is too big, my ears, oh my hair, oh my makeup. Right? Am I right or wrong? But he's saying you look in the mirror and there's obvious some things that there obviously needs to be attention given to what you see. And he just walk off and leave it that way. And then look what he says in the next verse. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, that's the Word of God, his sayings And continueth therein, does it, applies it, carries it out in their life, he being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the work, this man shall be what? Blessed in his deep. Remember, we preached a message not too long ago. We said, not everybody's blessed of God. God's good to everybody. God's kind to everybody. But here he says, if I want to be blessed indeed of God, I've got to not only hear what God says to me, but I've got to what? I've got to do it. I've got to do it. That's the premise of the whole end of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. You've heard what I've just preached. Come back there with me if you would. You heard what I just preached You heard the instructions I just gave you. How a disciple thinks, how he uh interacts with others, how he prays. He talks about that, how he deals with people who are hateful to him He says, now you've heard all of that, if you're wise, you're going to go do it. You're going to apply it to your life and carry it out. Verse 24 through 29, these last verses, I think it's the Jesus giving an invitation. Anybody here ever been in a church service where they give an invitation after the preaching? If you've been here for any, you've been in one. That's what Jesus is doing. He's giving the invitation. All right. Let's do what God spoke to our hearts about. Let's do what we've taught you to do. He's giving the invitation here, is what the Lord's doing. It's a clear message on what a disciple is and what a disciple does and does not do. Now he's saying you can do one of two things. You can hear what I've said and do it. Take it to heart, apply it to your life, or you've heard what I said and not do it. Just walk away. Just disregard it. Just ignore it. I tell you what's a heartbreak, and Doc Williams will tell you the same thing. I tell you what's a heartbreak for a preacher is when there are folks who are unsaved. They know they're lost. They know if they died now, they'd go to hell and not to heaven. And the preacher gets up and preaches his heart out and gives the gospel as clearly and as powerfully as he can. And that unsaved person just brushes it aside and walks out, as lost as when they came. That's a heartbreak to a preacher, right or wrong. That's a heartbreak. Or a pastor, there's folks and I I don't deliberately if you know I don't deliberately prepare a message for an individual. I did that one time years ago and it blew up on me. I don't do that no more I preach what God lays on my heart to preach, but I tell you what's a heartache for a preacher, a pastor, is to know folks that are not living for God. And not doing right, and you preach the word of God and they just disregard it and walk away. Can you understand? That's a heartache. That's a heartache And Jesus is saying, listen, you have one of two options. I just told you, I've just preached you, I just taught you what a disciple is, how they behave, how they think, how they interact, all these things about what it means to be a follower of Christ. He says you can do one of two things. You can walk away, just ignore what I've said, or you can take it and apply to your life. And he says the one that applies it to their life is a wise man. And the one that disregards it and just walks away. is foolish. We used to teach the kids, some of y'all know it, the wise man build his house upon the rock. Remember that? Anybody remember that song? The wise man. Then he says, uh the foolish man build his house upon the sand. Everything all right here? You guys okay? Maybe somebody can help them there a little bit Miss Courtney, can you go help them there? All right. The wise man built his house upon the rock And the wing and uh uh I said the wanes. The rains came tumbling down, the rains came down and the floods came up The rains came down and the flood I thought you guys would join with me singing. The rains came down and the floods came up. But the house on the rock stood firm Then the foolish man built his house on the sand, rains came down, floods came up, rains came down, floods came up, rains came. And the house on the sand, what happened? What? That's Jesus telling us. That's that is the invitation of his sermon. That is the application of his message. The wise man and the foolish man. Real quickly, or at a couple minutes, let me give you my outline here, real quick. Number one, I notice the builders in this illustration the Lord's giving. Builders. Initially, there's no apparent difference between these two guys. Look at verse number 20 Verse 24, the last part. It says, He built, which built his house. You come down to verse 26, the last part. He built his house. That up to this point, we see no difference between these two guys. They're both building a house. They both finished the house they carried through. Uh I may be assuming a little bit here, and the Lord, this isn't the purpose of his illustration, but it appears they have the same backgrounds for the most part. They both know how to build a house. Right? They they have that information. So they're both building a house. They both know how to build a house. They both finish the house. They both have a desire to have a house. So initially, you don't see a whole lot of difference between the wise builder and the foolish builder. Initially, they appear the same. Initially, there's no difference shows up until a little bit later on. And I got thinking about that. You know, it is uh sometimes in this old sinful world, did anybody notice this world is upside down? What God says is right, this world says is wrong. And what God says is wrong, this world says is right. And this world has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong seem so right. And that which is right seem to be so wrong. The world has perfected the ability to take that which is absolutely foolish and make it seem so wise. And that which is actually wise make it seem so foolish. And so on the surface, you don't really see a difference. It's possible for a fool to be thought very wise in this old sinful world. And it is possible for a wise man to be thought very foolish. In this old sinful world. So you look at these two guys on the surface initially and really don't see much difference. Here's a house, here's a house. They both appear to know how to build a house. They finish the job. Not a whole lot of difference there, but Jesus gives us some insight. And he says there in verse 24, he refers to the first builder as a wise man. That word wise means to be prudent, to be discreet. Here's the definition. Let me give you a practical definition. My practical definition of what it means to be wise. The ability to see the consequences of my actions. Proverbs says: a prudent man, a wise man, foreseeeth the evil and hideth himself. A wise man is able to look and say, all right, the decisions I make now, the actions I take now, I foresee, I anticipate what their accurately what the consequences are going to be. So the first man is a wise man. He builds his house. He thinks, you know, it's a real possibility there's storms coming. I gotta prepare for that. I'm gonna dig down and build on the rock. A foolish man, on the other hand, just acts, just does whatever for the moment, and never considers. What the consequences of his actions will be down the road. What a fool. What a fool I just have a good time. Oh, we're just gonna do this. I'm just gonna ah dig down on the rock. Ah, I don't got time for that That's a lot of money. That's a lot of extra effort. We don't need to worry about that. Never considers that it may be a factor down the road. I deal with people all the time. Many times we've been guilty of it. We don't stop and think About what's happening, what's going to come down, what we're going to have to face. We just do what we want to do. We just lean on our own understanding. We disregard what God says the future holds How many times I've talked to people, listen, I've talked to people, I knock on their door, I ask them, do you know for sure? If you die now, your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. You know, they'll say something like this. Oh, I don't worry about that stuff. Oh, I don't give no concern about that. I don't like to think about that You know what that is? That's foolish. Days coming are going to die. Days coming, you're going to stand before God. That moment does a point on the man wants to die after this, the judgment. I tell you, if I can just get somebody start thinking about, get concerned about where they're spending eternity, they're on the road toward salvation. They're not there yet, but at least consider it. My wife led a hundred-year-old lady to the Lord a number of years ago. On her hundredth birthday, she trusted Christ as Savior. How about that? Patty asked her, she said, Did you ever think about this over the years? And this is what she said. Oh, when it came to mind, I just put it out of my mind. You know what we said when she came home and told me that? You know what we said? Woo! That's a close call. A wise man. This wise builder, he thinks ahead. The actions I take now, the decisions I make, the behavior I involve in, there's going to be consequences for that. That's gonna there's gonna be a effect that's gonna affect my future I need to pay attention to this. I need to think this through. I need to do this right. The foolish man says, ah, don't worry about that. I don't worry about eternity. I don't worry about God. I don't worry about that stuff. I just do it. I'm just living my life. I'm just eat, drink, and be merry. God says that's a fool. That's a fool. Two builders. Initially, no difference between the two. Initially, they appear uh uh appear the same. It does not become evident, listen to this, it does not become evident, their foolishness and their wisdom does not become evident until the storm hits. Oh then, man, this guy was a fool. What kind of fool builds a house on sand? I tell you what kind of fool, a fool that doesn't think ahead, doesn't consider the consequences The difference does not become evident until the end of the story. Until the end of the story. And I'm afraid, listen, I'm afraid. There's a heap of folks. They're playing the fool with their soul. And they're playing a fool with their spiritual life and their relationship with God. They're playing the fool. And at the end of the story, it's too late. Can't do anything about it. The house is crushed. It's over. I played the fool. I wonder how many Christians. Oh, we trust in Christ. I got saved. God save me. Don't live for God. Don't pay any attention to the Word of God. Just do your thing. Just neglect the teachings of Christ. And they get the end of their life at the end of the story. Say what a fool I was. I was chaplain with hospice for four years. I buried a lot of people in those four years. I was able to win a lot of folks to Christ before they died. I never once, I'd never yet have sat by the bedside of a dying man or a woman. I'd never yet have sat by the bedside of a dying person and hear them say, I wished I hadn't lived for Christ. Never one time has anybody said that to me. Never one time has anybody said, Oh, I wish I hadn't followed what the Bible says. Never one time But you know what I've heard over and over and over and over. Oh, I wish I'd have lived for Christ. I've wasted my life. Oh, I wished I'd have done what God said. You don't notice the difference between the foolish man and the wise man until the end of the story. When the storm hits, it's too late. It's too late. That wind starts kicking up, that rain starts falling, that flood's coming up. Now before we sman, man, I better dig a foundation. Too late to dig a foundation now, my friend. Your house has gone down. Your house has gone down. So we have two builders here. Quickly, let me notice not just the two builders, but also notice the buildings. Notice in verse 24, he says, I will liken him unto a wise man. Jesus isn't talking about a literal house. He's not talking about sand, literal sand and literal rocks and literal floods and literal collapsed buildings. He's illustrating, liken unto. So what is the house here in this illustration? The Lord's finishing his message up with. The house is the entirety of our lives. The house is what our life amounts to. And the building of that house are the decisions I make. the actions I take to put that thing together, to construct my life, and to become the person I am. Uh we're working on our building out here. Anybody notice we're starting to get the frame up there a little bit, starting to come together. The builder told me uh Wednesday, he says uh next week it'll start looking like a building. I think we're gonna have church out there next Sunday is my plan. Not really. But they take the parts and they take the pieces and they assemble them together and they bolt this one down and they cement that and they attach that and they weld this and they wire that and they plumb this. When it's done, you have a building. And that building in the Lord's Illustration is your life and my life And the things we do, and the decisions we make, and the actions we take, and how we behave ourselves, and how we invest our time and our energy and our efforts, what we become You and I are the result of the decisions we made in past days. That's where our life is. It's where our life is. When I got saved, you've heard me tell this way back in 1979, those months leading up to the night I trusted Christ, I was looking at myself, and I did not want to be the man I had become I had made such foolish decisions. I had taken such ridiculous actions. I had behaved myself so foolishly. And I looked at myself and said, I do not want to be what I am. And the only hope I found was in Christ. To be born again and have a new life. So the building here the Lord is illustrating is our lives The individual decisions and actions, the moments we have in life, the opportunities we take, build our lives. Then notice thirdly, very quickly, the basis of these buildings. You have the builders, these one man's wise, one man's foolish. Initially you don't really see a difference between the two. When it's all said and done we do, but initially we don't Then we look at the buildings. They're not literal buildings. He's talking about our lives. And then the basis. And by that I mean the foundation. Look at the last part of verse 24. I will liken him unto a wise man which build his house upon a rock. Come down to verse 26. He shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. I looked up the word rock. You know what I found out it means? A big rock. That's what it means. A large solid bedrock To build a house on a rock, now think with me, to build a house on a rock, would you agree with me, takes a little bit more work than building a house on the sand. I mean you've got to dig down. You've got to find that bedrock. You've got to put a little attention to it. You got to do a little investigation. All right, where is the bedrock? And then you gotta put a little energy and effort and work into that thing and dig it up and find the bedrock so I can lay a build a house on have a foundation to build my house on Requires a little more money, perhaps. Investment of resources Requires more time, harder work, greater investment. If you go to Luke chapter 6, we won't, but in verse 48 is Luke's account of this message. And there he adds this statement. And he says he digged deep To get to that rock. Do you know living a life that pleases God, being the kind of Christian God wants us to be, requires effort? Putting some time, some discipline, investing some effort into it. We live in such we we we are such snowflakes Uh-huh. Anybody ever hear that term? Snowflakes. I mean everything has to be easy, the exact way I want No investment of time. Doesn't can't cost me any uh effort or or energy. No self-discipline. I just want to live on sand I don't want to have to do any digging. I don't want to have to put any effort in. And you know what you get out of the effortless Christian life? You get sand. You get nothing. And so if we're gonna if we're gonna be the Christians, if we're gonna be the people God wants us to be, we've got to put a little bit of effort in. Can I say this? That means you've got to get up Sunday morning and go to church. What? Now you can lay in bed and watch church. Hey y'all. I'm sure none of our people are laying in bed watching That means you're gonna have to invest a little bit of time and effort and read your Bible And let God speak to you. You know what? It means you're going to have to put the effort in and say, no, I'm not going to that party. Yes, I'm going to live for God. It requires effort, it requires energy. Nowhere in the Bible does it say that living the Christian life is easy. Tribulations and heartaches. But I'll tell you right now, I've lived for the devil long enough to know I don't want to go back to that. As hard as being a Christian might be, as hard as as as as difficult as living a good, godly Christian life might be sometimes, I'm telling you, it's better than any other alternative. To know Christ, to live for Him, to live for Him, the joy and the blessing and the peace, the fulfillment that comes with knowing I'm in line with God's word and God's pleased with my life. So the basis, this rock, required quite a bit of effort. Then the other fellow on sand, I looked up the word sand. Anybody want to guess what it means? Sand, loose gravel, ground that is unstable and weak, uh gravel that is easily moved. In fact, sand, not only can water wash sand around, but did you know that wind Sand is so weak, is so unstable, that even a windstorm can blow it. We have missionaries down in St. Lucia. I keep waiting for them to invite me to come down and preach this winter. They didn't. St. Lucia and the Caribbean. Sometimes they do, but they didn't this year. They just I just got word last week that they are having sand storms in St. Lucia. Guess where that sand's coming from? Africa. They have huge sandstorms in Africa. It gets up in the atmosphere and comes over and drops on the Caribbean. And she uh she had a picture, um uh Faith Ann had a picture of the bay out there from their house And it was all like it was like fog. She says, no, it's sand coming over across the Atlantic. Sand is not something you build a house on If it can get blown around and it's that unstable, what kind of fool builds his house on stair? And Jesus said, if you hear my words and you don't do them, you're putting your life together. You're building a life that is based on nothing. Has no foundation. Anybody here ever notice the world says, oh, you need to do this one day, two days later, they'll say the exact opposite. Years ago, oh eggs are bad for your cholesterol. Then it was, oh eggs are good for your cholesterol. Now they're bad for your cholesterol. I just eat them. I don't care about them Oh, you gotta wear this. No, don't wear that. Oh, okay, you gotta do this. No, don't do that. Oh, this did you ever notice in in fashion world? One day bell bottoms are cool Huh? Then next skinny jeans are cool. You know, if if Hollywood said wearing a boot on your head was cool, people would be walking around wearing boots on their head. You know what that is? It's sand. And people are building their whole lives on that stuff. People are basing their identity and basing their actions and building their lives on stuff that Hollywood says they should do. Give me a break The government says this. Listen, I'm all for respecting the government. We're supposed to do that. But I'm telling you, we have a surer foundation in the Word of God than we do in a man's institution. God's word doesn't change every other week. Oh yeah, it's okay. Oh no, no, it's not okay. Oh, yeah, that's okay. God knows what doesn't do that. It's unchanging. It's Ben Rock And what's right today was right a hundred years ago. And what was wrong a hundred years ago is wrong today, according to the Word of God. And so you have two foundations, a rock or sand. To build a house on sand is a thoughtless Decision. It's a lazy decision. It's a careless decision. It's a haphazard, impatient, inexpensive. But it is costly. And I end with this. Consider the beating. We have the builders The buildings, the basis or foundation, then the beating. By that I mean the storms show up. And Jesus goes on. Says, you know, storms came. Same storm. Two buildings, two men, two different foundations, but one storm. They both faced the same storm. Rain, floods, wind, What's he talking about? He's talking about the storms of life. The storms of life. Both the wise man and the foolish man were hit by the same storm. Both the sand foundation and the rock foundation hit by the same storm. You know what? You can say, preacher. God stirred my heart. I'm going to live by this book. I'm going to do the best I can and trust and follow God's instructions and I'm going to trust him. And I hope you decide that But that does not protect you and me from storms. You can build your foundation on this rock, and I hope you do. But it does not keep us from storms. Storms come to the wise and to the foolish. All the wisdom in the world doesn't keep us from storms. Now it might help us minimize the storms. I've found that people who act foolishly have more issues in their life than those who are wise. Do you ever notice that? People that act foolishly often weep more, have more trials and difficulties because of foolish decisions. I like what the great theologian uh John Wayne said. He said life is tough. And he said it's even tougher if you're stupid. Yeah. But listen, you can be you and I you and I can live by that book to the letter as much as much as by God's grace we can. There's still going to be storms come to our life. The issue isn't whether storms The issue of being wise and foolish isn't whether storms come or not. The issue of obeying what God says and not obeying what he says, regarding what he says or disregarding what he says Isn't whether storms will come or not. The storms are coming. But are we prepared? Is my life in a condition to deal with that storm? That's the difference. That's the difference. It's far better to face a storm with a house built on a rock than is a house built on sand. Amen or not. All the wisdom in the world can't stop storms from coming. Perhaps the fool you say, why in the world does the sky build his house on sand? I don't know, we're not told. Why didn't you why don't why don't people follow the Lord's instruction? Why do people disregard what God says? Why do people just ignore God's continual warnings and his love for us and his and what he tells us the future holds and we just ignore it Why do we do that? I wonder if this foolish man thought maybe he was exempt from storms. Uh I won't hit no storm. That's foolish thinking. I don't know what his thinking was, but I know no one's exempt from storm. The wise man's wisdom didn't keep him from the storm. The wise man's wisdom kept him in the storm and prepared him for the storm. A wise man trusts God and does what God instructs us to. A foolish man disregards God's word. And builds his life on sand? Where ye at? Is God's word governing your life Are you living according to the teachings and scriptural teachings of God's Word? Are you just leaning on your own understanding, doing your own thing? Jesus says the wise man hears what he says what he tells us and he does it. The foolish man hears it but says There's a I have a picture of a house here. It's in Long Island. Or as they say, Long Island. It was built in 1905. You can't see the picture there. Now it's out on an island. But when it was built, this was a peninsula came out, and there was a road out to the house. In 1938, a hurricane hit the northeast. It was called the Long Island Express is what they named it. It washed out the whole peninsula. Washed the whole thing out. And what was once a peninsula coming out now is an island. That house was built in 1905. Today, 2021, that house is still standing. They're living in it. And they say the only reason that building, that house is still standing, is because when they build it, they build it on a rock. And all the hurricanes and all the nor'easters that wiped out that whole peninsula could not shake that house because it's built on a rock. You know who is going to stand and survive the storms, the spiritual warfare that's going on around us? And the chaos that's happening in our country and the collapse of society we're seeing around us, I'll tell you who will endure that. Those who bail their life on the Word of God. God said it. I trust him. I'm going to follow his instructions. And that's building on a rock. That's for young people, and that's for old folk. For God's people. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to have a firm foundation in our lives. Help us to trust you, Lord, and live by your word. I pray, Holy Spirit, you're stirring our hearts. And helping us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ. But I'm not sure I'm not putting that time and investment into knowing God's word and living by it. I just I need to give more attention That my life is based on the teachings and instructions of God's Word. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me do that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Pray with me that I'll get lined up with the Word of God and build my life on the teachings and the promises of Scripture. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it? Any others, preacher, pray. I gotta make some adjustments, make some alignments. Get my life in line with the Word of God. God bless you. It's a lifelong endeavor, there's no doubt about that. I wonder if there were some, say, preacher, I have a family member, a friend, a neighbor, a co-worker, somebody that I care about. I can see their life as being ravished by this old world. Say my heart's broken. I want them to know Christ. I want them to know what it means to have plant purpose and fulfillment and stability in their heart and soul. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness. That'd be a good testimony that they could come to Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Sure. We have folks we care deeply about. We want them to know that Would there be someone this morning say preacher? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. See, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. When you pray for the others, pray for me also. That God will help me settle that and get that taken care of. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I don't want to go to hell. I don't want my life to be ruined. I don't want to get to the end and realize I missed it. I want to have that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, we ask you to bless our invitation time in Jesus' name.