Here this weekend. We've just had a great, great time, and uh we've enjoyed the fellowship with uh Brother Dennis and Ms. Kathy and um We appreciate the good accommodations we had last night and uh for this afternoon and able to rest a little bit and uh get recharge for uh tonight. Appreciated the choir this morning, great number, and uh the spectral music's been really good. That's blessed my heart. And uh and I just appreciate so much uh, you know, coming to uh a church that's quite similar to ours and um And uh being able to have the freedom to be able to give God's word as the Lord lays it upon your heart. And uh so we'll be praying for you folks down here and uh as you pray for us up there and uh maybe one of these days we'll just start out and just get everybody saved to the center which would be Grantsville or somewhere like that. So People need to be saved. We need to be out getting them come to know the Lord. Turn your Bibles if you would. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 22 and verse 8. And I titled the message Tonight A Rooftop Family. And I hope every one of us, when we leave this place tonight, have a rooftop family. Girning, there was an airplane flight, and 15 minutes into the airplane flight, the captain announced that one of the engines had failed. And uh he said there's nothing to worry about. He says it's just going to delay us one hour to our destination, but we have three engines left, and uh we will make it just fine. About an hour later, he came over the intercom again and he said, I have some bad news to report. We have lost another engine. And he says it's going to delay us another two hours, but no worry. We still have two engines left, and we're going to make it just fine. An hour later, he comes on the intercom again, and he says, we have lost another engine. But he said, don't worry about that. It's going to delay us three more hours. But we're going to be just fine And there was a blonde passenger, first-time flyer, and she was heard to say, if we lose one more engine, we're going to be up here all day. Is there any blondes in here tonight? I don't I'm looking. I hope not. We want to leave here on a good note, amen. Yes Deuteronomy twenty-two and verse eight says this when thou buildest a new house. Then thou shalt make a battlement for thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thine house if any man fall from thence. Here is a house that is going to be built, and it had a rooftop. Now, if you do a study in the Bible on rooftops in the Bible, it's very interesting For instance, the rooftop was a place of service. If you go to the book of Joshua and find Rahab there, you'll find that she was doing her flax up on top of the rooftop. Back in those ancient days, the rooftop was a place of regathering for the family of that home when after a big battle or something that was going on. And of course that was always a good thing because, you know, you can stand anything when you have a peaceful place to regroup after the battles of the day, amen or not. And uh the housetop was a place of prayer. If you go to the book of uh Acts and uh and I can't remember, I think it's chapter ten or not, I think it's chapter ten, and And Peter is on the rooftop praying. It was a place of prayer, a place of regrouping, a place of service, the rooftops of the ancient rooftops of the Bible. Now, according to our text, a rooftop needed to have a battlement around it. A battlement was just uh a set of railing around the rooftop and the uh the reason was obvious you you have You know, when you build a home even today, uh you have to follow what we call now the National Building Code. And they make you do all sorts of crazy things, a lot of things unnecessary, but It all has to do with our safety and and uh and to keep us safe when we build a home or a uh especially a commercial building. For instance, if someone were to fall off your porch and uh and were hurt, you would be liable uh for that. And if they can sue you and and uh and so forth. If if you didn't uh that is if you didn't have a battlement or you didn't have a railing uh around your porch Well, you think about this, we're talking about Christian homes. We're talking about the spiritual aspect of our Christian homes. And when you're building a Christian home, you want everyone safe in that home. If one of my children were to, God forbid, go to an eternal hell I, as the head of my home, would be liable for that if I had not put A battlement or railing around my spiritual home. Now we need to have rooftop families We and and those those testimonies, thank you for that. That was awesome. I thank the Lord for that We need families that are exactly like that, what you said. That's a rooftop family. Where the families go to the family room or wherever that room might be, and the Bible is the rooftop, but it might be your living room, your kitchen, or whatever room But it's a room that you go and you have a family time, a family time together. And in this family time together, it's a place of service. It's a place of regrouping. It's a place of prayer. And it's a place where you read and study the Word of God together. And uh and and we need those rooftop families who will gather for a family time around God's Word. And we used to call that back in the day, we used to call that an old-fashioned family altar. Old-fashioned family altar But every rooftop has to have a battlement. It needs railing And your family time needs to have some railings around it. I want to give you three tonight, but before we do, let's pause and just thank the Lord here tonight. Father, we thank you for the privilege we have to be able to come to this place this evening. Lord, it's my prayer that you would really give the words to speak, that you would anoint these feeble lips. That something would be said to help the families of this precious church. And I pray, Father, it's my solemn prayer. That you'd bless Pastor and Mrs. Leatherman and continue to help them and continue to guide them, Lord, and they do and have done such a wonderful job here in this area. And we pray for these precious people that Lord you might guide them and direct them and direct their homes and their families, Lord, please. And we would ask that you would just give something tonight from your word that would be a help to this dear church. We'll thank you for what you'll do, and we'll give you all the honor and the glory for anything that is accomplished this evening. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I did want to thank everyone for the nice gifts that they gave. We came in this morning and we got a mug and a pen. And uh I got a little bag, and it was a little gift bag, and you know what was in it? Yes You're the one. You no. It was Iris Spring Soap And there's these little scrubby things in there that you could use with it in everything. So that's pretty awesome. I mean you come to church here, you get practical gifts, you know And so that's wonderful. And uh and I'm glad you folks are here tonight and didn't stay home for the Super Bowl. Amen. For that right now. You just look around. There's some people missing. You know what I'm saying? And they're home watching the Super Bowl right now Not really. We're talk we're thinking about one person in mind here. There's some railings around our family time that we need. And uh they all have to do with the Word of God. And and many of you mentioned that in your testimony time, and I thought that's Awesome, because one of the hardest things about preaching is not the study, and that's you love to study, you like to be in the Word of God, but the thing that you struggle with the most is what in the world are you going to preach? What are you going? What's the subject? What are you going to say? And I struggled with this one tonight, and I thought even this afternoon, man, this is this is just not it. But boy, after those testimonies, it is it Because this is about the Word of God in your home. The first, the top railing of your family time is your time in God's word. Consider the time that your family, your children, and yourself really spend in the secular world. as compared to the time that you spend in church. I would say probably those that I mean you probably hear the Sunday school and Sunday morning and now here Sunday night and That may add up to about five hours when your pastor's preaching and less when others are. But it's a great time that you're here And but you think, how many hours do you spend outside of this church? Far greater than what you spend in the church. How about it? And so, you know, uh as good as Sunday school is as we preached about this morning, and as much as we need it, It only lasts 30, 40 minutes or whatever it is a week, and that is not enough to really ground your children in the Word of God. When we were talking about the Sunday school That just helps you as you teach your children at home. Then you come to church, and that is backed up what you are teaching at home. And that's what really helps your family. But it's not enough by itself. Let's suppose that a boy or a girl consistently attends a Sunday school But only once, maybe two years, or maybe three years, or maybe longer than that, they're going to hear a lesson on Bible creation. Because there's a lot of subjects that you've got to teach They may not hear that, but every couple years, and by popular opinion, your child is going to be told that evolution is a fact They're going to hear it everywhere they go. And uh and the by popular opinion, he's going to hear that the earth is uh billions of years old. He's going to hear that thousands of times. It's six billion, seven billion. eight billion years old. By popular opinion, your child will be told that by deceitfully and indirectly that the Bible is not true. By popular opinion, they're going to hear that Adam and Eve really did not exist and that they are just symbolic people and not real people at all. They're going to hear thousands of times that there was no worldwide flood. They're going to hear thousands of times there's no such thing as the virgin birth. And your child will find these things. In most of the books uh that they read that are uh outside of our homes, we'll find them in the Broadman commentary. A lot of those things are found in the Broadman Commentary, the official commentary, the Southern Baptist Convention. You will find a lot of these things in the Interpreter's Bible, the official commentary of the Methodist Church. but used with authority by all mainline denominations. And friend, you can't safeguard You can't have a battlement around your home without time in the Bible. And I really appreciate what you folks testified about this evening. And I just add my Amen, Amen, Amen to it. Time in the Word of God. Studying it together. Meditating upon it, getting it into your heart and uh getting it into your life. We've got to have that. Having it reinforced then as you do it in the home. Then you come to church and it's reinforced in the junior churches and in the Sunday school. And in the uh the morning worship and Sunday night worship, it's reinforced there what you teach at home. Do you get your family together? And do you Spend time in the Word of God on a regular basis. Do you do that? We ask you this morning if you would say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord, and make that the battle cry of your family But tonight we're asking you that if you have made that pledge, will you make another pledge And that is to be in the Word of God every day that you possibly can with your family It is so important to the welfare of your home. As you heard the testimonies tonight, it's not coming from me, but it's coming from people that know and they realize the importance of the Word of God. Do you spend time in the Bible? The second rail on this battlement, the middle rail on this battlement is our teaching on the Word of God. Now, there are wonderful results when children are consistently taught the Bible at home. Turn in your Bibles if you would. You can leave your place here in Deuteronomy, but go over to 2 Timothy 1. And verses three through five. In our church, since I've been there over thirty years, one of the blessings of that Is that you begin to see just not first and second generation Christians But you begin to see first, second, and third generation Christians. There are people, we've got some in our church that were born when we came And uh their parents were saved. They'd been raised in the church. Now they're old enough to have children, and now they're bringing their children to church. What a blessing that is. We see that in the Bible here in 2 Timothy 1, verses 3 through 5 that says here about Timothy, I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy And here's what Paul says about Timothy. He says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, Which dwelt first in thy grandmother, Lois And thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. Here is Timothy, third-generation Christian And he's being taught the Word of God. I'm telling you this middle rail is our teaching on the Bible. that it has great effect upon your children. I heard somebody over here with the testimony that that their children would not forget that. And they won't, because God has promised, has he not, that our that the word of God will not return void. Amen or not? And what we teach and what we give, God is going to just bring that up at moments in their life, and they are not going to forget that. Over in chapter 3 of 2 Timothy, verses 14 and 15. It says, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith. Which is in Christ Jesus. You've got to remember that in those days it was a little harder to teach the Word of God to your children than what it is for us today. They didn't have Bibles everywhere like we have. They just had maybe a couple expensive copies of the Word of God. It might have been in the church or the where they would meet. and they would hear somebody speak on that. They would have to memorize that, these mothers and grandmothers. They'd have to memorize that and then they would go home and then they would teach that to their children. But here we are today, and we have all sorts of Bible helps. We've got a Bible. Every home has a Bible. If you don't have a Bible, I'm sure the church will give you one. Everybody has a Bible. There are all sorts of things that you can use for your family devotions, to have your family altar. And there's scriptures you can read and lessons that you can teach and things that you can do. We heard about a lot of those even here tonight, but yet a lot of those helps that we have go greatly unused. Just think of how they had to do it way back then Memorize it and then try to teach it when we have it so readily at our hand, but yet we don't use those things. I'm just trying to get you to see tonight that it's easier today, really, to have our family altar and to have our family devotions together. And uh but turn, if you would, back to the book of Jeremiah, another example of a people called the Rechabites in Jeremiah chapter 35 and verses 5 through 10. And as an example and as a rebuke to the other Jews, God in this chapter commanded Jeremiah To give a public test to the Rechabites. Great family. Great family. Chapter 35, verse 5. And here was the test. And I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine and cups. And I said unto them, drink ye wine. But they said, We will drink no wine for Jonadab, the son of Recham. Our father commanded us, saying, ye shall drink no wine, neither ye nor your sons, forever. Neither shall ye build houses, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any, but all your days ye shall dwell in tents. that ye may live many days in the land where ye be strangers. Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab, the son of Rechob, our father, and all that he hath charged us to drink no wine all our days, we our wives, our sons, and our nor our daughters, nor to build houses for us to dwell in, neither have we vineyard nor field nor seed, but we have dwelt in tents and have obeyed and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us Jonadab taught his children the scriptures. They learned from Proverbs chapter 20, verse 1, there that wine is a mocker. And he taught them to stay away from it. Not for a little while. He said, forever. They learned truths such as Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had learned. And that was to dwell in tents, not setting their hearts on earthly things, not going after earthly things, staying away from worldly things. and constantly looking for a builder and a maker who is God and that wonderful city Being heavenly minded and thinking heavenly things and not the things of this world is basically what they are saying. They were so thoroughly taught that they refuse to depart from these Bible truths even years after they were taught these things. They would not do them. It's hard. Listen, if you moms and dads, I mean you teach these things and teach these things and teach these things, it's hard For someone, a child, it's hard for them to go away from a praying mother and a teaching father. It's hard for them to go away. I'm sure you've heard the story about Henry Grady It's an old story. He was uh uh in the 1800s the editor of the Atlanta Constitution newspaper. In the midst of all of his newspaper business and the politics that he was involved in. He had found himself drifting away from the God that his mother had so graciously taught him about. And so he packed his bags, he sensed himself moving away from God and he packed his bags and he got on the train and He headed uh way up, way many miles away, up into the far country of Georgia where he grew up, and he went to his mother's home. And he looked so sad and depressed to her when he entered her home. And so she cooked him his favorite meal. And she mothered him and she kissed him just like he was a little boy again. When it was time to go to bed, she went upstairs And she tucked him in just like she did when she was when he was a little boy. And um and then she moved her chair up next to his bed just like when he was a little boy And she began to read the Word of God to him, just like she did when he was a little boy. And she knelt down, her old stiff knees. Kneeled down beside his bed, and she began to pray over him just like she did when he was a little boy. Man, when she was finished He got up the next morning. She made him, she did this for like three or four days in a row, every day The end of those days, he got up the next morning and he said, Mom, I got what I come for. And uh he got back in touch with his mother's god. And uh and he left. He went and made that famous speech that he made up in New England. Wasn't long afterwards he took pneumonia and actually died. Not too long after this took place. What I'm telling you tonight God forbid that if your children ever depart from the faith Will they come back to you when they sense themselves departing? Will they come back to you? When they sense the fact that they're moving away from their mother and their father's God. Will they do that? We asked the question this morning, should we take them back? And of course we could if they if if they want to live by our standards. But friends, some who call themselves Christians do not live it. Some who call themselves Christians are not following through with it, and their children know it. And they have left left their church. Maybe and and I know of a family uh that used to be in our church. They they They let they the parents at one time, they were great Christians, lived just like you folks, live and did a good job in raising their children when they were younger and they get to be teenagers and and uh and they got some bad friends and it started to pull them away and into worldly things and still the parents putting their foot down. They did it on the first child and and the first child just up and left. They did it on the second child and the second child up and left and they had their baby The third child wanted to do the same thing. Instead of letting them leave, they started to drift with the child. Now think about this. When it comes time, and this child's going to be out in the world and is going to be living an immoral life, I'll guarantee it. It's going to be maybe drugs, who knows? But it's going to happen. And when that happens, and that child realizes they've made mistakes and they want to go back, listen There's nothing for them to go back to because they drug their parents with them. There is something to be said for taking a stand and doing the right thing and maintaining that because it may come a time when someone in your home God convicts them. God speaks to their heart and they want to get right and they want to come back. You've got to be where you are You've got to stay where you are. You've got to maintain your fellowship with the Lord. You've got to maintain your standing with Christ. You've got to be where you're supposed to be, so that when they come back and want to come back, that there is something that there's to to come back to You've got to have some teaching on the Bible. You've got to spend time in the Bible. And then lastly, That bottom rail of our embattlement, our railing, is our treatment of the Bible Go back to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 6, verses 6 through 7. Deuteronomy 6, verses 6 through 7. I had preached a series of meet uh uh messages in our church and And I had directed them to our our families a couple years ago. And I did a study on the Ten Commandments. We took a commandment each lesson and we went over that. And one of the interesting things that I found out about the Ten Commandments that would They were given that one of the things about them was they were given to families, the Ten Commandments. They were given to the home, for the home to study, and for the home to follow through with And in this passage, and this is exactly, it's talking about God's words talking about the Ten Commandments here, and chapter 6, verses 6 and 7, and these words which I command thee this day. And he had just given them the commandments. He said, This word, these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house. And when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up Here they are having a special treatment of the Word of God that they are to come to really obey it. In Uzbekistan, they passed a law several years ago prohibiting religious activity by any unregistered group. And all imported literature was banned. And uh and I and I s I think the ban is still on. I'm not sure But in Uzbekistan, you're not allowed to send any material and you're not allowed to have a church there. Many apparent has been sent to Siberia, literally, as punishment for taking whatever they have of the Word of God and teaching it to their children. How would you like that? You want to teach the word of God and and the authorities come in and say, oh no, you're not going to teach that to your children. And if you continue to teach that, you're going to Siberia. That's what happens over there. They're not allowed to teach it. The communists seem to know, they seem to know very well that a home Can't be a Christian home without a daily Bible reading and without prayer. The communists know this It's just funny to me that we Christian people do not seem to actually get that. How can the communists know that? That a Christian home can't be a Christian home without the Bible and without prayer, but we don't seem to recognize that. By voluntarily, voluntarily taking the Bible out of your home. Your actions by not teaching the Word of God by not treating the word of God properly and respectfully by teaching it in your home, you are voluntarily taking it out, and your actions say by that that you feel friendly to the viewpoint of infidels, left wingers, and communists. Now that's pretty strong. I'm from West Virginia and I'm calling you a bunch of communists. Now that ought to make you mad. If I was down home, we'd be fighting by now. Somebody called me a communist. Amen or not But that's really what you're saying you are. If you don't want to teach God's word in your home, you're like a left-winger, you're like a communist, you're like an infidel. You don't want to teach God's word in your home. The left-wing Supreme Court took Bible reading and prayer out of our schools back in the 60s. But you voluntarily take it out of your home just by simply not reading it. You do it voluntarily. Mila Murray O'Hare didn't want her son to hear the word of God. She was an atheist. And now you do the same for your children. She was an atheist. What's that make you? And these are fighting words. There's no difference between an atheist that doesn't believe the Bible And a Christian that doesn't use the Bible. You hear me? There's no law that says you can't read the Word of God and have prayer in your home. There's no law that says you can't do that. You just don't do it because you don't want to. Because you don't want to, you line up on the side of atheists, infidels, communists, left-wingers. Today, there's no regretful goodbye when children go to school, no affectionate greeting whenever they get home And today, in most families, there's no discussion around the supper table about the Word of God. We have drifted away from our old-fashioned homes. Fathers have become too busy. Mothers have delegated their God-given responsibility and God-given calling to others for their children. And what we need more than anything else, what we need more than a good president and all of that. And we said this morning we need revival. We need it in our homes in America And if there's ever going to be one, it's going to be helped, not so much by preaching, but it's going to be helped by the condition of the homes that are in our churches, whether it's my church, your church, or any other church. When there is church in the home, the home is going to be in church. The two go together They won't be separate. But when parents drift away, they begin to become too lenient about amusements They began to be a little bit too thoughtless on the subject of self-indulgence and too thoughtless on the subject of purity and all of that. And by the time they come to their senses, their boys and girls will be all grown up and gone, and it's too late. I'm telling you, this thing happens fast. If you're in the midst of your families, it seems it goes slow, but when you get older, you look back, it goes very fast. Amen or not. Christian homes need the rooftop of Bible study They need the rooftop of family time. They need that rooftop of regrouping. That rooftop of Prayer, that rooftop of service that we see in the Bible that happened on the rooftops in the Bible. Is there a family altar in your home? Do you have one? I mean, that's part of your battlement, your railing, your time in the Word of God, your teaching on the Word of God, your treatment of the Word of God. That is your railing. That is your battlement. You've got to have that, or somebody's going to fall off your roof and go to an eternal hell, and you're going to be liable for that I want to ask you to gather again tonight around this old-fashioned altar Many of you came this morning. You said, you said, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Well here it is. Here it is. You need to have the old fashioned family altar in your home. That time of reading God's Word, that time of prayer, that time of singing, even, whatever it takes, but that family time in the Word of God And by coming forward tonight, you are saying that we are going to continue to be a rooftop family. And it may be that you slacked off of that. And it's very easy. I remember, I mean, we uh went through the same thing. I know I've experienced what I'm teaching. I'm not There's maybe a finger pointing at you that there's a whole bunch pointing back at me. There's no doubt about that. And maybe you're need to come this evening and say to the Lord, not to me, but to the Lord. Father, we will be a rooftop family. We will be. It's either one of the two. We're going to continue to be, or we will be. You need to tell the Lord that. You don't you're liable. Listen, you're liable. You're liable. Why don't you come this evening? Tell the Lord that. Let's all stand, heads bowed, eyes closed, nobody looking up, nobody looking around. Father, we thank you for the privilege we've had to be here this evening. for the privilege this morning, for the privilege of being in your word and studying it together. And Lord, we just thank you so much for these dear ones here this evening. And I pray, Father, that you would convict even right now, with heads bowed and eyes closed, nobody looking up, nobody looking around. If you're here tonight, you say, Preacher, I'm not sure that I'm even a Christian or I'm even saved. And if you're like that this evening and you're not sure if you died right now whether or not you'd spend eternity in heaven. Would you just look up at me here for just a second? Anybody like that at all? Looking all over the auditorium? Anybody here that's not sure about their salvation? If you're here tonight and you do know the Lord, listen, you come from a home, and that's your responsibility. Why don't you come tonight? We're gonna have the invitation. They're gonna play. And why don't you come tonight? Tell the Lord, Father, I'm going to continue to be this rooftop family of yours. Or we will be this rooftop family. Nobody's going to know what you're praying, but you need to come and you need to pray it because your home depends upon it. You come as we sing tonight as the pianist plays