I want to encourage you to keep your Bibles handy tonight. We're going to be looking at uh a number of passages. We Get turned on here. We finished up our study in the book of James. I don't know about you, but I thoroughly enjoyed that study in James. It helped me tremendously, and uh hopefully we were able to convey that and pass that on to others Uh Lord willing, two weeks from tonight I want to begin a study. I'll be very honest with you. It's uh I'm challenged by this. I've never really preached out of the book of Ecclesiastes a whole lot And so we're going to try and start in the beginning of the book of Ecclesiastes and preach through that book and trust and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and help us. And so um uh you'd be much in prayer. Maybe you want to take an afternoon or of an evening. I think you can read through the book pretty quickly. It would take a long time and just start getting familiar with it. But um and so Lord will in two weeks tonight. So tonight I have a kind of filler, I guess is what I'm calling it. I didn't want to begin the new series before our conference next week and break it up Uh and so um just something that uh I put together here and I trust it'll be helpful. Uh 2 Peter 3 verse 18. By the way This should be something to pray for, Joy Wesson. It was one year ago today that Josh Wesson was taken on to heaven And so we want to keep joy in your prayers. She's back down there, I believe, and working away. And so just remember her and the kids one year ago today down in Dominican. Alright, 2 Peter 3, verse 18. I've been talking, but I didn't turn there, so let me get there. Uh 2 Peter 3, verse 18. Is that what I said? Somebody tell me, what am I preaching from tonight? 2 Peter 3. 18. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. I just want to give a few things. I want to encourage you to maybe jot these down. There's definitely not a complete list, but a few things, a few rules for Christian living. A few rules for Christian living. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now or time in your word. Again, I thank you for a good day, Lord. My heart's been blessed today. And I pray we could finish it out now. And I ask that you would meet with us and your presence would be here. I pray that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. And again, this hour I present my body anew. And just pray that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. And uh in Jesus' name I pray, amen I consider the ultimate goal in the Christian life, the ultimate goal, what do I want in my Christian life? I'm saved, I trust in Christ as my Savior I'm a child of God. I have eternal life. That's all settled and in place. Now what? What am I working towards? What am I living towards? What is my focus? And I believe that the goal in the Christian life is to become more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to amend that. Not becoming like the Lord Jesus Christ. But Jesus Christ living his life through me. Jesus Christ living his life through me. In other words, less and less me running and dictating my life, but more and more of Jesus Christ dictating my life, dictating my action, him living his life through me. John the Baptist put it this way. He, speaking of Jesus, he must increase But I must decrease. What was John saying? He's saying my life, as it progresses, needs to be more and more Jesus Christ. dominating my life, and less and less of me dominating my life. Paul put it this way in Galatians chapter 2 verse 20. Many of you no doubt have it memorized. This is a great verse to memorize. For I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. What's he say next? Yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul said. My development in my Christian life, my Christian growth is less and less me living my life, and more and more Christ living. His life through me. He must increase, but I must decrease. So how do I do that? How do I live my life in such a way that I'm out of the picture more and more and Christ is More predominant. What do I do as a Christian? What actions do I take? How do I what do I do? What rules do I follow to make that so? Well, I jotted a few down. Again, as I looked at the this come back and look at it, I thought this is not complete. And no doubt you may have others and no doubt if we get more time we could uh uh adjust a little bit. But I have a few. I want to encourage you to jot these down. And I want to try and give them to you very, very quickly. Number one, if I'm going to grow in grace, as Peter tells us I'm going to be more like Christ. It's going to be more Christ and less me. Number one, I must do this. I must eliminate all sin at any cost. I must eliminate sin out of my life. Now we're going to look at a number of verses. I'm going to try and just read some of these. I want to read to you Psalms 139, verse 20. 3 and 24. And this is David. Listen to the prayer that David makes. Now we referenced David this morning. Tremendous man after God's own heart. Passion for the Lord. And listen to this prayer that David prayed. He said this: Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. You know what David was concerned about? David was very concerned about anything that would be in his heart and life that would be considered sin. And he understood the fact that we as fallen human beings, sometimes we can turn a blind eye to our own sin. Sometimes we're not even aware of it. Our heart is so deceitful and desperately wicked. And David prays, Lord, I want you to search my heart. God, I want you to try me. And anything that's in my heart and life that is wrong, I want to address it. I want to face it. I want to deal with it. I don't want it to be out. I don't believe there's anything that hinders Christian life any more than tolerating sin in my heart and life. Now, I've often used this illustration, I guess you'd call it. But what's the difference between Between a victorious Christian, a Christian that Christ is living through them, and a Christian that's defeated and they're dominated by the flesh. Is it that one sins and the other doesn't? No. All Christians deal with sin. But the difference, no, let me take that back. Not all Christians deal with sin. All Christians have sin. If we say we have no sin, we're a liar The difference between the victorious Christian, the one growing that Christ is becoming more and more evident in his life, the difference between two is one deals with it and the other one doesn't And one of the greatest hindrances to my Christian development, to me being the Christian God saved me to be, is when I tolerate sin in my life. And so if I'm going to grow, if I'm going to be that Christian God intends for me, I must eliminate that sin, I must address it. I don't believe there's anything that blinds our spiritual eyes, like tolerating sin in my heart and mind It's an amazing thing, and I've been in this thing for a little while now, so I've seen some things. It's an amazing thing how you can have one Christian, male or female. That at one time had tremendous spiritual discernment. And they were able to see the difference between right and wrong. And they were able to evaluate and critique things, whether it's right or wrong, whether this ought to be a part of my life or not. And they allow sin. into their heart life and they don't deal with it. They like it and they tolerate it. And it is amazing, it is surprising to see the deterioration Of their spiritual discernment. And suddenly now they're involved in things and they're doing things and their testimony is so shattered and it seems like they don't even see it. What happened? They allowed sin. They tolerated it, and it blinded them, it blinded their spiritual understanding. Tolerating sin hinders my Christian growth. It blinds my spiritual eyes. It deadens my conscience. This is the way it comes down, usually. I'll say or do something that I know is wrong as a child of God, as a Christian, I'll do something or say something, and it horrifies me. Oh, how could I just do that? How could I how could I how could I let this happen? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Can I get a witness? You feel horrible. I'm the worst Christian ever lived. How in the world But I don't eliminate it. And it goes from feeling terrible about it to, man, I shouldn't let that happen. Two, you know I kinda like this. Two, now it dominates me. And my spiritual growth is completely cut off. And it is me running the show now. It is me on the throne of my heart, no longer Christ. Take your Bible, if you would. You're in Peter there, right? Come over to chapter 1 of 2 Peter. It's an interesting chronology he gives us here. 2 Peter chapter 1, and notice not just the instructions he gives us, but notice the order that they are in. 2 Peter 1, verse 4, he says, Whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Now look at this. He's instructing these Christians. He says, besides this, giving all diligence, working very, very hard at this Give all diligence. Add to your faith. Now their faith in the Lord Jesus, their salvation, you're saved now, you put your faith in the Lord Jesus. Add to your faith what? Virtue. So he's saying here, when I trust Christ, I have my faith in Christ, that's established, I'm born again, I'm part of the family of God. Now I need to add to that faith, the very first thing I need to add to my faith is, what is it? Virtue. And to virtue, knowledge. And then he goes down a list of things that we are to work at, that we are add to our faith Now, as I said, that chronology interests me. You know what we tend to do when we get a new believer? Somebody just got saved? We want to add to their faith knowledge. We'll have a little Bible study. We'll give them a little discipleship book. And they need to understand this, and we need to give them information about that, and we need to give them knowledge here. And that also, good and right, I'm not saying we should stop doing that, but I wonder if we aren't missing a stage He says, add to your faith virtue, and then to virtue knowledge. Now the question is, what is virtue? What does he mean when he used that word? We don't use that word much. We talk about a virtuous woman. The word virtue, and you might want to jot this in the margin of your Bible if you're serious about studying your Bible, the word virtue means this moral excellence. So Peter is telling us here, when I get saved, if I'm going to grow and I'm going to develop, I have these precious promise is given to me in God's Word. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. My sins are forgiven. When I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Christ has taken responsibility for all my sin. As far as my record is concerned, it's erased I'm good to go with God. Now what do I do? Add virtue to that. Add moral excellence. What's he saying? Face and deal with the sins that are in your life Be virtuous. And I think sometimes we can get all these facts in our head, but we never deal with as little the sins in our life, and we never grow. I wonder if sometimes that isn't why we see people come and maybe genuinely get saved and they just phase out. They've got all the information, but virtue has never been added. So if I want to, one of the rules for Christian living, if I'm going to grow and be Christ-like and Christ living through me, I need to address and eliminate these sins that are so predominant in my life I've got to address them. We will never be sinless. Right? I am not preaching sinless perfection. That will never happen in this life. We can never be sinless, but we must never allow ourselves to become sin tolerant. Well, going to sin anyway, so I'll just start tolerating sin. No, I have got to fight them off, just fight them off, fight them off. I have got to deal with them, eliminate it here, eliminate here, come back. I've got to eliminate this one again, come back over here, I've got to deal with that. That is the Christian life. We live in a sinful world. We've got a threefold enemy, the world, the flesh, and the devil, our flesh being our greatest enemy as far as I'm concerned. We have to be very, very careful. We need to be careful about the smallest of sins. They have to be dealt with. Oh, that's just little. That's not that big a deal. Hold it. All it takes is one little spark These great fires that we're reading about out in where is it where are they at in Montana now and up in there going on? Seems like half the world's on fire You know what they start with? Not huge flamethrowers. You know what they start with? Little spark gets out of a campfire. And lands over there. Huge fire. Um, I've found it's the little sins that we tolerate That eat away, eat away. Somebody just recently, was it here or somewhere, they were saying about a tree fell down in their backyard. Was that here? I don't think so. I think it was one of the meetings I was at. A preacher was preaching. He said he had this beautiful tree in his backyard. It looked so wonderful and just beautiful. And he said, Lo and behold, a storm came through. It wasn't that bad. Woke up in the morning and that beautiful tree they loved so much was laying over. He thought somebody destroyed my tree. They came in and cut it down. He got looking at it. Everything looked fine. We got to the part where it broke over. And here's some little tiny ants. Had gotten in that tree and just ate out the inside of it. And you looked at it from the outside, looked fine, looked healthy, beautiful, what a wonderful tree. What a great, wonderful Christian, strong and healthy and all of that. But they're tolerating little sin in their heart and life. And little indiscretions here and little spark That catches fire and next thing you know, their testimony is destroyed and their life is ruined. We've got to face and deal with sin. Listen, I wouldn't be a part of a church that didn't preach against sin. I need it. I fight it all the time. I need a church that helps me fight the sins that I struggle with and I face because I'm not going to grow if I tolerate them. I'm not going to grow if they're not dealt with and eliminated. I read one preacher, I like this little statement he made. I was reading this past week. He said, we ought to treat ourselves like we are barrels of gunpowder. And temptation is a spark. And I ought to watch out for temptation because all my sinful heart needs is to indulge that a little bit. If I'm not careful, kaboo. I've said this often, we all know this to be true. I've tried, and Lord knows I've come short, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Don't apply wrong motives to what I'm saying here. But I've tried pretty hard to keep a fairly decent testimony in our community. You know, I could destroy that testimony I've worked at for 23 years. I could destroy that tonight in five minutes. If I wasn't careful. And so, if I'm going to grow, if I'm going to be what I ought to be, I need to eliminate these little sins. Even the small little ones. I was thinking, I was going to call one of you ladies to get a um Uh my wife's down business, her mother. Uh but I was gonna ask my ladies to bring a little sewing needle. Anybody anybody ladies have a little sewing needle? Anyone got any on you right now? Good. But no no there we go. It's too small, they can't see anyway. But what is a little showing you? The point of that little needle is so small But you take that point of the needle and you stick it through fabric and you can pull thread through that thing. And that's a little bit the way sin is. It's just a little tiny sin. And I let that into my life, and the next thing you know, the devil's pulling all kinds of garbage into me. And suddenly I'm not growing, I'm backslidden, I'm hard as cold, I'm so worldly. I don't even look like a Christian. I'm telling you, we gotta dress and deal with these little sins. The Bible says little foxes spoil the lions. Just little sins. Jesus put it this way, a little leaveneth, leaveneth the whole lump. Um another preacher I was reading, he said this, there's two ways to get down a ladder. One is you jump. It's pretty rough. The other is go just step by step by step, just rung by rung. He suggested that's the way to hell. Some people just go headlong into sin, don't care, just dive headfirst into sin and debauchery. But generally, it's just one little step at a time. Step at a time. Now, as a Christian, tolerating sin isn't going to send me to hell, but it sure enough can mess up my life. Just one little step at a time. And so one rule for Christian living, and I believe one that needs to be right up front, according to Peter, add to your faith virtue. Well those little sins. Whatever that sin is, now I'm not God, I'm not the Holy Spirit. Praise the Lord for that. But I I've been in this long enough. I'd venture to say there's some folks right now listening to me sitting in this building that the Holy Spirit of God is speaking to your heart about a little sin. The Holy Spirit of God is speaking to your heart right now. The Holy Spirit of God is dealing with your heart about some area. That's hurting our Christian life. That's hurting my spiritual development. That's hindering my spiritual understanding Now, if I want to grow and I want to be that Christian God wants me, I've got to deal with that. I've got to eliminate that. I need to bring that to Christ. I need to bring that to the Lord, the blood of Christ, get cleansed and get it behind me Whoso covereth his sin shall not prosper, Proverbs says. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, will not grow and develop. But whoso confesseth and forsake it, not just acknowledge it, but forsake it, eliminate it, shall find mercy. Shall grow and develop. Number two, let me give you the last couple here real quick. Number one, I must uh eliminate uh all sins, even little ones, out of my life. I put this down. I need to uh uh diligently avoid all opportunities to sin. Now this ties in awfully close to the first one. But what I'm saying here is, as if I'm going to grow and develop as a Christian, whatever sins are in my life, I've got to address them, deal with them, get victory over them, get them out, and go forward. But then I need to be careful That I don't put myself in positions where I'm given opportunity to develop this end. Now we can't isolate ourselves. We live in a fallen world. We've got fallen nature But we ought to do everything and anything we can to try and avoid putting myself in a position where I can get involved in that stuff. Is everybody with me? Everybody alright tonight? Listen to 1 Thessalonians 5. 22. You don't hear this preached very much. Certainly not on TV. Abstain. From all appearance of evil. Doesn't say abstain from all evil. We know that. But abstain from all appearance of evil I don't want to be found or put myself in a position where it even looks bad. How many people here would say, now don't try and be funny. But how many people would say it'd be wrong? How many people here would say it'd be alright for Pastor Leatherman to drink a diet Coca-Cola Be alright, right? Some of y'all are trying to think of smart things to say. It'd be alright, that wouldn't be sin How many people think it'd be alright brother Leatherman to go down to Long Branch Saloons, pull up to the bar, grab a bucket of peanuts, and say, I'll take a diet coke There's nothing wrong with drinking coke, is there? No, there's nothing wrong with drinking coke. But how many people agree that wouldn't look good? That wouldn't look good. No. I don't want to put myself in a position where it looks bad. Listen to Proverbs 23 verse 31. Look not thou upon it says, look Not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth its c color in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. He says, Don't even look at that alcoholic beverage. Don't even look at that fermented wine. Don't even look at it Don't even put yourself in a situation where for there's an opportunity to sin. I've used the CI the Schofield Bible for years, the old Schofield Bible Schofield was a lawyer when he got saved. He got saved later in life. He was an incredibly intelligent man. God saved him, and I mean he is sold out for God. Stood in the Bible. He put together the Schofield Bible with the dispensations. It's tremendous. Schofield was a hard drinker before he got saved. Liquor was a besetting sin. And after he got saved where his office was and where his home was, he would walk in Philadelphia. He'd walk between the two. And in between the two, there was a notorious bar. Schofield, knowing the sinfulness of his own heart, and know how if he would drink, it would be so destructive to his testimony, it would ruin him. Rather than walk by that bar, rather than taking any chances, he would come up, he would walk a block out of his way to not even go by the front door of that bar. I wonder how many of us are that careful that as a child of God, I don't even want to look like the world. I don't even want to put myself in a position where there's any question whether I'm involved in sin or not or whether I'm involved in the world or not. I uh as if I'm gonna grow, I have got to get to the point. Where I am more concerned about pleasing God than appealing to the world. Because when I start appealing to the world, when I start getting out there, I am putting myself in a position where I am going to be awfully tempted to compromise my biblical convictions so that I can be accepted by the world. And we've got to be very careful. We've got to be very careful about that. Diligently avoid all opportunities to sin. When I got saved, there was another fella That got saved right about the same time I did. He got saved out of drugs and stuff back in uh back in Pennsylvania. And unbeknownst to each other, we've got saved and we started attending the same church and we were he was a little younger than I was, but We were close in age and similar backgrounds and so we became friends. Um my dad had moved from one town to another, so I was Live with him. And so we moved over to another town, and lo and behold, it was just a half a block or so down the road from this other fellow. So we decided, hey, let's together we're going to have devotions. Together. Every night we'll get together and have devotion. So every night for about four or five months we'd get to one house or the other. Dad was often out in the road, so we'd get together, we'd read our Bibles and pray together and talk about it. And I was a brand new Christian. I was excited. He was excited. Um I went off to Bible college, he did not. It's fine. I come back, we got back together. And uh I said, how's it going? Hey, good. You're reading your Bible, uh, it kind of faded out. I said, what do you mean, man? I got there and we were visiting one time and he's sitting out in the front porch. There was a main rope there and sitting on the front porch and he had what looked like a beer can sitting there on the table in the front front little porch there and I came over, sat down, I said, what in the world He goes, oh, that's j that's just non-alcoholic beer. I said, why are you drinking it? Because I like the flavor. Now I didn't believe that. I don't know anybody who liked the flavor of beer. It's the nastiest stuff I said, why would you even do that? I said, it looks like beer can to me. It looks like you're drinking beer. Well, it's not. Last I knew, now this was years ago. Last I knew. Todd wasn't even going to church. Wasn't living for God at all. Now, was it because he had this alcohol a non-alcoholic beer? I don't think that was the sole purpose, but that was the way of thinking that led that way. Not being careful. Not being careful. Tell you what's killing. I'll tell you what's killing Christians in America. So we're not careful. We're reckless. We're careless in interacting with sin and with the opportunities to sin. We just don't think it's that big of a deal. We just don't think it matters that much. So what if I'm worldly? So what if I'm indulging a few of these little sins? And we don't see it from God's perspective where it's killing us. It's destroying. We're losing our spiritual discernment. We don't even know it. We're going spiritually blind as Christians. We don't even know it And if I'm going to grow, if I'm going to be Christ-like, remember Jesus, one of the characteristics of Jesus, that he was without sin. So if I'm going to be Christli, if He's going to live through me, I need to deal with sin and I need to avoid opportunities. We need to be careful about the places we go. The friends we keep, the shows we watch, what we have on our computers and our phones and the books we read. When I was young I was dumb I know what some of you were thinking. But you ever see people do this? We did this a few times. You take a knife. You put somebody's hand on there, wheom, and see if you can throw it between the fingers. Anybody ever see anybody do that? I know none of this crowd would ever do that. That's the stupidest thing in the world. It's foolish to play tricks with sharp knives. I know a guy, and some of you all here will know the guy. He was uh he's he got a bow and arrow and he tied a stick of dynamite to the arrow, lit it, pulled it back to shoot it. How many people agree that's stupid? You know what happened? He pulled it back, the dynamite went off, blew his eye out of his head. Now we laugh at that and say, what kind of knucklehead would do that? And the very people that mock that and laugh at that go home and do the same thing with sin. Oh, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I tell you, I've been in this long enough. Give me five years down the road. Your spiritual eyes have blown out. Testimonies gone. So far from God. I'm not trying to be unkind. I'm trying to be take, well, you've got to take this seriously. So one, eliminate sin, two, diligently avoid all areas of sin. Joseph did that. Read Genesis 39. Joseph refused to even be with Potiphar's wife. He would not even be with her. He didn't want to be input in an opportunity where uh something could happen. Then of course she came with him. Listen to Proverbs 4. Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it. Pass away. Stay away from it. Let me give you the last three, last couple, and I'll quit. Be consistently aware of God's presence. The eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. If I understand, if I can comprehend in my mind that I am constantly in the presence of God, that's going to help me grow. I can come to him at any moment, bring my burdens, my needs, I'm aware he's with us. How many folks would agree with me it's easier to be a Christian when you're around other Christians? Yeah, why? One of the reasons is they're watching us and we're more careful. Most When we know that people see us, when we know people are watching us, we're much more careful to live the way we're supposed to. But we get behind closed doors. I liked what one preacher said I was reading. He says, a knock on the door sure has shaken up some folks and closed some books awfully quick. In other words, they're doing something they ought not to be doing, and someone comes, knocks on the door. Well, we need to remember God is with us all the time. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. I wonder if we'd live differently and privately, in private, if we knew we were being seen. Think about heaven. Heaven's in the continual presence of God all the time. That's the way we are here. We just don't see it. And last of all, be faithful to the basics of the Christian life. Be faithful to the basics of the Christian life. Church attendance, Bible reading, daily prayer. Witnessing. All these things do not save my soul. Going to church doesn't save a soul from hell. Reading my Bible doesn't save me from hell. Saying my prayers doesn't save me from hell. Witnessing to the lost doesn't save me from hell. But they sure are vital to my spiritual growth. If all you had to eat was gold, you'd starve, right? Gold doesn't give me life. But would you agree with me? Gold is an important part of daily living. It's going to church and all that doesn't save me, but it sure is a important part of Christian life. And I cannot neglect these and be a growing Christian So I need to be very, very careful. I would suggest, if somebody says, well, preacher, what should my relationship with the church be? I would suggest this. Just resolve not to ever miss one service. Just going to be faithful to church. If the doors are open, I'm going to be there. It's been what I've tried to do over the years. Just determined. I resolve, I'm not going to miss a day of Bible reading I'm going to meditate in the Word of God day and night. Every day I'm going to spend time. Just resolve not to miss a day of spending some time with the Lord in prayer. Just resolve, I'm not going to let one day go by where I'm not going to try and share the gospel in some way with somebody. I'm going to make it a daily practice to apply these things to my life. I'll tell you what you'll see happen. You'll start growing God will use us and help us. David said, Evening, morning, and noon, while I pray and cry aloud. The Christian life for David was a continual thing. Always, every day, all day long, living for God, walking with God, being careful, doing this. Now I know this wasn't the most dynamic message in the world But I jotted down a few things that I believe are good rules for Christian living. I tell you what we need our churches, we need an old-fashioned hatred of sin. A fear of it. We need a good, close, intimate walk with our God and Savior, who is in our presence at all times. I'm preaching myself as much as anybody. One thing one one problem with being a pastor, one problem being a shepherd, an under-shepherd, the shepherd is a sheep And so this applies to all of us. Follow what I'm saying? So let's work on this. Amen? I hope this was helpful. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us, Lord, to give these some thought. Be very, very careful in this old wicked, dangerous, spiritually dangerous world. Pray on top of this you'd we need the joy of the Lord. We need the presence and filling of your Holy Spirit to live for you, but I pray you challenge us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say tonight, preacher, the Spirit of God? Not pastor, but the Spirit of God has spoken to my heart about some area I need to be more careful with. I need to address. I need to give some attention to. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? Preacher of the Spirit God did Touch my heart. There's some areas. Maybe an attitude, an action, something, relationship. And let's let the Lord have his way and let's finish out the Lord's day close to God. Everything dealt with, going into a new week, strong in the Lord, determined, resolved. We're going to walk with God this week and ask him to help us. Would there be someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven? Tell you, nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. Jesus can save us from sin in hell if we'll trust him. How many of you say, preacher, pray for me? I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. Pray for me that God would help me settle that. Is there any like that? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. Father, bless now our invitation I ask. Went a little longer than I wanted to, and I pray you'd challenge us and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation song. Be a good