It's the first time I've done that picture like that. So all right. Hebrews chapter twelve. Let me say this. Back on the back table is some of my artwork if you're interested in uh uh getting some of the the prints that we've made uh uh over the past few years. We've put some of the pictures that we've done into print. People like 'em while we uh you know, if you have enough people to say, Hey, I'd like to have that, why then we put it in print and and so you may see something back there you like and Christmas is coming on and uh it's a good uh good gift. I think I like to I like to see Christian art in the homes, don't you? And I'm a Christian and I did that art so it makes that Christian art. Yeah maybe you can figure something else out, but that that's what I call it. All right. But anyway, you stop back there and see Nan. Uh you can you can, you know, uh try to, you know, get her to come down at a price. She won't do it. She won't do it, but sh you can try anyhow. May it'll make you feel good to try and it'll make her feel good to say no. In Hebrews chapter twelve, we're gonna start reverse one Uh says wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with such a great uh with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight And the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking into Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame and and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God, for consider him that he endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. Let's pray. Lord, once again we call upon you to help us as we preach. We ask you to bless the chalk drawing. Pray for open hearts, Lord, as we preach. I pray that the Holy Spirit will find places that He can uh uh convict and convince of sin. I pray that you'd just do a work here in this service. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. And amen. One of the chief problems with the the the uh Hebrew Christians uh to whom this letter was written uh is that they they set out on a race And they started out real good. Matter of fact, if you if you go back to uh chapter 10, uh I'm looking at uh let's see what verses I'm looking for here. Uh I believe it's i in uh ten thirty two, there it is. It says but But call to remembrance the former days and in which after ye were illuminated you endured a great fight of afflictions Partly whilst you were made uh gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly whilst you uh became uh a comp uh companions of them that were so used. For ye had compassion on me and my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have have in heaven a better and an enduring uh substance. So what what is he saying? He said you started out good You was uh uh you took affliction, you had problems, but but uh you handled those problems all right without any without uh uh with patience and uh you started to run this race real well And I noticed he uses the word remember there. You know, it does us good, just like uh you had this testimony time here just a few minutes ago. It does us good to remember To go back and remember. Remember how it was before you were saved. You don't have to get involved in all the all the details of what you were before you were saved, but you you remember The emptiness. You remember the the extreme sinfulness that you begin to feel yourself. It's called conviction when you begin to recognize uh that you sinned against God and and it begins to bother you inside and you realize that this is uh this is a work of the Spirit of God So it does us good to remember, and I notice the uh the scripture here, the Holy Spirit, uh brings back to remembrance uh the way these uh Jewish Christians started out They grabbed a hold of the truths of the gospel of Christ. It must have been a real revelation for these Hebrews when you when you consider that under the law They had to, you know, uh live a pretty straight line. They had to make sure they didn't do this and didn't do that and they did this and didn't do the you know. It was pretty pretty uh restrictive But when the gospel came into their life, Jesus set them free from all that and uh uh did a work in their heart. And so uh the Do you remember when you when you uh handled the afflictions that came your way. You you you took on the hard times and still went on and you s and you continued to serve But as time went on, if you read through the book of Hebrews, you you find that uh the apostle begins to to deal with certain things. And It showed that there was there was a tendency for them to be become laxabasical, if I can use that term, uh, in their service for God and in their walk with God So by the time he gets to the twelfth chapter of the book of Hebrews, now he's he's reminding them of something else. Now you've got to remember what had come before uh Hebrews chapter twelve And that was chapter eleven, the uh you know, the what do they call it the uh the hall of of uh faith or something like that. But anyway, uh he reminded them of all these uh these believers back in the Old Testament and he went through a a whole uh montage of of uh different believers and how that they had uh come through the races that they ran And when we speak of the race, I assume that everyone understands that whenever a person uh trusts Christ as their personal savior, At that very moment, they're at the starting line. And they begin this race. It's a the race of fate, if you want to call it that. But it's a it's it's your life as you uh begin to to move through your life. Uh In God's will and in God's course and God's raceway, if you want to put it that way, or highway, as you're moving, that's the race that you're in And each one of us has a different race. And each one of us will be going through different obstacles at different times during that race and but but we're all in a race, every one of us. It's how we run the race is is so important. We're gonna f we're gonna finish the race. Oh yeah, we'll finish the it's just a question of of how we finish the race Whether we finish the race with our you know, with our arms spread out like that and our chest stuck as far out as we can as we cross that finish line uh still pumping as hard as we can go and doing the best we can and fighting as hard as we can. Whether we do it that way or we just sort of kind of slump through the thing and say, Man, I'm glad that's over with, you know. It just depends on it depends on how you want to end this race. Uh how you run it. So I I'm looking at these these Hebrew Christians now and and I notice once again that that as as the Apostle Paul back in other uh books of the New Testament. Uh he alluded to races and being a soldier of Christ and and being in in these uh the you know, fighting the good fight and these references to athletics is throughout the New Testament seem like, particularly in Paul's writings. And his his references must be to uh like the Olympians, you know, and and uh that type of thing. And so here he alludes to this this race that you and I are in And I want us to just see about five things that I see in these verses. The first thing that I see is the inspiration. And that is found in the very first verse. There it says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Inspiration, inspiration for the race comes from this cloud of witnesses. Now I uh uh uh use of the word wherefore puts us back into into chapter uh uh eleven there, which is that uh the hallmark or the hallway of of faith And so we know that the the reference here primarily goes back to these these uh different Christians or these different ones that uh that the uh uh writer is alluding to that has a show of something that they can uh give us for the the walk that or the race that we're in. Because the word witness there tells us something too. A witness is a someone who gives testimony to known truths. That's what a witness is. And so these these writers here, or these I'm sorry, these saints, I should say, uh are giving a witness or a testimony of something that they understand. And what they understand is that what it's like to go through this race of faith that we all must go through, those of us who have been born again by the Spirit of God. And so uh our inspiration comes from these individuals who are uh uh Uh we're to to read the scriptures here in chapter eleven and and and w we understand that that uh Isaac and Jacob they lived by faith. Abraham was a man of Moses was one who lived by faith and and did not even want to uh uh as the scripture says there, uh choosing rather to suffer affliction His his race took on that particular form where he had to suffer affliction uh for the cause of but he chose The cause of Christ instead. I'm saying uh uh the cause of Christ instead of uh of Fer being Pharaoh, the son of Pharaoh, Pharaoh's daughter. So I'm just simply saying that these these Old Testament saints here, it's where we get the inspiration for our running. When we get down down and discouraged, we can go back and and read about these individuals who who fought great battles. Who did great things in the name of God, who exercised faith and exercised their trust in God and got their strength from Him And they're encouragement from him and from the Word of God. And so we can be inspired to run this race through the Word of God. Why is it so important for us to study to show ourselves approved? Why is it so important for us to hide the Word of God in our heart? Well, it's because it it it it encourages us as we read how these other men who were just like you and I These people uh we look at David and and we s we see the some of the great things that he did and we say man I I don't think I could ever do anything like like David did like going up against Goliath. Listen He was just a guy just like you and I. The only difference is that that he saw God as as the enabler, the one who could who could give him the strength and the abilities of whatever he needed in order to uh defend or defeat the enemy. So you and I today, we we have these these wonderful uh stories Real life stories that are in the Word of God that are therefore a particular testimony to us that God is able to take you through this race And when you get tired and weary, and listen, everybody gets tired. It's not just in the race of life, but in the physical races. I mean those guys listen, whenever they go ha I've watched these these fellows at the uh uh at the Olympics for instance. The the last Olympics that we just uh went through here, I think it was last year or whenever it was And I noticed those guys on these these uh the 500 meter and the 200 meter or whatever it was. I noticed one thing about them. When they got to the finish line They had given everything that they had in the race. When they hit that finish line That was it. They'd fall flat on their face or they'd they were down on their on their backside and they were resting. I mean they were s prostrate. They had given it all And that's what God wants out of his believers today, his children today. He wants those who will run this race, give it all you got, because there's something at the end. Worth waiting for, worth running for. Inspiration. We get our inspiration for those who've gone on before us. Those who've already fought the battles and already run the races and already gone through the obstacles that that know what it's like to trust God. And when they tell you to trust in the Lord With all your heart. They know what they're talking about. And that's where we get our inspiration to run this this race. And then I see uh the second thing there where it's uh I call it the elimination It says, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us. The elimination, laying aside. The weight and the sin which doth sweetly beset us. The sin we can understand, can't we? That's not difficult. Because the the the sin is something God doesn't like anyway, all right? And the believer knows that that when when sin is allowed to uh uh to be in their life That it's a hindrance to your spiritual life. I mean, that's just common sense. We all know that. But that it's that other little thing there where we're supposed to lay aside. The weight and the sin, but the weight that does so easily beset us I noticed uh and I'm sure that you've noticed uh runners, for instance, when they're getting ready for a big marathon. Uh I've noticed runners and they have weights around their wrist, they have weights around their their ankles, their legs, and they run with these weights on And they run and run and run and run and and it's you know i it's tiring for me just to run, but to have these things on your legs uh looks to me like that would really be a hindrance, but it's done for a purpose Those weights were on there, I mean the runners, they put them on there to build the muscle. And then when they take the weights off and run the real race, man, they can move out. I mean they feel like they're they're totally liberated But NAR from the weights that are hindering them to run that that that race. It's the reason they take them off And there's things in in our lives that that are hindrances. And they're not necessarily sins. That's the thing that's tricky about it. Just because well, how can I put this? Let's see There isn't anything that you can't name or that you can name that cannot be used to be a hindrance to you. It can be a thing, it can be a p person, uh, it can be a sport, it can be family, it can be anything. And you can you can uh put that in such a position in your life To where it becomes a hindrance to run the race that God wants you to run. You see, the course that God has laid out for each one of us, it may be different, and yet it's the same. It's the same in where it reaches, the eventual, the end of it, and so forth. But along that trail that we're running, there's going to be different obstacles The the weights that does so easily beset us, you know, we uh we say uh you know uh concerning sin. Uh we know that's wrong, it's black and white. But the mature Christian does not ask whether something is right or wrong, but whether is this something that will hinder my race Will it slow me down? Will it hinder me from running the race that God has for me? Mature Christian is more concerned about about uh uh his uh being hindered to run the race than he is worried about this the matter of sin as a kind of a uh you know accepted thing. We know what's right and wrong But it's this other thing, not for sure. Things that we allow in our life that uh uh hinder us and we don't count as sin And because we don't count them as as uh something that's wrong, but just a hindrance, we don't put very much value on it. And so we just sort of uh let it go in our life. I think about a gentleman out uh uh that I happen to know out in Colorado, that he is so caught up in hunting, and I love to hunt, and I know a lot of guys in here, we love to hunt But whenever it comes time for uh you know to be in church, we're in charge. But this young man was uh Uh matter of fact, uh he just about lost his whole family over the the that particular issue that he he liked to hunt so much that he was off just about every weekend somewhere in some other state many times. Uh You know, hunting coyotes, hunting elk, hunting you know, hogs, whatever. I mean, he just was crazy on this thing of hunting. Saved? Yeah, he was saved. Is hunting a sin? Not necessarily. But he certainly was making it a hindrance in his life. He allowed it to become a hindrance in his walk with God. And as a result of that, it became sin, and he found himself in a position where his uh his family was starting to suffer for it. I'm saying we can take anything into our life and allow it to become something that is a hindrance to our walk with God. So we're to eliminate. The Bible tells us in the book of Ephesians, we're not to give place to the devil. And and To give place to the devil just simply means give him a place to get his foot in. Give him an opportunity to tempt or an opportunity to get ass at us one way or another. And the sin which does so easily beset us. I was looking at that word beset. We don't use that. It's only used one time in the scriptures, and that in in the New Testament, the only one time is right there in that verse. that besets us. And I thought, well, what does it mean? And maybe maybe you're more familiar with it than I am, but but I had to look it up just to make sure I understood what it was saying And it has to do with entangling to render escape difficult or impossible or surrounding A sin which does so easily beset us. It besets us because we have put ourselves in a p position where this sin can uh surround us and entangle our lives with it. And he said these are the things that we need to be careful of. Things that that uh hinder our walk that are not necessarily sin. And things that listen, when if you have to make a decision between whether to go to church or to to watch some uh TV program, uh That ought to be a you know, or uh maybe uh uh I've seen where uh little leg has become so important in some people's lives that uh You know, and they don't think it's sin. It's nothing, you know, it's not it listen, it's something that's has beset them to the point where or it's hindering their walk with God. And whatever it is that hinders your walk with God is something that He says to lay it aside. You don't really need it. Do you know where it all boils down to? It all boils down to this thing of whether Christ has the preeminence in your life or whether you're what you want, what you want to do, has preeminence. The third thing is uh the operation. It just simply says, let us run. That's a positive thing. It it it's talking about It's an indication of action. That's what we're doing. In other words, do something. You know, in this race that we're in, do something. We got so many Christians today. I mean, you Jesus told his disciples, He says, I want you to they were concerned about food and about him getting food and and so forth there in John chapter 4. And he says This is lift up your eyes and look on the fields. They're white and ready to harvest. Here you are worrying about this when your eyes ought to be out there And that's what we're talking about here. We we do we have our focus on the wrong things today. The important thing is that we run. The important thing is that we're moving. You know, you can you don't have to run fast. Just run. I never forget I was I don't remember where it was now. But I remember we was uh uh walking up the up the street. And here's this guy that had a bandana ri uh you know, thing wrapped a round his head to catch the sweat in his eye. He's in his shorts and he and uh I think he's stripped down to the waist. It's in the summertime and he's he's running. And he's going, now this is I'm I'm not exaggerating. This is what I mean I walked past him And I mean I s p it's like I was had high gear ways he was so slow, just kinda dry and I thought, man But he was running. Eventually he was going to get to where he was going, but but it was going to be slow. Listen, God'd rather have you doing that little number there than just setting on your backside and not doing anything. Just run. Do something. Get involved with something. There's just too much, too much to be done to not do anything. Lift up your eyes and look on the field. If that doesn't stir your heart and get you uh moving again, well, I don't know what will. In our church we have a we have a table set up in the back of our church and uh It ha it's all miss it's a missionary table. And we got uh all these magazines about the the martyrs and And just a whole bunch of different books and i and information and literature on missionaries. And every Sunday I go in, that's the first place I go, is over to the the mission table And I see if there's any new magazines I hadn't seen yet. And I always pick up one of these uh the the uh what's it called? The uh Book of Martyrs or uh what is it? The no, the voice of the martyr. Voice of the martyrs. under real heavy persecution, you know, over uh a lot of it's over in in uh oh over in East Asia in that area and a lot of the persecution has come from these uh the the uh uh Muslims. But I when I when I pick these books up and I and I read them, I I say good night. These people are going through so much. We're going through hardly anything. And they're They're they're taking persecution. I mean, they're being put to ja in jail. They're being tortured. They're being beat to death. Their families are being killed, their churches are burnt down, their homes are are burnt down, and and we have we have so much and do so little, it seems like. I don't want to sound like we're not doing anything because we are the greatest the you know, on mission given there's none any greater than the United States and and predominantly the independent Baptist movement is the ones that's given most of the money. So we don't want to beat to death the you know the one that's treading out the the meal here. I'm just saying though that we can do more. But our focus has to be right, our motivation has to be right, and our desire has to be right. The operation is just run. Just keep moving. Just run, run slow, run fast, but keep moving. And then I noticed this the next thing is the determination We have the inspiration, elimination, d operation, determination. I love it. Does that, don't you? Notice how we're supposed to run this race. We run it with patience. Patience, enduring, sustaining, perseverance. That's what that means With patience. That means when the when when somebody slaps you side the head, you don't just stop You turn the other cheek. That means when when when people offend you, you don't get mad and quit. You you just say, Lord You pray for that individual and you pray for yourself and your attitude and you just keep on plodding. You're patient. You y your love overwhelms all these negatives that come at you Your desire to serve God and your love for the race and the love for Him uh overshadows all the negatives that come at you and you just bat them off You know, and keep on going. Run it with patience. Don't expect everything to be handed to you You know, I think one of the worst things is is to tell a Christian or tell somebody who who is j is getting saved that you like you need to get saved because it God will work everything out for you. Th that may be true to a certain extent, but it leaves them with the impression that everything's gonna be hunky-dory now. I mean that's all gonna be wonderful. It's not all gonna be wonderful. In this race of life, there's all kinds of hindrances and detours and all the rest of it. And it's all there for a purpose. There's the trials and the temptations, they're all part of the race. And God has given us a way to deal with every one of those obstacles. And that's what helps us to grow and grace the knowledge of the Lord. Do you ever see somebody got saved and they're just gun ho? Man, they just they just come out of the shoot, I mean, in high gear. And then th they get back from here to the wall back there and and you don't see 'em anymore. You ever notice those kind? They run in spurts and then pff and then they're out of it. That's what this patience has to do with. It's pacing yourself. Just keep moving. That's the important thing. Just keep moving. Allow the Spirit of God to direct you and to help you through the rough times, but just keep moving. With patience, with patience, determination. Just keep on, keeping on. Keep on, keeping on And then finally is the motivation. The motivation is found in verse 2, where it says, looking into Jesus, the author, and the finisher of faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has set down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him First of all, it says you look unto him. Now he says, I want you to consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners. What's he saying? He just reminded you, listen, Jesus has already gone through it all He knows what it is to be rejected. He knows what it is to be beaten. He knows what it is for people to make fun of you. He knows what it is to go through anything that you've ever gone through. He knows all about it. And he says, look unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of faith, he's the one, and he's the one where we get our strength, he's the one where we get our sustenance, he's the one that we can go to and get our rest Listen, on this road or this race that we take, we need a rest every once in a while. Well he is our rest. He is our peace. He's the one that we can go to and be r refreshed and revitalized again. And that's what this thing is all about, this race. Finishing the race is important. The Apostle Paul finished his race. That's the way I want to finish it. And I believe every Christian wants to finish the race, you know, with their head held high and saying, Lord, you know, it's been a long time, but I'm glad I finally finally finished it. One day when he calls us home, we don't have to hang our head because we've finished the race. We've looked under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. I watched the Olympics one this has been several years ago and maybe you remember it and maybe you don't. But I remember it was one of these uh the long one of the long races, the 500 meters, something like that, where they around and around and around, it just takes so long. And it's this young fellow, he wasn't even close to first, I don't guess. He was like the tenth person back. But he was running and he was he was stumbling part of the time and finally something like maybe a hundred feet or a hundred and fifty feet from the finish line is he he fell. He tried to get up and he fell right back down. He was just so totally exhausted and and uh he just just couldn't make it and he but he tried and he started to crawl on his knees And all at once you saw a figure jump over the fence and down on the track. And he ran over and he got a hold of this young man and lifted him up. And it was his dad. And he said, Come on, son. He said, this we'll finish this one together. You know, that's that's that's the picture that I want to leave in your mind. Whenever you get Where the races just got you down, and you just can't hardly get back up. Well you just I'll never leave you to forsake you. You can depend upon his strength in the time when you're the weakest. That's what he looks for. Your weakest moment, when you're ready to give up. Look under Jesus, the author and the finisher of a faith. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing.