Philippians chapter number two. And I want to begin reading in verse number twelve. I'm going to read down through verse eighteen. We'll have a word of prayer. We'll give our text. And then we'll just go right into the message. Philippians chapter 2, verse number 12. Notice the Bible says, wherefore, my beloved As ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of His good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings, that ye may be blameless and harmless the sons of God without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, I ask you to bless now our the reading of your word. And Lord, as we look at this passage, I pray you'd speak to our hearts. And uh Lord, I just want to pray right off, right now. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Father, that uh you would speak through me here in our in the auditorium and then through the uh radio waves, the internet waves, I pray you'd speak to hearts. Challenge us, encourage, and be glorified in the things that are said. Please guard my guard and guide my thinking that I would say uh only what you would have me to say. Again, feel me. I present my body anew, pray you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I thank Jamie for uh work in the sound booth there and uh I was talking uh to a friend of mine, he was saying how important good speakers are uh in your church, having good speakers And I thought that was sound advice. To have good speakers is very sound advice there. And so thank you, Jamie, for your good work. Philippians chapter 2. Notice with me if you would Verse number 16 says, holding forth the word of life, he's giving out the word of God, he's holding out the word of God, then he makes this statement why he does this, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ. Now, we'll get to this later in the message, but the question is, when is the day of Christ? Well the day of Christ, I believe he's referencing here, is the tribute is the um uh uh judgment seat of Christ. When the Lord comes back and we all stand before the Lord, he says, When I stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, the day of Christ, the day of Christ's judgment He says that I can rejoice when I stand before God. And this is what will cause him to rejoice, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. And I want us to consider those two little statements there, running in vain and laboring in vain. He says, I don't I want to rejoice when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And I and I don't want my run to uh the race I've run to have been in vain And I want all the work I've put in for the Lord to be in vain. And then if it's not, then he says, I can rejoice. I've been in the ministry now a little uh fair bit over forty years in various ways and various degrees, uh pastoring here 32 years. And I've come to this conclusion. I made this observation That everybody, I mean across the board, everybody has some thoughts or some theories about God Everybody does. You get out, knock on doors, meetings, go on mission trips, talk to people around the world. Everybody has some ideas, their thoughts, their understandings, their theories about God. And I've kind of boiled these theories down to three three categories that people have in their thoughts about God. First of all One is a total rejection of God. A lot of people they think about God and they say, no. I reject the idea that there is a God. Of course An atheist would be someone that rejects the idea about God. Sometimes out knock on doors. And I'll always introduce myself. You know, of course we're very polite and and try to be cordial. And if there's an open door there, if we sense there's an open to to engage them about eternity and their soul and salvation, those types of things. I have a series of questions I like to ask just to set the stage. And one of the questions at one point is I will ask You know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. And the answers to that immediately tell me a little bit what their thinking is about God Sometimes I'll ask a question like this, do you ever think about God, the Bible, or Jesus, heaven or hell? Do you ever give thought to those things? More often than I mean somewhat uh regularly, I'll have people say, no, I don't even think about that. I I'm not worried about that at all, I don't even think about it. What they're saying is I reject uh God or at least I'm pushing God out of the picture. He's not a factor in my thinking, in my living, uh in the course of my life. So One uh theory on God people have, thoughts on God, is just a rejection of him. If not a flat-out denying God, well they'll just dismiss him He's not relevant. He's he's not a he's not a part of my life or my thinking. Um I talked to a fellow in Mountain Lake Park here, it's been a number of years ago, and he was very respectful, and we had a nice conversation. I knocked on his door, he came out. And I asked him a few questions like that, and he made this statement. He says, listen, I think there might be a God, but he is uninvolved in my life or uninvolved in the world. So basically, what he's doing is he's dismissing the idea that God is what the Bible presents them. So one theory on God is rejection. That's the way I'm putting it. They just reject God's role in their life. The second theory or thoughts people have on God is that of religious. In other words, they believe there's a God. They believe the Bible is God's word And they want to be engaged with God, but they approach Him with religion. In other words, they are working to make themselves acceptable to God. I'll ask sometimes, do you know for sure if you die now you're on your way to heaven, folks? And I get this answer occasionally and say, yeah, I think I will. I'm thinking of another fellow out here off King's Run Road a number of years ago. I asked him, do you know for sure if you die now you'd go to heaven? He says, yes, I believe I would. I ask him, how do you know? What gives you that confidence that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? What gives you that assurance? And he made this statement. He says, Oh, I keep God's commandments And so his whole approach, his whole understanding of God, if I boil it down, is I can be good enough for God to accept me. I can earn entrance into heaven. I can through good works, through quote unquote keeping the law, I challenged him on that a bit, and as it turned out Uh surprisingly, he actually was not keeping God's commandments as thoroughly as he thought he was, or at least the way he said it, as much as he said he was. And so one theory is, yes, there is a God, and and uh sometimes many times I believe the Bible, but I am going to earn On my own works, my own efforts, my religious duties, I will earn God's acceptance. I will gain entrance into heaven through my merit Through my efforts, through my work. So that's uh that's religion. Sometimes they'll look to praying or giving money will make me acceptable to God. I give to the poor, I help charities, I give to the church. I've been baptized. I do these good works. I had a fellow tell me one time he knew he was going to heaven because he was Sunday school superintendent for 40 years. And so these are all religious thinking. This is religious efforts. Make me acceptable to God. Then there's a third category, and I put it this way: the first one's rejection. God's not a factor. The second is religious. Yes, God is real, he's true, and I want to earn my way to heaven. About every religion in the world approaches God that way. There's a third approach, there's a third understanding of God in our standing before Him, and that is what I'm calling relationship And that is where I don't just believe God is, but I actually have a genuine living relationship with Him. The song puts it this way: He walks with me and he talks with me and he tells me I am his own. That relationship with our God, the creator of this universe, the God that controls this weather, the God in whose presence we are at all times. This omnipresent, all-powerful, creator God that is infinitely holy. I can actually have a relationship with him. And to establish that relationship, I must first of all trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. There is no relationship with God apart from Trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Looking to Him for forgiveness and cleansing of my sin Looking to Jesus Christ, what he did on that cross when he died in my place, was buried, rose again. And I put my faith, my hope, my trust and what he did for me to forgive my sins, give me new life, and establish this relationship with him. The relationship approach to God is the only biblical approach to God. We'd be very religious, we can reject God, or we can have a personal relationship with our God, a living God. And um and so that begins by, as I said, coming to Christ for forgiveness, cleansing of my sin, trusting what he did for me as buried, rose again. The moment I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, and I think we pre-touched on this last week. The moment I trust Jesus Christ my Savior, I am born into the family of God. I am spiritually born again And I'm part of the family of God. I'm now his child. And I have this intimate relationship with him. Paul puts it in Galatians, and I think in Romans he mentions this. He says, Abba Father. And he has this father-child relationship with God. And you and I, through faith in Christ, we have that same relationship. So we can reject God and We can try and be religious or we can know God personally through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then that relationship We develop that relationship and we maintain that relationship by establishing a daily walk with God. We spend some time with Him, like any other relationship. There must be time spent together. There must be interaction with each other. So for that main that relationship to develop and be strong and maintain that relationship. And same thing with God We come on a daily basis and we spend time with him. We open our Bibles. He speaks to us and we pour our hearts out to him in prayer. And as you do that, as we do that sincerely and humbly, we sense the presence of God there with us And we we become sensitive to his leadership and his presence in our lives and how he speaks to us through his word, and it becomes an actual living uh genuine relationship between a God and a creator and his creation, his creator. And it's a wonderful thing. And we live for him. We try to please him throughout the day, conscious of his presence and aware of his desire, his purpose for my life, and I try and live that life that he designed for me, and I serve him Paul put it here, holding forth the word of life. He was serving God, he was serving others, giving out the gospel, giving out others. And so the Bible is clear. A personal relationship with Jesus Christ by faith, it gains me eternal life. John chapter, 1 John 5. Puts it this way, he that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God, as personal Savior, hath not life. So I gain eternal life. I gain assurance of my salvation. These things have I written unto you that you may know that ye have eternal life. I become a new creature. 2 Corinthians 5:17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. God This relationship produces a whole new person. I have a new nature. I'm a new man, Paul puts it. All through faith in Christ and this relationship we have. And so the Bible is very, very clear. That's where we need to be. Sometimes we get criticized. I get criticized. We as a church get criticized because we're so narrow. Sometimes I heard somebody, this was years ago, and I hear it off and on over the years, they'll say something like, uh, boy, that church is so strict They're so narrow. They're sticklers to the Bible. And we get criticized maybe for being cautious, being too cautious. And we are cautious. I wouldn't describe myself or our church as strict, but what we do want to be careful about is that we're true to the Bible. We want to be sure that we have Bible salvation. We want to be sure that we are living lives that the Bible tells us God desires of us. And sometimes we get criticized for that. Anything outside the scriptures, any life lived or faith or reasoning, rationale that is contrary or outside of what teach Scripture teaches us, it's of no value. It's not going to do me any good. And the word I want to get to in this idea is it's vain. It doesn't, if I'm living outside of Scripture, if our message is contrary to Scripture, it's a vain message. It's of no value. And so we we are very cautious. We want to be careful that we line up with the Lord in God's will. We want to know God's will from Scripture, not what we think God's will is, not what someone tells us God's will is. But what God tells us his will is in his word. I've been invited number well, when I first came, I I was here probably a month maybe Back in 1993, and I got a phone call from the one of the local preachers, and he invited me to join the ministerial association. Now I wasn't real familiar with, I mean I knew basically what a ministerial association was. I wasn't familiar with the one here and I asked him a few questions and I said, well who all is involved in it and what all what what is it? And uh so he told me it was basically pretty much every denomination in the county, just across the board. Everybody, well we get together and You know, we'll do services and different things altogether. And um I didn't I don't remember exactly how I worded it, but something along the lines I will respectfully decline I don't think I would be interested in that. And he was gracious about it, but it was clear he didn't agree with me. But the Bible, why would you do that? Say, preacher, why won't you be part of the Ministerial Association? Because the Bible says I am not to join up with unbelievers. If a church or a pastor is preaching a gospel of works or a gospel that is contrary to scripture, And then I join up with him, I am violating Scripture. It's not being strict, it's not being unkind, it's being true to the Word of God Because anything outside the Word of God is of no value. It's vain. I was invited to speak at a big men's meeting here years ago here in the county. And just about every, there was a whole spectrum of of uh quote unquote preachers speaking, and I was just going to be one on a list And I and I I said, you know, I really can't. I tried to explain why from scripture, why I couldn't do that. And the fellow was greatly offended that um I would suggest that churches that teach you have to be baptized to be saved or churches that teach you have to do good works to be saved or you can lose your salvation that they were unscriptural. He's very offended by that. But the truth of the matter is they are unscriptural And I want to be true to Scripture. I don't want to be unkind. I don't think I was unkind. But to do that would be vain It would be of no value because it's unscriptural. And so Paul, coming back to our text here, Philippians chapter 2, verse 16, he says, holding forth the word of life We're giving out the Word of God. We're serving God. We're preaching. We're starting churches. We're winning souls. We're teaching people, helping them find the will of God for their life. Holding forth the word of God. Why? That I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. I read that some time ago And that phrase stuck out in my mind, that idea of running in vain, laboring in vain. I got doing a little research on that And I found that Paul uses the term vain more than any other Bible penman, more than any other writer in Scripture Paul uses the word vain. In fact, I found 28 times Paul mentions something being vain. Like I said, more than any other Bible writer. Now God's the author. And here's what I here's what struck me about that. Paul obviously was very, very concerned that his life was not vain. And we'll look at a list of things he references as being vain. He was very concerned about this Matter of vanity, something being vain. And this is what struck me. God has through inspiration preserved That concern of Paul's about not being vain, God has preserved that in the eternal Word of God for you and I. So that tells me God is very concerned that you and I don't live our lives in vain. And we don't labor in vain. We don't run in vain. Paul's burden, no doubt, was put there by God. He was he was very very you're going to see here in a bit. He was very, very concerned. That the things he says and the works he does and the life he lives and the service he gives to God, that it not be in vain And God preserves that through inspiration in the Word of God and communicates to us that we not be in vain. Now, what does it mean for something to be vain? Well, I think most of us perhaps understand it means the word itself directly, the basic meaning of the word means to be empty. It means to be without meaning or having no value. Also, along with those ideas, it carries the idea of not having any effect. I did something. I invested time and energy, maybe resources, into an endeavor. And it had no effect. It was vain. It was a waste. It was another word I came across was hollow. It didn't produce any substance. Superficial This matter of vain. And as I said, Paul uses this term at least 28 times what I found. And I want us to quickly look. You got your Bibles there if you're at home. I hope you have your Bible. And follow along with me as we'll kind of jump around here. They're all in the New Testament, Paul's writings, of course So if you would, go with me to Romans chapter number one. And I don't know that we'll turn to all of these. I might just reference them, but Romans chapter 1 He's talking about the moral and spiritual decline of mankind. And you get down to verse number 21. Well, let's back up a little bit, get the context. He says, verse 18, he says, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and righteousness who hold the truth in unrighteousness Comes down verse 20, for the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead they are without excuse. Now look at this in verse 21 This is talking about sinful man and God. He says, because that when they, mankind, unbelieving mankind, when they knew God They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became what? Vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. They became vain in their imaginations. Now, we're not going to turn to these because we'll be here till 2 o'clock this afternoon. And I know you all at home don't care because you're at home. But we won't go that long So he says he references here folks that have vain imaginations. In 1 Corinthians 3. 20, if you want to jot these down, he mentions having vain thoughts Imaginations, vain imaginations, vain thoughts, both are along the same idea. In other words, it's a raw, it's empty thoughts, incorrect, thoughts that are of no value. Thoughts about God. Sometimes I have people say to me, Well, this is what I think about God. The fact of the matter is, what I think about God is hollow and meaningless. It's not what I think about God, is what does God tell me about God. Right? You follow what I'm saying And so Paul is referencing it as possible for us to have vain thoughts, vain imaginations. Well, I think God's this, I think God's that. Again, that's why we're such sticklers for the Word of God. We understand who God is. We know him and who he is and what he's like and what he desires of me and how he operates, what his plan and purpose is for everything. And so vain thoughts, vain thoughts, vain thoughts, wrong thinking, empty thinking about what life is Life is short, live it up. I tell you, that's vain thinking right there. Go for the Gusko. Just do it. If you feel like it, go after it That's vain thinking. That's thinking that's shallow, it's temporal, it's immediate, doesn't consider eternity, that doesn't consider God's will. And so it's possible for us to have vain thoughts. And I'm afraid sometimes even as Christians, if we're not careful, our thinking can get vain. Paul said again in Corinthians said, bringing into captivity every thought and intent of the heart. Don't let it wander and get him wrong thought theories and wrong ideas That's why we have to be so careful about all this stuff online, these YouTube preachers and all this stuff. Now there's some fellows that are just fine, but I'm telling you, there's a lot of vain preaching out there We have to be very, very careful because we'll get vain thinking if we get caught up in that. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 12, and again in chapter 16, verse 25. God tells us there is a way which seemeth right unto man, think it is, my reasoning says it is. It's a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of what? Death. And so vain thinking, we've got to make sure that our understanding of God and life and salvation and eternity We've got to make sure it's on solid footing. Our thinking is solid, not vain, empty, and hollow. I'll just give the references for sake of time. But 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 2, he talks about vain faith, your faith being in vain. I said, I preach the gospel unto you, unless your faith was vain Vain faith, uh uh as I understand it would be an insincere faith, uh, just a verbal Profession of faith. It's hollow. There's no meaning to it. There's no substance to my faith. It's not genuine trust in Christ. James talks about man may say that he has faith. But it has no substance, there isn't nothing to it that affects his life, it has no effect on his life, it's vain It's empty. It doesn't mean that the faith itself is faulty. Faith is faith. You can't have good faith, bad faith. Faith is faith. It's the object of my faith that determines whether it's vain or it has substance. You can have the greatest faith in the world and put it in the wrong thing, and that faith will be vain. It'll fail. And you can have weak, struggling faith, but put it in Christ. And that faith has substance. It has a basis. It has a foundation. And it'll bear fruit. It'll have effect in my life. Genuine faith. Years ago when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, and I've been interacting with uh the pastor I worked with there a bit the last year or so online, it's been a blessing to kind of reconnect with Brother Sleutz there. But um w I had taken a s a few fellas. We were in Indianapolis and down uh southeast corner, I forget the name of the town, there was a camp And Dr. Lee Robertson was preaching there. And this is back 1987, 88, somewhere around there, maybe eighty-nine, somewhere in that area time frame. And so I was telling the guys, I was youth past I mentioned a bunch of folks, hey Dr. Robertson, I want to go hear him. He was my pastor for years, great man of God. Let's uh I want to go hear him. And so a bunch of guys say, Yeah, we'll go with you And so I was young and dumb. We went down there and got pre and uh had in the service. It was a grade, it was packed out. Dr. Robertson preached, my heart was stirred, we came out of there stirred up, the service went kind of long It's a camp meeting type thing and went kind of long. We got out there, we were tired, we were all fired up talking and jumped in the car, got on the interstate, and we're driving along, just fellowshipping and laughing and carrying on. And about 45 minutes an hour into the drive, we saw this big sign across the interstate. It said, Welcome to Ohio Said, Ohio. And we got looking, and lo and behold, and now this proves how humble your pastor is. I am meeting I got in and I went the wrong way on the interstate for about 45 minutes, not even paying attention, just talking and driving. And uh I always like for people to know how humble I am, so I'd point that out. But um I oh no And so we turned around and it ended up taking us almost twice as long to get back home because we went so far out of the way. My point I'm trying to illustrate is this. Those fellas had solid faith in their youth pastor that he was going the wrong way. That he was going the right way. They had faith I was going the right way. But in reality I was going the wrong way. Here's what I'm getting at. Their faith was in vain. They put their faith in me and it didn't produce what they were anticipating. I'm here to tell you: when we put our faith in God, when we put our faith in Jesus Christ, it is never in vain. If it's genuine, not just lip service, but genuine, I'm trusting Christ. I'm putting this in God's hands. I'm putting my soul, my eternal destiny, in the hands of Jesus Christ because of what he did for me. And that faith is never in vain. He'll keep me. I'm trusting God to meet my needs. I'm trusting God to give me strength for this storm. I'm trusting Christ to fill me with the Spirit and give me the joy of the Lord, regardless of my circumstances. Anytime I take that faith and I put it in Christ, it is never in vain God always produces. Now we put in other things. It's vain, it's hollow, it's not going to produce. You can put all your faith you want in the world, in the Pope. You can take all the faith you have, put it in the Pope. When you die, if you're trusting the Pope to forgive your sins, get you to heaven. You're going to end up separated from God for all eternity. And I'm not just picking on the Pope, anything else. Any man, any organization. Christ and Christ alone is the Savior. So, 1 Corinthians 15, 2, he talks about vain faith. Ephesians 5 and verse 6, he talks about, he mentions vain words. Again, 1 Timothy 1:6 and 1 Timothy 6, verse 20, he talks about vain jangling. Jangling. Jangling is just empty, meaningless talk. Just vain talk. Just talking for the sake of talking. Vein jangling. I like that term. And again in 2 Timothy, and he mentions this numerous times to Timothy, so maybe it was an issue. I don't know. But in 2 Timothy 2, verse 16, he talks about vain babblings. Again, babbling is just running at the mouth. Just uh talking. It's unscriptural talk that leads people astray, just babbling about stuff they don't even know what they're talking about. Titus chapter 1 and verse 10 talks about vain, mentions vain talkers, talkers And I know we joke around, and there's a there's a place, you know, for just light chit-chat. There's nothing wrong in and of itself But I want, when I preach and when I teach, and when I talk to people, when I interact with people on a serious level, I want what I say to have meaning. I want what I say to help people to make a difference. I've often prayed this, I've often thought this. I would like Whenever I'm done interacting with someone in a you know in in a some type of ministry setting or even outside of that When I walk away, I would like for their faith in God to be stronger than it was before I showed up. I want my words to honor the Lord and Please my Savior. And I want them seasoned with grace that it helps the hearers. It edifies the hearers. Not just vain, vain, vain. And again, we don't have to be so serious all the time we can't just interact a little bit But when it comes down to the characteristic of my words and my talking, I want it to have some substance Want to point people to Christ. I like what it says, and we talked about this in Sunday school numerous times. But when John the Baptist, the Bible says that John, they heard John speak and they followed Christ. His words had substance. His words had an effect. They had influence on the people that heard him. And the influence was they followed Christ. They followed Christ. Every Sunday school teacher, every bus worker, everybody anybody that serves the Lord in any capacity, our efforts, our words, our service ought to be the sole desire, the substance of it ought to be pointing people to Christ. pointing people to Christ, pointing people to Christ. And so vain talk, vain talk, building up faith, challenging commitment. And then we come, last of all, we come to our text here in Philippians, if you'd come back there with me. He says, holding forth the word of life. He said, I've been giv I've given my life. He committed his life To get the gospel, the word of God to people. Number one, to bring them to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And number two, once that happens Help them determine God's will for their life and help teach them and train them, encourage them to fulfill God's word for their life. And he says, I've done that, and I want to rejoice in the day of Christ That I have not run in vain, and that I've not labored in vain. Running in vain. Laboring vain. Now, Paul's not concerned about his salvation. That's not what he's talking about. It's not saying, oh, well, I'm afraid I did all this and now I'm going to end up dying and go to hell. No. The day of Christ is not the day of judgment. That's not the great white throne judgment where you heaven and hell is sentenced This is our works, our rewards. Paul's not talking about his salvation. That was settled. He said, I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded he's able to keep that which I've committed. His salvation was secure. I don't think he's even talking about his sincerity here. I don't think he's saying, oh get there and find out I wasn't sincere. He knew he was sincere. But he wanted, he was concerned that he lived his life in such a way that it helped people. Not hurt them. He wanted to serve his Lord in such a way that souls were saved, that Jesus Christ was glorified. I think what he's saying here is, I don't want my life to be a waste. I don't want to have the however many years he lived. And for me, I don't want to live 70, 80 years if God will give me that. And find out it was just a waste. To empty eyes, there was no help. There was no blessing. We don't want that. We don't want our lives to be lived in vain. We don't want to run the course of our life in vain. I do have one more reference, if you would. Come with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and I think this is what he's referencing in Philippians when he says, I can rejoice in the day of Christ. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And notice with me, if you would, verse 11. First Corinthians three, eleven. He says, For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me if our foundation of our life, the foundation of our faith, our life and our faith is based on and built upon the Lord Jesus Christ, would you agree with me? That is not a vain f foundation. That is solid. That means something. That has substance. So no other foundation can uh for other foundation can no man lay that one that would than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if a man build on this foundation, alright, I know the Lord, I have a foundation for my faith. Now, how am I going to live my life? How am I going to build on this the foundation my faith is in, Jesus Christ? If any man build upon this foundation, now look at this: gold, silver, precious stone, then he continues on, wood, hay, stubble. Now let me stop there. Of those six items mentioned, what three would be vain? Of those six mentioned there, these he's using, he's illustrating, build of my life with gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, stubble. Which of those six would be vain, empty, meaningless? Wood, hay, and stubble? Burns up. Built my whole life and all I invested in was wood, hay, and stubble, so to speak. And I get to the judgment seat of Christ, and it's all burned up, and it was all vain, it was all no value, nothing. Wasted my life. Wasted it. Or gold, silver, precious stone, that has some substance to it. That is not vain. Now look what he says: every man's work shall be made manifest. Whether it's vain or whether it has substance, for the day of Christ shall declare it. Because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what what's the next word there? Sort it is. Is it vain? Does it did it mean something? Or was it just temporary pleasure, just immediate gratification? What did I invest my life in If any man's work abide, verse 14, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. There is that rejoicing Paul was talking about. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. It'll be vain. He'll be saved. He himself shall be saved. But he'll have nothing to show for it. You know, run in vain, labor in vain, nothing. So Paul says, I don't want to labor in vain. I don't want to run in vain. I want my life to count. We have a song we sing. Every now and then it'll come to my heart. It says, Must I go and empty-handed? Thus, my dear Redeemer me, not one day of service give him. Lay no trophies at his feet. Must I go in empty-handed? Must my meet, my Savior, sow? Not one soul with which to greet him. Must I empty-handed go? You know what the author of that hymn was saying? He's saying, I don't want to run my life in vain. I want my life to have been spiritually, eternally meaningless. I want something to show when I get before the Lord. And by the way, this is not a text for preachers. This is a text for Christians. That our lives count. We are the salt of the earth. We are the light of the world. We are the ones that God will use to make a difference, to bring people to Christ. Not the government, not community organizations, but believers, the church. I don't want our church come before Christ someday and it's all vain. It didn't make any difference in the world. Nobody was saved, nobody reached. We work hard, we labor, and we run. But we want it to count. We want it to mean something. We want God to use us. For about four years I had the what I consider tremendous privilege to be chaplain with hospice. It was early on in my ministry and we had a unique setup there where um it w were that's kind of a little ecumenical in a lot of ways, but the director allowed me privilege of setting the perimeters of my involvement. And I'm telling you, I did scores and scores of funerals that time that that period of time And um I sat by the bedside of folks dying. That's what the men that's what it is. The organization is helping people in their final days. If they had somebody that was enrolled in hospice and they didn't have a church, they didn't have a pastor, but they were concerned about their spiritual well-being, they would refer them to me. And that was the extent of my involvement And I get there at the end of the four years I had to step down. It was just becoming overwhelming. I couldn't pastor and do that I'd get calls and they'd say, so-and-so, here's name and address. They don't have any spiritual input, and they would like for someone to come and answer questions and help them. I tell you, I saw a lot of people call on the Lord. A lot of people, days before they pass away. Many of them, some of them, you know, were they were just different But I had a heap of folks that would say something like this to me as they came, as they were approaching the final days, they would say something like this. I wish so badly. I'd have done it differently. I wish so badly. I remember one fellow in particular, he says, I wish so badly I'd have heard this message of Christ so early, much earlier. Praise God he called the Lord. I don't want to get to the end of my life and say, man, I wished I'd have lived for God. I wish that had pleased him. I wished I'd have served him and given to him and not been in vain I never had one person say, boy, I'm glad I didn't live for God. Never. Had one person say, man, I'm glad I live for myself. And just stocked up stuff. I was thinking um last night, I was going back over this a little, and I got thinking about that fellow Jesus mentioned, that he's a very successful farmer And he was very prosperous. And he built barns and tore down his barns and built bigger barns. He said, I have much goods laid up for many days. And Jesus said, Thou fool, this night thy soul will be required. You know what he was saying? Everything you've lived for, everything invested, it's all in vain. It's all in vain. Paul said, I don't want to be in vain. I don't think any of us want to be in vain. Wherever you are there online, if you're in a living room, wherever you may be, we're going to give an invitation. Catherine, maybe you could play there for us. I want to urge us, wherever we're at, just stop and ask the Holy Spirit to examine what am I investing my life in? Where am I at spiritually? And if it's not solid ground, the word of God and faith in Christ, let's just give ourselves anew to the Lord and let's just determine whatever days God gives us. Let's live them for Christ. Let's invest them in things that last, souls and people and others in the church. And those things that matter for all eternity. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Invitations such as we are able to do in these circumstances there at home, handful of folks here. And I just pray you'd stir us and challenge us through these thoughts here in Jesus' name. Amen