Hebrews chapter twelve, I want us to notice in verse number one a little phrase that for years has stood out As I read through this, it would stood out in my mind again. Just recently I read it and pressed upon my heart that maybe the Lord would have me preach on that phrase. Look in verse 1, it says, Wherefore Anytime the word wherefore is there or the word therefore, you want to look what it's there for. It's referring back to what was previously told, so we'll see that in a minute. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which thus so easily beset us And let us, and here's that phrase that captures my attention, let us run with patience. The race that is set before us. Run with patience. And that's what we want to try and consider this morning. So let's pray together and ask the Lord speak to our hearts and have his way in our lives. Father in heaven, we come to you on this Sunday morning. Just a beautiful day. Lord, it's a real joy to be together with your people. And to fellowship together to sing these Christmas hymns is a blessing. Lord, we've laughed. We've studied your word in Sunday school. We've enjoyed talking and sharing our experiences of the week. Now, Lord, we come to your word. And I'm asking, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, would be very evident, His presence would be very evident here this morning. And I pray, as author of this book, you would speak to our hearts and take these truths that are presented here and apply them to each of our lives as you know we have need. Lord, I yield myself to your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you anew. I pray you'd fill me and that you would speak through me and that our faith would grow. And Lord, our Christian life would be a little more distinct. And Lord, our um our spiritual health would increase. So please bless. Have your way. Speak to our hearts, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews, the book of Hebrews has always been, for whatever reason, has always been one of my favorites In fact, shortly after I got saved, and I think many of you, most of you probably understand, when I got saved, I knew very little of the Bible. I could not have quoted the books of the Bible to you. If my life depended on it, I could not have done that. But for whatever reason, shortly after I got saved, the book of Hebrews captured my attention. And at the time and even to this day I still don't understand a lot of it. There's a lot in the book of Hebrews and references back to the Old Testament sacrifices, the ceremonies, Leviticus and Hebrews are very closely connected. And at the time I understood very little of the book of Hebrews, but I was captivated by it And I think what caught my attention, what appealed to me, one was its portrayal of the Lord Jesus Christ We don't have time to get into it, but the book of Hebrews, over and over and over, repeats the fact that Jesus is better than the angels, better than Moses, better than the sacrifices In fact, Jesus is the best of all. And the book of Hebrews emphasizes that and he goes through in in detail in a lot of ways that you it takes a little digging to grasp, but that that appealed to me as a new Christian. The egg Jesus Christ being exalted. And then there's another factor that I believe appealed to me. And that was the book of Hebrews, its challenge to live by faith. To live by faith. And I think God used that in my life early as a Christian, the importance of trusting God. And uh and uh having faith in him. So the book of Hebrews has always been, for whatever reason, kind of special in my heart and mind. I've read it many, many, many times I've pro I think of I taught institute c uh Bible college class over in West Virginia on Hebrews. I like Hebrews. We're not told who the penman is. I always like to look and see and kind of give some information on that. You can read the whole thing, beginning and end. There's no reference to any human penman behind the book. We do not know who God used to pen the book of Hebrews. I have a strong suspicion it was the Apostle Paul. I have reasons for that. Bible scholars have all kinds of ideas they throw out there, and we don't know who the penman is, but um Whoever he is, he's addressing Jews. Of course, thus the name, Hebrews. He's writing to Jews. And I think, as I studied the book, I come to the conclusion he's addressing two categories, I guess you could say, of Jews. Some of these that he's addressing, he's addressing Jews who are newly saved. They had just left the walls and the ceremonies that they were trusting in to somehow make them acceptable to God. They had just left that and they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and as the choir sang, Him alone. The only one that can forgive our sins. So these Jews that were steeped in the law and in rituals and ceremonies have now come to faith in Jesus Christ. And he's challenging them to go on in their faith, to go forward in their faith. If you would turn back to chapter 6 with me just quickly. Now keep your place at chapter 12 here. But chapter 6, verse number 1, he is challenging these newly saved Jewish believers And he says in verse 1 of chapter 6, he says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, now he's not saying leaving Christ, But he says, let us go on unto perfection. That word perfection means maturity or completeness. He's saying, let's grow up. Let us grow up. In our faith. And he says, not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works. That was the Judaism they were in. And of faith toward God, and of the doctrine of baptism, and his laying on of hands and resurrection of dead, eternal judgment. What he's saying here is this: listen, you got saved, you've left those dead works. Your faith is in Christ. Now go on and grow. Don't just stay there where you got saved and baptized. By the way, a person gets saved, they ought to get baptized. The Bible is very clear. Salvation, you get baptized, testify to the fact that I've been saved. He says, but then don't just stay there. Salvation is not a goal to be achieved. Salvation is a new life begun He's challenged them to go on in their faith and grow in their understanding and their usefulness to God and grow in their the strength of their faith. And so the book of Hebrews is to challenge these new Jewish believers to grow, go forward, develop their faith. Then there's another Category, I guess you could say, of folks being addressed here. And this is the way I understand it. These are Jews, Hebrews. Who are at the very point of salvation. I mean they are right there. Some of you folks that are involved in soul winning, and you've been in soul winning very much. You know what I'm talking about. A person is right there to be saved. And they understand it. And there's even an element of Holy Spirit conviction going on. And uh there it's clear to in their heart and mind that they're a sinner. And that Jesus Christ is the only hope of salvation. And they're right there. But they're hesitating. They're they're they're hesitating on making that decision to leave their works, to leave their insecurities And put their faith in Christ and Christ alone. And he's challenging them. Do not turn back to the works of the law. Don't go back to that which could not save you. Trust Christ, make that decision, step forward, and settle this matter. Look with me if you would there in chapter 6. He says verse 4. He says, For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift. And were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, if they shall Far away. That phrase fall away means to abandon, to walk away from. To renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucified to themselves the Son of God afresh and put him to open shame. Now he is not talking here, and we know this from other passages of Scripture and from the context He's not talking about people who got saved and are now leaving that salvation or losing their salvation. Again, I don't have time to expand on it. I just say this: that is impossible. Salvation by its very nature cannot be lost. What he's talking to here is folks who are right there. Notice what he says there in verse 4. He says it's a um they were once enlightened. That word enlightened means made to understand. They understood that Jesus is the Savior. They understood that he fulfilled the Old Testament ceremonies. Everything in the Jewish law was pointing to Christ. They were enlightened. They understood that. They tasted of the heavenly gift. They understood eternal life. They were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, not indwelt by the Holy Ghost, but He convicted them He was working in their heart. They were right there. The Holy Spirit is working. They understood in their mind. They tasted the good word of God. They saw from God's word that Jesus is the Savior, the power of the world to come, what he could do for them. And if they want, he says, listen, you walk away from that, you have nowhere else to go. You have nowhere else to go. If you're walking away from Jesus Christ as God's Son and Savior, fulfillment of the law, you have nowhere else to go. And he says it's impossible to renew them to salvation. Now here's the point. This is not my message. I'm getting hung up here a little bit. But here's the point. Listen, if a person is unsaved, if I'm talking to somebody that's unsaved, and you know that you need to be saved, And God's been working in your life, and you are enlightened. You're aware of that. And you walk away from that I can't think hardly ever anybody that deliberately rejects it ever comes back and trusts Christ I could give you example after example of example where I saw people that were right to the brink, right there, and said, no, fell away, walked away, and was never able to bring them back to that point again. Now that's a fearful thing. Now, I'm not saying that a person that says no to Christ can't ever get saved. I know it happens. But it's a fearful thing to say no to the gospel of Jesus Christ. When I'm under conviction, I know it's true, and I understand it, and deliberately say no to Christ, that's a fearful, fearful thing. And Paul warns them in several places throughout the book of Hebrews. He addresses that. And so, folks, new believers, folks that are right there at the point and they're hesitating, he's warning them. Then we come back to our text in chapter 12. And I want to take a moment here setting up before I want to look at that phrase. He says, wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Now this cloud of witnesses, people sometimes ask me, and it's a legitimate question, uh that's a legitimate question. They say, is that talking about that cloud of witness that we're encompassed about this cloud of witness? Are those believers and loved ones that have gone on to heaven and are they witnessing what's taking place down here on earth? Are they observing? Do they have knowledge and are they aware of what's taking place down on earth? I do not believe that is what he's referencing here. The context doesn't allow for that. So the question is, everybody's asking, all right, so people in heaven, are they aware? Do they witness what takes place down here on earth? My answer is I can't tell you definitely. We're not told very clearly in Scripture. Somehow they are aware of when people get saved, I think. Jesus referenced, there's rejoicing in the presence of angels. We assume that's talking of saints and believers that have already gone. It would be hard to understand the joys of heaven and see the grief and sin on earth And not have that affect you. I do say this, I'm confident of this. If people in heaven can see what's happening here on earth, they see it from a different perspective than you and I do. They see it from a heavenly God's perspective if they're totally aware of everything we go on here. I tend to think they probably are not. But I can't say dogmatically. So you say, all right, what is this cloud of witnesses? If it's not talking about folks in heaven witnessing what we're doing down here, observing what we're doing down here What is this talking about? What is a witness? A witness who is is someone who has seen something firsthand. And you go to court, you call witness up. They say, alright, tell us what you saw under oath. Tell us what you saw in this scenario that took place. And so they bear witness. They give testimony of what they witnessed. A witness is someone who has experienced something firsthand. Often in court, they'll bring in an expert in some area. And they'll say, we want you to testify what you know to be true, what you've experienced in this particular area or situation or issue. And they will give testimony what they've experienced, what they know to be true. So when he says we are encompassed about with a great cloud of witnesses, I don't believe he's saying that there's a great crowd of people that are witnessing or watching, observing us He says we have a great crowd, a cloud of people who have experienced and know firsthand what it means to live by faith. That word, wherefore, is referring back to chapter 11. And chapter 11, as many of you are aware, is the great chapter of faith. By faith, Noah, by faith, Abel, by faith, Abraham, by faith, Moses, by faith, Jacob. And he goes down for a lengthy chapter and he records. Men and women who acted by faith and how it impacted them and how God used them. And he says, we have this great cloud in chapter 11. All these men and women of God. That have experienced firsthand what it means to live by faith. They've observed firsthand what trusting God will do. And we have them to be a witness to us, to testify to us. You with me, everybody, so far? And so we have this great cloud of witnesses. They've seen this. Chapter 11 is men and women who witness the importance of faith. If you would come back to chapter 11 with me and look with me at verse number one. Chapter number one. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it, faith, the elders obtained a good report. Look at verse 3. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen are not made of things which do appear. Listen, I do not believe that uh uh uh uh I do not believe anything that contradicts the Word of God. My faith is not in science. And there's nothing wrong with science if it's legit. Just the observation of information, the gaining of information. But when science presents theories and ideas that cannot be proven and contradict scripture, I reject it out of hand. Out of hand. By faith, I believe that God created this place. God says it, God tells us. By faith, I believe that God created this infinite universe out there that we can't even comprehend. The importance of faith. If you would come down, look at verse 6. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Would you agree with me? Faith is important. Faith is vital for salvation from sin in hell. Ephesians 2:8:9. For by grace are ye saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works. Nobody ever gets saved apart from faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody, period, zip. Faith is vital for salvation. Faith in Christ. Faith is vital to the Christian life. It's absolutely necessary for me to grow spiritually. I've got to be able to have faith in God, trust God. Faith is vital for my spiritual health. I've got to learn to have faith in God. I have got to learn to trust God if I'm going to be healthy spiritually. Faith is important. It's vital for my salvation. It's vital for my spiritual well-being. Faith is necessary to please God. Do you notice there in verse 6? Without faith, it is impossible to please Him. God wants us to trust Him. God wants us to have faith in Him. I looked through the Gospels particularly, really all through Scripture, but the Gospels particularly, and I found that those who had faith in God, God praised them very highly And those who failed to have faith, his disciples, when they didn't trust him, when they were weak in faith, he rebuked them sharply. Where is your faith? You see what I can do, you know what I'm capable of. Why don't you trust me? Faith in God And so we have this great cloud of witness, these men and women, and it would take weeks to cover all that was recorded here And they testify, they witness to the fact of the importance of faith. They witness to the fact of the power of faith. Look at verse number 30 of verse number 11 of chapter 11. It says, through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age. Because she judged him faithful who had promised. Sarah is a hundred years old, almost a hundred years old, and she receives seed and conceives and gives birth to a child. I'll tell you, only God can do that Listen, some of the older ladies, that doesn't mean God's going to give you a child, you know. I have enough faith, he'll give me. That was for Sarah. But she testifies to the fact that God is powerful. God can do the impossible. God can do the miraculous God can do the amazing. Listen, don't ever, ever, ever doubt the power of God. He's capable. And these people testify. Look over, if you would, at uh verse number 30, chapter eleven. It says, by faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about seven days. A miracle of God, the power of God. Look with me, verse uh thirty-one. By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believe not, when she had received sp uh spies and peace. And what have I more to say? Time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah and of David also and Samuel and the prophets Who through faith, look at this, subdued kingdoms and wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, of course, Daniel, quenched the violence of fire That would be Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. The women received their dead, raised to life again. The power of faith. He says, Wherefore we have this great cloud of witnesses. And they testify to us, they witness to us of the importance of faith and the power of faith. What faith in God can do. And then they witness and testify to the purpose of faith. What is the purpose of having faith in God? What what what does that accomplish? What is it what what is the what's the purpose of having faith in God? If you listen to some of these crackpots on TV, they'll tell you the purpose of having faith in God is so you can build your bank account. They'll tell you the purpose of having faith in God is so you can develop and live in nicer homes and drive nicer cars They'll tell you the purpose of faith in God is so God can escape physical pain and escape physical sickness. I'm telling you, you can't find that in the Bible anywhere. In fact, these great men and women listed in Hebrews chapter 11, the great hall of faith, they testify to us, they witness to us of what the purpose of faith is. And it wasn't ever to build their bank accounts. It wasn't ever to increase their possessions and enjoy pleasures. It wasn't to gratify their own will. The purpose of faith in God is to yield my will to God's will. And trust him that his will be accomplished in my life. Submitting to the will of God, whatever that may entail, and trusting him Look with me if you would at verse number eight, chapter eleven. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obey. Now look at this last phrase. And he went out, not knowing whither he went. He submitted his will to God. He said, God, I trust you. God, I have confidence in you, and my faith is in you. And you lead me wherever you lead. I don't know where it ends up. I don't know where I'll end up. But I trust you, God. I'll let you lead me. Submission of his will to the Lord. Look with me if you would down at verse number 17 By faith, Abraham, when he was tried. Look at this. Offered up Isaac by faith. And he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. God instructed Abraham, take his son Isaac and offer him as a sacrifice to God. It was said of Isaac that through Isaac Abraham's seed would multiply like the sands of the sea and the stars of the sky. And God says, you take him and offer him up. Look at verse 19. Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. Abraham has instructed Abraham is promised by God through Isaac, you'll have offspring as the numbered, as the sand of the sea, as the stars of the sky. Then God says, take Abraham and offer him up as a sacrifice, kill him. And Abraham's faith wavered not. And he said, Alright, God, I'll do what you say And it set tells us here that in Abraham's mind, he said, God has promised me through Abraham, through Isaac, the seed would multiply, and if I offer him up as a sacrifice God will have to raise him from the dead to keep his word, and God always keeps his word. What a tremendous act of faith. Wasn't Abraham's will, there's no way in the world it was his will to offer up his son. But he trusted God Having faith in God, the purpose of faith in God isn't so that I get my way and everything pleases me and I have a lot of stuff. No, faith in God is, God, I want your will to be done in my life. Faith in God is say, God, I want you to lead me where you would have me to be. I want you to use me the way you see fit to use me. Look with me if you would at verse number 24 Speaking of Moses. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, look at this. Refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Refused it. And he had it made, best education, all the money and you could imagine. The son of the king of Egypt He refused it. Choosing, look at this, choosing rather to suffer what? Affliction with the people of God Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. I'm telling you, it is better to suffer affliction in the will of God than enjoy sin out of the will of God. Moses said, By faith I choose that, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he had respect under the recompense of the reward. The purpose of faith is not so that my life is ease and I get whatever I want. I'm wealthy, healthy. No, no, no. They testify to us. This great list of these great men and women of faith, they witness to us. They're a witness to us. The purpose of faith is God's will fulfilled in my life. I tell you, one of these days this whole life is going to be over. How many people are aware of that? On these days, this whole life is going to be over. That day's coming. Maybe the rapture will take place. We don't know. But either through the grave or through the rapture We're going to stand before Jesus Christ one day. We're going to give an account. You know what I would like to hear? I'd like to hear the Lord say, Well done, a good and faithful servant. You trusted me. You let me lead you. You let me direct you. You let me have my way in your life. My purpose for your life, you allow me to fulfill that. Well done. That's what these people witness to you and I. That's what they're testifying. Are you listening, fellas? That's what they're testifying to us To trust God and let Him have His way in our lives. The witness, the witness. After 44 years, over 44 years of being a Christian, can I say something to you as your pastor? Forty-four years of being a Christian, of studying this book for forty-four years This book. The best advice I can give to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as pastor is this: have faith in God. Trust God. If God instructs us to do something in His Word, let's trust Him and do it. If God warns us of things in his word, let's heed that warning. If God gives us promises in this book, let's claim those promises. That's what Hebrews chapter 11, men and women witness to you and I. They testify, you and I, trust God. Have faith in God. Follow his instructions, heed his warnings, claim his promises. And then he comes to my thought this morning. And the introductions is three quarters of the message. And God's people said, Praise the Lord. He said, Wherefore, seeing all we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witness, let us lay us, look at this. He said, let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which thus so easily beset us, and let us run with patience The race that is set before us. Now it's interesting. The Christian life is compared to running a race several times in Scripture. We don't have time, I wanted to turn, but we won't. First Corinthians nine twenty four Paul references running a race to win And he's referencing the Christian life. And basically he's saying you've got to run within the guidelines. You've got to run according to the rules. I saw a uh I saw a video clip here about several weeks ago before we went on our mission trip. I just caught my attention It was a lady that had m set all kinds of records for the uh marathon in New York City. And nobody had ever run as fast as she did. And they got looked in a little bit, and here she was a cheater She had been standing on the sidelines and when the crowd signed up, she jumped in and ran and crossed the line as if she had ran the whole thing. Cheater, cheater, pants on fire And Paul says the Christian life is like a race, and he says there's no shortcuts. We've got to run according to the principles that are given to us. So the Christian life, numerous times in scriptures, is compared to running a race. In 2 Timothy chapter 4 verse 7, Paul says, I have kept the, I finished, he says, I have uh kept the I have fought a good fight. I have Finished my course. I've kept the faith. I think I might have got that out of order. But what he's saying is he says I've finished my course. He's talking about a race. I've run my race I'm at the end. Paul's at the end of his life. I've kept my faith. I've run my course. I've fought the fight. Run a race. So the Christian life, the Bible on several occasions and now here compares it to running a race. And he says, let us lay aside every weight. By the way, that laying aside the weight, a weight is something that's not necessarily bad in and of itself It's just not helpful. It gets in the way of living for God and serving the Lord. Uh when I was um you're not gonna believe this, but when I was in junior high and the first year of my high school year, ninth grade, I ran cross-country track. I know looking at me now it's obvious that I was a great runner. And actually never did very well, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. And when you go run, if you're gonna run a cross country race, I mean they're running a mile two miles, I think, if I remember, two, three miles, we were running cross country. Uh you don't get on the sideline there and put big snow muck snow boots on You know, you don't put a heavy jacket on and put a helmet on. You strip down. You want as little weight on you as you possibly can to run that race. And if we're going to run the race for the Lord, if I'm going to fulfill my course and fulfill God's will for my life, I've got to be very careful I don't get all these unnecessary weights In my life. You follow what he's saying here? I mean, good things. There's nothing wrong in and of itself. But it doesn't help me. It gets in the way of serving God like I should He says, lay aside the weights. Then he says the besetting sins. That has the idea of sins that we tend to be vulnerable to. All of us have our own unique weaknesses. All of us have our own unique sins that we tend to be vulnerable to. And we find ourselves struggling with them over and over and over, and it's different for people And he says, I've got to, if I'm going to run this race, I've got to set aside the weights, the good things that interfere, get these besetting sins that just hound me and and uh um uh haunt me and and get get them put them aside then he says run with patience I don't know about you, but that doesn't quite make sense. Run with patience If you're running, you're going as quick as you can. It's urgent, right? I mean running. I'm not going to run because I can't. But uh Man, running, I'm hurrying up. Hurry up, hurry up. I've got to get to that line before the other one does. I gotta run, hurry, I gotta run. Then it says with patience, patience is listen, just relax Slow down, take it easy. I think it sounds like this. Take your time, but hurry up. So my little phrase is biblical. That's what I'm trying to point out. How can you run with patience? Seems the opposite. I think the key to understanding it is understanding the word patience. The word patience means to endure The word patient is used 33 times in the New Testament, some form of it. I got looking at the word patient. And I've come to this conclusion that apart from faith and charity Patience is the next highest praise virtue in the Christian life. Faith in God is number one. Charity is none greater than charity. But I tell you, patience is highly praised in the Word of God. So the question is: what does patience mean? What does it mean to run with patience? There's two aspects to the word patience. Number one is steadfast. What does it mean to be steadfast? It means to be constant. It means to be stable. He's steadfast. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Be ye therefore steadfast, unmovable. That's the idea of patience, steadfast, not quitting. I've mentioned running in in cross country. And they taught me back then, and it's true, and I've read up on it since. When you're running, and some of y'all may have done this, you may know what I'm talking about. But when you're running a marathon or you're running a long distance cross country, there's a point in that race where this is what they call it, you hit a wall Anybody ever hear that term? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You're running and you're running and your energy is being depleted and your mind starts uh uh starts playing games And there's a wall, figuratively speaking, there's a wall you come to where you want to just quit. And they say, and they taught us, when you come to that wall, listen. When you come to that wall where I just want to quit, I'm all out, I'm on empty, I'm done. When you get to that wall, you keep on running. You push through. You keep on running. And we learned that if you do that, you push through that wall. Then you come back, you get a second win. You get a second inspiration, and you can push on. You push on. That's the idea of patience. When you come to the wall in your Christian life and you say, I'm done. Spiritually, I'm empty. I have nothing more to give. Patience kicks in, and you keep on running, and you keep on getting. You get up, you read your Bible, you pray, say, I don't feel like it, you push on. You run with patience. Get up Sunday morning. I don't feel like going to church. You get up and you go to church anyway. You run with patience. I keep that course. I keep on that course of the Christian life. But when I run out, and when the tank is empty, I keep pushing on and I run on fuse. And I go on for God. Has the idea of endurance, steadfastness. I like Psalm 126. It says, He that goeth forth and weepeth Bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again. You know what? Here's a guy, his heart's broken. Here's a guy, his dreams have been shattered. He's weeping. But he gets up and he gets the seed. And he goes out into the field and he sows the seed because somebody else is going to need something to eat. And somebody in the future is going to have a need. And even though I'm weeping, I still sow that seed so that I can be a help and a blessing to others. That's running, sowing the seed with patience. While weeping. You with me? Just get up and go on. You keep going. You keep going. You don't quit. You don't quit. You don't quit You go on. Running with patience. Steadfastness. Pressing on. I reference 1 Corinthians 15. Be ye therefore steadfast Unmovable. That's the patient part. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. That's the running part. I'm serving the Lord. I'm being a witness. I'm trying to bring people to Christ. I'm trying to be a testimony in this old simple world of the goodness and glory and grace of God. But I keep doing it and I keep doing it and I keep doing it. Whether anybody responds or not, whether there's any positive feedback or not, I keep on running Steadfast, unmovable. Are you with me? And we have a whole chapter of chapter 11, all these men and women who did that. By faith in God, they did that, and they're a witness to you and I to press on. I found the word patience has this idea, consistency. To run with patience, run with consistency. That means unwavering. The opposite of consistent being consistent is being fluid. If something's fluid, it just here and there. My dad drove uh oil tanker for years, tractor trailer oil tanker. And boy that flu that liquid in that tank would just swoosh back and forth. So what they did is they put baffles up in there. To keep that fluid from being inconsistent. Run with patience, run consistently, unwavering, firm, unaltering. Holding to established principles. Keep running, keep running, keep running. It's a tendency in our day and age, and it probably has been throughout church history. But there's a tendency in our day and age that if it gets hard, we drop our standards. And if it's not popular, then we'll alter our message. That if we change our convictions and we modify and appease the world a little bit, we'll get bigger crowds. I'm telling you, that is not running with patience, that is compromise. That is being inconsistent to the Word of God. And whether it's popular or not, whether we have the biggest crowds or the smallest crowds, we run true to the Word of God. Come what may. They burn us at the stake, we keep running with the Word of God. Doesn't matter. Run with patience You say, preacher, my whole family turns against me because my commitment to the Word of God. Stay committed to the Word of God. Now be nice about it. Don't be hateful. But don't compromise. I prayed, I told somebody this just recently, and I mean this. I've prayed this on occasion, I do occasionally, I pray this prayer. God, if this church ever abandons this old book, I pray the ceilings collapsed down on it. I pray the buildings burn up. I don't want a bunch of compromisers and people disobedient to the book using the buildings we've invested in for the glory of God. Are you with me? All I'm saying is this, let's just stick with the book. Just run with patience. Stay true. Stay true. Stay true. One of the great blessings to me is folks will visit our church 10, 15, 20 years ago, 25 years ago. And they'll come back through the area and they'll come in and visit. And then back I'll shake hands and they'll come up. They'll say, Your church sings the same songs you did 30 years ago. I say, thank you very much. You're still preaching that same Bible you did 30 years ago. Yep. We don't intend to change. Running with patience. Everybody likes fireworks, right? Man, we get together big parties. Haboo! We get here on on July 3rd, we'll sit in the back of the of the parking lot here, people come out. And uh boom, they shoot the fireworks off. Every year people say, we need to saw those trees down so we can see them better. They say the same thing every year. We give out little sparklers, kids run around, we everybody likes fireworks, and it goes up, oooooooo Right? We have big parties, we roast hot dogs, fireworks! Here's the thing about fireworks. They're great for a very brief period of time. Make a lot of noise, get a lot of attention. They only last a little while. Very, very temporal. However, every single night For thousands and thousands of years, you come out at night and you look towards the north There's a little star up there. And it doesn't make a lot of noise. And it doesn't have a lot of flash. And I never knew anybody went out and looked at the North Star and went, ooh. I never knew anybody that got hot dogs out, roast hot dogs. Because of the North Star. Y'all come on over. We're going to watch the North Star. But I'll tell you something about the North Star. It's in its place every single night. It is where it's supposed to be, doing what it's supposed to do. Day, night after night after month after month, year after year, century after century. What's after century? Millennium after millennium? I don't know what I'd do without the teens, they always tell me And you know what? For thousands of years, ships have charted their course by that North Star. People have gotten lost in the mountains, rocky mountains, but they found the North Star and they were able to get out. I don't know about you, I'm not interested in being fireworks. I want to be a North Star That's running with patience, being in our place, doing what God has called us to do, trusting Him, and just staying at it and staying at it and staying at it and staying at it 44 years. I've been walking with the Lord. Some of you longer than that. I've been studying that book, and here's my advice. You trust God and you keep on trusting Him and you keep on trusting Him and you keep on trusting Him. Father, I pray you'd bless and help us to have faith in you. Help us, Lord. I pray you'd help us to not quit. When we run out of gas, help us just press on. Lord, when we hit that wall, help us to run with patience. Just stay at it, stay at it. In our homes, in our marriages, and our relationships. Help us just stay at it and not quit. Lord, in our witnessing to loved ones and unsaved friends and neighbors Help us just stay at it. Help us be North Starred. Just unaltering, unchanging, staying at it. I wonder, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher I need to stay at it. Maybe you've hit that wall. Maybe you've struggled. Maybe you've had some failures. I'm saying to you, get back up, run with patience, get back up. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. I need to run with patience. I need to keep on. I don't want to quit. I want to stay at it. My heart's broke. I'm weeping, but I'm going to keep on sowing. Any others? Preacher, that's me. God bless you. Hands all around. Don't quit on God. Trust them. Trust them. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know someone, I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know someone they're struggling, their faith. And they're they're stumbling along in their race. And maybe you'd pray, Lord, maybe you'd say, I want the Lord to help me help them To be an encouragement to them and a comfort, a help to them to stay at it. Is there any like that, preacher? Someone on my heart, I'm concerned, I want to try and help them. God bless you. Hands all around. We're in this together. We need one another. We need to stay at it. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'm here to tell you God doesn't want you to go to hell either If you'll come to him in faith, believe he died for you, buried, rose again, he'll forgive your sins and give you eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I don't want to entertain doubts or questions about where I spend eternity. I need it settled. Father, bless our invitation. I ask, have your way in Jesus' name.