Appreciate Jennifer at the piano and she is going to have a baby not too long. Two weeks. So keep ru uh keep uh Jennifer in your prayers. And we're excited for her. Thank you, Catherine. Good job. If you want to turn back to the book of Ruth with me, please, and we're just going to look at one verse. Today is Mother's Day, of course. And uh I'm not going to bring a message particularly to mothers. I will be speaking uh about uh a lady that became a mother, and uh I think the application will be um Uh true for all of us. So I trust that um we can get something everyone can get something out of today's message. The Bible says that all scripture is profitable uh for doctrine, reproof, for inspiration, and um and so we can all learn. From every portion of scripture. Ruth, I just saw Mike here. God bless you, Mike. I didn't even see you. Glad you're here, man. You look good. I mean you look as good as you can, but uh No, I would appreciate Mike. Ruth chapter one, and I'd like for us to read together in unison, if we would, verse number sixteen. Ruth 1 and verse number 16. I'd like for you to read it with me. Ready? And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God Well, look at this woman by the name of Ruth. Let's pray. Father, please bless our time in your word. I ask, Lord, that uh uh you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I yield my will to yours, present my body anew. I pray you'd speak through me to our hearts. Bless the mothers today in a special way. I pray that every mother would would feel appreciated today and uh would understand that they're loved. And God, Lord, no doubt there's some mothers that are with heavy hearts this morning. Maybe a child that's away from the Lord or uh different situations. I pray for your special grace. And your special presence now in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. A chicken and a pig. were walking down the street and uh they saw a uh little family that was very needy very poor they didn't have anything to eat and the chicken said tell you what and you've probably heard this before many of you The chicken said, tell you what, we ought to help those folks. They're so poor, they don't have anything to eat. And the pig said, What exactly do you have in mind? And the chicken said, I know we can give them ham and eggs I'll provide the eggs, you provide the ham. And the and the pig said, that's wonderful. On your part it's a sacrifice. On mine, it's a full commitment. Now the fact of the matter is, motherhood requires full commitment. Now I don't think there is n there is no such thing as a part-time mother. Right? You're a mother full-time. Whether you like it or not, whether you intended it for it to be that way or not. A mother is a mother full time. It's full commitment. I heard a preacher years ago just Speaking about motherhood and saying that when a mother gives birth, she goes down into the valley of the shadow of death and uh comes out the other side with joy and rejoicing. And so, as I mentioned, today's message isn't necessarily a Mother's Day message, though we are grateful to God for our mothers. It's a message directed to uh it's a message that we look at a woman by the name of Ruth, but again I want to apply it to all. Now notice with me verse 16 again. I know we read it twice already. I want to read it once more And Rush said, entreat me not to leave thee, for she speak unto Naomi, her mother-in-law, or to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest, I will go. And where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Now, I think most of us are probably familiar, aware of the circumstances or surrounding Ruth's statement here Naomi and her husband had left Israel in a time of famine, and they had gone to a foreign land. They went over to the country of Moab. Now, to be very honest with you, and this is a whole nother message. To be very honest with you, I believe Naomi's husband made a mistake when he left the land of Israel. I believe they got out of the will of God. There, in the land of Moab, Naomi's husband died, and her two sons. Her sons were grown and were married, and now she has two daughter-in-laws. And Elmi decides she's going to go back to the land of Israel. She's going to go home. As she departs, her two daughters, Orpah and Ruth, began to weep. You notice that in verse 14. Orpah, the daughter of one of her sons, kissed the mother-in-law. Verse 14 tells us, but Ruth was different. Ruth, the Bible says, clave unto her mother in law. Naomi says, you girls, stay here. And she says to shorten what she says, I have nothing more to offer you. The custom was if a woman, if her husband dies, she would marry his brother to carry on the name. She goes, I have no other sons. Even if I would remarry and have more children, have sons, you wouldn't wait till they were grown. You'd be older ladies. I have nothing more to offer you as far as this world's goods are concerned. Orpah says, okay, I love you. You've been a good mother-in-law. I'm reading into it here, of course. She gives her kiss and Orpah goes on her way. But as I said, Naomi was different. Naomi says, I'm not leaving you. She says, where you live, I'm going to live. Where you go, I'm going to go. The people you claim as your people, I'm going to claim them as my people. The God you worship is the God I'm going to worship I think here in verse number 16, we have one of the clearest professions of faith in Scripture. Thy people shall be my people, thy God shall be my God. I think we have one of the greatest professions of faith in Scripture. Now, there's some wonderful professions of faith throughout Scripture, but here you have an ordinary By all worldly means, just a simple, for the most part, unknown woman, broken hearted Widowed, a widowed woman, poor, we know that, when they get back, they have to beg. And she's a foreigner. Nevertheless, she gives one of the greatest professions of faith in the Bible. Now, maybe this morning, I don't know what your view is of yourself. Maybe you say, well, I'm no one special. I uh I'm just an ordinary mother. I'm just an ordinary woman By application, I always maybe say I'm just an ordinary Joe guy, blue-collar worker, I'm nothing special. But with a faith like Ruth's. Though we may be ordinary as far as the world is concerned, we can be someone very extraordinary as far as God's concerned God took note of this poor, widowed, young foreign lady when she claimed the Lord to be her God. Now let me inject something here. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. As far as our membership is concerned, we do not require a person to be of a certain financial standing before they can be a member of a church our church. Right? We we don't we don't your income is not a factor when it comes to membership at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We do not target a certain level of financial income, right? When I first came me 17 years this September, we began reaching people, people were getting saved, and we got a bus. I told a preacher and I mentioned this several times over the years, a preacher, a friend of mine I told him he bought a bus, and he knew the situation of the church a little bit, the small rebuilding, and uh he made this statement. He said, you'll never build a church with bus kids. You'll never build a church running a bus and bringing in people that can't drive. Because you've got to go after the money people if you're going to build a church. I took offense at that. My Bible doesn't say I'm supposed to target certain financial brackets. My Bible says we're to go into all the world and reach every creature. And so you know what we do? We knock in the neighborhood, knock on the doors in the neighborhood of wealthy people. And we also knock on the doors in a neighborhood of people who are not so wealthy. And I believe the sign of a healthy church is to have folks sitting on a pew beside each other. Some are very wealthy and some are very poor. And getting along just fine. Amen? Ruth was not a wealthy woman. It's not what she's noted for. God doesn't Praise her for her wealth. And by the way, God doesn't praise her for her poverty. It wasn't a factor. Now make Independent Baptist Church To be member at Mount Lake Independent Joe Church, you do not have to have a certain level of education. Amen? In fact, we have some very ignorant people in our church That's not a factor. Ruth, as far as you can tell, is not a highly educated woman. Membership in our church, we do not require a certain standing in society I was in a church years ago, part of a a church, part I wasn't visiting, I was part of church. The lawyer would attend and man they'd they'd they'd work head over heels trying to get that lawyer to join if he visited. About the same time, a fellow of Israel Church was a converted sodomite. Got saved. God changed his life. He wanted to get baptized. The preacher said You know, I think there's a church closer to where you live that would baptize you and you could be a part of. That's ungodly. It's wrong. It's not my standing of society, it's not a factor whether per whether that person be a member of our church or not. It's not their financial income. Hey, it's not their background. You ever hear about blue blood? You know what I'm talking about? Boy they're big they got blue blood. Means they got they got quite upstanding. They're they're something. Listen, everybody's blood's red. Regardless of what your background is. Ruth was raised in a pagan society. Who knows? Growing up, what things she saw and what she was a part of. We don't know what her background was. We can only imagine growing up in Moab. So we her financial standing is not mentioned, her educational level is not mentioned, and by the way We're not condemning either ignorance or education. There's neither wrong in and of themselves in either one, find rich or poor. High standing in society or low standing. That's what I'm trying to say is that is not a factor. But we do require one thing to be a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and that is a clear confession of faith in Jesus Christ as personal Savior. Of course, what the background may be, maybe poor, unknown, uneducated, you can be from the wrong side of the tracks. But if our God is your God, Huh? If you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you give a clear testimony of that, then membership is open. So You can be poor, unknown, uneducated from the wrong side of tracks, and you can still be a good Christian and you can be a good church member. Amen. And so here we have root. All these factors that the world puts such a high premium on, the Lord doesn't even notice that. But he sees she makes a tremendous statement of faith. I think it's obvious from verse 16 that Ruth was unashamed of her faith in the Lord. She made no bodes about it. Now I would imagine back in her home in Moab, some of her family members give her a hard time. I imagine there were some people she grew up with that said, what? You're taking the God of the Jews? You are worshiping this Jehovah God of the Jews? And she goes, Yeah, he's my God. The God of Naomi, the God of the Israelites, that is the God I worship. She was unashamed of her faith in the Lord. Sometimes I wonder, and I know sometimes in situations it's not easy, but I wonder how can a genuine believer be ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ? Now think about it for a moment. We claim, those of us who claim to accept Jesus Christ as our Savior We say, yes, I believe that when he died on the cross so many years ago, he was suffering public humiliation and shame for the sins that I have committed. All the secret things that people don't know about, Jesus knew about and suffered the judgment of God for them publicly in front of the whole world. And I accept that. But I won't speak up for it. I don't want anybody to know. I am ashamed. That I've accepted what he has done for me. That doesn't make sense Jesus Christ suffered eternal damnation for my sins and your sins. And we freely of our own will accept what He has done for us and say, Yes, Jesus. I believe you died for me. I accept you as my Savior to forgive me. Give me new life, take me to heaven, and then we're ashamed To speak his name. I was talking to my wife last evening. I said, you ever notice we go out and knock on doors a lot and we share the gospel with people? I said, do you ever notice people will say something, oh yes, I believe in God? Or they'll say, Yes, I have faith in God. But very seldom will they say something like this, oh yes, He is my Lord. You don't hear people say that too much. And come across a saved person, they'll say, Oh yeah, Jesus my Lord. And then Kathy pointed out, she goes, you know, you don't hear fee folks say the name Jesus too much. Except in using in cussing. Oh yeah, I love the Lord Jesus. When's the last time you heard someone at work say that? When's the last time you've been in Walmart? That's we call it our fellowship, Paul. Uh you go up there any given time. Half our church is there. But um When's the last time you're at Walmart waiting in line? The person in front of you started saying, Boy, Jesus has sure been good to me. I'm so glad the Lord Jesus came in my heart and life to see me Huh? Why would we be ashamed? I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said we ought to be ashamed of being ashamed of Jesus. He said, we ought to be afraid of being afraid to name Jesus. He said, we ought to tremble at the thought of trembling to name Jesus, claim Jesus as my Savior. Ashamed of being ashamed. The difference, now I want to throw this out there, there's a difference between bold being bold in my faith and being arrogant about my faith. Right? Follow what I'm saying. I think most of us uh have met someone at some point that was very arrogant about their faith in God. Uh the the Pharisees were very arrogant about their faith. They I'm better than you, I've got greater faith than you, I'm a better Christian than you, I'm better than that. I told you before about the fellow in another church I was in, uh stood in the lobby, he didn't agree with something the preacher said And uh he says, I'm the best Christian in this whole church. Well, you know, I like to point out when you use that illustration, he just proved to everybody he's probably the worst Christian in the whole church There's a difference between being arrogant about my faith, self-righteous about my faith, and being bold in my faith You read Ruth chapter 1 and verse 16, you don't get the impression that Ruth was being arrogant, right? This is a very humble but very bold confession of faith. And so Ruth was very bold, but she certainly was not very arrogant. Now let me give you a few thoughts. I know what time it is. We're going to be out of here on our regular time, I guarantee it. Number one, I want us to notice her attraction to faith. Look at verse 16 and the first part. Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee. Question, who is she talking to? He's she's speaking of Naomi, her mother-in-law, the mother of her husband who died. There was something about Naomi. That attracted Ruth to put her faith in Naomi's God. Something about Naomi's attitude. Touched the heart of Ruth, and made Ruth want to worship the God that Naomi worshiped. Something about the demeanor of Naomi stirred the heart of Ruth. And enticed and motivated Ruth to want to worship the true God Jehovah. Um something about Naomi's faith in God, the way she dealt with situations. The way she handled difficulties, the apparently the way she dealt with her husband. Can you imagine, mothers, if your husband and both your children died suddenly Something about the way Naomi dealt with that heartache and that disappointment and that loneliness, her faith in God stirred the heart of Ruth and prompted Ruth to make the decision I want to worship the God that my mother-in-law worships. I want to know the God that my mother-in-law knows. I want to walk with and live for the God that my mother-in-law lives with. Now let me ask you a question. What's your faith like? What is your testimony? What is your attitude like? Does your walk with God put a desire in the hearts and lives of people that know you to know the God you know? The way you talk, the things you talk about, your attitude towards God and towards others and towards God's people? Does that prompt your family members and friends to want to know the God you know? Something about Naomi and her walk with God and her faith in God. Something about her attitude and her demeanor, her lifestyle. Stirred the heart of her daughter-in-law. Her daughter-in-law said, That's the God I want. It wasn't the God she was raised with, it wasn't a God that she was somehow brainwashed into following. It was a decision she made. I guess I'm asking this. Now, I guess I'm asking this. What is your influence on others? Does it stir them to grow in faith? Does it stir them to want to come to God? Or does it drive them away? Does it drive them away? Some people man you gotta walk on eggshells or you're afraid you're gonna offend them. You know what I'm talking about? Because man, you're scared to death, say or do anything Now that's not gonna who's that's not gonna attract anybody to God. Huh? Man, bite your head off. Hateful, mad, complain about this, complain about that. That doesn't attract anybody, God. There apparently Naomi, even through all the heartache she went through, apparently there was no bitterness, there was no negativity. I'm sure she struggled, she's human But something about the way she dealt that made Naomi made Ruth say, I want the God you have. So the attraction of her faith. Then I notice, second of all, the affliction of her faith. Look with me if you would at verse 15. And she said, This is Naomi, verse 14, Ruth is cleaving to Naomi. She goes, I'm not leaving you, I'm staying with you. Wherever you go, I'm going with you. And then look what Naomi says in verse 15. She said, Behold Thy sister-in-law is going back to her people and under her gods, return thou after thy sister-in-law. She says, listen, don't come with me. Just go on back. Go on back to what you grew up with. You just just go on back. Look at verse 19. So they she can't Naomi can't talk Ruth out of following her. So look what happens in verse 19. So they went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass when they were come to Bethlehem that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi? She said to them, Call me not Naomi, call me Marah, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me? And Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitus, her daughter-in-law, with her. They returned out of the country of Moab and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the barley harvest. Her faith in God. Here is someone that stirred her to trust in God. And then they always tell her, Don't follow me You're going back. She gets there, and they're poor. And they're under in fact she uses the word affliction. When we put our faith in God, hey, when we come to the point in our life, whether it's the moment of salvation, when we decide we're going to trust Jesus Christ our Savior, or maybe as a believer, and I say, you know I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to live for God. I'm just going to trust God with my needs. You know what? It doesn't always work out great as far as the circumstances are concerned at the moment. I found that many times when people decide to trust God, friends, family, and associates often abandon them. I don't know about you. I tried putting myself in Ruth's shoes. Now I don't wear women's shoes, but I tried myself. Don't go there, right, Pat That was a inside joke from the Men's Mountain Getaway. And don't imagine stuff. It's okay. I try and put myself in Ruth's shoes. Naomi's been such an inspiration to me. My heart has been stirred. I've repented. I've forsaken the false gods that I grew up with. I'm leaving my family, my homeland, and I'm committing myself to this woman's God and her people. And then she turns around and says, go back home. What? Don't you realize what I'm saying? Don't you realize the commitment I'm making? The what I'm leaving? You don't want to be with me going home. You know, sometimes the people who are very influential in bringing us to the Lord sometimes disappoint us. Huh? Maybe somebody, uh, I got saved years ago. It was 31 years ago this past Thursday. I trusted Christ as Savior. This past Friday. I trusted Christ as Savior. I was two when I got saved, but uh no. Um there was two men in the church took me under the wing and disciple me. I thank God for those two men They taught me to memorize scripture. They went through, taught me how to study my Bible. They taught me some basic doctrines. In shorts, they were tremendous. They spent about six months just discipling me. God began stirring my heart, God began leading me to go off to Bible college. When I made the decision to go off to Bible college, one of those men came over to my one of those men came over to my house, sat in my house till one o'clock in the morning talking me out of going He said the school I wanted to go to was too narrow-minded. It was Tennessee Temple, it was Independent Fundamental Baptist Church. I knew it was where God wanted me to. And he spent till one o'clock in the morning trying to talk me out of doing what I knew God wanted me to do I was disappointed. Our faith, when we put our faith in God, sometimes it's tested Sometimes going to challenge us. You know what God tries to do? God wants to wean us from our faith in man so we get our faith in him. Because man's going to fail you every time. Ladies, if you are looking for your to your husband to do for you what only God can do for you, you're going to be disappointed every time. Man, if you're anticipating from your wife to do something for you that only God can do for you, you're going to be disappointed every time. Your parents cannot be to you, children, but you need God to be to you. And so she put her faith in God, she made this tremendous confession of faith, she commits herself, and Naomi turns around and says, Going back. But she doesn't let it phase her. I'm going with you. I'm not leaving. God give us some Christian mothers, husbands, children, parents, grandparents, whatever, teenagers. That say, I don't care what anybody else does, I'm gonna live for God. If I'm the only person in my school that believes the Bible and does write and keeps myself pure and honors God and has a testimony of faith in Jesus Christ. If I'm the only one, I'm the only one. If I'm the only man on the job, if I'm the only person in the school, if I'm the only one in the neighborhood who believes that God is who he says he is, and the Bible is what it says is, if I'm the only one, I'll be the only one. Our faith's going to be tested. Her faith was tested by her mother. Her faith was tested by sorrow. I believe Ruth loved her husband. And now he's dead. I've often seen one of two things happen at funerals. Either through the death of a loved one, a person comes closer to God. And seeks the Lord for comfort and strength and gets closer to God, or they get bitter. And they get hard and they get farther from God. Hey, Ruth, through the death of her husband, her father-in-law, her brother-in-law, she was drawn closer to God Or faith was tried by Naomi's reaction, or faith was tried by sorrow, or faith was tried by poverty. What would happen? I wonder how many people we would see trust the Lord if we told him, hey, if you trust Christ, you're going to lose all your income, you're going to lose your house, you're going to lose everything. Oh yeah, I want to get saved. But you know what? Sometimes that happens. Ruth's decision to follow Naomi and worship Naomi's God led her back to Israel where they had to beg for food. Now I would venture to say she probably could have went back to her home and lived just fine. And listen, don't believe these preachers on TVs They're lying when they tell you if you have enough faith, you're going to have lots of money, you're going to have great health, everything's going to be fine if you have faith. Many of the people in the Bible, because of their faith, they suffered greatly. She was tested by poverty. Now please don't be offended by this, but let me just say this. This new worldly contemporary Christianity tries to use wealth And pleasure to attract people to faith in Jesus Christ. And wealth and pleasure will never produce genuine faith in God. It was when Naomi was in extreme sorrow and poverty that Ruth was brought to the Lord. I put this statement down. I like this statement. It is not what we have that attracts others to Jesus Christ. It is what we are that attracts others to Jesus Christ. Now I thank God for the facilities God has given Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Amen? We got beautiful uh chandeliers. We have comfortable seats. I think they're a little too comfortable personally. But um uh we've got all these things all paid for. Thank God for all it thank God for the people that gave and sacrificed so we can have it. But listen These chandeliers aren't going to bring people to Jesus Christ. It's how we live as Christians that's going to influence people for Jesus Christ. Wasn't Naomi's wealth and her poverty and the rock and roll lifestyle, yeah man, I'm having a great time, that attracted Ruth to Naomi's God It was in sorrow and heartache and pain and poverty, how what she was that attracted Ruth to Naomi's God. Don't buy into this modern Christianity and it's all celebrate, rock and roll, good times, fun stuff. Amen? Poverty. The apparent coldness of Naomi tried her faith. If you would, and I'm I'm winding down, believe it or not, if you would, I want you to notice one passage of scripture in a New Testament. If you would turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. And I know you guys are taking your mothers out for lunch. Amen. I've got Pizza Hut delivering pizza for my boy. Um but I wanna I want to leave you with something First Peter chapter three. First Peter chapter three. Verse number one. Likewise, ye wives. Now, he's talking to wives, and he's talking about wives who have a husband that's either unsaved or not right with the Lord Now that's the context, but the application, the principle applies across the board. Alright, so don't limit it just to that setting. The principle is true for all of us. Likewise, you wise, be in subjection to your own husbands. That if any obey not the word, they also may without the word, talking about the Bible, be won by the conversation of the wives. Now the word conversation, you say, I know that means how you talk. That's true, but it's more than that. It's also how you live your life, by the lifestyle. So notice notice how the backslidden or unsaved spouse is one to the Lord. Not by preaching at him necessarily, but by the conversation of the wife, the lifestyle. And he goes on, expounds. While they behold your chase conversation, in other words, your godly life, pure and godly, coupled with fear. You fear God Whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning, plaiding of the hair and wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. Now, he's not saying here it's wrong for a woman to fix her hair. Alright? He's not saying it's wrong for a woman to wear jewelry. Some people take it that way, but that's not what he's saying. We're all for ladies fixing their hair. There's nothing wrong with joy and go overboard, but it's not wrong with it. It's not and look, it says the putting on of apparel. Ladies, please put on apparel. In fact, there's a bunch could put on a lot more. So it's not talking about that these are wrong things to do. But look what he says. In other words, this is the principle. It's not the stuff you have. That's going to win that person to Christ. It's what you are. Look at the next verse. But let it be the hidden man of the what? Heart. And that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God, a great price. Huh? It wasn't what Naomi had that attracted Ruth to her God. And by the way, let me say a word to parents here. It's not the stuff we give our kids that's going to attract them to our God. It's our faith in our God. It's what we are as a Christian that's going to attract. Listen, we're not going to win Barrett County, Oakland to the Lord, because we have cool stuff There's nothing wrong with having this nice stuff. But what we're going to win with is what we are. We get out, we're honest, we're kind, we're pure, we're holy, we're true. Genuine? You get out and bite people's heads off and hateful and this, that, and the other. I don't know anybody the Lord. Say, oh they did me wrong. Yes, they did Jesus wrong too. And you know what he said? Father, forgive them. So the attraction of her faith, the affliction of her faith, and I am with this, the attribute of her faith. In other words, what did her faith consist of? Well, she says, thy people shall be my people. She threw her lot in with God's people. The Jews were hated by the surrounding countries, they were persecuted, and they were certainly far from perfect. But Ruth said, I want to be part of God's people. They're not everything. They're certainly not perfect. They've got their heap of problems. But you know what she said? They're a whole lot better than the Moabites. I'd rather be with God's people with all their faults than with the world's people and all their virtues Huh? Listen, some of us here, we've run with both crowds. Some of y'all grew up in church, some of y'all didn't. And you've been out there with the world. Drinking to carry it on, dancing, rock and rolling. And I'll tell you this, I'd far rather be with imperfect God's people than the best of the world's people. Thy people shall be my people. I tell you, there's something wrong in the thinking of a Christian that does not want to be with other Christians. Something messed up. Thy people shall be my people. The attributes of her faith. Her faith consisted of appreciating God's people. She wouldn't be with God's people. With all their faults, she wouldn't be with God's people. But her faith also, and this is the key, and I am with this, was in God. She didn't say, thy faith shall be my faith. She said, thy God shall be my God. Yep, for sure, if you die now, you go to heaven. Oh yeah, how do you know? I've got faith. Everybody's faith. That's not what gets you to heaven. That's not what changes your life. That's not what meets your needs. Faith It's faith in God. It's faith in Jesus Christ that saves my soul. Every person died and went to hell had faith in something. But it was the wrong thing. God, Jehovah, the true and living God that's alive, that is aware of me and all that. Knows my past, knows the future, gave his son to die for me. That is the one that my faith is in. Your God shall be my God Man old man and his son were out canoeing, and I thought of this when we were down four-wheeling. I'd rather four-wheel the canoe. But old man and son, they were on this overnight canoeing camping trip. It wasn't his son, it was an old man and a young man And they're canoeing along. The old man looks at the rock formation on the side and some of you have heard this sport, looks at the rock formation on the side, he says, Son, what do you know about geography? Or geo Geol geometry. Geology. What do you know about rocks? And the son said and the boy said, uh nothing really. The old man said, you've lost a third of your life. They went down a little ways. Beautiful plants and trees. The old man said, Son, what do you know about botany? Son said, the boy said, I don't even know what it is. He said it's the study of plants and trees and flowers. He says, I don't know anything about it. You've lost another third of your life Sunset, it got dark, we're going to go a little ways, and the stars came out, it was just beautiful. The old man said to the boy, boy, what do you know about astronomy? Not astrology. We know about stars and stuff. Boy said, I don't I I don't know anything about it. You've lost another third of your life. Just as they're about to pull out, they hit some rapids. Next thing you knew, the canoe turned over, and they're flouring around, and the boy starts swimming for short and he looks back and the old man's going like this. Oh, help, help. And the boy said, Oh man, what do you know about swimming? He goes, I don't know how to swim. He says, you've lost all your life. And listen, you can accure money, fame, education, and all that. But if you don't know the true and living God, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, and you die that way, you have lost everything. Everything. Ruth didn't have any money. Her husband was dead. She lost all her friends back in Moa. But she had God. And that made all the difference. I don't know what problems you're facing. I don't know what situations you have. I don't know what needs you have. But if you'll trust God, you'll be okay. It'll be alright. I'm not saying you'll get rich. I'm not saying everything's going to be fine right away, but I am saying this: if you have God You've got everything you need, and He'll take care of you. Now, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure, certain from Scripture, that when you die, your sins will be on your way to heaven. You're in desperate need Is Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? And you can trust him this morning. Very simply, very easily. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to have faith in you. Help us to trust you, to follow Naomi, follow uh Ruth's testimony. And recognize you as our God and trust you and commit ourselves to you. Lord, some of us need to be more like Naomi and have a positive influence on others and be what we ought to be and the attitude, the spirit about us. That would attract others to the God that's been so good to us. Lord, perhaps there's some here this morning need to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I pray that today would be that important day. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many of you are not?