Thank you, Pastor. In 2021, I had this unbelievably difficult schedule. We're coming out of COVID and we're supposed to start the year. Uh I I I probably have the dates mess up just a little bit. Like the third through the sixth of January we were supposed to be in Onspoke, Germany, and then the tenth through the 15th, we're going to be in Spangdalum, Germany. And then the 17th through the 20th, we were going to be in a town called Hohenfels. Germany. On the 21st, we would fly back to the United States, getting home when the wee hours of the 22nd finally. And then on the twenty-third, we had to be in Tucson, Arizona, and we were driving. So think about that for just a second after the jet lag and all of that to then have to drive in one day From uh Raleigh from Accent, North Carolina, all the way to Tucson, Arizona. After the week in Tucson, Arizona, the next week was in Abilene, Texas. And then after Abilene, Texas I went to Fruitland Park, Florida. Now, you understand that there is a long distance between Fruitland Park, Florida and Abilene, Texas. Those meetings all ending on Friday, having to travel all the day on Saturday I need to talk to the guy who does my schedule and straighten him out because he obviously doesn't own a map, all right? That's just the way it is. And so After that, we had a week between another meeting in Kissimmee, Florida. And so I called a preacher friend of mine, because we're obviously going to be exhausted. By the way, the schedule changed significantly because of COVID But the the schedule that came out of it was actually worse than the schedule that I had already scheduled. And so I called a preacher friend of mine and said, listen Pastor. His name is Pastor Sears. He's in Belushi County, Florida, just outside of Orlando. And they have a very nice prophet's chamber, missions house like you do uh three little uh bedroom house right there on the property. I said, would it be all right if we spent a couple of days there just to recuperate from all the traveling? And he said, sure. While you're at it, why don't you preach for me? Alright, that's not what I was planning So I'm gonna preach for him Sunday morning and Sunday night and end up preaching for him on Wednesday night. So that's schedule, everything's going fine. Our schedule alters quite a bit between then uh the time we scheduled it and the time we actually got there. But in in the first part of December, I get a phone call from Pastor Sears. Now Your pastor has not, nor has I think any pastor I've ever had, approached me and said, I really need you to preach on this topic right here. Can you do it for me That's a terrible thing to do. If I get up and preach on backslidd and deacons' wives, right? And I'm standing at the back door. I don't know who the deacons are, so if your phone rings, pick it up. Anyway, I'm standing at the back door and I'm shaking hands and a deacon's wife said Did pastor tell you about me? I want to be able to look at them and say, absolutely not. The Holy Ghost laid that message on my heart. So pastors, when I'm coming for revival, never tell me what to preach They expect me to preach the Word of God, but they don't tell me the topics or the passages or anything like that. But Pastor Sears calls me up. I'm not going to be preaching a revival for him. And he says this He said, Brother Harper, and we've known each other for twenty-five years. He said, I'm going to do something unusual in my pulpit ministry this year at Velusia County Baptist Church. He said, I'm not going to preach through the Bible expositorily, but what I'm going to do is two messages in a row, I'm going to preach on Genesis, then two messages on Exodus, then two messages on Leviticus. In other words, Sunday morning and Sunday night would be Genesis, Wednesday night and Sunday morning would be Exodus, and then uh Sunday night and the next Wednesday night would be Leviticus. You see how it's going He says, I'm not going to do it though on missions conference and I'm not going to do it during our revival and he gives me the times that he's not going to do it And I'm sitting there because I know what's coming. He's going to tell me what book is going to fall on the Sunday that I'm there. And I am there secretly and quietly praying under my own breath, dear Lord, dear Lord, please Let it be judges. Let it be judges, Lord. Please let it be judges. And Lord, if it's not judges, oh please, oh please, oh please Let it be 1 Samuel. But Lord, if it's not, judges, and it's not 1 Samuel. Whatever you have to do, please don't let it be, as he said. I want you to preach on the book of Ruth I didn't want to preach out the book of Ruth. Ruth's a girl book. No walls fall down. No one's hands cleaving to a sword. Nobody's killing 800 men with a spear, no one is uh no one is going out in the into a in a into a valley and fighting a giant with a sling. There's none of that stuff that's gonna happen. It's a girl book. The book of Ruth, excuse me just for a moment It's a Hallmark movie. You say, Brother Harper, wait a minute, wait a minute, what do you mean? Yeah, every year, you know those Hallmark movies? My wife, every Christmas, wants me to sit down and watch one of those Hallmark movies with her And finally, I will relent because we've been married forty years. I'll sit on the couch beside of her. We'll turn on that Hallmark movie in about two and a half minutes after the credits have rolled. I I I look at her and say, well, that guy's gonna end up with that girl, and I tell her how it's going to end. Because they only have one plot for all of those movies. Then she gets mad at me and she refuses to let me watch any more Hallmark movies that year. I have to deal with that every single year, men. It's like when your wife gives you the silent treatment and it's been about three or four hours and you're just working in your office and all of a sudden you realize Hey, I'm getting hungry. I better fix this silent treatment thing. That's exactly what happens with me. So I'm not allowed to watch any Hallmark movies. But anyway, the Book of Ruth is a Hallmark movie. You think about the plot of the Book of Ruth You have this young workaholic woman who relocates to a different area. She's a fish out of water. She doesn't know anybody there except the one friend that she has in the whole place. She goes to work early in the morning. She comes home late at night taking care of her one friend. Until one day her eyes meet the eyes of her of the rich, wealthy landowner, their hearts become knit together, they overcome the differences they have from being from different backgrounds, and they end up living happily ever after. Is that not a Hallmark movie? Or it's a Disney movie. If you take the words by the way, let's say let's say this better. It's an Old Disney movie. New Disney movies I don't know anything about, but it's an old Disney movie. You think about it, you replace mother-in-law with the word stepmother instead. You have a girl that comes into town, the only person that she can live with is her uh evil stepmother, and this woman makes her work All day she gets up early in the morning and gleans food and brings it home and she works till late in the evening until one day after overcoming that She sees the uh the rich wealthy landowner. And there's not uh there's not a glass slipper in this story, but there is a pretty prominent shoe in this story And uh they fall in love with each other, they marry each other, and she becomes part of the royal family of the nation of Israel. That's a Disney movie. I thought, I don't want to preach on Ruth, but the pastor asked me to. I'm going to do what the pastor said. So I decided, although I've read the book several times, I decided to just sit down and read the book of Ruth fifty times I'd read several times and get a cup of tea, or I'd read several more times and then check my email and then read several more times. And I before I stu used any commentaries or any language helps, I just read the book of Ruth fifty times I became aware of two things about the book of Ruth. Number one, I like Ruth. Ruth is not just some uh woman in a books book in the Bible. She is a hero in the book of the Bible. She has the faith of a of a uh of an Abraham. She has the stick to us of a of an Elisha. And she has the testimony of an apostle Paul when you study Ruth a little bit. I became impressed with the fact that I really, really like Ruth I also became impressed with the fact that I really, really don't like Naomi. Now I realize somebody in this auditorium is gonna meet me at the back door and you're gonna say, My mom's name was Naomi. Listen, I I want to help you with this, just like I said about Mrs. Jones the other day. I'm not talking about your mom. I'm not talking about anybody in your family. I'm talking about the biblical character Naomi. And I don't care a lot for her. She does not do one thing scriptural. She does not say one thing spiritual in the entire book. The closest thing she comes to to saying something spiritual is she says, bless your heart a few times We already talked about that briefly, but I'll remind you, you can say anything you want about someone as long as you add bless your heart. You know, oh she's put on several pounds. Bless her heart You can say whatever you want, it's okay. And Naomi does do that in this entire book. You find Ruth getting up every single day, going out to work, going out to glean, bringing home food You find Naomi sitting there with a Diet Coke in her hand watching her stories when Ruth comes home at the end of the day. You don't see uh Naomi one time in the book Thanking Ruth for anything. You never see her praising God and you never see her praying in the entire book. I'm not a big fan of Naomi. I'll preach on her probably tomorrow night, and I hate to say it. You may not be a fan of Naomi by the time we get finished really looking at her. I had a preacher's wife tell me, she said, Well, Brother Harper, your problem with Naomi is you read her in black and white You have to read her in color. I don't know what that means. I don't have a clue what she's trying to say, and yes, I am going to read her in black and white. Let me give you the background of the book before we get into it. And I well I will warn you we're going to use some relatively technical terms, but we'll work through them as we go through them We are going to talk about the Levitical Law, which is significant in this book. And we are also going to talk about, maybe a term most of you haven't heard, the Leviatical Law or the Law of the Levi, that we find in the book of Deuteronomy We're going to find both of those things here. This w Bible scholars will uh debate on when this book takes place. A majority of them say it takes place during the time of Gideon. We know it takes during the time uh take place during the time of the judges. Because the Bible clearly, of course, says that. There's a famine in the land, and so a man by the name of Elimelech and his wife Naomi, which means the pleasant one, they get up and they leave The nation of Israel, the city of Bethlehem, also known, the definition of that city is the house of bread. They leave the house of bread because they don't have any bread to go get bread in a heathen country by the name of Moam. Moab and Israel have had a rocky relationship, the very first nation that oppresses the nation of Israel during the time of the judgment of Moab, just about eighty years before this. There is no evidence anywhere that Elimelech and Naomi besought the Lord, asked for his guidance, asked for his guidance, asked for his blessing on their trip. There's no evidence they talked to a priest. There is no evidence they went to the tabernacle about this. They needed bread. They got up and they left for bread They left with their two sons, Malon and Kilion. Their names mean sickly and wasting away. Couple strappin' young fellas, these guys are They leave the land of Bethlehem. They go to a nation that worships heathen gods. The main religion of the nation of Moab at the time was to worship the god Kemesh. Kemesh was a fish god and they worshipped the fish god Kemesh. We find what happens as they travel that things go horribly wrong And we're going to see this story of Ruth this evening. I want you to see this selfless servant in this lady by the name of Ruth And you'll see easily why God chose to bless her. Look if you will, Ruth chapter one. I'm going to ask you to keep your Bible open, please, uh till the end, because we will, although we'll summarize Chapters 2 and 3 we won't read again till chapter 4. Look at verse 1. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled That there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi, and the name of his two sons, Malon and Kileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. And they came into the country of Moab and continued there. Let's stop for just a moment to give you a little bit more background. Most bible scholars believe, although there's no scriptural evidence to this, it doesn't mean they're right, it doesn't mean they're wrong, that it was about five years after they got there when verse three took place. And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died And she was left and her two sons. Now, verse 4 is a monumental decision in the life of Naomi, and we'll talk about it in a moment. And they took them wives of the women of Moab, the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth, and they dwelled there about ten years. And Melon and Kilion died also. Not hard to understand how sickly and wasting away. died while they were still in Moam. Thou died also both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Then she arose with her daughters in law, that uh that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her, and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah. And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law Go, return each to her husband's house. The Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with me and the with uh with the dead and with me. Let me point that out. That's one of those bless your heart moments But Naomi is not just talking about location when she says, go live in the house with your mother-in-law. She's talking about much more than that, and she's going to reveal it to us here in just a few verses. Notice verse nine, the Lord grant you that you may find rest, each of you, in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice and wept. And they said unto her, Surely we'll return with thee unto thy people. And Naomi said, Turn again my daughters. Why uh why will you go with me? Are there yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands? Turn again, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, if I should have a husband also tonight And should also bear sons, would you tarry for them till they were grown? Would you stay for them from having husbands? Nay, my daughters, for it grieveth me much for your sakes, that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me They lifted up their voice and wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her. Now watch, Orpah has just walked away. Naomi is now going to tell us what she really told Orpah and Ruth. Watch verse 15. And if you're a Naomi apologist, I pretty much defy you to defend verse 15. Notice. And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people. And unto her gods, return thou after thy sister-in-law, one of the people of Almighty God Tells Ruth to do what your sister did and go worship false gods. Verse 16, Ruth is going to speak. The whole book changes when Ruth speaks. And Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee. Or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee in me When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then she left, speaking unto her. I want to preach the message tonight entitled Ruth the Hero. Remember this, we've mentioned this one other time This book that we're reading right here, the book of Ruth, it does not take place in Maryland in 2025. This takes place in the nation of Israel. The laws that cover the United States of America are not the laws that this book is going to be dealing with as it deals with them throughout the entire book. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you again for our time together. Lord, we pray that you bless the message. Father, help us as we look at this young Moabite woman. As we look at her faith and her stand and her stability, Father, and we ask that you help us to have a servant's heart like she has. Father, we'll see your blessings when we serve others. In Jesus' name, amen. Notice how the book starts, number one, with sadness You find Naomi, and I'm willing to give Naomi every benefit of the doubt. Maybe she did not want to go to Moab. Maybe she and her husband had a long discussion about it. I do not know. I do picture the pleasant one. This young woman, Naomi As she's packing the cart to move from the nation of Judah or the tri uh tribe of Judah uh over to the nation of Moab. I can see her as she packs her boys sickly and wasting away his belongings and loading them up. I can almost hear her whistling a happy tune as the pleasant one packs up. And she moves, they move over to the land of Moab. And then her husband dies Naomi has lost her husband. We see the sadness. First off, I want you to see her loss. She loses the man that is the dearest to her heart. Now understand this. When Elimelech dies, Naomi, unlike here in the United States, does not inherit anything That's not how the law of Moses worked. That's not how the Levitical law worked. When when uh Limelech died, uh Malon automatically inherits everything When Melon dies, Kilion inherits everything. The Bible had set it up in the book of Joshua when God divided the land among families that it would pass From the male to the male, that's how it was set up. Naomi should have returned home right then. If we give her the benefit of the doubt and decide that she went over there because Elimelech wanted to go over there, why didn't she turn around and go back? See They have not just left the place with no bread. They've gone to a place where there is no God. Jehovah isn't worship there. There is no tabernacle there. There are no feasts there. There are no people making sacrifices there. They have left behind everything that they believe to fit in in a foreign country away from their God where what where a false God is worshipped every day. She's got an opportunity now. She can go back to the land of Bethlehem, take her two sickly and wasting away boys, and move back to the old homestead, if you will the land that was passed down from Melomelech's dad and his grandfather and his grandfather and Malon and uh and Kilion could be happy there for the rest of their life. But instead She decides to let them stay and marry Moabite women. The book of Deuteronomy tells us that a man, a Jewish man, who marries a Moabite, the Bible does not prohibit uh an Israelite from marrying a Moabite. It does prohibit them from marrying a Canaanite. But if he marries a Moabite and moves back into Israel with her, that woman cannot be naturalized. She cannot be a citizen of the nation of Israel. Listen to this, for ten generations So in other words, when these men decided to marry Moabite women, they decided never to go back to the nation of Israel. They decided never to go back to the tabernacle. They decided to never go back and have the feast of Pentecost. They decided to never go back And celebrate the Passover. They're going to stay right there in this heathen country, married to these heathen women that worship false gods for the rest of their life. In other words, they have made their decision as a family. If we wanted to blame Elimelech at the beginning, he cannot be blamed now. First off, we saw the loss. Then we knew noticed the loneliness after ten years of being married with no grand no children. Naomi has no grandchildren. And now the sons die. Now she's lost her husband. She's lost her two sons. She has no grandchildren. She has no real family left except two daughters-in-law. By the way, according to Levitical law, as soon as the sons die When they had married a Moabite, the marriages were over. That's it. They're not even related to Naomi anymore, but they still act like they are Now they follow Naomi, who is now going back to Bethlehem. Why? Because somebody told her that God had put bla had put bread there It's not Naomi that says, praise the Lord, the Lord has given us bread. Somebody told her there's bread there. She left her bread. She's going home for bread. God had nothing to do with her decision. She as as she gets up and packs up, Orpah and Ruth go with her to the border. Now, understand, that is not at that moment the decision to stay with her That was actually the custom in the day. If you had a family member who was leaving the country, you didn't just stand on the front porch and wave. You went to the border with them to say goodbye So Urpa and Ruth have gone to the border. We do the same thing in the United States, but we don't go to the border. You have companies show up at your house unannounced And they stay at your house for three weeks, and it's finally time for them to leave, and you're so excited that they're leaving, and what you want to do is just sit there in your easy chair and watch March Madness while they leave, but you can't do that. It's an unwritten law in the good old United States of America. You have to go to the front porch. You have to watch them load their car You have to watch them as they start their car after strapping their children in. You've got to watch and do this while they put the car in reverse. You've got to continue to wave as they back out of your driveway. You've got to continue to wave as they head up the road. And until you can no longer see their brake lights You have to keep waiting. That's our custom here. No one can break it. You're an evil person if you break it. But at this time in these two nations, the custom was to accompany them to the border. That's what Ruth and Orpa have done. Naomi, we saw her loss, we saw her loneliness. Now we see her leaving. She's going back to the place of bread. And Orpah says, and Ruth says, we want to go with you. And she says, No, no. Go home. And then she lays out, if you will, please, I mentioned the law of the Levere. She actually lays out the exact law the way it is She says, I don't I'm too old to get married. If I did get married tonight, if I did bear another son, would you wait till they were old enough to marry you? Because those girls would have been past to the next male heir from uh from Naomi. That's what was supposed to happen. That's what the law of the Levi said. They would have been her husband's brother. That's what Levi means in Hebrew Now she's leaving. She's going home. She says you stay here, you don't go, or believes. Then that despicable statement from Naomi, and I'm sorry, I'm not going to be nice about that, your sister-in-law left She went home to her mother's house. She went home to worship her gods. You go with her. But then everything changes in the next verse. Somehow, I don't understand, this song has become part of wedding ceremonies. They've taken what Ruth says to her mother-in-law. If I'm a groom and my wife, my supposed wife, my future wife, is singing to me something that was sung to a mother-in-law? I gotta rethink this wedding union right there. That's all there is to it. You know what the difference is between outlaws and in laws? Outlaws are wanted. But she's going to say this to her mother-in-law. And everybody seems to think she's saying this about her mother-in-law. She is saying it in fact to her mother-in-law, but I don't think she's saying it about her mother-in-law. Notice what she says. Finally, Ruth says, stop it. Entreat me not to leave thee. Don't stop telling me to go. I'm not going. I'm going with you. For whither thou goest, I will go Now I c I can think of someone else. You gotta remember this. Ruth doesn't know anything about Bethlehem. She's not gone on TripAdvisor and looked up some things. She's not looked up a verbo or an Airbnb where she can stay when she gets there. She's not seen uh Naomi's pictures of Maylon and Killian swinging on the tire swing in the backyard. She doesn't know what the neighborhood is like. She doesn't know what the house looks like. She doesn't know any of that. She's most likely never been in the nation of Israel at any time. And yet she says, I'm going someplace. I don't even know what it's like. I don't even know exactly where it is. I can't pull it up on my Google Maps and find direction, but I'm going where I don't know where I'm going. Doesn't that sound like Abraham to you? Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. It says that Abraham went looking for a city whose builder and maker is God God, he didn't know where he was going. He just went. Just like Ruth. She doesn't know where she's going. She just goes. Now, I do believe this, and I think I'll show it to you here in just a minute. If Naomi was heading to Egypt I don't think Ruth would have gone with her. I don't think Ruth is saying here, I'm going I know she loves her mother-in-law, I know she is faithful to her and she serves her through the entire book. But if Naomi were heading uh to uh to someplace else other than the nation of Israel, I don't think Ruth would have followed her. I think Ruth is going with Naomi because Naomi's going where Ruth really wants to go. See, trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not to thine understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct thy path. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. She says, Whither thou goest, will I go. I want you to notice her direction is right. Notice number two, though, her dwelling is right. Where thou lodgest, will I lodge. You know, she again doesn't know anything about the house When she gets into the nation of Israel, she is not going to be welcomed into the nation of Israel. They're not going to hold out their arms and shake her hand and say welcome as you read the entire book She's always referred to in one of these ways, either the woman that the woman that came with Naomi, or she's referred to as Ruth the Moabitus. Even when Boaz announces that he's going to marry her at the end of the book, he still says, I'm going to marry Ruth. The Moabitus. She is not welcomed in. She doesn't know where she's going to live. The law allowed Naomi to live in her husband's house until the day she died It did not then pass it on to Ruth. Ruth owns nothing. Ruth doesn't own one square inch of land. That's not the way the nation of Israel worked. The nation of Israel was designed so that the land stayed in the family. Ruth is not in the family. She is a Moabitus, and Moabites could the Moabites could not own land in Israel Jesus says, where you live, I'm going to live. I'm going to live right there. I'm not going to leave you. Stop telling me not to go with you. By the way, doesn't that sound a little bit like someone we talked to about earlier in the week? As the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. Doesn't she have the tenacity of an Elisha? When Naomi says leave, she says, nope, I'm not leaving, I'm going with you She doesn't know where she's going to live. And by the way, Naomi is much older than Ruth. She admits that to us in verse 8, I believe it is. She's much older than Ruth. She's going to die before Ruth. When r when Naomi dies Ruth now is going to become a homeless person. She can't have a house in the nation of Israel. She's going to live either on the streets or find someone to take her in out of kindness. She has no promise of a dwelling place after the end of Naomi. She is going to be a stranded, unnaturalized person from a foreign country. That isn't welcomed in the nation of Israel. Notice. We see that she says first about her direction. I'm going where you're going. Whether thou goest, I will go Her dwelling, where thou lodgest, will I lodge. Her doctrine. The only way for Ruth to fit in, quote unquote, in the nation of Israel is if she immerses herself in their religion If everybody gets up on uh if everybody stays in their house on Saturday because it's the Sabbath and Ruth goes out and goes for a six-mile jog, do you think that they're going to welcome her into the nation of Israel? Or do you think they're going to look at her as a blasphemer and a lawbreaker? If she runs around eating things that are prohibited by the law to eat, if she wears things that she's not supposed to wear, if every time someone goes to a feast She just sits at home and waves at them through the window as they go. Every time they make a sacrifice, she just sits at home and props her feet up. No, that's not what's going to happen when she says, Thy people Shall be my people, she's saying, I'm going to immerse myself in everything in the nation of Israel as best as I can, so that your people welcome me eventually I'm going to immediately love them, and I want them to learn to love me. She says, number one, I'm going to have the right direction. I'm going to have the right dwelling. Number three, I'm going to have the right doctrine. But then there's what I see as a catechismic catechismic difference between what happens next Notice Ruth's entire statement. Look down at it with me, please, if you will. Whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, will I lodge. I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. Watch this. And thy God. My God. You notice she doesn't say, thy God will be my God. She doesn't say, someday, thy God shall be my God. She says in present tense, thy God, my God. She's going to prove what she's saying here in the next verse when she actually makes a promise based upon the name Yahweh, Jehovah. She said, The Lord do so to me, and more also if aught but death part be in me. In other words, I believe what Ruth is saying here is, I I'm gonna live where you're gonna live, I'm gonna go where you're gonna go, and I'm gonna be with the people that you're gonna be with. You know why? Because that's where they worship my God. I don't know who told Ruth about Jehovah God. I don't know if it was Malon or Kileon. I don't know even if it was Naomi But someone, maybe a traveling salesman traveling through, selling sheep in the market, told her about Jehovah God. But she has obviously made a decision. She said, Stop Stop telling me to go home. Stop telling me to go to false gods. Stop telling me to go back to my mother's house. I'm going with you because where you're going, my God is worship. Where are you going to live? My God is worship. Where you're going to have your religion, your feasts and everything, that's where they worship my God. I'm going with you I certainly believe that she loves Naomi, but I think she's making a very strong statement announcing her complete and total surrender to Jehovah God. She says, if uh if aught but death Part D and me. She says, I'm gonna live where you're gonna live, even uh she says, uh uh up until the time of your death. Understand She has committed to staying in the nation of Israel even after Naomi has died. Even after she's no longer welcomed under Naomi's Ruth uh roof even after she doesn't have a home. Notice where it says, I will lie, thy people shall be my people. Where thou diest, will I die Naomi is going to die first, but Ruth is staying there after Naomi dies. This is not a statement of her loyalty and surrender to Naomi. It's her statement of loyalty and surrender to Almighty God. I'm gonna stay right there. Even after you're dead, I'm not going home. Even after I don't have a house, I'm not going back to Moab. Even after I'm a completely ostracized Heathen from another country. I'm still not going back. Because your God is my God. That's what he expects, isn't it? Thou shalt have no other gods before me. How did Jesus say it? No man can serve two masters who either love the one and hate the other or cling to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and man Whereas first John tells us in verses two, verses fifteen through seventeen, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father. But is of the world, and the world passeth away in the lust thereof. He that doeth the will of God abideth forever. The fact is that verse says, If you love the world, the love of the Father is not in you. That is not saying that God stops loving you, because he never stops loving you. It's saying that you can't love the world and him at the same time. Ruth says, I got one God, and I'm going to serve him to the day I die. Even if I have to be homeless to serve him, even if I have to be ostracized to serve him, I'm going to serve him. I'm going to die where you die, even though I don't even have a home. That cannot be just an announcement of her love and faithfulness to Naomi, because her promise goes long after Naomi's life is over. Notice her surrender. Don't you see as she's standing there, like the Apostle Paul, by the way, the first time she announces that she has completely surrendered to the Lord is also the first time that we know that she's saved, isn't it? If we're use if we use that term to describe her. Didn't the Apostle Paul announce his surrender the same exact moment he announced his salvation? What wilt thou have me to do, Lord? I'm here to tell you how can you diminish, as I did, how can you diminish a woman who has the faith to step out of an Abraham? The tenacity of an Elisha, the testimony of an Apostle Paul. This woman isn't just someone to be read about and enjoyed She's a hero. This is someone that we should read about and compare our lives to them and see how we sack up to them Notice, number one, we saw the sadness. Number two, we see the surrender. Number three, I want you to see the service. Ruth gets up after they get there I do want to point this out. Naomi doesn't get up with her. Naomi doesn't say, well, you're going to glean in the field. I think I have a cousin who owns the field up the road. Ruth's never been in Bethlehem. She just walks out of the house looking for a field in which she can glean. The Bible says it was her hat that she ended up in Boaz's field. Naomi doesn't give her directions. Naomi doesn't offer any assistance. Naomi never picks up a crop in the entire book. He just sits at the house. Don't you think that a person, even though it's been a while since Naomi, has been in the nation of Israel, don't you think she still knew about the landscape and the localities of Bethlehem more than Ruth did. Ruth gets up out, goes out early in the morning. I believe it starts in barley harvest, goes all the way to wheat harvest. And she begins to glean. Now, for lack of a better comparison, gleaning was food stamps and welfare in the nation of Israel. Some people didn't own land and couldn't plant crops and things of that nature. And so instead of the government taking care of them, they had a law in the law of Moses that if a reaper dropped food on the ground when he was reaping it, he could not reach down and pick it back up. It was left there for those that were less fortunate, that didn't own crops that they could come along and pick whatever was dropped up. Now, many landowners paid the uh the reapers extra money if they dropped less than they did the week before. It was kind of like a bonus system. They didn't want their crops dropped on the ground, even though that's how it was set up. Ruth begins to glean. One day she goes home carrying 25 pounds worth of food. Another day it's 50 pounds worth of food. She's there early, she's there late. She's there so often that the foreman of Boaz's fields answers Boaz this way. Boaz says, Well, who's that? He says, Oh, that's the Moabite girl that came with Naomi. Boaz takes notice of her. And so he starts to give her some things. He says, I tell you what, why don't you come into the tent with the reapers and drink some water? Oh, the water outside in the hot sun would be a whole lot warmer than the water inside the tent. Then he says, Why don't you come into the tent and have some bread dipped in vinegar? That was a delicacy. Why don't you come into the tent and eat with the reapers And then, don't you think his reapers looked at him and thought, uh-oh, Boaz has lost his mind. Boaz says, I tell you what, guys, when you're gleaning, if you look back and you see that Moabite girl there, just drop big stuff. Drop big stuff on purpose so she can pick it up. Ruth gets up and goes and serves her mother-in-law. As you read this book, do you know what you'll find? Ruth never does one thing for herself. She is always serving her mother-in-law. She's always doing what her mother-in-law wants her to do. She gets up in the morning. She goes back out late, she brings home food for her mother, a mother-in-law that is thankless, who doesn't even ask where the food is coming from for a long time. She just knows food's there, and that's all she's concerned about. See, every time that Ruth walks in the house carrying 25 or 50 pounds worth of food, Naomi is sitting at the table With a knife in one hand, a fork in another, and a napkin tucked down in her shirt like that, ready to eat. The microwave door is already open, and she says, Well, fix me something, I'm starving But Ruth just continues to serve. But then finally, after a while, she comes home with a huge, as we would say, in North Carolina, a whole pastel of food one day. And Naomi says, hey! Where are you getting all this food? And but and Bruce says, I think the guy's name is Boaz. And you can see Naomi. She goes Did you say the last? He's a near Kinsman. Because Naomi is always about Naomi. What Naomi should have done is approached Boaz and asked him to redeem the land of Elimelechs. He was a near kinsman. He was not her husband's brother, but he was a near kinsman. He could purchase the land for Naomi And that way the land and the legacy of Elimelech would go on. But that's what not what Naomi does. Naomi says to Ruth, Ruth, Won't you just not go back out tonight and work really hard? Won't you fill a nice deep bathtub and put some lavender and eucalyptus in there and just soak in that thing and get all nice and clean and then put on your best dress and go to the threshing floor and sleep at the foot of Boaz's bed. Now That was not anything untoured. It was nothing inappropriate about it. It is not some kind of liaison that is going on here. The threshing floor was a building that only had three walls It was then always in a public place, although set off a little bit, but anybody could walk in. It had holes for windows, but no windows there, so that wind could blow through. could dry the crops. It was the threshing floor. So uh Ruth gets all dressed up and goes, Boaz has worked all day long. He finally, instead of going home, sleeps at the threshing floor, and he wakes up in the middle of the night. Wouldn't you have loved to have been a fly on the wall? When Boaz wakes up in the middle of the night and someone's sleeping at the foot of his bed, by the way, it should have been Naomi. But Ruth does that for her does that for her as well. Boaz wakes up and sees her, he says, I know what you want. I'll take care of it tomorrow. Then he takes some parched corn and gives it to her and sends her home. Notice number one, we saw the sadness. Number two, we saw the surrender. Number three, we saw the surface. But lastly, I want you to see the surplus. Turn to chapter four with me, please. Turn to chapter 4. Boaz is going to go to the city gate, and once again, we're going to explain those laws to you one more time just to make sure we understand what happens here. Because when you first read this, you're like, why? Notice what the Bible says Chapter four, verse one Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there, and behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake, because he said there is a nearer kin kinsman of whom Boaz spake, came by, unto whom he said, Ho such a one Turn aside, sit down here, and he turned aside and sat down. Can I point something out while we're reading this about Boaz? No one ever says no to Boaz. I don't know what kind of personality he had, but he had the personality, at least, that made everybody say yes. When Boaz said something, even if it wasn't the right thing to say, everybody still agreed with it. I find that amazing about this man. I'm fascinated by him. Notice verse 2. And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down. Nobody says no to Boaz. Verse 3. And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land which was our brother Elimelech And I thought to advertise thee, saying, Buy it before the inhabitants and before the elders of thy people of my people. If thou wilt redeem it, redeem it. But if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know For there is none to redeem it beside thee, and I am after thee, and he said, I will redeem it. You ever wonder why he says that so quickly? Here's what happened. Remember, in the nation of Israel they did not have realtor signs in the front yard. You didn't have a summer house and a winter house. Once again, the land was divided by God Himself among the families, and it had to stay in the family. So the only way to own more than one piece of land is if you became a redeemer of someone else's land. So Boaz's of this nearer kinsman says, Oh yeah, I'll redeem it. Here's what would happen He would redeem the land, he would pay for it again. Naomi can still live there till the day she dies. But the day after he redeems the land, he can start planting crops. He can start reaping from those crops. He can start making money off of this field. And if he had two sons, when he dies, each son would get a house. That's how it works. He says, yeah, I'll redeem it. I'll pay for it, but I'll start making money off of it right away. But then Boaz says something, and excuse me It's not true what Boaz says. There's nowhere in the law of the nation of Israel that what b that says that what Boaz says is correct. Moabites have no rights in the nation of Israel. But nobody even questions Boaz when he says something that isn't exactly right. Watch what he says. And then it then said Boaz, what day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi? Thou must also abide by also of Ruth the Moabitis, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. No That's just not the way it works. You won't find a scripture anywhere in the Old Testament that says that a Moabite has to be paid for land in the nation of Israel. But Boaz just says it. What Boaz is announcing to us here is that he really wants to marry Ruth. But here's what would happen If this Redeemer purchases the land and marries Ruth, if Ruth has a child, it would not be his child. It would no longer be his land. It would not be his crops. That would now belong to a Limelex family. to pass on down, and it wouldn't be his anymore. So that's why he says what he says in the next verse. And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance Redeem now thy right my uh my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. He says here, if I buy that piece of land and have to marry Ruth It won't be my land anymore. I can't make any money off of it. I'm almost going to buy the land out of charity just for Elimelech. He said, I'm not going to do that. Boaz, who's already revealed his heart, he's okay doing that. Watch what happens, please. I told you there was a shoe involved. Now, this was the manner if uh in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things a man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and this was a testimony in Israel Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee, so he drew off his shoe, and Boaz friend of the elders and to all the people, your witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelex, and all that was Kileon's, and all that was Malon's of the hand of Naomi. He just revealed who he bought it from, didn't he? Watch what he says next. Moreover, Ruth the Moabitus, the wife of Balon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. So Boaz Says, all right, they shake hands, he takes off his shoe and hands it to Boaz. You know, we see all those commercials, don't we? All those commercials for Jared and every kiss begins with K and all those places. There's always some guy getting down on his knees and opening up a little velvet box, or there's some young lady looking out the window, watching the car of her fiance or future fiance pull up, and she's all aflutter Can you imagine when Boaz's carriage pulls up in front of Naomi's house and he gets out carrying a number ten loafer? And he comes up and he kneels down in front of Ruth and he says, Well you'll be mine. Doesn't change whether it's a diamond ring or a shoe. He still asked her to marry him. And then the Lord begins to bless. This woman who has done all that she's done for someone else, even in asking someone to purchase her mother-in-law's land But now the Lord's blessing her. Boaz has married her, and he announced that. All the men of the city, oh, may she be like Leah and Rachel and uh may she be like uh Uh uh what's the other name? I'm sorry I forgot. Uh uh uh Tamar, uh uh bear unto Judah and all of that. She they they they they're all saying, Oh, the Lord's gonna do some great things right here and now. Lord's gonna do some great things and bless you now, Ruth, and Naomi. But watch what happens, please. Go down to will, if you will, to verse 17. And the woman, her neighbors, gave it a name. Ruth has just had a child by the name Uh the uh through uh by Boaz. There is a um I'm sorry, there is a son born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed, and he is the father of Jesse, the father of David. See, it's not just the blessing of a son. It's not just the blessing of a husband. But think about this. In 1 Samuel chapter 15, at the end of the chapter, We find King Saul has rebelled against God. God has rejected him from being king. 1 Samuel 15, 26, thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. He hath also rejected thee from reigning over Israel. Chapter 16 and verse 1 The Lord says to Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. Samuel goes to the house of Jesse. Samuel goes to anoint the next king over the nation of Israel. Samuel goes to anoint the one that is the man after God's own heart. Do you know where he goes? He goes to the very piece of land and the very house that Boaz just redeemed. When oil is poured over the head of the future King David, it's at the house that Boaz redeemed. He's basically in the house, let me put it this way, that Ruth built. By the way, that's strong, strong biblical footing right there. This one is a little bit of conjecture on my part A thousand years later, a man named Caesar Augustus has ordered that the whole world be taxed. A fellow by the name of Joseph And a young woman, a young virgin woman by the name of Mary. By the way, just because Mary was a virgin, that does not mean that she was sinless. She was a sinner just like everyone else. So a nine-month pregnant Mary is on her way on the back of a donkey to go to the city of Bethlehem. Now, we often picture Mary as she travels along in a halo around her head and an aura around her. She's a nine-month pregnant woman. They're walking along. Joseph's walking. She's pulling a donkey. Can you hear her? I can. I can hear her say things like this. Do you have to hit every pothole, Joseph? I think interstate such and such would have been a whole lot smoother ride than this one. We're constantly having to change lanes and everything. Everybody from that was ever descended from David is heading to Bethlehem I imagine that when they started out, uh uh J Joseph has a little rope with a little lead of about a foot and a half as he leads the donkey. By the time they get a couple miles outside of Bethlehem, the donkey's there and Joseph has a seventy-five foot foot rope like this leading along the way. They finally get there. Joseph ties up the donkey, he goes inside to the holiday inn and he comes back out. Can you imagine the moment that Joseph comes back out? He says, uh Honey, yes, sweetheart. There's no rooms. Can you hear Mary? I told you a month ago to contact your cousin and tell him to go up the road and get us a reservation But you said, No, no, no, there'll be plenty of rooms, and now here I am, nine months pregnant, I'm gonna give birth to my baby on the streets of Bethlehem. And Joseph says, Oh no, honey There's a silver lining. There's a barn. Now those of you that have had multiple children, you understand that firstborn, everything has to be perfect. The highest, it's most expensive diapers. You have six or seven pacifiers. Because if a pacifier falls on the floor in the middle of the most sterile environment in the world, you still pick it up You put it in a little case, you put it in a different section on your diaper bag, and pull out one that has been boiled in scalding hot water so that there are no germs on it, and you give that one to that firstborn child. By the time you've had your third or fourth kid You can drop that pacifier on the gat on a floor of a uh bathroom in a gas station. You're gonna pick that pacifier up, and every mom knows I'm telling you the truth. You're gonna pick that pacifier up, you're gonna look at it As if you could see the germs with your microscope eyes, you're going to look at it and go, hmm, and put it back in that kid's mouth. And you know I'm telling you the truth This is her firstborn. Don't you think she wants everything perfect? Do you think she says, Oh, you mean I get to lay my newborn baby where animals eat? She gives birth that night. You know the Bible tells us what city Jesus would be born in. It doesn't say anything in the Old Testament about a manger, a stable. It just gives the city. Can I offer just a little bit of biblical conjecture for a moment? You know the reason I think that Jesus was born in that stable Laid in that manger, other than the fact of where else would a lamb be born but in a stable? Is this, is it not possible? That with all the changes that have happened to Bethlehem over the years and all the wars and all the conquests and everything, isn't it just possible that this Is the same land that Boaz redeemed. Isn't this where Jesse's house used to be? Don't you think God could have snapped his fingers and had a room in the inn What I'm trying to say is, this woman is part of the line of Jesus Christ. Two Gentile women, both associated with Boaz, are part of the Lord's line. One of them is the Moabitus. Ruth. Understand what I'm telling you Ruth just served Naomi. Ruth did two things. She served and surrendered. She wanted no God but God. She didn't care what her country worshipped. She didn't care what her family worshiped. She wasn't going to be dissuaded. She said, thy God, my God. There will I be buried. The Lord do so to me a more also if aught but death part me in thee. Would that every Christian in this room had that level of surrender? Well that every Christian could say, he comes first, second, and third. Oh Brother Harper, what about my wife and my children? You can't be the husband and father that you're supposed to be if you don't put God first. What I'm saying is, this woman, she's not a homework movie. She's a hero. How do you stack up to her? Have her heads bowed and her eyes closed, no one looking around. Every head bowed and every eye closed How many would say tonight, Brother Harper, I know I'm saved. I know if I died today I'd go to heaven. I know this Jesus is my Savior. Would you slip your hand up, please? Hold it high in the air. I know I'm saved. Hold it up. Just keep it up for just a moment. Thank you, may put your hands down. The invitation time is a time of just Total honesty. So how many would honestly look at this book and say, for the harper, the Lord sure did use Ruth To convict me about my surrender and my service. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium and hold it high in the air? Thank you, May. Put your hands down. Just a moment we're going to have an invitation. We're going to invite you to step out of your seat, invite you to come down to the old-fashioned altar when the piano begins to play. You do what the Lord's laid on your heart tonight. Don't hesitate, don't wait, don't look around, don't peek, don't see who else moves, and don't decide to follow a crowd. The Lord dealt with your heart, then you step out on the first first note of the piano. Say it all the time. If you step out on the first note, you won't give the devil two notes to talk you out of it. Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time once again in your house. Lord, I ask that you bless this time of invitation, that you have your will and your way in every heart. Father, I thank you for convicting so many Christian hearts tonight. Now do what only you can do in this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand all over the auditorium. Everyone please standing. No one looking around