Psalm chapter 40 is where we're at. And uh I want to begin reading in verse number six. We're working our way verse by verse down through here. And I'm going to read verse 6 through 9. I should have told you this before. If you would, find Hebrews chapter 10 also, and just stick something in there. I should have said that up front, give you a little time. I'm going to read from Psalm 40 to get us started, make a few comments, and we're going to go back and forth between Hebrews 10 and Psalm 40 And there might be one or two other passages in there that will touch on it. And I want to get this. If I wouldn't take so long telling these jokes, we'd get a quicker start. All right, Psalm 40, are you there? Look at verse number six. It says, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. He says sacrifice and offering God did not desire, speaking of the Lord. He says, you don't desire sacrifice and offering. Thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sin offering thou hast not required. Then I said, Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written to me. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. I've preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. I've entitled the message, and I get it from verse 6 there, the first two words of verse 6, Sacrifice and Offering. And uh let's look at what he's saying here and and how it might apply to us. And I think tonight's message, if it goes the way I anticipate, the way I see it I think it'll tie right into having the Lord's Supper. I think the two go hand in hand. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us in this message. Father in heaven So we look at this passage of Scripture. Lord, we first of all want to recognize and acknowledge to you that you are the author of this. You have given us this. through the through the mind and the pen of King David. You've preserved it for us all these many years And so I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Spirit, guide my thinking, as I yield myself as completely as I know how, Lord, as I'm able to. I yield myself to you I pray that you would teach and speak through me what this passage is teaching us, what it has for us. And so give us open hearts and minds. Help us to think Help us to comprehend what's going on here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Verse number six is actually a pretty significant transition in this whole chapter 40 We spent a good bit of time on the first five verses, and if you remember, we emphasize the fact that verses one through five is David's testimony of praise for his deliverance. From this Miery pl uh from this horrible pit, the miry clay. And uh he just it's a tremendous statement. Last week if you remember we looked at its progressive praise. He's just praising the Lord more and more and more for what God did for him and and delivering him and establish him, getting his life straightened out. We don't know the circumstances exactly, but Whatever it is, he's rejoicing in the Lord. And the fact of the matter is, David is really big on testifying for what God does for him. You read through his Psalms and over and over, and actually you read his the account of his life in 2 Samuel. And David over and over again is testifying how good God is to him and what God's done for him. And he just is really big on testifying to God's goodness. And um, by the way, that would do us a heap of good. Just get out and start testifying how good God is And uh we complain, and I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody. We complain about the weather and the government and this, that, and the other. And uh we allow that sometimes to overshadow God's goodness, and we fail to testify the goodness of God. So David's big on that. He's big on praising the Lord. His Psalms are tremendous studies on praising God. And so the first five verses, Dave is Dave, I call him Dave sometimes, King David Is uh he's uh praising God for what he did for him. He's testifying what God did for him. Now you have this transition, and there's a real change in the focus of this psalm, what he's saying. And in verse 6 through 9, we actually have a prophecy of the coming Savior and what He's going to do for us. Now, if you found Hebrews, now keep your place here, because we're going to jump back and forth a pretty good bit, I anticipate. Hebrews chapter number 10. And notice with me, if you would, verse um uh I really want to read all 14 verses, the first four fourteen verses, um uh Hebrews 10. Notice it says For the law, having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, and you're going to understand here in a minute why I want to read the whole thing. Having a uh not the very image of things, ca the law can never with those sacrifices Which they offered year by year, continually, make the comers thereunto perfect. Now remember, in Psalms he referenced sacrifice and offerings Now here it comes up. That's what uh Paul's talking about in Hebrews here. Verse 2. For then, if these sacrifices could make us perfect, that they offered in the Old Testament For then would they not have ceased to be offered? Because that the worshippers once purged should have no more conscience of sin. But In those sacrifices, there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. So do you follow so far what he's saying? Saying if those if in the all if the temple, when they offered all these sacrifices, bulls and goats, they offered all that blood, if that could take away our sins, you wouldn't have to keep doing it, right? Make sense It would just be done. But they don't take away our sins, so they have to keep giving them over and over and over continually. Now, look at verse 5. Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, speaking of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, he saith, sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not. You don't desire that. But a body thou hast prepared me in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast no pleasure. And remember what it said in Psalm. He says, you have no desire for sacrifice and offering. It's what he's saying here. Then said I, Lo, I come, in the volume of the book it is written on me, to do thy will, O God. Above, when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offerings for sin, thou wouldest not, neither hast pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, those repeatable offerings, continually over and over and over, he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. The coming of Christ, the sacrifice of Christ, by the which we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. What's that next word? Once for all. I underscore that, I've got it circled. Key statement. Once for all. Not like the others. And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oft times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. From henceforth expecting his enemies to be made his footstool. For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. So here we have, now keep your place here. We're going to go back and forth, but come back. We have this passage. David is actually giving a prophecy Of the coming Savior and what he's going to do in offering himself for sacrifice. And now this passage is about David It to an extent, but it's more than just about David's experience. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ Now here's my question. As I was studying this, this I thought this, and I've thought this other times in studying various passages where you have A prophecy in the Old Testament of a future event, primarily, they're mostly the Lord Jesus, whether his first advent, his crucifixion, or his second coming. But a lot of times you wouldn't know it was a prophecy unless the New Testament told us. Alright? Everybody with me? It's a little teachy tonight, so I want I want you to um uh think with me now engage engage your cranium um tonight and so a lot of times there'll be a statement in the old testament that is actually A prophecy of something about the Lord Jesus, but we don't know that. We get to the New Testament, read it, and say, whoa, that was said there. And that's, I think, what the situation is here. If we didn't have Hebrews explaining verse 6 through 9 of Psalm 40, we might have a hard time picking up that that's what it's talking about. Now here's my question, what I'm getting at. When David is penning this, back years ago, he's sitting in his palace wherever. He sets down, God stirs his heart, he gets a pen And he begins writing down, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he climbed unto me and heard my cry and brought me up out of a horrible pit. And he's writing this out, and the Spirit of God's moving And he gets up here, sacrifice an offering thou dost not desire, and he starts writing this. Does he know at that moment when he's writing it? Does he know That he's writing something prophetic about the coming Messiah. Does he know that's what he's doing, or is he just writing what he's experienced, what's going through his mind The answer to that is very profound. I don't know. I don't know whether David comprehended that God was The Holy Spirit was moving him to write down something that was profoundly prophetical. And we'll see that here in a minute. My guess is he did not know My guess is he was just expressing his thoughts and what was on his heart, just like the first five verses. And he's just continuing on. Verse 6, he says, sacrifice an offering thou that it's not. And I'm going to try and explain what he means by this here. But I think he's just writing down his sincerity, you know, not just going through the motions. Verse 7 and 8, he's talking about maybe himself. I come in the volume book, I delight to do thy will. Maybe he's just writing out, Lord, I'm surrendered to you. I just want, I yield my will to you. I come to do your will. God, I want to do your will Maybe in his mind, that's all the farther it goes at the moment he's writing it down. Verse 9. He says, I delight, verse 9, I preach righteousness in the great congregation. Though I've not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. Maybe when he's writing and he's just expressing the fact, Lord, I've tried to serve you. And so whether he knows or not that he's writing pro prophecy down We don't know. I suspect he doesn't. However, what we do know is that the Holy Spirit of God was moving on David's mind. And moving on his heart to pen these very words that apply directly to the Lord Jesus Christ thousand years so later. God's Holy Spirit is moving. This is a tremendous illustration of the inspiration of Scriptures. 2 Peter 1 verse 21 says, holy men of God, which David qualifies for that description Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That word moved there is interesting and I don't want to get off track here, but I just want to throw this out. That word moved there is a fascinating word. It comes from a word that has the idea like a ship. If you remember at the end of the book of Acts, Paul was in a storm. He's being taken to Rome He's a prisoner. Anyone remember reading that? And a storm hits a Euroclidon. It's like a typhoon type storm. And for 14 days, I think it is. They're in the storm. They're convinced they're all going to die. So finally they cut off all the anchors. They cut off everything. And he said, we just let her drive. In other words, we just let the wind blow the ship wherever it would. That phrase comes from the exact same word as the word here says the Holy Spirit moved The men to write. In other words, the spirit drove, moved their minds, their thoughts, the words came to their mind, and they wrote, and they just wrote down, the Spirit of God is moving them. Maybe that all they thought was, I'm just pouring my heart out on paper. But the Spirit of God is moving. The Spirit of God is directing. And that's what's taking place here with David. And I suspect he doesn't know That what he's pending here in Psalm 40 is actually a profound prophecy of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ thousand years so later. And Hebrews is going to quote David and apply it directly to the Lord Jesus Christ and his offering of himself as a sacrifice for us. It's a fascinating portion of scripture. Now, if you're back in Psalms, I want to notice three things. Now keep Hebrews, because we're going to jump around here a bit. I want to make three observations from particularly verse number 6. I don't think we're going to get to the others tonight. In fact, I know we won't. Number one, I notice the undesirable sacrifice and offering. Now you look at this and you raise your eyebrows, you say, what's he talking about here? Notice he says verse six Speaking of the Lord, he says, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. He says, sacrifice and offering are undesirable to God. And you say, wait a minute Didn't God tell the Jews to offer sacrifices and offerings? He had very elaborate ceremonies, very specific instructions on how to kill the uh oxen and and the sacrifices and how to apply the blood. Now David comes along and under the inspiration of God and says, You don't you don't desire these sacrifices? What is he talking about? Well the word desire means, the word itself, the phrase not desire, means to not be pleased with. I'm not pleased with. Or I do not want these. If you don't desire something, it means you don't want it. It actually includes the idea of not giving attention to These sacrifice and offerings that the Lord is referring to here, he says, I don't desire them. I'm not giving attention to them. I'm not interested in that. I'm not satisfied with that. I don't desire it. It doesn't satisfy it, doesn't meet what I'm my needs, what I'm wanting. So what does he say? I think there's two aspects to this statement. One is from David's side. I think the first aspect was this. God did not desire mere outward performance. In other words, I think David is saying, again, this is from his immediate perspective, he's just been delivered from a horrible pit, he's just been delivered from Miery Clay His life has been established. It's not all over the place, Helder Skelder. His ways are established. He's got a plan and a purpose, a focus for his life now. And he's just praising God. And he's coming, I think he's saying this, Lord, you don't want me to just go through outward ceremonies and outward sacrifices that don't mean anything They're just forms. They're just rituals. You want some substance to it. I put it, I wrote it this way: outward and ceremonial sacrifices and offerings for sin. Now get this. Without inward heart repentance is not what God desires. You follow me? In in day in David's dispensation, and in this this time, this economy that he's living in spiritually If you sinned, you could be forgiven, you'd confess it similar to us to some extent, but you would bring a sacrifice. To the altar and you have a sin offering. You present it to the priest, he would take it. And I think what's being said here is God is not interested. If you sinned, You just bring that sacrifice, and there's no repentance in your heart. There's no remorse over what I've done wrong. I've sinned against my holy God. None of that's there. It's just a formality I go through. It's just a ritual thing I do outwardly. It's just a form. There's no genuine repentance in my heart. God says that is not what this is about. Right? You with me? I had a pastor years ago when I first got saved. He was saved out of Catholicism And uh you say later in life, older in life. And I remember this was early in my Christian life, and he made this statement. It stuck out in my mind all these years. It lodged in my mind Some things lodged in my mind, others just kind of dribble out over time. This one lodged And he said before he was saved, they would go out Saturday nights, and they'd go out partying and drinking and dancing and carrying on And the Catholic Church that he was a part of, and he was somewhat devout Catholic, the way I understood it, their confessional, if you're familiar with the Catholic setup. They have confessionals where you could come in and you would confess your sins to a priest. You have a little confessional thing, Father, I have sinned. Oh, what have you done, son? And uh I was out drinking and we were k dancing and carrying on and uh fornicating and and I've sinned. All right. And the father would say, he would say, um, all right, dude, ninety-five, Hail Mary's, um, uh, Hail Mary, full grace, uh swing these beads all over the place, swing 'em high, swing them low, swing them wherever you go. And so you have to do this little uh penance type thing. Right? And then so what he said was, we go out sinning Saturday night till real late. And then on the way home, we'd swing by the Catholic Church, pull in there, run in, do our confessional, Father, I've sinned, all right, da-da-da, do his little things, and go on, just go back, do whatever you're always doing Would you agree with me? In God's mind, that's meaningless. That is not what confession is. That is not what repentance is. Confession and repentance is judging my sin as God judges it Condemning my sin with the same condemnation that my holy God condemns it with. It's not just some little ceremony I do. And I think what David is saying here, sacrifice and offering, now desire. He's saying just God doesn't want us just go through the motions If we sin, we need to confess it and repent from our hearts, not just do some ceremonial thing. And so from David's end, I think what he's saying here is God's not interested in sacrifice and offering. Now that's not desire, you don't just the offering sacrifice itself It that ought to be the expression of a repentant heart. That was the design So one aspect to the statement is God does not desire mere outward performance. By the way, that's true in our day and age. God doesn't desire us to live the Christian life just a superficial way. He wants it to be from our heart. A lawyer came to Jesus one time and he said, What's the first and greatest commandment? And it's interesting, Jesus didn't say Go to church every time the doors are open. Now, I don't know about you, but I feel like as a Christian, I want to be in church every time the doors are open. I just want to be there. But he doesn't he didn't say uh the first greatest commandments commandment is pray uh three times a day, pray forty-five minutes in the morning, half hour at night. He doesn't he doesn't say any of that He said the first and greatest commandment was what? Help me. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And the second's like unto it, love thy neighbors thyself. And if that's in place, according to Romans, if we love God, we love people like we should, all the other stuff will fall in place and be exactly what it ought to be. Right? And so God's saying I don't desire just outward formality I desire something that's from the heart, a real relationship. And every aspect of my Christian life is the outflow of a love relationship I have with my God and my Savior. Every aspect of it comes from that. And so that's one take on what he's saying here, but the prophetic aspect. Now, keep your place here. If you would come with me back to Hebrews. And again, we have these passages down Hebrews 10, 1 through 14. And we're told that what David is saying here in Psalm 40 is actually referring to Jesus Christ coming to offer himself for our sacrifice. And I think what he's saying here, when he says, sacrifice an offering thou didst not desire, he's talking about God is talking about Jesus Christ. And I think I'm going to show you some verses that'll support this. I think what he's saying is, I'm not, I don't desire Jesus Christ to come to earth, the Son of God, become man. And just continually offer these same old sacrifices that the priests have been offering all through the centuries. That's not why he came. That's not what God was desiring from Jesus Christ just to continue what all the other priests before him were doing. That had to be repeated over and over and over Let me show you what I mean by that. Look with me verse number three and four And we we touched on these already in the beginning, but it says, But in those sacrifices, what they did week year after year, same old stuff, over and over and over, those sacrifices, there's a remembrance again made of sins every year. It's not possible that the blood of bull and goats should take away sins. God's saying, my desire is not an ongoing Sacrifices of bulls and goats that never take sin away. That's not what I desire from Jesus Christ. Look over at verse 10. But by the which we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That's what I desire. Not the ongoing Ritualistic stuff that never took sins away. When Jesus Christ shows up, what I desire from his sacrifice is the final death blow to sin. Not this ongoing, keep on going, keep on going, never take sins away. Look at verse 14. For by one offering, he, Jesus, hath perfected forever Them that are sanctified. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, eternal security. When Jesus Christ paid the price for my sins and I accept him, all those sacrifices are done. Did you notice when Jesus Christ gave himself as the ultimate perfect eternal sacrifice for your sins and my sins? All those other sacrifices, all of a sudden they're done away with. God's done with it. Anybody ever notice that in Scripture? They didn't keep doing it. The church didn't offer sacrifices anymore because it was final. And what David, under the inspiration of God, is prophesying that God's to Jesus is I'm not desiring him to continue on what's going on. He's putting an end to that They're done. I'm not desiring any more offerings and sacrifices. It's been done. It's been paid. It's been fulfilled. And so when he says that he does not desire Sacrifice and offering he's talking about from Jesus, because he offered himself. I put it this way. God desired of Jesus Christ his perfect sacrifice of himself, so man's sin is dealt with once for all forever. Forever. It's done. That is what God wants. And that is what all those Old Testament ceremonies and sacrifice are They were all pointing. That's not what he wanted. That was a temporary thing. What he desired was for your sins and my sins to be done away with once and for all, forever. Amen? I don't know about you. If you have ever, if you have ever experienced the conviction of the Holy Spirit For your sins, if we've ever experienced that, the conviction of the Holy Spirit for my sin and the how awful When the Holy Spirit opens our spiritual eyes, we see how awful our sin is And then to realize Jesus Christ took that on himself and he did away with it forever. And I'm free from that. Woo! Amen. What a thing. What a truth. He doesn't want it just keep on and on and on every year, every year. That was temporary. That was just pointing to the once-for-all when Jesus comes And so back in Psalm 40, uh back there again he says, sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. That's not what it's he's after. Just this ongoing for the sake. He wants it done. That's what Jesus is going to do. Then second of all, uh I notice the understanding ears. So we have this undesirable sacrifice and offering. God's not in that. He wants it done, that's what Jesus is going to do. Then he says there in verse 6, he says, Mine ear hast thou opened. When I'm studying that first, I was like, what in the world are you talking about? That doesn't even ear. That doesn't even have anything to do with what he's talking about. But I got looking at it And I believe what he's saying, what David is saying, when he writes it down, he says, Mine ears hast thou opened. I think he's saying this, Lord, I hear what you say it. I hear what you're saying. I'm on board with what you're saying. I get it. My ear you've opened, all right. I see, I hear what you're saying, I understand that you the sacrifice just in and of themselves or mean it's just the s just the ritual. You want something sincere from the heart. When I was living in Chattanooga years ago, we would visit the inner city there and had the bus routes and we would witness field. I remember one lady in particular, she was an older lady And uh we'd say something about God loves us, you know, we'd say something about the Lord. And every time she would say this, I heard that. You'd say, well, Jesus coming back in, I heard that And we say, well, you know, the Bible's the word of God. I heard that. I think David's saying to the Lord, I heard that. I agree with what you're saying. I'm on board. You're right. David's saying, I understand what you desire, Lord. I think David is saying, from David's perspective on this statement, he's saying, God, you've done so much for me. That to simply do some outward formality is meaningless. God, you've been so good to me. I don't want to just go through the motions. Lord, I want it to be real. I want it to be acceptable. I don't know about you, but the Lord's been so good to me. I don't want to just go through the motions of going to church. I want to come with God's people. And I want to praise him and I want to worship him and I want to learn from him and I want to please him as I serve him. Are you with me? Not just go and sit there, oh amazing, grace, how sweet I say, I'm sh done. All right, then my obligation. That's not what I I didn't hear that. David says, I heard what you're saying, Lord. You want it for real from the heart. You don't want it genuine from the heart. I think he's I think God just wants us to be real. Just be real. You say, well, if I'm real, I'm it's going to be ugly. Well then get right. A real needs to be right. So that's David's perspective. What about the prophetic aspect of this statement? I think this is Jesus responding. And I think it's Jesus saying, I understand, God, what your Father, I understand, Father, what my mission is. You've opened the ear of my understanding. I grasp what your mission is. I understand. In John chapter 5, well come down, look at verse 8 here. This is the Lord Jesus speaking prophetically. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. I think what he's saying is, my ears open, I hear what you're saying, I'm on board. I heard that, Lord. I understand. This is what my mission is. This is what my purpose for coming to earth is. Humanly speaking. In John chapter 5, verse 30, the Lord said, I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father that sent me. My ears open. I under it's not me, Lord. I hear what your plan is, what your will is, and that's what I'm on board. In John chapter 6, verse 38, for I came down from heaven not to do mine own will. But the will of him that sent me. I think it's a from a human perspective, it's Jesus saying, You've opened my ears. I understand what my purpose is, I understand why I've come And I'm not doing my will, I'm doing your will, Father. In the Garden of Gethsemane, you have that profound prayer. Jesus said, Lord, Abba Father, all things are possible unto thee. Let this cup be removed from me. If at all possible, let this cup be removed from me. Then what did he say? Nevertheless Not my will, but thy will be done. I think he's saying, Lord, you've opened my ears. I want your will. I'm on board. I hear. I know what my purpose is And so you have, first of all, this undesirable offerings and sacrifices. God doesn't want just formality, and He doesn't want Jesus to come down, keep it going. He wants it finished. Pay for it Then you have this understanding year. It's a statement of understanding, of submission, on Jesus' part to the will of God to give himself, to pay for our sins, once for all, all of it. All the wrath of God from all eternity suffered for us. And get it done, the death blow to sin. No more payment for it. No more judgment. And then notice there in verse 6, the last part. He says, burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. And I notice these unrequired offerings. So you have these undesired sacrifices. You have this understanding year, and then you have this unrequired offerings. He says, I don't require I think that last statement is kind of a restatement of the first statement. It's just saying it a little different way. Sacrifice and offering. Now it's not desire. Then he says at the end, burnt offering and sin offering, thou hast not required, and then he's just making the repeating himself with a different statement. He's restating it a little differently. So, what's he saying here? God is not looking for a continuation of outward ceremonial sacrifices and offerings for sin. They were perpetual because they never could take sins away. All that they went through for all those thousands of years never took their sins away. just covered them temporarily, just covered them year by year, covered them temporarily, temporarily, temporarily, temporarily. And God is saying that is not what I desire. I mean it's necessary, we're doing it for a period of time, but what I desire Is these things being paid for completely and once for all? And Jesus Christ, the perfect Son of God, sinless blood Puts himself on the cross, takes the judgment of God, that all these offerings pictured, just symbols, illustrations God's wrath is poured out on him for all the sins of mankind from history past, history forward, poured out on Jesus Christ. And God says, that's what I desire to be done with sin. Done with sin. And Jesus said, I understand. That's my purpose. And he did it. He submitted to God Let me show you a couple verses. I'm going to end. Hebrews again. Verse 3. Those sacrifices, there's a remembrance again, made of sin every year. It's not possible. That the blood of bulls and goats could take away sin. Verse eleven. Every priest standing daily ministering, offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. That's not what I'm looking for from Jesus. Not what I'm desiring. What I want is this final death blow. Verse 10. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Verse 12, but this man, Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, Sat down on the right hand of God. I'm not I'm not trying to pick on anybody or any group or any rel any church, quote unquote. Any religion that calls Christianity. But I'm saying this. The Catholic Church is absolutely wrong. And saying that Jesus Christ has to die over and over and over. That's what the Eucharist is. When they have Mass, they serve the water, they serve wine, which is unscriptural. And the bread, and they say that is Jesus Christ being crucified over and over and over. They are wrong. Hebrews 10 makes that very clear. We take part in the Lord's Supper, not because Jesus is paying for our sins over and over and over. But because he paid it once for all, and we never, ever, ever want to forget what Jesus Christ did for us when he gave himself for our sins. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now, as we consider what is said here about what Christ did for us, to pay for our sins. We can't help but rejoice. We can't help but be humbled. And bow before you, Lord, and in our hearts we worship you. For the love and the sacrifice that you gave for us, we rejoice in that. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if some of us just get in a rut. And we do sometimes. We just go through the motions and we lose heart. We lose the sense of of worship. We lose the sense of of love for the Lord. It just becomes routine. Maybe like we need to stop and just reset. Say, Lord, I want to be fall back in love with you. I want it to be real, not just a show, not just the outward. I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, I find myself Slipping into a rut, just going through motion. Any like that here tonight, that's not what God desires. He wants us to be real and fresh and alive. Our walk with him, our love for him, our our service for him. Maybe there's some that I tell you with our heads bowed, but I tell you what bothers me the most about my past More than the sins I've committed before I got saved, or what I've done since I've been saved, that I would still sin against God. And we all do. Maybe we need to just deal with them and bring them to the Lord and with a repentant heart say, Lord, I love you. This was wrong. I repent. Maybe some of us have something there we need to bring to the Lord and confess it and forsake it. Repent. And come to the Lord's Supper, freshly forgiven and clean heart. Father, you know us where we're at. We're all sinners. You died for us and saved us Lord, we want to love you and and we want to be clean and we we want to please you and and love you like we should. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.