Turned on here. I gotta get there we go. Does that mean I can walk around Does that mean I have to walk around? Uh Book of Proverbs. Go back with me if you will to the book of Proverbs. I I closed my Bible, so I gotta open it back. up again. Proverbs chapter 21. And uh I just to let you know, these are uh can you guys hear me out there? Okay. I'm no sound system guy. The pastor's always like the the reverb or whatever he talks about. I don't know. It sounds different up here this morning These are actually two of my four favorite verses in the book of Proverbs. And again, Proverbs 21, verse 31, chapter 21, verse 30 and 31 says, There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel. against the Lord. The horse is prepared against the day of battle, but safety is of the Lord. And uh, you know, it's always been Proverbs is uh one of those that I read, I read a chapter a day. And uh these two verses stick out, but you know Proverbs uh was written by Solomon to uh uh some young men, to his son, and uh sons And uh where he's trying to impart wisdom and especially uh for for young men, this this book can be a wonderful blessing, but for all uh God's uh children it's a it's a wonderful blessing. But these two verses in particular have sort of stuck with me and grown with me as I've read them and read them and read them and and looked what uh what's in there. So um just uh just I want to look at that, I want to bring that to light this morning and uh see if we can't get something. out of that. Let's ask God's blessing and then we'll look into this a little further. Father, again, I thank you for for your word and I thank you for these two wonderful verses that we we have uh that will help us to grow uh as Christians and fathers, children of yours. And God, I pray again that you would be our preacher this morning. Help me to yield to your Spirit And Father, just again, just bless us, each and every one of us, convict us in our hearts where we need a conviction and guide us in our walk with you, that our hearts might be aligned with yours. that our will might be aligned with your will, and that through us your plan can be fulfilled. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, just by way of introduction, Solomon. We're all familiar with Solomon, or hopefully we are, one of the first few kings of uh Israel. inspired by the Holy Spirit, pens this book, amongst some other books, but pens the book of Proverbs. And again, in particular the two verses we're reading here this morning morning. God's wisdom. And uh and so God in fact in First Kings uh chapter three and you don't have to turn there if you don't if you don't want to but let me just turn back and I want to read to you what uh what Solomon uh what the the story of Solomon here in chapter three uh verses uh three Solomon loved the Lord Walking in the statutes of David his father only, he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places. And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask uh Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he walked before thee. truth and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart with thee. And now, O Lord, my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a little child. I know not how to come uh how to go out or to come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy To thy people, which thou hast chosen a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude, give therefore thy servant an understanding And then later on we see as God speaks uh uh uh returns uh uh speaking with uh Solomon, he says, Behold, I have done according to thy words, lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after shall there any arise. Like unto thee. The wisdom of Solomon was absolutely unparalleled. Why? Because he asked God for wisdom. So here we have in verse thirty uh in verse thirty of chapter twenty-one Wisdom that had been revealed to Solomon regarding the preeminence of God, and we'll talk about this a little more. And then in verse 31, we have wisdom regarding the power. of God. But these two verses together, as I say, can be a helpful example of uh or uh an example in God's Word of how we can grow and uh and his His Word will actually help us in our daily Look at verse thirty thirty of chapter twenty-one of Proverbs again. There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord. Really, I started to look at this and I realized that this verse is actually simply declaring God's sovereignty. We have to understand that God is sovereign and we need to actively recognize that in our own lives as Christians. Now, what is sovereign? We hear sovereign every once in a while, it's on the news. Occasionally here a nation is sovereign, etc. But what is the definition of sovereign? Well, it's this. It's a supreme, exclusive, absolute Legal authority with actual efficacious power. Alongside of that now, that's pretty Long and and I supreme. There's no parallel. It's above everything else. Exclusive. It's not shared with anything else. Absolute. In every respect, in every single respect, and legal, it's right It is what's right. What is that's that refers to God's authority. It's above all others. It excludes everything else. There's not it doesn't he doesn't share authority with anybody or anything He he is his authority is absolute in every respect. Every respect of authority is covered by God's sovereignty. It's legal, it's right, it is what should be. But it's not just an authority on its own. You can have authority all you want, but it has to have power behind it. That's what we mean by sovereignty. It has actual or real power and it's efficacious, it's effective, it has an effect. So God is sovereign. He has supreme authority. He has all power in that authority. And we can never neglect that. In fact, we have to actively recognize it in our lives. Not only saved folks, but unsaved folks. There are tons of examples of sovereignty in the Bible, but I just want to take you to one. And it's in the book of Romans Um if you go with me to the Book of Romans chapter Paul actually talks about this beautifully. Uh Book of Romans chapter nine And the Apostle Paul here writing to uh the church at Rome writes In uh let's see in chapter 6, verse 6. Well, let me skip ahead here a little bit. Go to verse 15 Chapter 9, Romans chapter 9, verse 15. Paul says, for he saith to Moses, God says this to Moses I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. So then is it not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy For the scripture saith, Even Pharaoh, even for this same purpose have I raised thee up that I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. Therefore hath he mercy, on whom he will have mercy. And whom he will uh he will, he hardeneth. Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath resisted his will? Nay, but O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me? Why hast thou made me thus? In other words We're the creation. We have no position to to ask God what he's about. It's not in us to do it. We can't we as the created thing we cannot ask the creator Creator, you know what are you about? What's the deal here? We don't have that authority. God is sovereign. God has all power. He exercises sovereignty by by the way, in using Isaac and Jacob instead of Ishmael or Esau. That's his sovereignty. He can do that if he wants. He decided to use Isaac. He decided to use uh uh Jacob. Not Israel Ishmael, not Esau. What about his sovereignty and showing mercy? Clearly, when he wants to show mercy, he will show mercy. To whomever he will. Let me ask you a question. Do any of us deserve mercy? No. But God shows mercy to some and not to others, and that's how that is. It's his sovereignty to decide. You know, God's used nations against his own nation of Israel. That's his sovereignty to decide that. He's even allowed, you know, downstairs in uh in uh uh the teens we're studying the book of Job He's even used Satan in some ways, allowed Satan access to some of his best servants. Why? Well, it's his sovereign decision. He can do it if he wants to. He pointed out to Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job. You know? Why? Well, he had some trials that he needed to put Job through, and this was how he was going to do it. It's God's sovereign decision to make that choice. It's up to him. Decide as a created beings, we cannot make that decision. Only God can. Always, God exercises authority to achieve His plan. That's His sovereignty. Now I want to stop there and I just want to say, you know, there are definitely some ways that we can tell if someone is recognized The sovereignty of God in their life or not. Two ways I wrote down, and and you know we will hear pastor talk about this all the time trust and Obey. When you can recognize God's sovereignty, God's authority, and his power in your life, then what what other choice do you have? Well, I have to trust him. I have to believe what he says, and I have to obey him. I have to do what he says. Why? Well, it means I'm just allowing God to do work through He's good He's going to do work through me. It's uh actually, if you will, please go to in your Bibles to the book of Numbers. And the only reason I want you to go back to this is because I had never noticed this before. I've read through this many times in the past and I never noticed this until the other day. Go to the book of Numbers, chapter 9. How many of you guys are familiar with Israel, uh the nation of Israel wandering in the desert? We're all pretty familiar with that. Would you say that in general their behavior was good or bad? Okay, Israel was a little out of control. Okay. But you know what? And I s and I sort of always approach that time period with that, you know, uh I guess what's the word? Uh I have a uh I'm I'm I'm uh predisposed. I've got a discrimination against Israel in some respects when I read back of their time and you know of course it's always easy for us to oh man those bozos But now look, and I never noticed this. If we're looking chapter 9 of Numbers, this is fairly lengthy, so I'm going to try and read it through as quickly as I can. Verse fifteen. And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up, talking about the tabernacle, remember, this is before they had a temple. They had a tabernacle. This is where they kept the ark. This is where they They performed all the sacrifices in this moving tabernacle. And God had uh sh given them a method of moving around and dismantling the tabernacle and moving And so here we are. On the day that the tabernacle was reared up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, namely the tin of the testi of the testimony. And at even there was upon the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire until the morning. So there was smoke and fire. So it was always the cloud covered it by day and the appearance of fire by night. And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the children of Israel journeyed journeyed. And in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents. At the commandment of the Lord the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the Lord they pitched. As long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle, they rested And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle, many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of the Lord, and journeyed not. And so it was When the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle, according to the commandment of the Lord they abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the Lord they journeyed. And so it was when the cloud abode from even until morning and from Whether it was by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they journeyed. Or whether it were two days or a month Or a year that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents and journeyed not. But when it was taken up, they journeyed. At the commandment of the Lord they rested in their tents and journeyed And at the commandment of the Lord they journeyed. They kept the charge of the Lord at the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses. Man, that's sort of Doesn't jive with always the way I look at Israel. I mean, if it was even it within a single day's period that the s that the cloud began to move. Hey, they just got up and you know, if you read about the tabernacle, this was no small feat to set this thing. And I guarantee you that their tents were about the same. But they were willing. to let God lead them wherever they were going to be led. They trusted. Now, did uh did they uh did they have direct uh talk with God? Did they did any of this They see a cloud, they see fire, and they follow that. I tell you today, we've even got better direction. But here is the nation of Israel, I mean, belaboring themselves at God's commandment. Sovereign. If he wants to do that, he can do that. If he wants him to pick up, you know, and the point is, God had something to do. God had somewhere to take Israel, his nation. And it was up to them to allow him to lead Now, having said that, there are signs of false recognition. You can say, you know, well, uh, you know, yeah, I agree, God's sovereign, you know, yeah, he's got all authority and all power. Well, really? Think about this for a second. When you worry, what are you doing? When you worry, you're letting God know, hey, I don't know if this is really going to work out. Remember what Jesus said? Which of you by taking any thought can add any stature to yourself? If you worry, what good is that going to do? None. What about complaining? Murmuring? Look, if you will, we're still in numbers. Go just a couple of pages over Chapter 11, verse 1. And when the people complained, it displeased the Lord. And the Lord heard it, and his anger was kindled. His anger was kindled. And the fire of the Lord burnt among them and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp. Look at verse uh uh four. And in the mi and the mixed multitude that was among them fell a lusting, and the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? Remember they had manna manna from heaven. Apparently. Who should give us flesh to eat? We remember the fish which we did eat in Egypt freely, the cucumbers and the melons, and the leeks and the onions and the garlic. But now our soul is dried away. There is nothing at all beside this manna before our eyes. Good green These guys were just actively letting God lead them, and the next thing you know, they're, hey, you know, this isn't this isn't okay with me. When you complain, you're letting God know that you're not satisfied with what He's provided for you. for you. You're letting him know, you know, Lord, uh uh, okay, worry. You're letting him know I'm not sure that your plan's going to work out, God. Complaining. You know, not only am I not sure your plan's going to work out, God, but I'm not even really satisfied with how it looks right now. What did Paul say again? He said, What are we? We're the creation. How can we say to our Creator, what's the deal? We can't. We don't have any position to. So what can we take away from this? Look, God is in charge. We just need to trust him, obey him, and let's not worry or complain. Let's just move forward. Let him work in our lives. Now, this is the main part of this passage I want to get to. Go back to the book of Proverbs, chapter verse 31. Chapter 21. Look at the first part of this. The horse is prepared against the day of battle. Do you know the preparation is required in life? You have to prepare. In fact, I was thinking about this, and I kept thinking about this. I think preparation is actually for most of us preparation is a learned experience. You may go into a situation totally unprepared. And you do that one time and it bomb. It'll just totally bomb on you, whatever it might be, and then you recognize pretty quickly, you know, I probably should get prepared. You think about insurance. for your car, you buy insurance for your car. Um but you know you try and explain that to a sixteen my son's sixteen he's three he wants to get a car. I don't think he would probably be on board with buying insurance. But you know, if anybody that needs insurance, it'll be him, right? Um so, but you know, it's it's a learned thing. If he wrecks a car and doesn't have money to pay for this car he just bought, well then There's a problem. And I think that a lot of times preparation is a learned thing, and I I think God realizes that with us and that He wants to prepare us. But you know, let's go back to uh what Solomon's situation was. Let me give you a little bit of background about a horse. Okay? He started studying this out. It's actually pretty fascinating. You know, there wasn't really widespread use of chariots until around 1800 to 1500 BC. But uh, you know, some of the earliest ones I found were actually, you can find them in Russia and Kazakhstan, believe it or not, from around 2000 BC. The Kazakhstanis were apparently Bearing their whole chariot and everything, and the horse and everything all together with them. Now, it's interesting. God spoke to Job about the nature of the horse in Job chapter 30. thirty nine and and and we can go through there and he talks about the the glory of this of this uh this animal uh and and uh his presence on the battlefield etc. Uh the the horse is uh it has no fear, it's got thunder in its neck and etcetera. So God spoke to Job. And you know that was actually around 1900 BC is when people would look at that. Joshua is an instance of Joshua hamstrung, uh where he would go and he hamstrung forces, uh uh of the forces of the northern northern Canaanite kings. When he was coming into the Promised Land, um these uh Canaanite kings of the north A b got together, what do you call that? A coalition of sorts? You have several kings getting together, man this nation of Israel is coming in, wiping everything. We gotta do something So they get out there and uh Joshua of course the power of God behind them, their army, the uh the Israel's army, uh defeats them at Merim. And uh so what does Joshua do? He hamstrings Now what that does, and we find David later does the same thing. And matter of fact, David does it to It's the Bible tells us seventeen hundred of uh King uh Hadadazar's chariot horses, and he left about a hundred of them untouched. That we find in Well the hamstring process allowed the horse to be used for work still, but the horse didn't it lacked the physical capability And uh so what Joshua and David realized was a little bit of a was, you know, we gotta neutralize this threat. We still need these horses, but we gotta neutralize this threat. Solomon, though, it's interesting, there's a sudden turn of events, sudden turn of attitude towards the horse. David and and the others uh earlier uh leaders of Israel had uh had sort of avoided using the horse because a lot of the terrain in uh in uh uh the the the the area of the Canaanites was actually uh not the greatest terrain for horses. Horses and chariots were good for open fields. Um but Solomon realized as his as his uh uh his uh uh borders began to expand that you know he was going to need to do some sort of pre preparing, some protection. And so we learn, actually from First Kings, we learn that Solomon, again, remember, why is Beyond all men. Imported, he began to bring in horses from Egypt. He began to establish a standing military power in the nation of Israel. In this kingdom, this newly formed kingdom. He had 1,400 chariots, 12,000 horsemen. He had cities that were stationed where horses were going to be kept. And why? Well, you know, one of the things that they say about maybe David and his resistance to horses was there was a lot of requirement, a lot of And I read uh in uh in sort of studying this out the chariot itself required tons of upkeep. I'm thinking back at the chariot, man, it's like wood and metal You know, you wouldn't need a grease gun or anything, but apparently these were major uh major things to keep maintained, well maintained, because it wasn't used for much else. It was actually a standing platform for uh for archers. And that was the pri primary use of it. And uh but you know there was a massive investment in keeping those horses. Solomon realized though, hey I better get prepared. The nation's expanding, the the area's expanding, I need to get prepared prepared. We see later on that actually, you know, nailed horseshoes didn't come until around 900 BC, and stirrups didn't come until about 200 BC. So apparently there wasn't much about cavalry going on. until apparently maybe have tried cavalry, but people fell off their horses with no stirrups. So so uh we're talking about and Solomon is talking about in these verses talking about chariot horses But you know, it's interesting, cavalry units were actually used even up into World War II. Polish cavalry units, Russian cavalry units, they were actually being used against tanks fairly effectively, believe it or not. So the horse had been around for quite a while, but Solomon realized, hey, you've got to get this thing prepared. You've got to set this thing up. Otherwise, you might be sitting on the edge of disaster. But now look again. What's the explicit message in this verse? The horse is prepared against the day of battle. What's the explicit message? Well, there's a horse Is the horse a real thing or is it a spiritual thing? It's a real thing. The horse is a real thing. That real thing has to be prepared The preparation itself, is it blind preparation? When I leave the house with my umbrella on a beautiful sunny day, Would you say that that's uh wise preparation or foolish preparation? Leave the house with my w my moon boots on in the middle of June. Foolish preparation, I would say. The preparation is focused on an actual event. And what is the event that he's talking about? A day of battle, a day of conflict, controversy. So the idea is this. There's a real thing. We're not talking spiritual now. I'm talking real thing in your life That needs to be prepared. You need to get it ready, but you need to get it ready with the right event in mind, the right focus on what's the preparation for. and understand that that event is going to be some kind of battle. I want to take a moment and look at what's implicitly said. It's not explicit in there, but what's implicitly Look at what it says, the horse is. Is. Present tense. It's not the horse should be, or the horse was, or the horse can be, the horse is. And you know what I see in that? That God expects us to be prepared. It's not just He's saying, you know, you should get about it at some point. He's saying, no, no, no, no, no. That thing is prepared just because I expect it to be prepared. That horse is prepared. End of sentence. What else do I see? The day of battle. It's not a day of battle, a possible day of battle. It's the day of battle. If if there's anything that I know for sure, it's that everybody sitting in this room is either coming out of a battle or In a battle or headed into a battle. That much I know for sure. Physical, maybe spiritual, emotional, whatever the area is, there's a battle. There's always going to be a battle And so we prepare for that. God expects us to prepare for that battle. So what do I take away from that? Well, again, battles are either here or they're on their way. And we need to prepare for it appropriately, wisely, because God expects you to anyway. But look at this last verse, and this is the thing that I think is critical. It's the key component to this entire thing that ties these two verses together. The last part of verse thirty-one says, but safety is of the Lord. In other words, God is the one that gives the safety. God is the one that gives the victory. In fact, I was studying out that safety. Safety can actually be has been translated elsewhere, that word that came from has been translated elsewhere as victory. God gives the victory. God does We don't. We already talked about. Look at what verse 30 says. There's no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord. Establishes God's sovereignty. There's nothing you can do to hamper God's plans. If God wants something done, he's going to do it. But so we see that we have to prepare, but ultimately, we have to again rely on His sovereignty. Safety is of the Lord. Safety doesn't come from the horse. It does not come from even the preparation process of the horse. It does not come from the battle. Safety only comes, victory only comes from the Lord. The natural inputs, you know, in my job, many of you know I'm I'm I'm an engineer In my job, we always talk about inputs and outputs of any system. You have a system, just draw a box around it. You have inputs, things that are affecting the system, and outputs, things that are produced by the system And uh what God is telling us is, look, the horse, the preparation, the battle, they're not inputs. Forget it. Okay? All that's part of what's inside here. The output is safety. But that's up to God to do. It doesn't matter what our natural input is into the situation. We have to rely on God for victory. We have to rely on God for safety. In fact, and and I would say this. The natural inputs are not prerequisites. They don't, it's God providing safety doesn't rely on anything that we do. Now, go to the book of Hosea. And chapter one, I just want to read what uh I believe this is chapter one, verse seven. Chapter Verse 6 tells us, and God said unto him, speaking to Hosea, So this is God speaking. Verse 7 of chapter 1 in the book of Hosea. But I, God, will have mercy upon the house of Judah and will save the house of Judah. And will save them by the Lord their God. And will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen. Our safety, our victory, does not rely on the bow or the sword. Or any of those things. Now should we do those things? Clearly, Proverbs is telling us that we ought to get those things prepared. But But safety is of the Lord. Look at uh look if you will in the book of Psalms You know, David understood this. In fact, when I read this, I sort of feel like David understood better than anybody. Remember, David was a man after God's own heart. We see chapter 33 of Psalm. Verse 16 and 17. Powerful. Look what David says. Chapter thirty-three, verse sixteen Look what David says. He says, There is no king saved by the multitude of an host. In other words, your size of your army doesn't matter. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. And horse is a vain thing for safety. Vain. Pointless. Neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. David understood. You've got to rely on God for victory. You've got to rely on God for safety. If we want a victorious Christian life, we've got to rely on God. Now, what do I take away from this? Well, safety comes from God. But you know, that's God's grace. I don't deserve that safety. I certainly don't deserve victory. But God's grace allows me to get this partake in His victory. I get to partake in his victory. Remember, he's sovereign. It's his plan, not mine. But I, if I'm on board with him, If I'm in his will, then I can partake in his victory. It's his safety. He provides it, not me. There's no other method. There's no other means. There's no other, there's no insurance policy, no scheme, no anything else you can kind anything you can come up with, no defensive wall you can build. No plan that you can dream up that's going to provide real safety and real victory in your life. Um uh maybe you you may or may not be aware, one of the jobs I do, one of the things I do uh uh uh at the WBU, I'm involved in research on on um on military uh items. And uh so we look at we look at how effective military uh in particular weapons can be. And we study that. Now Proverbs tells me that If I'm looking at the nation of the United States, and I believe that God is using the United States of America to carry out much of his plan. That being understood, I understand that that the preparation that we do in my work, that preparation is necessary according to what Proverbs tells me. I have to prepare prepare. We have to prepare. Should we have a standing military? Well yes we should. We should. Should we invest money in military strength? Yes we should. But but but And here's the military word is always as a caveat. Whenever I get stuff from the army guys, there's a caveat. That's their special lingo for ah, there's a little thing you have to add. add on at the end. Here's the caveat. Safety is of God, not anything we're doing. Okay? Don't mix up the situation. What happens is we can get pride. We can get proud about this. Look what I did. Look what I did. Look at how mighty we are. Ooh, Saul experienced that. Where'd that get him? Lost the kingdom to David. So what's the application here? I realized we're we're actually man, we're booking it through this actually. I was worried because I had like five pages here You guys are doomed apparently. Uh uh Jerry told me something I won't even reveal how many pages he's got for you. We're all doomed So what what's the application of these two wonderful verses? I mean wonderful. To believers. It's this are you actively acknowledging God's sovereignty in your life, do you openly trust Him and obey Him? Do you? I mean, I can think of a million examples. Of where we can openly trust and obey God, but remember, God gives us the free will to decide. We can openly acknowledge and actively acknowledge God's sovereignty, his authority, and his power in our lives by simply trusting Him, simply obeying Him. Now, let me ask you this. The name of this message actually is Saddle Up. Okay? To the Christian, how are you gonna saddle up? How are you gonna get ready? How are you gonna prepare your horse? How about this spouses? Um do you do you uh do you let your your signific your your spouse do you let your spouse know how much you care about them Do you prepare in that sense? What about your kids? Do you train your kids up the way they ought to be, the way they ought to go? Do you do that? Do you prepare? What about your finances? The Bible talks plenty about finances. You know, you don't go into that willy-nilly. You've got to prepare. And how do we do all those things according to God's wisdom, not our own? We can prepare according to God's wisdom. You know, what about Bible reading? That is definitely preparation. You've gotta prepare. You've gotta prepare for whatever that battle is. How about prayer? When you pray You're letting God know, hey, I'm prepared to see how you're going to work in my life. I'm prepared, God. These are the petitions I'm raising to you. And you know, as children, I'm talking to this To believers. As children of his, we can take, we can make our petitions known. What a wonderful thing. Take it before God and know that according to his will, he's going to meet those needs. What a wonderful thing. And all we're doing is we're letting him know, God, I'm ready to see. I'm prepared. I'm ready to see how you're going to work in my life. What about this? Are you prepared, big one, are you prepared to take the gospel of Christ to the lost of this world? Are you prepared? Do you know the verses that you need to convey to somebody quickly? Quickly. I mean when we go out and we knock on doors, you know, I can't you can tell right away when somebody's going to close the door on you So you get in a couple verses, but you know what I you know and you get it in real quick. Are you prepared to do that? Or would you be, well um let me uh I'll uh let me go talk to my pastor and I'll get back to you Are you personally prepared to take the gospel of Christ to those people who are lost? What about Are you allowing faith? Are you allowing your faith to bloom? You know, downstairs we talk about faith being something you can't see. But you know, one result of faith is works. Are you allowing your faith to blossom, to bloom? And uh you know I know it's that all the time, but you know, they always say it's you know ten percent of the the church folks do ninety percent of the work. And you know that I I really feel like that's if if if anything, that's being nice to the people who are not active. That's the way it is. But you can prepare to see God's church flourish. You can prepare to see the church of Christ bought by his blood. You can see that thing flourish. You get active. How about edifying your b your fellow believers? How about edifying the church in general? How about building it up? Do you contact those folks around you and say say look I'm praying for you or or uh or maybe it's just fellowship you get around each other and and uh you build each other up in Christ. Don't build each up uh silly stuff. You build each other up in Christ You know, uh how about this one? The last battles to come, right? Jesus warned, always always warned his disciples, but he said, you know, he'd be watching for his return. There's plenty of parables about that Are we prepared? As believers, do we prepare, are we prepared by watching for Christ? Or I wrote this down because, you know, it's a Baptist thing that Are you watching for Christ or are you waffling for Christ? I might patent that one, if you can do that Are you watching for Christ or are you waffling for Christ? You're just not so sure. If you're watching for Christ, you'll be actively preparing. Do you trust in God's deliverance and safety? Okay, here's a big one. When you go out and you do take the gospel, is there some sort of scheme that you got? How about this one? Do you feel like we need to have a big band up here to bring the crowds in? Because I can tell you right now, if that's the case, you're not trusting in God. You're trusting in your own horse. Okay? Trust in His Word. Let that do the work. You you Do you try and spice up what God already has done? To try and attract others to it. You don't need to do that. Take the gospel as it is. Simple. Don't lean on your own understanding. The Bible warns about that. You know, it's interesting. God, uh Jesus said concerning the Father, he said, I do always those things that please him. And uh you know right after he was baptized, he went out into the wilderness. We're all familiar with this. He went out in the wilderness, he fasted. prayer. And he was tempted. And the devil, Satan, took him, this is interesting, took him to the top of a building and he says, you know, God said he was going to protect you. So why don't you just step out? Go ahead, do it. Step out and just let's see what happens. And you know, Satan was rebuked by Jesus. Jesus said It's written, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Jesus was actively showing that, you know what? Safety comes from God alone. Don't you go out there on some other thought. Don't go out there on some other method that you have in mind. Ain't nothing gonna work. Ain't nothing gonna save you, but what God's already gonna do. He'll provide the safety, he'll provide the victory. Not anything you're gonna do. Now This is what I really want to get to. Those of us, maybe listening in, maybe somebody here, who can't honestly say they ever, there's a time in their life when they They know they called on the name of Jesus to save them from their condition of sin. When they can't say, they know for sure. They have a home in heaven when they die. That person that's in here right now, I just want to say this. Maybe you're on online right now listening. in. Maybe you're the person 20 years from now. Uh uh Hey Sam, is this uh is this going on MP3? Okay. Maybe you're the person listening to this 10 years from now on MP3. Hello? Hi, 10 years from now. Maybe this is you I'm talking to. Look around. There's a God. I can't help but come to that conclusion. You look around the world. I mean, I look at this creation, I can't help but come to that conclusion. But you know what? He has ultimate control, but he has decided in his wisdom to allow us to have free will. He's given you free will to decide what you want. Your free will thoughts, your opinions, your decisions, they cannot stand up against God's wisdom, his counsel. His understanding. They will not. They will not. That's what this verse tells us. There is no wisdom, nor understanding, nor counsel against the Lord. Only Wisdom, counsel, and understanding that are aligned with the Lord will stand. Only that will stand. Do you think that it might behoove you, that it might be a smart thing to do to find out what his wisdom is? Yes. Then here's your answer. Find out. I've talked to people, oh I know God. Me and God, I know God. I know God. God's not like you say is And I ask him, well, how do you know? Oh, I just know. Hmm. I say, so why don't you just read the Bible and find out what the Bible says about God? Well, I don't need to do that today. Okay. Well you're going in your own wisdom. You're leaning on your own understanding. Acquiring God's wisdom involves an act of choice, and just for for lack of time, I'll just tell you. That Proverbs makes it clear that the beginning of wisdom is fear. And that fear is actually looked at as a choice. You know, we always think of, you know, people will tell us, evolutionists will tell you fear is an is a uh natural thing, that man has developed over millions and billions of centuries, and uh no I can choose to fear things. I can choose not to fear other things. And let me give you a perfect example. I fear God's judgment. Paul, probably the greatest Christian ever lived. Feared God's judgment. He called it the terror of the Lord. And if anybody's cool with God, it would definitely be the Apostle Paul. But he chose fear of God. And he started to get wisdom out of that. If you choose not to fear God, boy, I can tell you, there is definitely coming a day. When you're definitely going to change your mind about that. We can choose, we can choose to fear God, and when we do that, we can get his will. Once we get his wisdom, we know what he wants for us in our lives and how we can prepare. The wisdom that's provided by the maker of the universe gives us insight into areas where we have no other idea. We can't ascertain what happened, you know, so many years ago. We have to rely on God's wisdom to tell us that. We don't, you know, how else do I know the gospel but by God's word? We can see the unseen by just trusting God and obeying Him. We can see what He wants us to see, the things that we can't naturally see on our own. Do you know there's a very real battle? I'm talking to somebody who is not saved, who cannot say 100% sure they're going to heaven when they die. I'm talking to that person God, your Creator, wants to re-establish fellowship with you. And believe it or not, you're out of fellowship with Him because the Bible tells us we have all sinned. And once we sin, we cannot have fellowship with a holy God. You can't do it. Holy means that he cannot accept sin. And if you've got sin on your record, you cannot have fellowship with him. But he wants you to have fellowship with him. How do I know that? Because he sins. sent his son to die on the cross so that it would be paid for and your account would be made clean The opposition does not want that reconciliation. Your flesh does not want you to be sitting in here right now. Your flesh doesn't want anything to do with this. Your flesh wants to go party down Your flesh wants to please itself. The world wants you to follow it. Why? Worship of man Oh, man's got the answers. Evolution, that's the answer, alright. God's wrong. We have the right answer. Let's put man on a pedestal. Satan, he wants your worship badly. And he's going to be after you too. There's opposition. There are definitely battles going on. Are you prepared? You know, uh uh last last week was I think there was a special up here, the song was Are You Prepared? I think are part of the lyrics were Are You Prepared? You know, there's only one victory, one safety, that God is ready to provide to the unbeliever. And that's salvation. Resting sure that you are a child of God, he offers that to you by just simply believing Death and judgment definitely coming your way. And you know your sin has already had its way with your body. The mistake is thinking that I am my body and then I just have a soul. The reality is you are a soul and you have this little temporary body. Sin has ravaged your your your your body here. And it's on its way out the door. Anybody know of anybody that hasn't died Anybody lived forever so far? Anybody in the history of humankind lived forever? No. Death is definitely coming. And the Bible tells us what's coming after that. You can't, in and of yourself, restore your fellowship with God, by the way. You can't. All our righteousness is as filthy as rags There's nothing you can do. And there is a whole religion, again, worshiping man, built up around what I can do through my works. What I can do? How many Hail Marys I can say to please God. We're just talking about this this morning downstairs in the teens class. Job. Eli who pointed out to Job, you know what, Job, your righteousness doesn't make God's day, buddy. Let me tell you. Ain't nothing you can do. You're not impressing God. The only thing you can do is submit. You know, the second death is the one that's the important one. Because that's the one that determines your eternal place. The Bible talks about the second death. It is avoidable, however. Jesus is the only way, the only name. He told everybody, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man can come unto the Father but by me. There's none other name in heaven. Call upon the name of the Lord, and thou shalt be saved. You do have a choice for that second. You can avoid it if you want. You can prepare for that battle. You can prepare. Here's what's interesting, and I want to end with this. Jesus warned the Pharisees and the Sadducees. As a matter of fact, go to Matthew. I realize what time it is. It's noon for those of you who don't have a watch. Go to the book of Matthew, and here's what's amazing. First gospel. Matthew chapter 16. And I'm just going to begin re reading in verse one. Pharisees also, with the Sadducees, came and tempting, desired him. They're approaching Jesus. This is Matthew chapter 16, verse 1. Desired him, Jesus, that he would show them a sign from heaven. They wanted proof from Jesus. They wanted proof. And he answered and said unto them, When it's evening ye say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and lowering. Oh, ye hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky. But you can if but can ye not discern the signs of the times? A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them and departed. Now if you go down And read what Jesus had to say. They begin speaking about the leaven of the Pharisees, the doctrine of the Pharisees. The Pharisees mistakenly missed out on the Messiah. These were the guys trained to look for him. And they missed out on him. Why? Because they were trusting in their own leaven, their own doctrine. They missed out. Even though they had the capability, you know, you get up in the morning, you watch the weather guy, he says it's gonna rain today. You put your raincoat on, you go out. That's normal. That's normal for us to behave that way And Jesus is pointing out, you know, you guys do all that, but you miss the big one. The big one. Because you're stuck in your own philosophy, your own doctrine. Look at what he says in verse 12. He says, Then understood they, the the disciples. Well, look go back. Jesus tells his disciples, how is it in verse eleven, how is it that you do not understand that I spake it not to you concerning bread that ye should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Look what Jesus told the Pharisees and Sadducees. There shall no sign be given but one, and that is the sign of Jonas, the Word of God. Trust in that Those of you who have never, you cannot say for sure, there may be somebody here right now who cannot say for sure, I know that I have a home in heaven when I die. Look at what the Bible says about it, not what other doctrine says about it. Look what the Bible says about it. God's word's not going to steer you wrong. That's how you prepare. That's how you prepare. Because safety is of the Lord. A Hail Mary is not Of the Lord. That is a horse. It is a bow. It is a sword. And the Bible tells us we can't rely on that. There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord. The horse is prepared against the day of battle, but safety is of the Lord. Listen, God is in control. We have to prepare. We have to. God expects it of us. But rest assured in Him providing the victory. Not Us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, God, I thank you for this uh uh your word, and I thank you for the direction that you provided us in your word. And God, I thank you for the opportunity that uh that we have to to uh teach you preach your word openly in this country