John chapter ten. I'd like for us to read together, if you would, verse number twenty eight and twenty nine, if we could read that together in unison. Uh John chapter ten, verse twenty-eight The Bible says, and I give unto them eternal life. And they Oh, wait a minute. We're reading together, aren't we? Sorry. Let's try this again. Radio in verse 28 altogether. And I give unto them eternal life And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Verse 29. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I want to speak this morning on safe in the hand of Jesus. Safe in the hand of Jesus. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you that we have the opportunity here on your day, the Lord's Day, to assemble together in your name. God, you blessed us as a church in so many wonderful ways. We had a great week this past week. The week before was a blessing. Just to be busy about your business. And so we thank you for all of that. But now, Lord, as we're assembled here with our Bibles open, I ask that your Holy Spirit would take these thoughts from your word that I'm going to present here in a moment. Lord, you'd open our hearts and our minds, our understanding. We would see what all you've done for us, how faithful you are. And I pray it would help us in our walk with you, in our peace of mind, and Lord, in our witness to this old world. So I yield myself to you. I yield my will. Pray you guide my thoughts, my thinking I yield my body, present my body anew, and pray with all my heart, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit, God, that you would speak through me now in this hour on what I believe to be a very, very important subject. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. John chapter 10 is one of the favorite chapters in the Bible for a lot of Christians. Uh some people might say that um it m it's their favorite in all the Bible, chapter ten. It's definitely a favorite throughout the Gospels. And here in John chapter 10, we have Jesus Christ introducing himself as the Good Shepherd. He's responding. Chapter 10 is a response. To something the Pharisees had done back in chapter number nine. Just so we get the context here. If you would come back to chapter 9 and notice with me verse 34. It says, and they answered and said unto him, Now this is a man that was born blind, and Jesus had healed this blind man. He can now see. Well, the Pharisees are turning on this blind man. And notice it says, they answered and said to him, thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. These are the Pharisees. These are the spiritual leadership of Israel. And here you have this man who was born blind. Jesus comes, he heals him. And the Pharisees begin questioning them about Jesus Christ healing them. And he makes some tremendous statements. He says, you know, I don't know. I just know I was born blind. He made me whole. He says, how can a sinner, they said, well, Jesus is a sinner. He says, how can a sinner make a blind man see? And so they have this back and forth. Finally, the Pharisees, as we see here, cast him out. They reject him. And so Jesus responds to that. And he is presenting himself as the good shepherd here. The Pharisees, the scribes, the priests. They had the responsibility of leading the people of God, much like a shepherd would lead the sheep. That was their responsibility. However, their concern was not the well-being of the sheep. Their concern as spiritual leaders there in Israel was their own well-being. How they could profit off of the people of God, how they could uh gain position and have all this praise of God's people. In fact he rebukes Jesus rebuked him at one point You love the uppermost seats and you love the praise and you love all the attention. But their concern was not for the people of God. And Jesus is now presenting himself as in contrast to these spiritual leaders. He says, I am the good shepherd. The hypocritical, these false shepherds. Look at verse 1 of chapter 10. He says, Verily, verily, I say unto you He that entereth not in by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth in some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. Now that passage is not talking about salvation. It's talking about the qualifications of the shepherd, of the Savior. And these priests were coming in, not in a biblical way. They were claiming for themselves authority they didn't have They were seeking for themselves fame that they did not deserve. And Jesus says, I'm come as the good shepherd. I meet the qualifications. I come in by the door. Verse 3 says to him, The porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice, and calleth he calleth his own sheep by name and leadeth them out And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them. He's leading the way. He's setting the example. He's providing leadership. And the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. And so everybody okay? Need some help there? Okay. All right, thank you, Derek. Up the mouth. We're glad, folks, to be in the church today. God bless you. We're glad you're here. God bless you. And so he's comparing himself, he's contrasting himself with these uh uh with these false leaders. In verse number nine, I'm getting somewhere, so bear with me here. In verse number nine, he He presents himself as the only way of salvation. Verse 9 says, I am the door. He doesn't say a door. I am the door. I am the way to salvation. I am the door by me. If any man enter in, he shall be saved. and shall go in and out and find pasture. So he presents himself as the only way of salvation. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not the door to heaven. The baptistry is not the door to heaven. The offering plate is not the door to heaven. Jesus Christ is the door. He's the way to heaven. Our theme this year is we preach Christ. And we do not apologize for that one bit because he is the only way to find forgiveness of sins and a home in heaven. And so that's what he's saying here. I am the door, I am the way. He's the only source of abundant life. Look at verse number ten. The thief, speaking of the devil, the thief cometh not, but for to steal, to kill, destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it what? More abundantly. God not only wants to save our souls, he wants to give purpose in our life. He not only wants to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, but he wants to give us fulfillment in life. He wants to give us direction. He wants to give us purpose and meaning. For getting up every day and living for God and serving Him life more abundantly. And then you come to our text, and this is where I want to get to. And the Lord laid this on my heart some time ago And I've been stewing on this a little bit. We preached on this multiple times over the years because it's vitally important. Look with me again at verse number 28. We just read this, but let's notice it again Speaking as a shepherd in this context of the sheep and the shepherd, he says, and uh verse 27, he says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give unto them, who's the them? The sheep, those that have come to trust him, put their faith in, they're seeking him. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty clear statement right there. There's not a lot of there's there's nothing here that's uncertain or unclear I give unto them eternal life. My sheep, I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish, and no one can pluck them from my hand. He doesn't stop there. He goes on in the next verse and he expounds on that. He says, my father which gave them me is greater than all And no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one. What we just read, what I just read there, what we've been looking at this morning, is one of the strongest passages, or I should say, a strong passage in all of Scripture on the eternal security of the believer. Now, if there's any question about what we mean by that term eternal security, let me just put it very simply. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, God forgives them for all their sin He gives them a new life, they receive eternal life, and they can never, ever lose that salvation. Settle. Secure in the hands of Jesus. And that is what I want to address this morning And that's what I want us to understand this morning. If we sincerely, if we are a genuine believer in Jesus Christ, if we have genuinely been born again My salvation is secure. My soul is safe in the hands of Jesus. A genuine believer is eternally secure in Christ. cannot lose their salvation under any circumstances. Now I'll be very honest with you, especially when I first came here and and uh and the church has always believed this. I didn't introduce anything new to the church Well, I came here back in 1993 and I get out in the community and talk to people about their soul and about salvation. I try and share the gospel with people throughout the community We did some Bible studies in some of the apartments, uh the adult apartments around here on Thursday mornings. My family and I would go. Uh the boys were small, they'd be crawling under the table And I'd be doing these Bible studies for the folks come out. And I and uh I would face some opposition. I haven't for a long time. I think folks understand where we're at and why, maybe, maybe why we un where where we stand. But I have people come and they would challenge me On this matter of eternal security, that I cannot lose my salvation. Now I have no problem with someone challenging me on a position. However, it is not me, it's the Bible that's the authority. And so you can challenge me all you want, but we must begin with the premise that the Bible is God's Word and what God says is so. That's our premise. So if the God if the Bible teaches this eternal security, then we're going to accept it So I had people challenged me, they would say, said preacher, uh I had a lady one time, and I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, she said to me very point-blank after I had done a lesson She came after me, she said, I have a question. I said, okay. She says, I want a yes or no answer. Well, anytime somebody says that to you, you're being set up. I said, well, I don't know if I'll just give you a yes or no, but I'll try to answer your question. I might need to explain. She goes, uh, do you believe once saved, always saved? And I said, yes, we do believe that. I believe the Bible teaches that. And she goes, that means you have a license to sin. And I said, that is not what the Bible teaches. Nobody, God doesn't give anybody a license to sit And so I want to address this subject of eternal security. And we've touched on it a number of times over the years. It is clearly taught all through Scripture, both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. I cannot find in this book, I cannot find in the Bible, I cannot find anywhere a teaching on a hope-so, a think-so, a maybe-so salvation. The only salvation I can find in the Bible is a no-so salvation. I know I'm saved and I'm secure in Christ. And so uh it's all through Scripture. It's all through Scripture. I think it I think understanding the fact that Once I'm saved, I'm always saved, I'm secure, is a vital truth for spiritual growth. I believe it's a fundamental of biblical Christianity. The fact that I am secure in Christ. When I trust Christ, I am secure, I'm safe, it's settled. I think it's a vital truth. I think it's difficult for someone to grow in the Lord, grow in their faith, if they're constantly under the concern, the fear of losing their salvation. Once I get it settled, then I can grow. I have a foundation to build on. I can live for God. Sometimes, as I said, this teaching in Scripture of eternal security is rejected. Sometimes it's challenged, it's denied. I think there's two primary reasons why people have a difficult time with eternal the Bible teaching on eternal security. One is I think they get mix they get confused and they mix their faith with works In other words, not just trusting Christ alone is what saves my soul, not just believing in Jesus Christ Period is what saves my soul, gives me eternal life. But I have to do something along with believing Jesus. I have to, to use the terminology, I have to live it or I'm going to lose it. Now, that is mixing works with faith. Anytime, anytime my salvation is dependent upon some behavior on my part Or some deeds on my part, or some actions on my part, then my salvation becomes very insecure. Because now I am a part of the basis of my salvation, some behavior on my part. If my faith is in Christ, in Christ alone, my eternal destiny My eternal life is placed in the hands of Jesus Christ. He becomes responsible for my eternal destiny. Then I'm secure. I'm secure. You follow what I'm saying? And so if I have to do something to make sure I get to heaven, if I have to live a certain way, I have to perform certain deeds I have to live up to a certain standard uh for me to get accepted to heaven, then I'll never know whether I'm going I I have no security, I have no assurance, because I I know I'm uh I I am uh uh unreliable. I'm a sinner. I'm gonna fail But when my faith, my hope, my confidence is in Christ, Jesus never fails. He never fails. And if he's the savior, then I'm safe. If I'm part of the salvation, then I have no security But if it is Christ saving me and Him alone, then I'm secure. You follow what I'm saying? So sometimes people will struggle with this eternal security because they're mixing some works in with that faith They're mixing some behavior in. I gotta behave a certain way, I've got to live a certain way, I gotta live up to a certain standard. No, no, no, no. Christ already lived that standard for me. Christ already performed everything I need for me. My trust is in him. And so sometimes people struggle with it because they mix faith in with their works. And I'll be honest with you. If any of us are trusting in anything we do to gain eternal life, we do not have eternal life. For by grace are we saved through faith, that not of ourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And so sometimes people struggle with it because they get they mix that up. Sometimes people struggle with it. I think there are people who are genuinely saved. They sincerely trusted Christ as Savior, but they've been taught wrong, and they've been given bad information And they become convinced that I can lose that which Christ gave me. I can somehow lose that which Christ did for me. And they believe that they can lose their salvation, not because they're trusting in their works or anything, but they've been taught wrong. They've been given bad information. You follow what I'm saying? And I believe there's people that are worried about losing their salvation and they don't have to worry about it. If they genuinely trust Christ, it is settled. Don't have to worry about that. And so sometimes it's denied. What's the cure? What if you have someone that um uh is uh s uh uh that that thinks, oh I can't I can't uh I I might can lose my salvation. I don't I can't know that I'm saved. I could possibly lose it. What's the cure for that? Well I think one is have a clear understanding of what salvation is. Jesus is the Savior. He's the one that does the saving. I simply put my my trust in Him, I put my my eternal destiny in His hands, and I trust Him. Just have a clear understanding. Or I think another cure for thinking I can lose my salvation, and this is what we're going to do now, is what I said all this to lead up to this, is do a careful study on what the Bible says Can I be very honest with you? When it comes to the salvation of a soul, when it comes to heaven and hell, when it comes to the eternal destiny of an individual, I really don't care what man has to say. I want to know what God says. Because he's the authority Man's opinions are uh I am not interested in when it comes to salvation. I want to know what God says. And if God says it, that settles it. Amen or not? Amen. So what does the Bible say about this matter of eternal security? I think if we carefully and honestly study the Bible, We find several things to be true. Number one, here's an and I would encourage you, maybe jot these down somewhere. I think that they might be helpful. Number one, God promises us eternal light God promises us eternal life. Look at verse 28. And I give unto them eternal life. Now keep your place here. Come back just a few pages to John chapter 3. Again, another great, great chapter in the Bible. John chapter 3. Now, sometimes we get so familiar with a passage we've overlooked it. We fail to see what it's really saying. And I want us to notice in John chapter 3, I want to begin reading in verse 14, and I want us to pay close attention to what the Lord Jesus Christ is saying in the Word of God here. John chapter 3, verse 14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Now it's a reference back when Israel was uh out of the will of God and they got bit by these vipers and uh Moses took a serpent, put uh made a brass serpent, put it up on a pole, and God promised them, God promised them If you look at that serpent, you'll be made well. Just look and you'll live. You won't die. Now God promised them that. And everyone that looked at the serpent, they were made well. They survived the bites of the serpents. Now Jesus builds on that. And look at verse 15. He says, As Moses left up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, of course, on the cross. Now look. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Would you agree with me? That is a promise of God. That if somebody believes in Jesus Christ, they will not perish, but have eternal life That's a promise of God. Eternal life means to be accepted by God into his presence in heaven. Perish means die in my sins, separated from God for all eternity. He says, if you believe on me, you believe on Jesus Christ, what he did on the cross, buried, rose again, if you'll believe on that, trust in that, depend on that. I give you eternal light. You will not perish, but you have eternal life. Promise of God. Look at verse 15. He expounds on this. Verse 16. For God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten son. Now look at this: that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Would you agree? A promise of God. Clear. Look at verse 17. For God sent not his son into the world that condemned the world, but the world through him might be saved. Now look at verse 18. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he is not Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Look at verse 36, all the way at the end of the chapter. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. God promises here. I don't know how you can get it any clearer. There's no misunderstanding what God is saying here. Whoever believes on Jesus Christ and by the fact he says lift it up, he's talking about the cross, what he did on the cross. Died first and spirit. Whoever believes in him, relies, trusts in him, hath everlasting life will not perish. Now that's a promise of God. Now here's my point I am secure in Christ because when God promises something, God keeps his word. The integrity of our God is at stake If somebody would believe on Jesus Christ, and God promises them that they will not perish, they will not die and go to hell, they have everlasting life If God promised that and they would die and go to hell, God lied. And I'm here to tell you, God cannot lie. God is a God of integrity. And if he promises me something, I can bank on it. He will keep that promise. I've said this often back when I was saved in May of 1979. I called on the Lord. I called on the Lord Jesus Christ as sincerely as anyone in ever all of human history called on the Lord. I called on him to forgive me and save me. And uh God changed my life, you know the story. And for about a month or so I I entertained some doubts in my mind. Well, am I really saved? I mean my life is transformed, but for whatever reason, probably the devil, uh I had these questions in my mind. Am I really saved? Will I really go to heaven? And God used a passage, Romans 10. 13, simple passage, that settled it for me once and for all. And I believe this is the basis of all eternal security. Romans 10, 13 says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Doesn't say might be saved, could be saved, hopefully will be saved, shall be. Definite. Promise of God. And here was my this is my reasoning. And to this day I hold to this same Rationale. I know I called on the Lord. I know I did. God promised that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. If I get to the end I go out in eternity, I find out I'm not saved. God lied to me. Right? If he says whoever calls on him shall be saved, and I find out I'm not saved, then God lied to me. And I came to this conclusion: God cannot lie. Therefore, my salvation must be secure. Say, preacher, I got saved. I meant it with all my heart. I called the Lord, come in my heart and life, be my Savior. But I'm afraid I might lose it. I'm afraid I might have lost it. Listen, if you lost your salvation, then you're calling God a liar Because God said, you will not perish, you have everlasting life. God cannot lie. Are you with me? And so the ver We study scripture, and if we just take God at His word, assume when God says something, He means it, he's going to do what He says then I can be confident that my salvation is secure because God promised. God promised. And again, I believe that's the basis for all our sin. Somebody says, preacher, how do you know for sure you're going to hell how do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Because God promised. Not for how I live my life, not for some feelings. Now I love our radio station. Please don't misunderstand. And I love the music. I think it's all good. But there is a song on there that every time I hear it, I take a little issue with it It says, I know that I've been born again. I know I've been born again. I feel the spirit deep inside. I tell you I know I'm saved, not because of any feeling I have. I know I'm saved because of the promises of God's Word. I'm secure, not because of how I feel or how I live or anything, but because of the promise of God. So we come to the Word of God and we study it very carefully. We find that God promises us that if we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, That we're saved, we're secure. Our security rests in the integrity of God's word. Not in my integrity, not in my abilities, but in the integrity of God's word. In other words We have exactly what God said He promised. What He's promised. Number two, let me give you a second reason. I'm absolutely convinced I cannot lose my salvation. One, because God promised eternal life, and God cannot lie. Number two, the believer is born into the family of God When I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born spiritually into the family of God. God told Nicodemus here earlier in chapter number three, where we're at. He says, you must be born again. Nicodemus says, What are you talking about? How can a man be born again? Go back in my mother's womb again? Be born the second time? What are you talking about? Now that's my version of what he said And Jesus says, Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. He said, That which is born of the flesh is flesh. A week ago, was it Friday night, little Remington was born of the flesh? A week ago, Friday. He was born of the flesh. Born physically. That which is born of the flesh is fine. But that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. What he's saying is you need to be born again spiritually, not physically. We have this physical life, but we're born sinners. Because of Adam and Eve, we've inherited a sinful nature. We're born outside the family of God. And so we need to be born again spiritually into the family of God. And when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born into God's family. I am now a child of God. Last week ago, Friday, Remington was born to Joe and Sarah. No matter what happens, no matter what takes place, Remington will always be their child Nothing can be done that he ceases to be their child. No matter what how he behaves, no matter how he turns out in life, no matter what, he will always be their child. That cannot be undone. Under any circumstances at all. When I'm born into the family of God, I'm born in as a child, now I am a child of God. I cannot cease to be a child of God. I studied that book over and over. I have given my life to study that book, and I cannot find one place in the Bible where someone ceased to be their parents' child. It's not there. Study uh what about uh the prodigal son? Takes his father's riches, he goes to a to a foreign country. uh uh foreign land and uh waste his living on riotous living. But listen, the whole time he's referred to as the father's son He never stopped being the Father's Son. It is possible for a Christian to backslide. It's possible for a Christian to get out of the will of God. It's possible for a Christian to live a way a Christian ought not to live. But they never cease being a child of God. It's impossible to be unborn out of the family of God. A child is a child. I have two boys. They will be my sons, like it or not. Forever. There's no record anywhere of scripture of a child ceasing to be a child of their parents. It's impossible to be unborn. Unborn. So, one, God promised eternal life to those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Number two, believers born into the family of God were his child. We cannot be unchilded, unchilded. Number three, let me give you a third thought. We study scripture about this, we find that God promises that the believer will never perish. Now, again, come back to John chapter 10 here. And this ties in with our first point. God keeps his word. Notice what he says in John 10, verse 28. And I give unto them eternal life. Let me just stop here and ask this. He gives us eternal life. It's a gift. We don't buy it. We don't earn it. He gives it to us a gift. We receive it. Offers us eternal life. We by faith receive it. We're not purchasing it. We're not earning it. We're receiving it as a gift. It's eternal life. Let me ask you this. If something's eternal, how long does it last? Forever. He doesn't say I give unto them probationary life Well, I'll give you life and you'll you're you have uh life but uh i it's probationary you've got to you've gotta keep uh uh your nose clean Well, you're going to lose it. You're back in the darkness. You're back outside the family of God. Nowhere in the Bible does it teach that. But I give unto them eternal life. It lasts forever. If I could be saved and have eternal life and then say or do something and it's taken away from me, it wasn't eternal. It was temporary. And then he goes on and makes this tremendous statement: I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. That word never is a fascinating word. I um mentioned a previous message here one recently. You know, my whole life is preaching and studying and all of that. Words are fascinating to me Words are uh are uh catcher catch my attention. I did some study on that word never. Here's the idea. It comes from, the word it comes from actually has four different meanings to it, four different aspects. And so I've taken, I put it together like this. That word never means this. Not at all. At any time. For any reason, by male or female, perpetually and eternally ever going to happen In fact, it is the strongest word in any language to state that something is never going to happen. Now, Jesus says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall what? Never. Let me ask you this: when is never? Never. It's not going to happen. If God would give someone eternal life, if someone calls on the Lord Jesus Christ to be their Savior, And he gives them eternal life. And then they mess up. They do something stupid. They do something sinful. And God would take that eternal life away from them. One, it wasn't eternal. And two, when he says they will never perish, if they end up in hell, then he lied to us here again If there is a genuine born-again believer that ends up in hell, then Jesus is not telling us the truth. And I'm here to tell you, there's not one genuine born-again believer in Jesus Christ that ever has or ever will end up in hell. It's not going to happen. I hope you get the drift of what the Bible says. It's not going to happen. Let me give you a fourth one here real quick. No one is able to pluck the believer out of God's hand. Again, look at verse 28, the last part. He says, neither shall any man, any man, Pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. That word pluck is used two times in these two verses. Deliberately by Jesus Christ. Nobody No man is able to pluck them out of my hand. Out of my hand. The word pluck means to snatch away, to carry away, to take away by force. The whole context here is sheep and the shepherd. What he's saying, no wolf is ever going to be able to come in and take a sheep out of the hands of Jesus Christ. No thief is ever going to be able to break into the flock or into the fold where the sheep are and steal and snatch and pluck that sheep away from the shepherd. Our God, Jesus Christ is a good shepherd, and nobody can take his sheep from him. Nobody can. Nobody can. There's not a devil in hell. And can take the sheep, steal the sheep away from Jesus. No man is able to pluck them out of my hand. He's a good shepherd. He's a good shepherd. Some people present the idea that you've got to hold on. You've got to live it. You've got to hang on to Christ. Hold on to Christ. Listen, I've got news for you. Salvation is not me holding on to Christ. Salvation is Christ holding on to me And he says, Nobody can pluck you out of my hand. And by the way, then he goes on on the next verse, and he says, No man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. My father and I are one. And here's the idea. I'm in the hand of Jesus Christ. And he encloses it and he says, nobody, no devil in hell. No human being can pluck you out of my hand, and you're in my father's hand, and I and my father are one, and it's a double secure salvation in the hands of God. What a beautiful picture. What a beautiful picture. And so no one is able to pluck us out of God's. Number five, let me give you another one real quick. And I could give you 25 of them. I'm just going to give you a few here. Number five, Jesus keeps the believer secure. Come over to chapter 6. Of John. Everybody, alright? Everybody with me? This is so important we understand. I know many of us, maybe the majority of us, have a have have a grasp of this, but it's so important we understand this. John chapter 6, verse 38. For I came down from heaven, this is Jesus speaking, not to do mine own will. But the will of him that sent me. Alright. We got that so far, right? Jesus came to do God's will. Everybody so far on board? Alright? Now look And this is the Father's will, which has sent me. Alright, Jesus said, I came not to do my will, I came to do the Father's will. And this is what the Father's will is. Look. That of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day This is the will of him that sent me, that everyone that seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Now look very carefully at verse number 39. I know we're doing Bible study type thing, but look very carefully at verse 39 Of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing. If anybody's losing their salvation, who is it that's going to lose it? According to that verse. It's Jesus. He says that I would lose nothing. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Does the will of God, and it's God's will that Jesus not lose one of his sheep, not lose one of a believer. That I would lose nothing. What he's saying here is this my security, my salvation is in Jesus Christ. He's the one who keeps me And he will never lose me. Say, preacher, what if I lose my salvation? You can't lose your salvation because it's not in your hands. It's in Jesus' hands. And he won't lose any. He's not going to lose any. For a believer to lose their salvation. Here's my conclusion. This is Leatherman, all right? This is the way I think If one believer could lose their salvation, then nobody's saved. Just one believer would lose their salvation, nobody would be saved. Because that one believer losing their salvation would mean that Jesus did not do the will of God, which means he failed, which means he's not a qualified Savior, which means nobody can be saved. One believer loses their soul. And he says, I lose nothing. I lose nothing. Jesus, God's will was, Jesus, don't you lose one of those who believe in you. And Jesus says, I do my Father's will. You follow? And so it's Jesus that keeps me safe. It's Jesus. This is the way I've illustrated this way a thousand times. I'll just do it again. I f I just flew out to San Francisco a couple weeks ago to go on a mission trip. I'm there in the airport at at Pittsburgh. I got they got a new airport there. It's very nice. And so I'm there, I'm standing by the plane and um at the gate and they're calling the rows, the sections to gonna seat people. I'm saying her, I believe with all my heart that that plane can get me to San Francisco. I know it can, I have no doubt about it, it's done it a thousand times. I'm confident in that pilot. He's able to uh operate this machinery. He can get me there, he can get me back. They've done it a thousand times. I have absolute confidence in their ability to get me from Pittsburgh to San Francisco. Now, what do I need to do? Just get on. It's an act of faith on my part. It's an act of trust on my part. I said, all right, the price has been paid. I show my ticket, the price paid, I get on that airplane, I find my seat, I sit down. Though whose responsibility is it to get me from Pittsburgh to San Francisco? My responsibility is to get on the plane. Once I'm on, who is it that's getting me from Pittsburgh to San Francisco? The pilot in the plane. They are the one getting me there. I can stand up, I can sit down. I can be a knucklehead, I can be a nice guy, I can fall asleep, I can eat snacks, I can get up and flap my wings. Nothing I do. There is nothing I can do to affect that. They are the ones that are doing it. When I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I am, so to speak, In Christ. But it's scriptural. I am now in Christ. Just like I was in that plane. Now I'm in Christ. It is Jesus Christ that is getting me to heaven. It is Jesus Christ that is getting me into the presence of God, makes me acceptable to God. It is not me, it's Christ. Not I, but Christ. And he's the one getting me there. And he never fails. It's the Father's will that whoever's in Christ, that he would not lose any of them. And he never fails. He never fails. When a person trusts Jesus Christ Savior, they're in Christ, and now Christ takes over. It's his way. Alright? You with me? Let me give you one more, real quick. Turtle security. God promised it. We're born into God's family. We can't be unborn. He promised we would never perish, never. Nobody's able to pluck us out of his hand. He keeps us secure. We're in Christ Now the last point I want to address this matter. I say, alright, preacher, if I get saved, if a person trusts Christ as Savior And if they're secure and they're in Christ and they can't lose it under any circumstances at all, for any reason, they're going to heaven for sure, then they can just go out and live however they want. And they can go drinking and partying and rockin' rollin' and countrying westernin' and rappin' and Whatever else music there is, and uh they can just go fornicate and they can do whatever they want. And then they still go to heaven. You don't find that anywhere in Scripture That is not there. God never gives anybody a license to sin. However, he does not send his children to hell either. Go with me, if you would, to Hebrews chapter 12. And Hebrews chapter 12, again, a vitally important passage in Scripture on this whole subject. Hebrews chapter 12. I wish we had more time. We'd look at this a bunch, but I gotta quit. Look at verse 6 Actually, let's go back to verse five. Ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, children of God, into his family. My son, he's talking to a believer, the child of God, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Chastening means the correcting hand of God. He intervenes. I'm a child of God. I'm a son of God. And I step out in sin, and I get out of the will of God, and I decide I want to do what I want. I don't care what God says, even though I'm saved. God says, don't you despise when I step in now and start correcting that. I start chastening that Despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Look at this, verse 6. For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth and scourgeth every son, that's a child of God, the saved person, whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? What's the answer to that question? There are no sons that God doesn't correct. If you've been saved, genuinely be saved. If I have genuinely been saved And we, as a child of God, get involved in sin if we don't judge it, if we don't direct uh confess it and forsake it and repent of it, God will intervene in my life And God will bring chastisement, and God will rebuke me and bring me to the point where I come back and humble myself and make it right. Let's read on here. He doesn't take away my salvation. He doesn't send me to hell. He corrects me to get me back living the way I should as a child of God. Look what he says there. Look at verse 8. But if ye be without chastisement, now here's where it gets ugly. If ye be without chastisement, in other words, you claim to be saved, And you're living in sin, and God's not convicting you, and God's not correcting you, and God's not chastening you. Look what he says. If ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, all children of God. Here's where it gets ugly. Then are ye bastards and not sons He says, this is what he's saying here, and that's a strong term. That word bastard means an illegitimate child What he's saying is if you claim to be a child of God, you claim that you're saved, and you live in sin and you flaunt your sin before God and claim to be a uh a gen you claim to be born again And you're living in sin and living in sin and living in sin. If God is not intervening, if God is not bringing chastisement, if there's no conviction about that sin, if God is not addressing it Then your claim to be saved, your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. You're not genuinely a child of God. He says, I God ne God disciplines his children. He does not disown his children. It's a world of difference. Say, well, you believe once saved, always saved. You've got a license of sin. Uh-uh. I'll tell you, anybody here that's been saved any length of time, you've got in sin, you know what I'm talking about when I say God chastens us Right? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? God steps in, he convicts us, he ch he he he chastens us, he disciplines us, he takes us to the woodshed And he brings us back in line where we ought to be. We do not lose our salvation. We lose our fellowship, but he corrects that and brings us back. Brings us back. I'm here to tell you, if I'm talking to some folks and you're genuinely saved and you're in sin right now, young and old, you have sin in your life, I'm here to tell you, you're a child of God, God's going to address that. God's going to chase him. The best thing to do, if I'm saved and I'm living in sin, I don't need to fear about losing my salvation. But what I do need to be concerned about is getting right with God. Because he's going to correct, he's going to chasten, he's going to deal with it. And so, Jesus said, No man can pluck you out of my hand. Safe. in the hands of Jesus. It's interesting, Noah's Ark. Again, this is another great study. Noah's Ark, if you study what the Bible says there in Genesis about Noah's Ark, and he gives all the dimensions, he gives a lot of specifics about Noah's Ark. And now anywhere on the Noah's Ark were there handles on the side where people could hold on to the side and just hold on long enough to survive the flood. There's no handles on Noah's Ark Either you got inside of it or you were lost. You drowned. And once you were in, the door was sealed. There ain't nobody getting out till God opens the door. Secure, safe. When I come to the Lord Jesus Christ, there's no handles on the cross for me to hang on to. I come to Christ. I'm in Christ. I am safe. I'm secure. I'm solid. Amen? And this is exciting. This makes Presbyterian shout. And even a Baptist every now and then I had a lady, I'll end with this. We had a lady years ago. She was attending here. She loved the church. She loved the music. She loved the church. She came and said Preacher, I'd like to join the church, but I disagree with one of your doctrines. I said, well, okay, well let's talk. So we went back in the office. My wife was there. We sat down. She goes, I don't agree with your once saved, always saved position. I don't agree with that. I said, all right, fair enough. I said, can I show you some verses? I'll explain to you why we believe it. It's not something we made up. We It's pretty clear in scripture as far as I'm concerned. If you'll give me a few minutes I can show you from scripture, I think you'll understand. She goes, Okay So in my office back the the old office um got the Bible out and I went through some of these verses and a ton of others and I got another one I completely left out The word that's used to preserve the Word of God is the same word used to preserve the souls of believers. But anyway, so I went through. And I showed her these passages and she made this statement to me. I still can hear her saying it. She goes, I know what the Bible says, but I have always been taught. And she walked away. They'd come back. Now, whether she attends church here or not, that's secondary. But she made a very, very dangerous statement. I know what the Bible says, but I've always been taught. Don't ever take the teachings of man over top of the Word of God If my been taught, what I've been taught does not line up with what the Bible says, dump what I've been taught and stick with the Bible. Amen? If you're here this morning, you're saved, there's some sin in your life, I plead with you, make that right. Get it right. Don't wait till God has to chase in you. Make it right. If we would judge ourselves, we'd be not judged. Number two, if you're not saved, get saved. Get saved. Most important issue. Number three, if we're saved and we're right with God, let's go out and tell others about Christ. Amen? Father, I ask you to take these thoughts. I hope they were helpful. Lord, I believe this with all my heart. Our church has held to this for many, many years because we're convinced this is your word. And I pray now you'd help us get it settled. If there's someone here under the sound of my voice that has doubts and worried about they lost their salvation, God, I pray that they would come and just take you at your word. And claim your promise and rest in the person of the Lord Jesus. Let Him do what He does, save us, get us to heaven. But heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if some say, Preacher I thank the Lord that He saved me and He keeps me. And I'm going to rest in that. I'm not going to worry. About whether I lose my salvation or not, I'm going to rest in what Christ has done. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. That's the Bible response. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But there's some things in my life I allow to creep in. Some what my walk with the Lord is slipped, it's drifted. I know I can't lose my salvation, but I need to get back in fellowship with God. I need to get back where I ought to be as a believer. Is there anything like that? And that's between you and God. But you know where you're at. God bless you. Hands all around I say, come, make it right, make it right. Let the Lord have his way. Maybe there's some this morning said, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I hope so. I think so. I'm here to tell you you can know that And be secure in it. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell I want to know that Jesus has saved me and I'm secure in the hands of Jesus. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled. How about it? Any at all? Any at all Father, bless now our imitation, I ask, and take these thoughts and put them deep in our heart in Jesus' name