Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter six. I really do appreciate the gift. You kinda caught me off guard there. Dumb things. And even when I do have a chance to think a little bit, I say dumb things sometimes. But uh I I am very, very grateful. This church means the world to me, and uh I thank God so much for the privilege of being your pastor. Genesis chapter six. Um uh because you gave me I'm gonna give you a special little gift uh gift back tonight. I'm gonna try and I am way too strong I think brother Sam I'm gonna try and uh get ya out of here real quick. Get ya not only that, McRibs are back. And so uh Great motivation. So we're going to try and just share a few thoughts from Genesis chapter 6, verse 18 and 19. Well it started. Chester and Linda headed down, they're on their way to Florida. Dennis and Betty are leaving this week to go to Florida. It won't be long, other carnal backslidden Christians will head to Florida. And uh no. Uh I put a thing on the computer today I said ninety uh ten percent of the nation's uh states have ninety percent of the sunshine and And warm weather in wintertime. Forget occupying Wall Street. We need to occupy Florida. Everybody just needs to go down there and enjoy it. anyway. Genesis chapter 6 verse 18, the Bible says, but with thee, of course God's speaking to Noah, we're back to Noah. But with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt, I circle these next few words, come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort, shalt thou bring, I circled these next three words, into the art. To keep them alive with thee, they shall be male and female. If you would come down to verse 1 of chapter 7. And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house, what Into the Ark. Salvation for Noah and his people of his day was found in the Ark. That's where salvation was. And so my message tonight is salvation in the ark. Let's pray together. Father, bless our study of your word. It's been a good day, Lord. My heart's full. And um I've been blessed. Thank you for the young people we heard testimony. Responding for salvation. The altars this morning, God, you stirred our hearts. Now help us to find finish up the day strong. We pray your spirit would be here in a very special way. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. Speak through me. And Lord help us to see a little bit more and understand a little clearer this glorious salvation that we have in Jesus' name Name I pray. Amen. Well, a lot of people did not get into the ark. Would you agree with me? It's an understatement Only eight got in the ark. Now I got thinking about this. What would be the reasons why people did not enter the ark to escape the fire? What would be some reasons people came up with? What excuses would they give if they were being interviewed and the news reporter was asking them, why aren't you getting on the ark? What would some answers be that they would give? Anybody want to take a shot? Sure, exactly. There was no indication they needed to. Uh and I think it's pretty clear in Scripture had not rained up to that point before. All there was was just the dew, was how the vegetation so they saw no reason to saw no need to. Um so uh one of the things would be uh there was no they had uh little or no motivation. The only reason was what Noah was saying, his message. Anyone else? What's some other excuses? Sure, no doubt the religious leaders then and would tell them don't listen to that guy. He's an extreme He's a right wing extremist. Don't listen to him. Uh others, Becky. Okay, they didn't want to disrupt their lives. Just keep things going. Any others? Joy. How about this? God would never do that to somebody. Ever hear that? God, there's no way. God is a God of love. He would never destroy mankind with a flood. I can hear people saying that. Any others, real quick. Sam. Good, just going along with the crowd. Nobody else is getting on the ark. Why should I get on there? Um let me give you the ones I jotted down. Here's the uh CNN reporter. Am I doing that, Sam? Oh Blame the preacher. Everything is blame the preacher. I put these down. I think some folks would say it seemed foolish. How silly. That kind of ties in with what some folks said. Why would we get in the ark? That's stupid. Everybody get on the arc. How about this one? I thought it's too much effort. And I gotta pack all my stuff up, you know, and do all that. You know? I put this one down. Um how about this? Too restrictive of a lifestyle. If I get on that arc, I'm not going to be able to golf. I can't go hunting. I don't have any moles. How are we going to go mole? How uh man, if I if I become an archite I'm not going to have any fun. I'm not going to enjoy my life anymore. Too restrictive. How about, and somebody said this one, no one else is getting on I I I'm getting on that arc ain't nobody else getting on. I wonder how many people left church services and revival services unsaved because they thought this. There's no one else going down to that altar. I ain't going down there Hm. I had a fella a number of years ago, and I know the fella, and some of y'all know him pretty well. He doesn't attend here But um I I was knocking on doors, came across him, went through the whole plan of salvation. There was about four or five folks there visiting, but he invited me in and Let me do my thing and uh went through the whole planet. Came time to bow our heads. He bowed his head. I offered the sinner's prayer, and he would not pray the prayer. And I come back and made sure to explain and and everybody's being real respective and sitting there, offered others, and he would not. And I he didn't say this in so many words, but I am convinced he did not he came that close to salvation. And I'm convinced the reason he didn't was because no one else there was doing it. I'm convinced of it. No one else was getting in that arc. I ain't getting on that arc. Are you gonna get on there? No, ain't nobody else getting on. Um this ties in with that one. Boy, we'd look foolish. Anyway, I just looked like an idiot going on that arc Everyone else looking at me. Um I think now I again this is complete speculation, but I'm laying the grain groundwork here. I think there was some folks saying this. You know what? I believe no one right. Man, this is this world is, look how wicked this world is. You know, we're going to get on that ark one of these days. Someday I'm going to get on there. Yeah, I know. I know there's judgment coming. There has to be. Look how wicked this world is. One of these days I'm going to get on that art I can see the rain start falling. Sweetheart, you know, we gotta s we gotta start taking seriously this matter of getting on the ark. Look at that water falling out of the sky. We ain't never seen that before before. A couple days of it go by. Water starts coming up. Good night. You know we we need to get on that art. Next thing you know the doors shh Too late. Too late. The Ark was salvation In Noah's time. That's where salvation was. Now the root of all these excuses, the root of all these excuses was what? Unbelief. Really did not believe that what Noah was preaching was true Now, I want to suggest to you, even the folks that say, you know, I think he's probably right. I think that rain's coming. If they really believed it, they'd have got on that ark If they really believed that what Noah said was saying was coming, they wouldn't have delayed. You have somebody that's house is burning down, collapsing down on them, and they really believe that if they stay here they're dying. You know what I found out? They get out of there. some way, one way or another, somehow, unless they physically can't, they get themselves out. And so the root of all of this was unbelief. Now, we have to keep something in mind. And I think Peter confirms this in the book of Peter that everyone that did not get on the ark When that door was closed, everyone outside the ark not only died physically, but they perished spiritly. When they took their last breath, when their lungs were filled with that water, gasping, and their body died, their souls separated from God in hell. I think scripture is pretty clear. The whole world was lost. Died physically and were dead spiritually. That is a sobering thought Um salvation for mankind in Noah's day was in the ark. He says, get into the ark. Get into the ark. Get into the ark. The ark in Noah's day, I want to suggest, was equivalent To the gospel in our day. And I want to look at some comparisons. And like I said, I think this will be shorter than you believe it's going to be. But some interesting comparisons. Number one, and these would be good things to jot down, I think. Number one, the art originated with God. No, it wasn't Noah's idea to build the ark. God came to Noah. Actually, technically, it's not Noah's Ark, it's God's Ark. Noah built it for God. It was impossible for mankind to know of coming judgment had God not told them. There was nothing in the weather patterns as far as we can tell. There was nothing in history up to this point. There was nothing to indicate physically to the eye that judgment was coming. The only information they had was what God had given Noah. So this whole idea of building an ark wasn't something that the meteorologists are studying the weather and there's global warming coming or global flooding coming. And we've got to do something to save mankind. No, they're just going about their daily business. There was nothing, there was no physical or weather-related indicators that an orc was going to be needed. It's completely God's idea. Completely God's instructions. If God had not warned them of the flood, Man would never have built an ark. Had no reason to. God informed man of judgment Oh, there we go. This is the reason I can't send these sermons to FBN. We got all this peripheral stuff mixed in. in the C B and um here's the point there is no way man could have known of a coming flood if God not had told had not Told them. This whole instruction of the ark was God's idea. Let me make application. There's no way that this world would know All right. Are we good? All right. But let's put the kidding aside. There's no way that anybody in this world would know of a coming hell, would know of the coming judgment of God on this world if we didn't have this book. right here. Salvation is God's idea. The gospel is God's idea. There is no way man would even think to escape some sort of judgment if God didn't tell us about it. In fact, you have mankind and you remove God, you remove the scriptures from it. What's Ecclesiastes tell us man's idea is? Eat, drink, and be merry. For tomorrow No thought of coming judgment. So number one, my first thought is God's, the ark was God's idea. Salvation, the gospel, is God's idea. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. It's God's idea. Number two, second thought about the Ark and salvation. There is only one Ark. God didn't have 25 different people building 25 different arts. He had one man build one ark. And by the way, there was only one door on that ark. Salvation for the people of Noah's day was very, very exclusive. There was only one way they were going to survive this flood. And that was to get on the ark. And there was only one way to get on the ark. And that was through the door. The flood was God's judgment on mankind for their sin. The only way to escape that judgment was to get on the ark, and the only way to get on the ark was through one door. There is still judgment of God on sin. Today, it's not a flood, separation from God for all eternity in hell. There is a coming judgment physically. When Christ comes back and judges the world of righteousness, there's only one way to escape the judgment of God And that's through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there's only one way to make the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ effective for me, and that's through receiving Jesus Christ by faith. faith. You know there's people perhaps that stood and say, you know what? That ark, if there was a flood, that ark would would l last. If there was a flood, I believe that arc would keep people alive if they got on. They could believe that all they want. If they don't get on, they're not going to survive. I talk to people all the time. Say, yeah, I believe Jesus is the Savior of the world. Yeah, I believe God loves the world. Have you ever trusted him? No. Doesn't do you any good. You got to get through the door. Jesus says, I am the door. Persons got to come through that. So there was only one arc Salvation from the flood was very exclusive. Salvation from God's judgment is very exclusive. Jesus says, I am the way. No man cometh unto the Father what? But by me. No other way. For us, there's only one gospel, Jesus Christ. For us, there's only one way to implement the gospel for myself, and that's through faith. Jesus Christ. The world had no way to protect mankind from the flood. They were completely unprepared, unequipped. To escape that flood. And I'm telling you today, the world is completely unequipped to escape hell in and of itself. You follow what I'm saying? United Nations cannot come up with a way to escape the judgment of God. Can't do it. It's only in Jesus Christ. Religion. So religion had no way to protect from the flood. Only the ark and only through the door. So number one, ark was God's idea Salvation's God's idea. Gospel's God's idea. Number two, there's only one ark. And uh by the way, I need to say this. I don't think I need to, but I do. There's only one gospel The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Jehovah's Witness come by your door. They're bringing another gospel. It's a different art. It ain't gonna float. I had them come by this week, two young ladies. Very nice. But I had to confront them with the truth that they were teaching false doctrine. If people got on that ark, and it'd say it this way to him, but if people got on that ark, it would sink. Would not escape the judgment of God. Mormons come by. Other groups. Work salvation. Baptism salvation. All of this. It's not going to cut it. There's only one gospel. There was only one ark, and there's only one gospel. Number three, the God the Ark was a very simple means of salvation. It wasn't nothing complicated about getting on the Ark. You didn't have to take any test. Noah wasn't there. Alright, can you You repeat the apostles creed, they say we don't even know what apostles are. They're not going to be around for thousands of years. How could we possibly know No, the apostles created. It wasn't any test to get on the ark. It was a very simple thing. Nothing complicated about the ark. You know what the ark was? A gigantic floating building. That's all it was. It wasn't designed for navigation. It wasn't designed for cruising the oceans. It was designed to do one thing. Keep stuck above the water. That was it. There was nothing complicated about getting on the thing. He didn't even have to climb a ladder, as far as I can tell. He just walked on the thing. He just got in. And the fact of the matter is, there's nothing complicated about the gospel. You don't have to take a test to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. You realize you're a sinner, you realize the only hope, you just trust him, you accept him, you believe on him as your own personal savior. It's as simple as a drowning person grabbing a life preserver. Jesus says, I'm the door. By me if any man. What'd he say? I'm the door. By me if any man enter in. He shall be saved. You know what the Lord's saying? Simple get saved as walking through a door. He said, I'm the bread of life. He says, I uh if any man drink of the water that I offer him, he'll never die. Taking a drink of water, walking through a door, grabbing a life preserver. Getting saved is simple, but it's obviously not always easy. Getting on that ark was very simple. Just walk on it. But it wasn't very easy because not many people did it Salvation is a very simple thing. And by the way, watch out for folks that make salvation difficult. Watch out for folks that make salvation complicated. Now there's some factors that need to be in place, obviously, but it's not a complicated thing. It's a very simple thing. The night I got saved, if you would have asked me about the uh virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, I would have known of it and all that, I would have probably said, uh I don't know. I'd have probably said it just like that. He asked me about, do you believe in the premillennial return of the Lord Jesus Christ? I'd have said, huh? Somebody said to me, You think Jesus is the only hope for your life? I said, Yeah. He's my only hope. such a mess. I just need Jesus forgive me. Save me from my sin. It's all I needed to know to get saved. Ark was a simple means of salvation. Number four. And last of all, the Ark, I like this one. Oh, by the way, as far as that simple salvation part Do you ever read or hear of Charles Spurgeon's salvation? How many folks here have ever heard of Charles Spurgeon? Probably the greatest Baptist preacher in the last 500 years. Anybody here ever hear his salvation experience? He lived in London, of course. He was a f I think he I want to say he was 14 years old. He'd been go under conviction of sin. And he'd been going to different churches And one day he started out and he was going to go to church Sunday morning across town. He's by himself, just a 14-year-old boy. He wanted to be saved. He knew he needed uh s uh someone to save him from his sins, but he didn't know how to be He was supposed to go across town. It snowed that day, heavy storm. So instead of going all the way across town, he just went down and he saw a little Methodist church. And he slipped in and the door was open. He went in and he says there was five or six people there that morning because of the storm. For whatever reason the preacher had not made it, so one of the men just got up and was going to preach a message. He preached from Jeremiah and he used the one little phrase, look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. That was his message. And he said the guy was obviously not trained and not a speaker, not a public speaker, anyway. And he said, all he kept saying over and over was, just look to the Lord Jesus and you'll live. Just look to hear. And Spurgeon said, I don't know if he was addressing me directly. I was the only young man in the audit in the crowd of five or six people and he kept saying over and over, young man, just look and live. Spurgeon said, that morning I looked and Christ said Saved me. Simple thing. Simple thing. Last of all, the art, and I like this one, as I said, was a secure environment. Once they got in, they were saved. Once in the art, that door was closed by God, everything was fine. Everything was fine. In fact, once they were in the art, if I understand scripture and I think it's pretty clear, they couldn't get out. God closed the door and God's the one that opened the door. Now I don't, for the life of me, I couldn't imagine why somebody would want to get out of the arch. Especially when that's first happening and you hear the screaming and the hollering and the pounding on the sides, why would you want to go out into that chaos and that horror? Then eventually that sound dies down as everybody's died off. Eventually the storm ends, and all you have is just water. There was nothing outside the ark to offer anybody anything. They were safe inside. Secure. All the needs were met. We talked last week about the preparation of food and all of that. Everything they needed was in there. There was nothing the world outside the ark had to offer those who were in it. So they're secure. They're safe. There was only one I like this thought. Once they got in the ark, there was only one way they could drown. And what was that? If the ark sank. It's the only way they could drown once they were in. The only way they could drown is if that ark sank. Their security, listen to this, their security was in the reliability of the ark. Listen, once we trust Christ as Savior, the only way we can face the judgment of God is if Jesus fails. We're in Christ. Our security is in the ability of Christ to keep us saved. Not our ability to keep ourselves saved. The only way, listen, the only way a believer can end up in hell, the only way a saved person can end up Can end up in hell is if Jesus Christ fails. It's the only way. And I want to give you some scripture, and this is the end. Turn with me to John chapter number six. John chapter number six. I take great issue with folks that teach you can lose your salvation. There's a whole lot more involved than simply somebody sinning after they're saved. Suggesting you lose your salvation. You've got all kinds of problems with doctrine and with the position and power and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you want to teach that people can lose Lose their salvation. Look at John chapter 6, verse number 37. Jesus speaking here. He says, All that the Father giveth me shall come unto me. And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise what? You can't cast something out that ain't in. This isn't talking about Jesus not turning people away who come to him. He's talking, he's saying, folks that are in me, folks that have already trusted me, I'm not throwing them out. He doesn't say, and him that cometh to me, I will in no wise turn away. He says, I will now wise what? Cast out. Then let's read on. For I came down from heaven not to do my own will. But the will of him that sent me. And this is the Father's will which has sent me. Now look very carefully. That of all which he hath given me, what's that next word? I. Who's the I? Jesus, that all that the Father hath given me, I should lose nothing. But raise it up again at the last day. You understand what he's saying there? My eternal security is dependent upon Jesus' obedience to his Father. Read on. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone that seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. Once you are in Christ, there is only one way you can possibly die and go to hell, is if Jesus disobeys the Heavenly Father and casts us out. And Jesus will never do that. Will never do that. Never do that. Once they're in the ark, they couldn't get out if they wanted. The only way they could drown once they were inside that ark is if the ark sank. And that out that ark ain't sinking. That's that's good Southern preaching there right there Now let me close with this. Here's a sad fact, and I debated whether to begin the message with this or end it with this. I opted to end it with this. The overwhelming majority of people, and this is an understatement, the overwhelming majority of people did not get on the ark. Perhaps billions of people died and went to hell. The overwhelming majority of the population of planet Earth perished in that flood. And the correlating fact is this, and it's very sad. The overwhelming majority of the people will not accept the gospel of Jesus Christ. Most of the world's population is going to die without Christ and go to hell. That is a sad reality. The overwhelming majority of people living in Kazakhstan are going to die and go to hell The world. United States of America. Most of the people you meet this week that you talk to You buy something from them, you greet them, the majority of the people you pass are going to end up in the devil's hell. Matthew seven, thirteen and fourteen, he says this Enter ye in at the straight gate. Help me, brother. Straight as a gate and narrow as a way that leadeth unto life. He says this. He says, the way to be saved is very narrow. Few there be that enter therein. But wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction And many there be that go in thereat. That's a sobering thought. Most people are going to die and go to hell. Now we that can do one of two things to us. It can drive us crazy and just go Berserk, or it can motivate us to do everything we can to get those who are willing to get themselves saved. You've heard the story, little boy on the side on the beach. All these starfish were washed up and they're all dying. He said, we gotta do something. Somebody said, there's no way you can save all these starfish. He picked up one, slung it out in the ocean. He said, Yeah, but I can make a difference for that one. We're not going to get the whole world saved. We're not going to get everyone in the United States of America saved. We're not going to get everyone in Oakland saved. But you know what? We can go out and see some get saved. We can see some come to Christ. Let's be faithful like Noah. And just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. And give the gospel and give the gospel and give the gospel Until Jesus comes. Father, help us, Lord. I think it's a very sober in day when Noah got on the Ark, Father, and that door was closed. He looked around and that's all that we're gonna survive. And Lord, we look around today and we just see so many people without Christ, so many people that just don't care, have every reason and every excuse in the world. To think they're going to end up in hell. God help us stay faithful. Help us to be bold. Help us to be tactful and wise. And fill us with your spirit and stir our hearts. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many join me in saying, preacher, I need to be a little more earnest in this matter of sharing the gospel? I just got to stay at this thing. And I need God to help me. To be bold, to be tactful, to be earnest. How many like that join me? God bless you, hands all around. We're not going to get everybody saved, but God knows we can get some folks on this ark. We can influence some folks to believe the gospel and be saved. Saved. Let's do all we can to live our lives in such a way and share the gospel in such a way that we can see some saved. Father, bless our efforts. Help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes across