Second Corinthians chapter five, if you would. Notice verse number seventeen with me. This is a verse if you've been around Bible preaching church, you've been in at all, you're probably familiar with 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Very important verse in dealing with the Christian life and salvation in particular. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, now pay close attention to what it says here. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? A new creature. He goes on and says, old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become new. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. It kind of has the idea, if you study that a little bit, it has the idea That uh when I trust Christ the Saviour, if any man be in Christ, I become a new creature. And then a change begins to take place And those old characteristics of the flesh, those old habits, that old self-centeredness and selfishness of my life before Christ passes away, begins to pass away, and things start to change and become new. Now if you would come over back to Mark chapter number five. And here we have a tremendous, powerful testimony to that fact. Mark chapter 5, we just read here. And I want us to notice, if you would, verse number 15. Mark 5. 15. Now, this is, as we read a few moments ago, this is a fella, and I don't know how he ended up in this condition. We can speculate a lot of things. I would venture to say that this fellow made some bad decisions early in his life. I would venture to say this fella allowed some sins in his life at some point. And things, and as sin is, it tends to escalate. Sin has a progressive nature to it, where we allow a little sin, and then it becomes a little more, and then a little more, and a little more, and it has that horrific snowball effect Until this fella ended up here as a demon-possessed, devil-possessed man living in tombs and just a tragic situation. But in verse number 15, it says, and they, the town folk, come to Jesus. And they saw him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion, I mean, a legion, hundreds of devils indwelling in. And had the legion. Now look at this. Sitting and clothed and in his right mind. And how did it affect the townspeople? What's it say? Afraid. They didn't understand. How can this be? Uh just a few moments ago, the you know uh he was one way, now he's this way. Come down, if you would, to verse number uh twenty. And he This devil-possessed man, this demoniac they call him, he departed and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him And all men did marvel. They couldn't understand. Something was dramatically different about this man. Here's my message this morning. I'm gonna try and preach on this subject. Salvation changes everything. Salvation changes everything. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you on a, at least in my mind and in our church's life, of important Sunday As we are about to embark on one of the most effective and most far-reaching outreaches that we'll do all year in our neighborhood Bible time rally. And I ask you'd help us, Lord, to see this the way you do. Lord, we're looking for the salvation of souls. Little children, teenagers, parents, adults, all ages. Lord, we want to see people come to Jesus Christ as Savior. Lord, your word makes it clear that that act of salvation, that transaction that takes place, changes everything. Lord, some of us can testify to that. Others, we've seen it. I pray that you would just challenge us this morning. I yield my will to you. Father, with all my heart, I yield my will to you and I present my body. I pray you'd take me and fill me with your spirit. You would speak through me. And Lord, if there's any that are unsaved today under the sound of my voice, I plead with you, your Holy Spirit would bring such conviction. That today would be the day they make that decision to trust Christ. And those of us that know you as Savior, that have experienced salvation, Lord, I pray you'd stir our hearts. To do all we can to bring others to Christ and let them know you also. So have your way now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. You've heard this a thousand times. But uh May 7th, 1979, 1030 on a Monday night, a 19-year-old boy, I knelt by my bed. I'm telling this again for a reason. I knelt by my bed, up in the attic. My bedroom was in the attic, and um I cried out to Jesus Christ with all my heart. I mean as desperate and sincere as a 19-year-old boy could be. Pleading with God to forgive me and save me from my sin. I believe Jesus died on the cross for me, there's no doubt about it. I knew I was a sinner. That was the problem. That was what I was wanting to be saved from, my sin. I called on Jesus Christ, just like the Bible instructs me to. I'd been reading the Bible for several months Just like a brand new book. I was captivated. And God heard my prayer. And God saved my soul. And I'm telling you, my entire life was changed. I mean like that I got up that next morning to go to work. I was a different man. I mean a different man. I got thinking this week. Here I am, a little over 43 years later And every single day of my life is impacted by that decision I made as a 19-year-old boy late on that Monday night to trust Jesus Christ as Savior What I'm trying to say is this, salvation changes everything. I know that's true because the Bible teaches it. We're going to see that here in a moment. The Bible teaches that when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, it changes everything So I know it's true because the Bible teaches it, but I know it's true because I have experienced it personally. And if we would take the time, uh all across this auditorium, folks could stand and give testimony. When I trusted Christ as Savior, it changed everything in my life. Changed my life. Can I get a witness? We could do that all afternoon, probably, give testimony of how the power of the gospel in bringing salvation to a life changes That life inside and out. Now the question is, I got studying this week the word salvation. What is salvation? So I looked it up where it's used all through the Bible. That that little term. We sing about it, we talk about it, we throw that word around But do we ever really stop and study what exactly is salvation? We say salvation changes everything. Well, this thing that changes everything, what is it? So I got looking in the Bible, and as I always do, the first thing I do is I look up the meaning of the word. I want to make sure I know what that word means and not just what I think it means or some definition I gave to it. I want to know what is the Bible definition of that word. And in the Old Testament and again in the New Testament The strict definition of the word, the strict definition simply is this: deliverance. Or to be rescued from some sort of doom. To be delivered from some sort of danger, some sort of bad predicament or situation So the word itself, if we're just going to define the word salvation, it means to be delivered or rescued from something bad. From something bad. Now, as we study its use in the Bible, I'll give you a little Bible teaching here, as we study its use in the Bible, we have to go to the context that the word is used to determine what is it that bad thing that we're being rescued from? What is the doom, the destruction, the danger that uh that there's deliverance being made from Well, the context tells us that. Sometimes the word is used, particularly in the Old Testament, is talking about being delivered, salvation or deliverance from the enemies of Israel. For instance, it said when they came out of Egypt, when Israel came out of Egypt under the leadership of Moses, of course, the direction of God, but under the leadership of Moses They came out with the miraculous uh uh plagues and the parting of the sea and just the amazing things that God did. God was rescuing them, God was delivering them, he was saving them. From the Egyptians' bondage on them. So in that case, it simply meant deliverance or being rescued from their enemies. Other times it uh refers to salvation from uh some bondage by a pagan nation. Israel later on had sinned against Jehovah. And as sin is, unrepentant sin, chastisement from God came upon him. And one of those chastisements was to become slaves in Babylon. And then God stirred the heart of the king and let him come back. And the Bible talks about salvation from that bondage. That physical bondage of Babylon and Israel was able to come out of that. So the context determines what the danger is, the doom, that a person is being rescued from, delivered from. Sometimes it's used in the Bible to refer to being rescued or delivered from illness. Or someone's very ill, and God save them from that illness, from dying from that illness. I run across that uh people use that sometimes uh when I'm out witw witnessing and soul winning with folks. I'll knock on a door and this happened many occasions Uh I'll knock on the door and we'll get talking a little bit. I'll ask them a question. Uh uh Do you know for sure when your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven and get all kinds of answers. I begin sharing the gospel with them And many, many times I've had people say this, oh yes, I was saved back in uh back in 1985. I was saved. And I'll say, Well, tell me about it. And they'll say, Well, I was in a bad car wreck. I was laying in the ditch. One guy told me this one time, it was in a bad car wreck. I was laying in the ditch. I was going to die, and uh some people drove by, saw me, and they grabbed me, and they got me to the hospital, and I was saved. Now he was rescued, he was delivered from what Physical death. He was going to die. And that's a correct use of the word in that context. So sometimes the word salvation means being delivered from some bad illness or some physical death. Now what does it mean when we use the term spiritually? And that's what we sing about here. That's what we preach about. That's what this coming week is all going to be about. Spiritual salvation. The theological, if you want to use that term, the theological use of the word. And simply means this. Salvation is to be delivered from God's holy judgment on my sins as a person. You want to boil down what salvation is? It is being delivered from God's holy judgment on my sin. And being delivered from that, being rescued from that. The consequences of sin, now you don't hear this much, but the consequences of sin is the judgment of God. The judgment of God. I wish every TV preacher would get up and preach that the judgment of God is upon the sins of mankind. That's the message. And by the way, no uh no person will ever understand salvation until they realize that they're a sinner. They'll never understand what salvation is all about until they understand the great dire situation they're in, under the wrath and judgment of God. And if I'm talking to somebody this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, and you've never been saved in the biblical sense. I'm here to tell you, you are one heartbeat away from eternity under the wrath and judgment of God in a horrific place called hell. Now that may not be popular preaching and that may not be modern preaching, but I'll tell you one thing, that is Bible preaching right there. And so salvation in the biblical sense is being saved, rescued, or delivered from that wrath and judgment of God. Upon me as a person because of the sins I've committed against the holy God. That's the biblical definition. To be rescued from the wrath of God upon my sins. When a sinful man humbles himself and believes what Jesus Christ did on that cross was done for him personally And he turns to Christ and in faith trusts Jesus Christ for forgiveness of his sins. At that very moment, that person is rescued. That person is saved. He's delivered from God's judgment on his sins. Any woman that in humility comes to the Lord Jesus Christ believing that he died on that cross, was buried, and rose again. And turns to him with all their heart and believes and trusts him as their personal Savior, God rescues them. God delivers them from his judgment and wrath upon their sins. By the way, any little child that will humble themselves, and by the way, I found children don't have as hard a time humbling themselves as adults do. That's why Jesus said, become as a child. Any little child, these little children up here, and many, many others that are going to be joining us this week in Bible time. And they hear the message of the gospel, how that Jesus died for them personally on the cross, was buried, rose again from the dead, that they will humble themselves and believe that he did that for them personally. And trust him and call on him as their own personal Savior. God will deliver them, God will rescue them from the wrath and judgment of God that rests upon them. That is biblical salvation. I'm here to tell you, salvation biblically is not joining a church. Salvation biblically is not being baptized. And being part of a church and being baptized is very, very important for those who are already saved. Salvation is being delivered from the wrath and judgment of God upon me because of my sins. And I'm here to tell you, salvation changes everything. When a person makes that decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior, a tremendous, tremendous change takes place. I wonder how many this morning you're here, you're saved, you know it. Say amen. Do you know the moment of your salvation when you trusted Jesus Christ as Savior? When I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, that was the turning point in our life. was salvation. Um uh do you ever hear do you ever talk to some I think uh Nate and I he's there out working with the teens this morning. We've got a lot of people out working with the teens. And um but we were talking the other day and he was saying something about he used he used to do and and he made this statement. He says, uh, oh, well that was b that was BC DC, yeah, before Christ, before I got saved. You know what he was saying? And I've said that myself. Anybody here ever say that? Oh, that was before Christ. That was my life before Christ. Anybody here ever say that Uh, one person, okay. Um it's a good thing to say. You know what we when we say that, oh that was before Christ am I? You know what we're saying? We're saying salvation was a turning point. That was the milestone in my life. May 7, 1979. You say, I'm so tired of hearing that preacher say, you say, May 7, 1979 ten thirty at night, it's all over here. That's it. Might as well get used to it 'cause I'm gonna keep saying it. As a turning point in my life. And by the way You ought to be able to share your testimony to other folks. Now, you might not know the exact day and hour, but if you trusted Christ as Savior, you ought to be able to say, there was a time God changed my life. God saved my soul. Salvation changes everything. Changes everything. Let me give you uh a few ways and we could Give a lot more than what I'm doing this morning. But number one, I put this down. Salvation, uh, when a person's saved, our eternal destiny is changed. Our eternal destiny is changed. Every single person ever born, ever has been, ever will be, will spend eternity in one of two places, either heaven or hell. Heaven or hell, eternity. And by the way, there are no other options This idea that there's some sort of purgatory where folks can go to and try and work their way out of it and eventually get to heaven. I'm telling you, you won't find that one place in this old book. The only way you only place you'll find that in the imagination of sinful man's mind. The Bible says after death is the judgment. No other options, no other options, heaven or hell. By the way, there is no such thing as reincarnation. Not going to happen. We got one life, one life to live. It's soon past. We don't get sa hey, we don't get a second chance at this thing called life. We got one life We can invest it in eternity, we can do what God tells us to do, or we can waste it on temporary things. But we got one life, and then it's eternity. Heaven or hell? Heaven or hell. That's it. There's no other options. Every person will spend eternity in either heaven or hell. Whether we like it or not, that is the truth. That is the truth. I don't like it. I wish there was no such thing as hell. It's the one teaching in the Bible that uh I I I dislike the most But nevertheless, it's true. It's true. And salvation, when a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that eternal destiny is changed From hell to heaven. From eternal separation from God to eternal presence of God. Salvation changes our eternal destiny. If you got your Bibles there, turn with me to the Gospel of John. Now you might want to keep your place here in Hebrew, in uh in uh Mark. But go with me if you would to John and John chapter number three I want us to notice several verses here through the Gospel of John. And what we're saying is this is salvation Changes are eternal destiny. When a person is saved, their eternal destiny is changed. Look at John chapter 3 and verse number 16. How many people are familiar with John 3 and 16? Yeah, that's the most famous verse in all the Bible. You can go just about anywhere in the world. They'll uh heard of uh John three sixteen. Not everywhere, but the most famous verse in all the world. It says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Now look at this: that whosoever believeth in him, that's salvation. Whosoever believeth in him should not what? Perish. That's dying go to hell. But have what? Everlasting life. That's the presence of God. The determining factor in John chapter 3 and verse 16, the determining factor between being perishing and having eternal life is believing on Jesus Christ and that is salvation. Salvation changes our eternal destiny from a devil's hell to the presence of God. Come down, if you would, with me to verse 36, the last verse in that chapter. It says again, he that believeth on the Son, that's salvation. He that believeth on the Son hath what? Everlasting life. That's eternity with the Lord. And he that believeth not the Son does not have salvation, look at this, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. And if a person dies in unbelief, a person dies in their sins unforgiven, they suffer the eternal wrath of God. in a horrific place called hell. I wish that was not true, but the Bible teaches it it is true. And salvation changes the eternal destiny of the believer. Everything has changed. Come over to chapter 5 with me, if you would. John chapter 5, and look with me if you would at verse 24. Again, Jesus speaking here. John 5 24. Notice what he says. He says, verily, verily I say unto you. Now when he uses that word verily, it kind of has the idea, it kind of has this idea, and I'm putting this in my own words, but it has kind of this idea What I'm about to say to you is the absolute truth. And he says it twice. He doesn't just say, Verily, I say unto you. He says, Verily, verily, I say unto you. And he's saying, what I'm about to say to you, you must take seriously. This is nothing to play with. This is nothing to horse around about. Verily, verily, I say unto you, look at this. He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me, that is salvation. Look what he says, hath everlasting life. But he goes on, and shall not come into condemnation. That's eternal wrath of God in a devil's hell. But his past, changed, passed from death unto life. What I'm saying is when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior Their eternal destiny was hell. But when they get saved, when they have salvation, they trust Christ their Savior, their eternal destiny has changed from hell to heaven. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me to John chapter number 10. John chapter number 10. Salvation changes everything. John chapter 10. And look with me if you would at verse number 28. John 10 and verse 28. And again, Jesus is speaking, and he says, This: I give unto them what? Eternal life. Now he's referencing up here those that believed on him. And he references those that did not believe on him. Those that believe on him, he says, I give unto them eternal life. That's salvation. I give it to them. He says, they have eternal life. Look what he says. And they shall never what? Perish. They'll never die and go to hell He says, Those people who are saved, those people who have trusted in me as Savior, those people who put their faith and confidence upon me and what I did for them on the cross, being buried, rose again, those people that are trusting me as their Messiah Those are the ones I give eternal life to, and they will not perish, they will not die and go to hell. See the change that took place? They were dying on their way to hell. I give them eternal life. They will not perish. How many people follow are you getting this? I'm trying to beat this hard because it's important. I give unto them eternal life, salvation. I have eternal life. And look what he says there. I give unto them eternal life. Now look at the wording here very carefully. I give them eternal life, and they shall. What's that next word? Never. You ought to circle that, highlight that, underline it, something. I got looking up the word never. You know what I found out it means? Never. In fact, in the language it's translated from, where the word it comes from is very descriptive. It's interesting It has this idea, not ever under any circumstances, in any situation, for whatever cause, whatsoever at all, ever. So, in other words, it is never going to happen. The people that God gives eternal life to are never going to perish. Let me ask you a question: when's never? Talk to me. When's never? I know it's never, but when's never? Isn't it's not gonna happen. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, their eternal destiny has changed from perishing in a devil's hell to eternal life in the presence of God. And I find this interesting. Notice what he says. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Look at the next statement. Neither shall any man Pluck them out of my hand. You know what that's telling us? That means no one, no one can take that away from me. No one can take that away from me. I visited a fellow yesterday, an elderly man that trusted the Lord about a month ago And uh he's home now and uh went by to see him, just uh walked in and he was a little bit gruff before, and uh when I first met him and introduced myself it was like Uh I'm Pastor Lederman. Ron took me up to see him. I'm Pastor Lederman. It was like, oh. And uh we're just coming to visit you. Fine. Now we got to share the gospel with him, and he called on the Lord to be his Savior about a month ago. Now I've been going by periodically, tried to about once a week or so go by and see him, pray with him. Yesterday I went by his house to see him and Um, walked in right as soon as I went through the door in the living room, he looked up to me. He goes, Hey Pastor! Like I'd been his pastor his whole life. Something was different. Something changed. And I read him this passage of scripture. I said, Joe, let me tell you, let me read to you what Jesus promised. He says, I give unto them eternal life. I said, God gave that to you about a month ago when you trust the Lord. He goes, yep. And Jesus said, you'll never perish. I said, isn't that good? He said, that's good. And I said, no man can pluck you out of God's hand. I said, nobody can ever change that. I said, what do you think of that? He said, that's pretty good. That's pretty good. Salvation changes everything. My eternal destiny. I'm telling you, it's a wonderful thing to be able to lay my head down on my pillow at night. And know that because of what Jesus Christ did for me on May 7, 1979, at 10. 30 night and saving my soul, I have the promise of a home in heaven. All that changed. Uh some of you remember Jim McRoby. Nina was a charter member here. She was a faithful member, sweetheart. When I moved here, and I've told this before, I moved here. Uh she said, I was only here a little while. She goes, Pastor, would you go visit my husband? I said, sure, I'd be glad to. And she gave me her address. And uh I said, she goes, he needs to be saved. Will you go visit him? I said, sure. I that's uh I'm more than glad to. She gave me the address and she goes, oh by the way, he hates preachers and he's gonna cuss you out. I said, okay, that's I can't wait. This is the this will be a blessing. And so I went and saw him. I've told you this before, but I went and saw him and um uh he did exactly what she said. He told me he hates preachers, don't come around there ever again, and he used some words I hadn't heard for a long time. Said, all right. So time a little time went by and I visited him, and it's pretty much the same reception every time. One day Nina came in and said, Pastor, we need to pray for my husband. He found liver cancer. Said, okay, we'll pray. He went down to hospital down Cumberland and they were putting a stent in, I think, on his liver or something. And he inadvertently punctured his liver and if I understand it correctly, the cancer got out into his body somehow. She said, Pastor Jim would like for you to visit him. That's something he didn't want me to visit him before. I went and saw old Jim McRoby, shared the gospel again with him, and he trusted Christ as Savior. And I'm telling you, the old boy got it. And then things deteriorated and they they couldn't take care of him, it just got banned. And he was going to pass away. He'd say, Pastor, come by and pray. I'd go down there about two, three times a week and visit with him, read scripture, pray. God changed everything about his thinking. In fact, the very first cordless wireless lapel system we had he bought for the church because before we had that he would listen to the cassette tapes and if I walked away from the pulpit he couldn't hear what I'm saying. So he bought one of these so he could hear me when I walked away. Well I wish everybody in church was that anxious to hear what I had to say. But uh I got talking to him. We were talking about heaven, you know, and about seeing the Lord. And he said this. Now think about this. Here's a man. There was a mistake, punctured his liver, can't get well, cancer's killing him. He said this. He said, preacher, if this is what it taught, if this is what it took to bring me to salvation, it was worth it. It was worth it. It was worth it. I'm telling you, salvation changes everything. It changes our eternal destiny. I put this down. Salvation changes everything. Our very nature is changed. I mean the very nature of us. Salvation is a supernatural act of God, where our very nature is changed. By the way, God didn't take, well, May 7, 1979, he didn't take that old Denny Leatherman, as I was known. He didn't take that old Denny. And just patch him up and fix him up a little bit and reapholster him a little bit. And oh, here's the new re uh reupholstered and renovated Denny. That's not what it is at all. It was a whole new person being born that night. Jesus called it being born again. It's an entire new nature that takes place, a completely new person. Listen, there's a lot of things that can change our lives. You move to a new location. Sometimes that will change a person's life. They move to a new location. I'll tell you one thing that will change your life. Get married. That'll change your life. And uh that's uh quite a change. I'll tell you something changed your life even more in getting married, having kids. Now that changes that changes your life. But salvation doesn't change my life. It births a whole new person. A whole new nature in me. What I was before, I am no more. Salvation creates a new man, a new transformation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, we read a few moments ago. If any man be in Christ, he's a what? A new creature. He's not a fixed-up old creature. He's not a renovated old sofa. He's a whole new creature, a whole new person with new values. A whole new being. When I got saved that next morning, I got up the next morning, and the things that were important to me before were no longer important to me. And my whole set of values in my heart and mind and life were changed. Now I don't know why for me it was so instant. Sometimes, others, it takes a little bit for it to work itself out. Whatever reason, God changed my values immediately. That new nature, that new person, when we trust Christ, it produces a whole new person. Our values are changed. Our priorities are changed. Suddenly the things before we were saved that were so important to us now have little importance at all. And the old man, the old, before we were saved, the things that were unimportant to us now become very, very important. I tell you, for I got saved, I could care less about that old King James Bible. For I got saved. I had zero interest in church. I had zero interest in Christians or the people of God. I had zero interest in any of that. I tell you, when God saved my soul, there was something newborn in me. There's a new man established in me, and suddenly that Bible became the most precious thing I own. And suddenly the church was so dear to me, and the people of God became so precious to me. God creates a new person in us. I mean, our very nature is changed. John chapter 3, Jesus called it being born again. Born from above, born spiritually, a spiritual life. You read all through the Bible, you see it over and over and over. Anybody recognize the name Zacchaeus? Zacchaeus was a wee little man. And a wee little man was he. And he climbed that old sycamore tree to see the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus said, Zacchaeus, you come down. From going to your house today. Old Zacchaeus believed when the Lord Jesus Christ came down, and that rich thief stealing from people, swindling people, self-centered all about Zacchaeus. Suddenly he came down and he says, Lord, anything I've stolen from people, I'm giving it back fourfold. He says, uh-uh, no, no, no. Uh something's different. Something inside me, my very nature has changed, my values have changed, my Priorities of change. It's not about me anymore. It's about doing right and honoring God. God brought a supernatural change in that wee little man's life. We t we notice the uh uh the maniac of Ghidera here. What a change took place in his life. He lived in the tombs, now he's going back home. I tell you, when God saves a man, he's out, he's no more running around at the bars. He goes home. God saves a man Nature has changed. He's living in the tombs before. Now he gets saved. He goes home to his family. Before he's naked, running around the cemetery naked. Now he's clothed and in his right mind. Before he is a wild, now he's tame. Before he was violent. Now he's gracious. Before he was possessed of devils. Now he's praising his Savior I'm telling you, salvation changes a man from the inside out, from the inside out. Salvation changed the Apostle Paul, that self-righteous Pharisee looking down on everybody. I'm good enough, I'm better than everyone else, and I'm good enough for God. I tell you, he met Christ on the road to Damascus, and that humbled him. You know what he said after that? He says, I'm the least of the apostles. I'm the chief of sinners, in me that in my flesh there dwelleth no good thing. I mean, he was completely transformed in his very nature. His priorities, his values, his principles. I got thinking about Mary Magdalene. We don't talk much about her. You know what she was? She was an old prostitute. He was a harlot living in sin, unspeakable sin. She met the Savior She became a disciple of Jesus Christ, serving the Lord. I'm telling you, salvation changes everything. It changes our eternal destiny. It changes our very nature. Now, again, sometimes, you know, some people it's instantaneous. Others have to grow some. We're all growing, but others, you know, it takes a little while to take hold. But something down inside, there's a new nature. Peter called it the divine nature. And by the way, we still have the old nature. Paul himself said, you know, there's things that I don't want to do and I end up doing. There's things I know I should do and I don't do them. Oh, wretched man that I am, this war between his old nature But there was something new in Paul when he trusted Christ as Savior. And there's something new. How many people think it would be wonderful if we'd reach a generation with the gospel of Jesus Christ and see their very natures changed? You know what the hope of America is? He isn't conservative politicians, and I'm all for that. It's the salvation that comes in Jesus Christ that changes the very nature of a sinner. I like what Lester Rall says. You want to get America saved and get Americans saved. Salvation changes everything. It changes everything. And last of all, I'll end with this. Our eternal destiny is changed. Our very nature is changed. And I put this down: our perspective is changed. Well, we could give a long list of many other things, but our perspective has changed. Our perspective on this old world. I tell you what, you get saved, you trust Jesus Christ as your Savior, you get saved, you don't see this world the same way you did before. Second Corinthians chapter 4, verse 18 says this, and this is a verse that impacted me for salvation when I read it. For we look not at the things which are seen, but we uh uh for we look not at the things which are seen, for the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen, they're eternal. When I got saved, I looked out at this whole world and I thought, you know, this isn't all there is. There's a spiritual realm that I never even gave any thought to. And when God saved me and gave me eternal life and gave me spiritual life, suddenly I realized there's a spiritual realm. The light that I never saw before. And it changed my whole perspective on this world. Before I was saved, being loved by this world was so important to me. I wanted people to like me. I wanted this world to like me. I wanted this world to think I was something. And I nearly destroyed myself in trying to please this world. But when God saved my soul and gave me a new nature, a new perspective, suddenly I realized there's something more important than the love of the world. That is the love of the Savior for me. God changed my whole perspective. My whole perspective. Eternal perspective. And it changed my perspective not just on the world, but salvation changes our perspective on others. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32 says this: be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. What's the next phrase? Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you, salvation changes. Suddenly, I don't see other people as just beasts. Now we see them as folks that need the Savior. We need to be kind to them. Salvation changes everything. In Matthew chapter 9, at the end of the chapter, Jesus looked over the city of Jerusalem, and the Bible says he was moved with compassion on them because they were sheep having no shepherd. You know he saw the world differently. When salvation changes our perspective when we start to see people the way God sees them. When I got saved that Monday night, 1979, in May, first thing that came to my mind was, I'll need to make sure my family's saved. I knew daddy was saved. I was concerned for my family. I began praying, God save my sisters, God save my mama. God save them. I praise the Lord. My whole immediate family has made profession of faith in Jesus Christ. It changes our perspective. We care for the salvation of others. I was in Mongolia a number of years ago on a mission trip, was invited over by Charles Keane. We went over there, I preached. And one day it was Sunday, we went to uh Sunday morning, we went to a Mongolian church, which was fascinating. Believers, folks staved out of um Buddhism. We went and visited a Buddhist temple and their prayer bells and prayer wheels they have. And he says, I want to take and show you something. We ran outside of the city, the capital city, Ulim Batar is the name of it. We went outside in the sight of them. Kind of a mountain, a small mountain there. Was the biggest cemetery I think I've ever seen in my life. I think, I may be mistaken, but I think it's bigger than Arlington Cemetery. It was massive Now the Mongolians in their Buddhist religion generally would not used to be they wouldn't bury their dead. They would take them out into the desert, the Gobi Desert there, and they'd cast their bodies out in the desert. They believed that the spirit stayed in the body, and as the body decayed, then the spirit would be free to uh to do whatever. But the Europeans came along and they taught them to bury their dead and that kind of went against their grain. That spirit is buried in the ground with that body and can't ever escape And they have lights all through there and just strange little prayer things all over. I looked at that cemetery, huge, tens of thousands of burial spot things. And I thought, if the rapture takes place, whenever the rapture takes place You know what I think? I think that cemetery will be undisturbed. How many people buried in there have never been saved? They're in hell now. And the rapture takes place in that cemetery, nothing changed. Nothing changed. No dead bodies. Glorified dead bodies raptured up out of it. Just stays the same. Isn't that a tragic thought? A tragic thought. Salvation changes our perspective. How we see others, how we see life and death. How we see the values of life, how we see the purpose of our life changes everything. What a wonderful change in my life has been wrought. Since Jesus came into my heart. I have light in my soul for which long I have sought, since Jesus came into my heart I have ceased from my wandering and going astray since Jesus came into my heart, and my sins, which were many, are all washed away. Since Jesus came into my heart. I'm possessed of a hope that is steadfast and sure since Jesus came into my heart And no dark clouds of doubt now my pathway obscure, since Jesus came into my heart. There's light in the valley of death now for me Since Jesus come into my heart. And the gates of the city beyond I can see. Since Jesus came into my heart. I shall go there to dwell in that city I know, since Jesus came into my heart, and I'm happy, so happy, as onward I go, since Jesus came into my heart. Since Jesus came into my heart, since Jesus came into my heart, floods of joy o'er my soul, like a sea biller's roll. Since Jesus came into my heart, salvation changes everything