Judges chapter 16, uh verse 20. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep and said, I will go out as other times before and shake myself. And he wished not that the Lord was departed from him. But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with feathers of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. Tonight I'm just going to preach on Samson's demise. Samson's demise. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you again for the day you've given us. We ask now that you would be with this service tonight. I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I just want to completely surrender my will to yours right now. I ask that you would take over and that we would learn something from your word tonight, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. The story of Samson, probably one of the more famous Bible stories in the Old Testament. I just like history in general. I like Bible history in general. Thank you. I like um Judges. Judges is probably my favorite book. There's a lot of interesting stuff in Judges. Give me just one second as I get this on. Cool. And um the the the the period of judges is a period in Israel's history. Um you know it's after they leave Egypt, after the after Joshua and the conquest of Canaan. before the kings. Um and that's the period of of Israel's history here, is the period of the judges. Um so God ruled the people It was a theocracy, uh, but the people rebelled, and God allowed the Philistines to rule Israel or and to um put them under uh tribute. Then Israel would repent and turn back to God, and then God would send a judge to deliver his people. And then this happened over and over and over again. And you can read about all of that in the book of Judges. There were twelve judges in all. There was Aphmael, Ehud. Shamgar, Deborah, Gideon, Tola, Jayer, Jephthah, Ibsen, Elon, Abdan, and then Samson. Samson was the twelfth judge. I love rating judges. I really do. There's some pretty interesting stories in there. Some of it could get pretty graphic. If we were to make it a movie, it'd be rated Probably pretty high because of the graphics. I I really do like judges though. It's fascinating stories in there. And of course, it's not just stories. This stuff actually happened. It really happened. But we're going to look at Samson tonight, the twelfth uh judge. In chapter 13, we're introduced to Samson's parents. uh Mona and his wife. Now Samson's life was to be dedicated to God. He was a Nazirite. He took the Nazirite vow. The Nazarite vow was a vow of dedication, of self-shame and dedication to God, and this is the vow that Samson took. And then we see the beginning of Samson's life in chapter 14. Just to give you a brief story of Samson's life here. Chapter 14, Samson sees a daughter of the Philistines, wants to marry her. In fact, he demands to marry her, and he does. And then at the wedding feast, Samson gives a r uh riddle to the men there and bets 30 sheets and 30 garments, which is actually very, very expensive stuff. And um it turns out that this marriage came to to bite him. His wife uh tricks him into g in in um into giving her the answers to the riddles, and then she gives the answers to the men who he gave the riddle to And so then he gets mad and kills them. And uh throughout Samson's life, whenever he got mad, he would just kill people. I mean that's what he did. He would just go kill the Philistines, and God used that. His father-in-law in chapter 15, this is some pretty sick stuff, some pretty sad stuff. In chapter 15, his father-in-law gives his uh his wife, Samson's wife, to Samson's friend. And so Samson of course gets mad about it. I would too. So he takes the 300 Fox, ties the firebrands on their tails, ties their tails together. And turns them loose in the Philistine fields, burns their crops. So the Philistines get mad and kill Samson's wife. So Samson gets mad, kills a bunch of Philistines. The Philistines and Samson they don't like each other, obviously. They keep going back and forth at each other. Um So Israelites, Israel, they get nervous and get scared because the Philistines are going to come after them, so they're going to turn Samson over to the Philistines. They do turn him over, but then once they turn him over, Samson takes the jawbone of a donkey and kills a thousand Philistines with it. Samson was actually a judge over Israel for 20 years, and then towards the end of this 20 years, uh Samson meets a harlot, and then he meets another girl named Delilah. And in chapter 16, this is where we're at now, chapter 16, is when he meets uh Delilah. This is probably the most famous part of the story. The Philistines offer Delilah money to find out what Samson's weakness is. She asks him what his weakness is three times. And uh three times he gives her the wrong answer. Now this doesn't make sense to me. If I knew that my girlfriend was trying to kill me three different times But but he he he falls victim to it every single time, doesn't he? So so he g he tells her a lie, she asks him again, tells her a lie, asks him again, three times this happens, and then the fourth time he actually gives her the secret Knowing full well what she's going to do. In verse 7 he said is when he says, If they bind me with seven green widths, that's the first uh lie. She asked him again. In verse eleven, he says, If they bind me with fast new ropes And then she asked him again the third time. In verse 13, he says, If thou weave the seven locks of my head, she does all of these things. And you would think by now he would figure it out. She's trying to kill me killed. But on the fourth try, she sobs, breaks down, starts crying, and uh verse 17 he gives her the answer. If I be shaven, then my strength will go from me. So, this is the tragic part of Samson's life. When when he's sleeping, uh, she gets someone to shave his head. The Philistines come in upon him, and he's lost his strength. So you remember the rest of the story? From this point, they they take him captive, they torture him, gouge out his eyes, and they use him as slave labor, grinding in The prison house. Now this particular task of grinding in the prison house um was supposed to be one of the most humiliating jobs for a prisoner of war that the the Philistines would use. Jews. So they give him the most humiliating job while he's in there. It was very hard labor. Um then he was brought out to be laughed at during a a pagan feast to the god Dagon. So then he puts his hands on the pillars, he asks someone to help him, puts his hands on the pillars to hold the building, asks God for strength one more time, pushes the pillars, and then everyone dies, including him The building falls down. So that's kind of a gist of his life. You can read about it starting from chapters 14, 15, and 16 discuss his life. Now here's the thing God was with Samson over and over again. And God was with Samson. God had chosen Samson from before he was born. Samson was God's man, right? Before he was born, even. God called Samson into a life of service to him But even though God called Samson, and even though Samson was as strong as he was, he was clearly not invincible. And this is such a good lesson to us. None of us are invincible. If God calls you, you can still fall. You're still a human. No matter how strong you are, you can still fall. So uh there is a series of events that brought Samson down to his demise. What was it that brought this strong what was the series of events that brought this strong man to the point where he was grinding in the prison house and eventually led to his death. What was it that happened? Well I think it was a lot of things. What was it caused this great man to be in bondage, to lose his strength To have the Spirit of God not be upon him. To be humiliated, grinding in the prison house, and eventually die. Well we're going to look at a few things here. First we're going to look at his life in particular, then we'll make some application. But I think one of the biggest things that brought him to his d demise, one of the great biggest contributors to him ending up in the prison house, was poor choices. You look at his life and it's just poor choices. He makes one poor choice after the other. Bad choices lead to bad consequences. This is common sense, I think. Bad choices lead to bad consequences. Every choice has a consequence, whether it's good or bad. One thing my youth pastor used to say just about every service, every Wednesday night, he would say, Life is full of choices. Choices have consequences. So make right choices. Samson didn't make right choices Just alone in his choices in relationships. He made some bad choices. His choices were driven by emotion Driven by lust and not driven by God. He did not allow God to dictate his choices. He did not allow God to lead him, God to guide him. He he used his own emotions, he used his own wants, his own lusts. In chapter 14, verse 1, he married the daughter of the Philistines. Now we know God used this, but um this was not something you were supposed to do. And the Old Testament is very clear about this. You were not supposed to take a daughter of the Philistines. But he did. In uh chapter 16, verse 1, we see him going into a harlot. In chapter 16, verse 4, we see Delilah. So just alone in relationships, he made some pretty bad choices. If he wouldn't have made these choices, perhaps he wouldn't have ended up in the prison house, grinding it out. Perhaps he wouldn't have ended up dying. If um he wouldn't have made these choices. We know this. We know that choices have consequences. And I think I've mentioned this before, but maybe we should think about the consequences of the choices we have If Samson would have not just thought in the moment and thought, oh wow, she's pretty, I want her, maybe things would have ended up a little bit different. I th I think this makes sense. So one thing I think was poor choices, um, and he made poor choices his whole life. We see where um Um he made the choices of touching the the the dead carcass. He wasn't supposed to do that. Poor choices in relationship and so on. So another thing I think that contributed to his demise was a poor spirit. Just a bad attitude. Look at uh chapter 14, verse 2. It says, and he came up and told His father and his mother. Right off this throws up a red flag. He told his parents That's rotten. That's a bad attitude. He told his father and his mother and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her Sounds a little bit demanding, doesn't it? Now therefore, get her for me to wife. Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never Excuse me, is there never a woman among the daughters of the f of thy brethren? Um and then he see he says, get her, get her. He's demanding. They warn him and he persists. Now, I think this is a pretty bad attitude. It's an attitude of entitlement. I want it now, Dad. Give it. That drives me the wrong way. I can't imagine this. I can't imagine talking to my dad this way. I just can't I can't fathom that Dad, I want this. Well son, I don't know if this is a good idea. I said now. What? I can't imagine talking to my dad that this is the this was Samson's attitude. This is how he talked to his mom and dad. It was rotten, it was a bad spirit, a bad attitude. He was demanding, I want it now, and he says the word now. Uh verse two, he came up and told his father and his mother and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. Now, therefore, get her for me to wife. So this was his attitude. He was demanding. He was impatient. He was self-centered. I think that'd be safe to say. This was now, was he God's man? Yeah, God chose him. Yes. Was God using him? Yes. And God even used his uh uh bad choices. God did use his bad choices. Um but it was a rotten attitude, rotten spirit. So the first thing I think was his poor choices, the second thing I think was his bad attitude. And the third thing I think was his poor awareness. He was just careless. He was just a careless individual, Samson was. Careless with what he said. Uh he would give a a riddle and he would just give the answer away. And I think he knew that his wife, and later on I think he knew Delilah would give his secrets away. But he was careless. He wasn't thinking he didn't have a filter. He didn't think, maybe I shouldn't say this. He would just He would just say it. He was careless in what he said. He was careless in what he did, the choices he made. He he was careless. I mentioned when he was eating the honey from the lion, he wasn't supposed to touch a dead animal. He wasn't supposed to touch a dead carcass, but he did. He was just careless. And carelessness, I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but carelessness will kill We have got to think. Samson didn't think. He did. He just reacted. Everything, if you look at his life, everything was a reaction, a reaction, a reaction. And I think this is one thing that led to his demise. So I think poor choices, I think a poor spirit, I think poor awareness. And then all uh obviously because of this he had a poor outcome. You talk about a tragic ending to your life. Samson had a very tragic ending to his life. The girl that he thought loved him betrayed him. That's heart-wrenching in and of itself. His strength was gone. Okay, Sam Samson was strong, right? Like he was run one strong dude. Um and most of you know I I enjoy strength sports. Like that's kinda like my thing. I like to I like to lift weights, I like to be strong. It it it's fun to me, it's fascinating to me, right? I can't imagine being as strong as Samson To pick up the gate of the city with the bars on it and and and take a hike. I mean those gates were massive. It wasn't like a door. It was a it was huge. And take a hike with it. Alright, the guy was strong Now, to lose all of that strength, that would be devastating to me. That would be a hard thing for me to deal with. Be the least of my worries at this point. He got his eyes gouged out. Physical torture. Physical loss of strength. Emotionally a wreck. Um and then he died. He eventually died. Now, did God use some of these bad circumstances? God use some of these bad choices? Yes. God works all things together for good to them that love God. And they're called according to his purpose. Just like God used Joseph's brother's bad decisions, what you meant for evil, God meant it for good. See, that's what that God's pretty cool. Alright? He he can do things like that. He can use our mess ups and still get glory to himself. And so God still used this, but man, what a way to go. Poor choices, poor spirit, poor awareness, and a poor outcome. I would not want to go out the way Samson went out. I wouldn't want to. So now let's apply this to ourselves. Poor choices can destroy you. You look at Samson's life and say, man, he made a bunch of bad choices, and look what happened to him. That can happen to us. Very, very much so. That can happen to us. Don't let emotion be what makes you what causes you to make your decisions. We shouldn't make decisions based off emotions. We shouldn't make decisions based off of our heart. The heart is uh deceitful Above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? No, don't don't trust your heart. No. Don't follow your heart. That's some of the worst advice you can ever get, is follow your heart. Don't follow your heart. Follow God's word If we follow our emotions, it'll lead to us making bad decisions. Don't follow emotions. Don't follow lust. It'll lead to bad decisions. And if you make bad choices, you'll end up Wreathing bad consequences. Don't don't use your heart to make decisions. Use God's word to make decisions. Don't trust your heart. Poor choices can destroy you. Be careful who your friends are. I think this is a good application. And again, I deal with young people primarily, but we all have friends, right? We all we all have people we surround ourselves with. I mean, don't surround yourself with a Delilah. Don't surround yourself with the Philistine girls. Don't do that. Don't do that. Well, you can make this application to anyone Of any age, of any gender. It's not like I'm just talking to young guys saying don't surround yourself with Bills and Girls. No, don't surround yourself with people that are Anti-God. Don't surround yourself with people that don't believe what you believe. Now sometimes you you know you're in situations you have to you have to work with certain people, you have to punch the clock, you have to you see them, but you have to do what you have to do. But there comes a point where we need to not purposely surround ourselves by people that are against God. It's just not a good idea. Be careful who your friends are. Be careful the choices you make. Poor choices will destroy you Bad relationship can destroy you. Secondly, Samson had a poor spirit that led to his demise. We ought to watch our spirit. A bad attitude can mess you up. A bad attitude can ruin your life. Don't have an attitude of entitlement, one, like he did. Uh th this is one thing that bothers me and a lot of times my generation gets a bad rap, the millennial generation gets a bad rap because we have this attitude of entitlement, and a lot of us do. I hate that. Okay? We're we're not we're not all that way, trust me But this that is a rotten attitude, an attitude of entitlement. It's not a good thing. A demanding attitude, disrespectful towards authority. It's terrible. A bad attitude can can destroy you. And not just feeling entitled and not just being disrespectful, not just that kind of bad attitude, but just a negative attitude. Negativity will eat you up like a cancer Whatsoever things are honest, lovely, true, good report, there may be virtue, be any praise. Think on these things. A bad spirit can can bring destruction. And bring destruction. It did in the case of him. Carelessness. Samson was careless. Carelessness can destroy you. I wonder how many Christians have ruined their life because they weren't careful. Because they were careless. I think this is what happens. You'll be saved most of your life, and you'll be considered a very strong Christian. Oh, he's strong in the faith. People will look up to him or whatever. And we get to a point where we think, yeah, I'm a strong Christian. The very first thing that pops to my mind is, let him that thinketh he stands, take heed lest he fall. It does not matter how long you've been saved, it doesn't matter how long you've been to church, it doesn't matter how strong you are, you can still fall. We need to understand this. I can fall. You can fall. We can commit any sin a lost person can commit. Well, there'll be chastening, yes. I mean there'll be other things that go along with it, sure. But we can fall. Don't think that you oh I'm super spiritual Christian. I'm good. That's not going to touch me. Oh yeah yeah it can Samson was strong and he fell. Don't ever be a careless Christian. Don't ever say, you know what, I'm not going to fall. I can let the standard slip a little bit. No. Don't let the standards slip a little bit because if you're not strong enough to keep the standards up, then you'll definitely fall when you get past the standards. Don't ease up. Don't kick back, and if anything, tighten up. Because your adversary of the devil is a roaring mind. Walk about seeking whom you may devour. I forget who it was that said this. He made the comment: new levels, new devils. This is what he meant. The more you grow in your spiritual life, the more you're going to be under attack. The more you grow, the more you're soul-winning, the more you're trying to lead folks to Christ, the more work you do for Christ, the bigger target you'll become. So don't ever think that, okay, I'm super spiritual Christian, so I'm good. No, that's when you better take heed lest you fall. Does this make sense And this is where Samson was at. He was strong. He was good. I've shook him off three times before. I'll get him the next time. This was his attitude. Don't be a careless Christian. Don't be a careless Christian. Don't slack up. We need discipline in our Christian life. Don't slack up. Like I said, if anything, tighten up. Tighten up on your Bible reading. Once you think, oh, I've read it through so many times, I'm good, I know what it says. That's when you need to keep reading it. No, no, don't slack up. Tighten up on your Bible reading. Read more. You're reading five chapters a day, and you say, I'm good now, I'm done. No, read more. Whatever it is. Wherever you're at, it's not the time to give up. It's the time to tighten up. Don't slack off on your prayer life. Oh, I've seen so many prayers answered. I've taught had such a great uh life conversating with God, and uh uh you know my prayer life is great. I'm I'm good, I can skip now. No This is when we need to tighten up, not slack up. Don't don't get this attitude of carelessness, of complacency, of the I'm good, or I'm more s Spiritual. No. Don't slack up on your church attendance. I've gone to church my whole life. I can take a few weeks off. No, don't. Don't. If you can be here, be here. Be here. Listen, there's people that have been coming to church more than twice as long as I've been alive. But you ought to keep coming. You ought to keep coming. There's people here that know your Bible way better than I know it. But you gotta keep reading it. Samson was way stronger than I am. And he fell. Don't slack on your tithing. Well, I've given money to the church my my whole life. I'm good now. No, don't stop. Keep going. Keep doing what you're doing. The moment we start to say, I'm good, that's the moment we fall. That's the moment we fall. Let me think of these standeth, take heed lest ye fall. Don't slack on your convictions Don't slack on your standards. Well, I know that we've always said that we're not going to do this in our house, but I guess it's okay this once. Why is it different now? I know I've always said we're not going to say this, we're not going to go here, we're not going to do that, but it's okay now. Why? What changed? Did God? Why why would our standards change? Now is not the time to ease up. Now is the time to tighten up Samson got the complacent attitude. He was relaxed. He said, I've shook him off three times. I'm going to go out as I have as other times. I'm good. And he was brought he was brought to his knees. He was brought down. Not a good way to end up grinding in the prison house. I wonder this. How many how many Christians end up grinding it out Through their Christian life, because of bad choices they've made, because of their carelessness, because of their attitude How many people have, how many spiritual giants have we seen that end end up in their later years, end up grinding it out in the prison house and end up falling because they slapped off Bec because of choices that they made. If I can just if I can just challenge you this, you can't fall. Let me just say this, you can fall. Don't think you're invincible like Samson did A couple more things here real quick and I'll I'll be done in just a few moments, but a bad attitude results in bad choices. Observation we see here from his life. A bad attitude results in bad choices. If you have a rotten attitude, you're gonna end up doing rotten things. When a young person rebels against mom and dad, it starts with a bad attitude towards mom and dad. Right When when somebody um mouse off at their boss at work, it starts with a bad attitude towards their boss at work. When when a husband and wife end up getting in a in a fight, it starts with a bad attitude, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera We won't get to the contentions, we won't get to the fight if we would watch our attitude. Watch our attitude. A bad attitude results in bad choices. Sin will lead you into the bondage of grinding into grinding it out in the prison house. And it very well may lead to your early death. The one thing we can learn from this is we're not invincible. I look at this, I look at this church, and I see some strong people. I see some strong people. I see some strong Christians, much stronger than I am. But Samson was strong. And am I saying that you all are going to fail? No, I I I hope not. Am I saying that I'm going to fail? No, I hope not. But we can Possible. That's why we have to tighten up. We cannot get careless. We cannot start to slack off on our standards now. We have got to watch our attitude now We've got to watch it. Just because you're strong, and just because God has chosen you for something specific, like He did Samson, doesn't mean we're invincible. Samson is the proof that no one is invincible. In order to keep from being destroyed, uh like Samson's life was, we've got to make wise choices. Watch your attitude, don't be careless. Carelessness killed. Samson. So that's kind of just an observation uh from Samson's life. Famous story here. I love the book of Judges, I do. But we better not be a careless Christian. That's kind of the gist of this. I don't want to be careless. I look out here and I see some strong Christians. People have been saved twice as long as I've been alive. People know the Bible better than I do is I see strong Christians here. But we cannot get careless. We can't slack off. We can't do that. We've got to watch our attitude. We've got to make right choices. Because we don't want to be grinding out in the prison house. We don't want to do that. We don't want to do that. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us. Lord, we thank you for recording this story of Samson's life for us. Lord, I ask that we would take this very seriously. In Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed, and no one will look around for just a moment. Just a couple questions here, real quick. How many of you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I'm not even sure I'm saved. If I died right now, I'm not even 100% certain I'd go to heaven, but I am very concerned about that Would you raise your hand? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved, but I am very concerned about that. Could you just slip your hand up and put it back down? Alright, next question. How many of you would say this? You know what? I've been making some poor choices lately. God's convicted me about something. Would you raise your hand? The Holy Spirit is speaking to me about something right now. Amen. You put your hands down. Thank you. I mean you say this, you know what? Holy Spirit's dealing with me about my attitude right now. Maybe towards authority, maybe towards someone else. I don't know, but God's been dealing with me about my attitude. Could you raise your hand? Amen. You may put it down. Thank you. How many of you would say this? There's the Holy Spirit has spoken to me about just being careless. I haven't been vigilant. I haven't been watching it. I've been careless. Could you pray for me? Would you raise your hand? I don't want to be a careless Christian. Amen. Amen. You may put your hands down. Story of Samson Life, a lot going on. How many of you would say this? You know what? God is speaking in my heart about something totally different right now. Uh maybe I didn't even mention, I don't know, but say the Lord's dealing with me. Would you raise your hand? Yeah, me too, my hand's up. Alright, well, um if you stand to your feet, still no one looking around. If if God spoke to your heart, why don't you come do business with him