Take your Bible, if you will, turn to the book of John, chapter eight. John chapter eight. We've enjoyed the the week up here. He's been, as always, you've always treated us like a king and a queen. I thank the Lord for uh this church and and the testimony that it has uh in this area. And uh You know, uh churches have been around for a while, like this one has, uh sometimes they uh you know they're starting to slack off. And uh starting to get a little bit on the liberal side and so forth. They start putting, you know, these uh big screens up on both sides of the auditorium and and starting to No, but you this church has uh stood on the word of God and I thank God for the stand and for your pastor who's been a dear friend and and uh fellow deer hunter and uh uh preacher and and just a just a precious Precious one for my family and myself. And I just wish his associate would get out of the house so that we'd have some place to stay during deer season. Of course Brother Charlie back there, he takes care of me, so I don't have to worry about that. Alright, in uh John chapter eight We find that uh we find uh in the first part of that chapter, uh we have the Pharisees bringing a woman over and that was caught in in the very act of adultery. And uh uh they threw her down in front of Jesus and said, Well now Moses' law says that she needs to be stoned, what do you say? And and uh Jesus uh he bends down, you know, and he writes in the sand and And many people have speculated what he wrote and uh perhaps he was uh reminding s uh some of those who were standing there watching Perhaps he was reminding some of them of some of the the very things that they'd been doing and uh as a result the Bible says that their conscience began to get to them and one by one uh starting from the eldest up I started uh uh exiting the area, leaving, until finally there was only w two people standing. One of them was Jesus and the other was the woman. And uh uh When he asked her where her accusers were, why, she said, uh, you know, there there isn't any. And he said, Well, uh, I don't condemn you either, so go and sin no more. But that's not the end of the thing because the the Pharisees are sticking around there, you know, and now they've uh now they've gotten kind of upset. And so now they're going to question Jesus some more And that's been the battle from the time that Jesus uh took uh took on his first public appearance and and uh his whole ministry. the from the time that uh he emptied into the his ministry until he finally was uh uh crucified on the cross. It was a constant battle with the Pharisees and the scribes the religious leaders of of Israel and uh they were t constantly trying to catch him up in something or uh accuse him of something that he did some some way he broke the law. I mean it was always something. that they were uh that they were after. And uh I notice that uh that he starts off talking with them uh uh in a discourse starting with verse twelve Where he says this. John chapter 8 and verse 12, the Word of God says that. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I'm the light of the world. And he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself, and thy record is not true. And Jesus answered, and he said unto them, though I bear record myself, yet my record is true, for I bear uh uh For I know whence I came and whither I go, but ye cannot tell whence I come or whither I go. Ye judge after the flesh, and I judge no man, and yet If I judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father has sent me. And it is also written in your law that the testimony of two men is true. I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me. And then said they unto him, Where is thy father? And Jesus answered, and he says, You neither know me nor my father If you had known me you should have known my father also. And these words spake Jesus in the treasure as he taught in the temple, and no man laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. And then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, ye cannot come. And then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, and I am from above, and ye are of this world, and I'm not of this world. I say therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sin. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, as we once again look at these verses of Scripture, and uh we see some truth in here, Lord, that uh perhaps we there's someone in here that need to hear So I trust that your Spirit will guide us as we preach and give us the thoughts that need to be said and pray that you would get honor to yourself. We thank you for the chalk drawing, and we trust that when we show it in a little bit, that uh once again the Spirit of God will be able to use uh your talent. that you've given me to bring someone to Christ. So do a work here, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. You shall die in your sins. What What is that dying in your sin, anyhow? Well, there's another place over in the book of Ephesians that says, you who were dead in trespasses and sin. You see, man Uh man is a sinner from uh from way back. Matter of fact, uh the book of Genesis where Adam and Eve had committed sin or broke God's law, why Uh when they disobeyed God that uh uh that plunged the whole human race into sin. We've quoted that verse a number of times, but Wherefore as by one man sinned entered into the world and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for ended all sin So man's condition before God is that he is lost and in sin. In sin. I don't know how you how you see that, but in my mind I try to picture things and I I see uh uh I see a uh uh a figure stand before God at uh at uh uh perhaps uh the throne of grace. I see him as he stands there But he he has on shabby clothes and and uh he reeks from uh from a stench of sin I see him as his clothes are all tattered and torn and and filthy, dirty, and he's he's got shoes that are almost rotted off his feet. And I see him as uh his uh his face is contorted because of sin's progress in his life. And that individual stands before a holy and righteous God. And I see God. I see Him as pure pure crystal clear gold all the bright and beautiful thing that you can imagine God to be and But his brightness, I I see his holiness and his righteousness, all all of that all spread out and and I see before him this this little scrubby thing that is is man who is in sin. And that's the condition that I see is in an individual who's never trusted Christ as their personal Savior But they stand before God, even as they they have life here, a physical life here, they're dying. They're dying. Even in even as they stand, they're they're in sin and death It's just uh uh uh uh a uh a heartbeat away in your sin These uh these Pharisees, they they had no concept. It's amazing to me that they they would hold the law up and constantly bring the law up to the Lord Jesus. to try to uh to get him to uh somehow or another uh uh accept them. But the truth of the matter is that every one of them that stood there and accused this woman had in his own way broken God's law one way or another. Bible says if you offended one point of the law, you're guilty of all. So if you're here tonight and and you say, well I you know I live a pretty good life and I'm Uh, you know, I I'm a moral person and I pay my debts and I don't cheat on my wife and I take care of my family and I do this and I do that and so forth. But the point is that somewhere along the line, somewhere along the line, you've broken God's law He that kneweth knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. And that kind of gets everybody, doesn't it? No one can slide out from under that particular condemnation because uh we all know that there's there's things that we know to do good, to do right, that would be the best thing to do and the good thing to do. And uh uh we say, well I don't have time to do that today, so I'll just slough it off. Well, according to the Bible, you've you've broken one of God's laws, an unspoken law. He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. But even even at that, you and I both know that we all know that that somewhere in our in our Uh our in our daily living that we taint the truth just a little bit to make it come out our way And that little taint that we you know call a little white lie or a little, you know, it's just a little twist off of the truth, we know that that's an offense against God. Sin is this something that God cannot tolerate, even the smallest, most insignificant thing that would be in our life is a tremendous offense against a holy and righteous God. And this verse here, these uh Jesus is trying to get these Pharisees to understand That uh even even though, even if they were to seek him, if they sought him in the wrong place or in the wrong way, that they're not going to find Jesus. And the Bible tells us that he that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. And so that tells me that that a person who has never trusted Christ is already lost. You don't have to do anything to be lost. That's an automatic thing. You're born into this world and you're prone to go astray. When you reach the age of accountability, you're uh you're already And that's condition that we call lost in your sin, as the scripture says. I noticed that that there were several verses here that That he uh uh as he talked to these Pharisees, where he was pointing out some of the characteristics of the lost person I notice it's in in verse twelve, uh there was a lack of knowledge of the Father. He said, I'm I'm the light of the world, and he that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the the light of life. Walking in darkness speaks of a lack of knowledge of the spiritual. In verse 19, it says Then said they unto him, Where is thy father? And Jesus answered, You neither know me nor my father. So they didn't know the Father in heaven. If you don't know the Father, you don't know Jesus. So there's number of things down through here. There's another place that sp speaks of of uh uh of of their uh love of the world. At other places speaks of their unbelief. But the point is that he's pointing out to these people what a lost person actually, some of the characteristics that a lost person has. You shall seek me. And die in your sins. Probably that's the worst thing that could happen to an individual. Because, first of all, you would die separated from God. Your sin has has uh hid his face from you, and your iniquities hit his I'm sorry. Your sin has separated between you and your God and your iniquities has hid his face from you that he will not uh hear your voice. So it speaks of a separation between you and God if you do not know Christ as your personal Savior. Because He's the He's the go-between. He's that one media between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. Here in these verses we learn some other things. Not only will you be uh unfit Unfit to go to heaven, but you'll be also unprepared. Well, how do you prepare to get to heaven anyway? Well, somehow or another, you've got to attain the righteousness of God to be prepared to get to heaven. Isn't that something? You say, well, uh, I don't see uh you know uh how a person can be that way. That's exactly what God wants you to understand. There isn't any way that you can make yourself Perfect, uh, without sin, pure, righteous. There isn't any way that you can do that within yourself. It has to come from without. There has to be a life without that gives you what you need. And so God has provided that through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. His blood atones for our sins. He is the propitiation for our sin, and not ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. God the Father has accepted Jesus as the sacrifice so that that we can s receive him and have his righteousness imputed to us. I uh there's just there's there's something about that that that uh uh just seems almost unfair, doesn't it? That all my sin, all that I have been before I was saved, everything that I was, Jesus took. And he gave me, in his place of it, his perfect righteousness. The Bible says he imputed his righteousness to that one who would believe. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You know you can when we talk about seeking the Lord, you know you can seek the Lord in the wrong place. Have you ever thought about that? So I thought you get saved anywhere. Well, you know you y uh you can. I know guys who who have uh got saved uh in their car. I I know guys who Who've gotten saved uh a one of one friend of mine uh was uh uh drove an eighteen wheeler And he's going down the highway eighty miles an hour and and uh Holy Spirit uh begin to deal with his heart. And uh Uh he'd already been witnessed to by some people and he knew what the Word of God said. And he finally uh he just pulled the old rig over at the side of the road and crawled out of it. Went down and he said that on the right front wheel of his tractor trailer he trusted Christ as his personal savior. And yet you can Uh uh while you can get saved any place under the right circumstances. You know there's some places you can't get saved. It's hard to get saved in the beer joint, you know that? Hard to get saved in a place where the gospel's not preached. And the tragedy is that there's a lot of C H U R C Hs around churches that that have the name but they don't have the message And that's one of the tragedies that we uh have today in America. There are a lot of a lot of churches that just don't don't preach the gospel. They don't lift up the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says that and I, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. So the message is the Lord Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. And yet there are those who who uh hold on to a different uh gospel than the Lord Jesus Christ. You can go to the wrong have uh you can get uh uh uh you can get saved the wrong time. Uh You can make an effort anyway to get saved at the wrong time. Well, what do you mean? Well, I uh uh what I'm talking about is is uh You don't get saved when you want to get saved. Hmm. That's interesting, isn't it? What I'm talking about is this. A person gets saved when they hear the word of God And the Holy Spirit speaks to their heart. And they recognize from the Word of God, the Spirit of God dealing with them, that they're lost and on their way to hell. And when they when they hear that that message from from the heart, when God speaks to their heart, that's the time to get saved. I've watched people walk the aisles with a chewing gum and kind of looking at everybody and and kneeling down at the altar and going through the process and getting up the same way they they came down Not being saved. I mean just just going through the going through the motions. But it takes the Word of God and the Spirit of God to prepare that heart before they'll receive Christ as their personal Savior. Years ago they had a thing that was called the easy believism. Where all you had to do was just go down the line and says, I I believe this and this and this and this and this and uh in Jesus' name, amen, and you're saved. And uh the Spirit of God was left out of the whole thing, the whole process Yes, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the children of God, the ones that hear the Spirit of God speaking through the Word of God. That's the ones that trust Christ as their Savior. So you have to be careful. Make sure that God has dealt with you. And make sure that you see yourself lost on your way to hell. And then trust Him as your personal Savior. You die in your sins, you're going to die unfit to stand before Him. You're going to die unprepared to meet God. And you're going to die unpardoned. You see, your sin has to be dealt with. The Bible says that Jesus, when he saves you He takes your sin as far as the east is from the west, hides it in the in the deepest part of the ocean, never to be remembered against you anymore The blood of Jesus Christ, the Bible says, cleanses you from all sin. Have you been washed in the blood? Do you know for sure if you were to die right now that your sin is under the blood? You see, throughout the the the Old Testament, the picture of every animal that was slain All the sacrifices, every one of them, a picture of the Lord Jesus when he died on the cross of Calvary. The blood was an atonement, just a covering. Those animals, they all died, and yet uh there was never a sin forgiven. But it was covered until that day when Jesus The Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world was the one who was the fulfillment of all of the sacrifices. You're here today and you need to be saved. There's only one way to do it, and that's to come to the Lord Jesus Christ and be in Christ. Allow him to save you. If we can have these lights out, we'll show this chalk drawing