The ushers are giving out some faith promise cards. Just go ahead and pass them out to everybody across the board. We want everyone to have one of these. Last week, last Sunday, we finished up our Worldwide Faith Promise Missions Conference And uh actually kicked off our missions year for the next 12 months and our focus and support of missionaries around the world. We're taking May, and we're going to emphasize world missions all the way through the month. And uh what we're giving out here, excuse me. What we're given out here is our faith promise cards. And these I'll explain in just a moment. Let me get hooked up here. All right, am I good there, Sam? Are we good? What you're receiving here, most, just about everybody here is familiar with what this is, and this deals primarily with our church members. The way we support missionaries around the world is through what's called faith promise missions giving. And what we do is we have each an individu each individual, it's a part of the church. to pray and seek the Lord as to what they what God would have them to give towards world missions. We ask we ask each individual to go to the Lord. Don't we we can't tell another person what they should or should not give That's between them and the Lord. This is as far as supporting missions. This is over and above the tithe. That's laid out. We know what our tithes should be. That's ten percent. But this is giving over and above that to missionaries to get them on the field to preach the gospel, start churches, translate scriptures into the languages of the world. And uh we support it this way. And God has blessed this. I believe it's biblical. What we ask everyone to do is I was saying, seek the Lord. Ask God, what would you have me to give? How much a week? And God inevitably lays that amount on our hearts. My wife and I have prayed for several weeks leading up to our conference. God laid an amount on our hearts. We agreed to. And last week we filled one of these out, turned it in, and uh it goes towards our faith promise giving. As of last Sunday night, what was committed for the next twelve months to give the missions was $92,950 for the next 12 months. We praise the Lord for that. That's a good figure. At our level of commitment to missionaries, we need about $2,000 a week to come in towards missions. That actually brings the total for the year about $104,000. We have 72 missionaries we support. And we try to support them at a fairly significant amount, so it's worth their time. And then other churches, of course, support them also to get them to the field. Now what we're doing this morning, so why are we doing this again this morning? This is for folks that maybe you didn't get in on this last week or you hadn't made a decision yet at this point, and you still have opportunity To get in for the next twelve months. Let me just quick go through this. Go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. That's our great commission. That's why we exist. To get the gospel in all the world My faith promised missions giving to my church above my tithe. Believing is God's will for me to be involved in giving to reach people with the gospel around the world, dependence upon God. I will give each week for the next 12 months to world missions through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now when you give this money, you're not giving it directly to the missionary, you're giving it through the church here And then we divvy it up uh then we divvy it up and send it out to the missionaries as we've committed as a church. Um I will give blank dollars per week. Now if you're already giving you you understand and and you've already recorded this, if you already recorded your giving, don't do it again. All right, if you did this last week. But this is Uh if it depending on how you get, some folks make one check a month, depending on how your income is. Uh some others maybe buy weekly. You get it your income is every other week and you do it that way. Others it's weekly We would like for you, however it turns out that you give, we would like for you to break it down into weekly segments so that we can figure a little bit better. We know what's coming in each week to send out and support the missionaries. So if you would, write that figure down. You're not going to be billed for this. There's no place to put your name on here. This is between you and the Lord. All we need to know is how much money is coming in that God's people are giving to missions so that we can budget that and support the missionaries accordingly. Last Sunday night we took three new missionaries on The Heltons going to Spain, the uh Knickerbachers going to Nepal, and the Beards who are starting a church down in Napolis. We committed $125 a month for each of them There's other churches, as I said, supporting them also, and that's how they get to the field. You can put your age down there. That just helps us a little bit in figuring this out. So all I'm asking this morning is if you're not involved in Faith Promise here at Mountain Lake. I really want to urge you to get involved in this. Help us fulfill the great commission of getting the gospel out around the world. This does not go to my salary Not a penny of this goes to pay the electric bills or anything for the church here. It is all missions, all worldwide missions, whether it's special projects that we help missionaries with or the direct support of them there. So pray about this. If you're not involved again, I ask you to please seek the Lord And uh let him lead and direct what you could do to help us reach this goal and uh get missionaries out around the world And God, I believe God will bless that for you. We have people all over the church here, myself included, that have been doing this for many, many years, and I and others can testify that God blesses when we give to missions, we're giving to the heart of God. And he blesses that in a great, great way. So you can turn that in the offering plate. We'll tally that up and add that to our total. I'm asking the Lord to give us $2,000 a week. We're just below that And uh I think we're at 17 something. Uh we're about $212 off a week from that. So pray about it and uh let the Lord have his way. Trust him and obey him, and God will bless you in a great, great way. All right. I don't have a Mother's Da I'm sorry, ladies. I don't have a Mother's Day message this morning. I'm going to be preaching on missions. Um it's not quite as bad as the Valentine's Day a couple years ago when I wasn't thinking and I preached a message on a sinner's first day in hell on Valentine's Day. My wife has never let me forget that And uh every now and then just out of the blue she'll say, Remember that time you preached on hell on Valentine's Day? And um I say, Yes, I will never ever forget that But uh so I want to preach on a little phrase that's found in Acts chapter 8. It's used in verse 1, then again in verse 4. I'll read verse 4. It says, Therefore they that were scattered abroad When everywhere preaching the word. And in verse 1 it uses that term, scattered abroad. We'd actually go over, I think it's chapter 11, verse 19, it says almost the same thing, they that were scattered abroad. So I want to zero in on that and um I think uh trust it'll be a blessing. Help and help us. Lord, I pray now that you would bless our study of your word We're very grateful for our mothers, and Lord, we're grateful for a society that stops and gives them a special day. And I pray that the mothers that are here would uh know that they are appreciated and that they are highly respected and that you would bless them in a real, real special way. Help us, Lord, as we focus on the job of the church And the responsibility we have at hand here in this matter of missions, and fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name Amen. I believe God's intention from the very beginning of creation was for his people to be cover the whole earth, to go to all the ends of the earth. It's interesting. When uh God uh established marriage. By the way, God is the one that established marriage. Amen? And God is the one that defines marriage And people can come in our society today and toy with that and try and redefine it and re-explain it, but it doesn't change what it is. To me, this sodomy marriage, it's just perverts playing marriage. They're just playing. They're not married. It's it's God has determined that. It has nothing to do with my message and it just had to get that off my chest. But um It's interesting when God created man and woman and he established the home, God made this statement that they were to be fruitful and replenish the earth. Now don't let that word replenish throw you. Don't read more into it than what's there. All God was saying is, I want you to be very fruitful, I want you to have offspring, and I want the whole earth to be filled with my people. That has been God's intention from the beginning. Now we're in Acts chapter 8. We have the New Testament church. They had been growing explosively. But they were not fulfilling the purpose God had for them. God's intention was for them to cover the whole earth, his people. Now, I want us to notice first of all, my first point this morning, I want us to notice the disruption of the church. Look with me at verse number one, if you would, in Acts chapter 8. And Saul was consenting unto his death. Now, Saul at this point uh is unsat. He is a a Pharisee uh with tremendous authority. He has been given authority by the people of Israel, the nation of Israel, and actually the Roman government had uh extended, delegated some authority to him where he could, at his discretion, go into a community, find Christians Had them arrested, had them detained and hauled off to prison, and in many cases he had the authority to take their life. Paul was fulfilled. Well, Paul was exercising this authority with a vengeance. He was, at one place, the Bible says, wreaking havoc on the church In chapter 7, we have the martyrdom of Stephen. He was killed, stoned, for no other reason than the fact he was preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. He was preaching the message that is preached and has been preached from this pulpit for over uh for almost uh a little over fifty years now. He was stoned, he was killed for that And Paul in verse number one says of chapter eight that Paul was consenting unto his death. He gave his approval. Paul was behind this. He supported the execution of believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let's read on. Saul was consenting unto his Stephen's death. And at that time, there was a what? What's it say there? Great persecution. I mean, opposition to Christianity was breaking out with extreme violence. They were coming into homes. They were coming into places of worship. They were arresting believers. They were beating them. As I said, many cases taking their lives violently. There was full-blown persecution against the believers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now notice how the church responded. Great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all, here's our subject, scattered abroad. They took off. They got out of the city of Jerusalem and they spread out. Notice Notice what it says, scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. They're getting out of Dodge They're getting out of the city, they're going out into the suburbs and the surrounding areas to help you get a mental picture of what's taking place there. It would be like if the only Christians in the world were living in Baltimore Or as the folks that live in Baltimore say, Balmer. Um as if all the believers, uh all only saved people Christians, were all living in Baltimore. Boy, Baltimore could use that, couldn't they? That would be good thing. But persecution would break out in the city. There's no Christians outside the city. That's where they are. They got a huge church there and And uh all of a sudden they're being arrested, they're being thrown in jail, they're being executed, publicly executed, and they start heading out and they're going out into the regions outside of Baltimore They're going up into Hagerstown, they're going over the uh eastern shore. Some of them are showing up here in Garrett County until it snows, and then they leave. And um But they're spreading out. You get the picture of what's taking place here. And they're going out into into Judea and Samaria. Now the church at Jerusalem, let me ask you this, the church at Jerusalem at this point in time, was it a good church or a bad church? It was a great church. They were booming. Take your Bibles. Let's look a little bit here. Come back to Acts chapter 2. Now keep your place here in chapter 8. And uh how many folks got your Bible with you? Anybody got a Bible with you today? Good. We brought it to church, we might as well use it, right? So let's go to chapter 2, Acts chapter 2, and look with me at verse number 41 Now this is the church is just starting. They really had little or no organization at this point. Uh they're just uh Peter got up and preached pretty much the first sermon. And uh look at verse 41 of Acts chapter 2. And they that gladly received his word, the sermon that Peter preached, a gospel message. They that gladly received his word were baptized. Now look at this. And the same day there were added unto them, the believers there in Jerusalem, about how many? 3,000 souls. Boy, what a meeting. Peter gets up and preaches. 3,000 people get saved and baptized into the membership of the church. Uh, how many people would say that'd be a pretty good meeting? Imagine we baptized three thousand people this afternoon. We'd be here till midnight. Uh and uh uh wow What a start! This is a great church! Come with me over to chapter number four. It gets better. And verse number 4, Acts chapter 4 and verse 4. Notice what it says. The church has gone on in their preaching there in the city of Jerusalem. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed. And the number of men was about what? Five thousand more men get saved. Now we have three thousand in Acts chapter two. That's men and women, we assume. Acts chapter 4, we got 5,000 men. No doubt there's many, or if not more, as many, if not more, women getting saved. That's just 5,000 men. That's added to the church. So we're looking at eight, maybe fifteen thousand people in the church. If we had within just a few months' time 15,000 people saved and baptized and added to our church, we would have to start a building program. Would you agree with me on that? It'd be a little crowded in here. The church is doing great. People are getting saved. The thing is growing. Come over to chapter 6. Now you have a little difference in the wording, a little change in the wording here, and there's a reason for that. Look at chapter 6, verse number 1. And in those days, when the number of the disciples was what? Multiplied First, we had 3,000 added to the church. That's addition. We know they had about 120 in Acts chapter 1, so they added 3,000 to that. So 3,000 plus 120 is 3,120. I'm trying to impress you with my math skills. Thank you. Then you get to chapter 4, and there's 5,000 more men. Are added to the church. So 3,120 plus 5,000 is 8,120. Right? Now we don't know how many women were involved in that, so there's probably more than that. So that's a big crowd. We've already established that fact. Now we get to chapter six and verse one, and they're not talking about addition anymore. Now they're talking about multiplication. They're being multiplied. So what is the smallest figure you can multiply something by? Well you would have zero. Right? So we need something bigger than that. So let's say you need more than one even, because you would have the same amount. I'm impressing you with my math skills here this morning. So the smallest you could have would be two. So 15,000, they're multiplied. We don't know what it's multiplied by, but it would have to be at least two. So now we're upwards to 30,000. Would you agree with me this is explosive growth? In fact, it's getting a little bit out of hand. And if you read on in chapter 6, they start having some division within this huge, huge body of believers. I mean just the just trying to organize that and get any kind of decisions made or establishing leadership Uh is a incredibly logistical challenge. And they begin to get a little fuss and they begin to deal with that. Now, this is the point I'm trying to make The church in Jerusalem was doing very, very well. It was growing at uh just hard to fathom, a rate that is hard to fathom. How many people are getting saved and added to the church and becoming disciples? And I mean they're living for God. These aren't just empty professions of faith. These are people who are born again and their lives have been altered by the tens of thousands. They're doing great. But They made a mistake. The Lord's instruction to the church in Mark chapter 16 and verse 15 was: go ye into what? All the world and preach the gospel to every creature. The church at Jerusalem was doing great staying at home. They were winning souls. We find out at other places in Acts, they filled the entire city with their doctrine. You know what that tells me? They're going out into the highways and hedges, they're going out in the streets, door to door They're telling everybody about Christ. I mean, they are reaching Jerusalem tremendously. But God had told them to go into all the world. God had told them to scatter and reach the entire planet. So what did God do? God disrupted the church. God allowed persecution to come into the church. He stirred up the nest, so to speak. to get the Christians out of the city. They were very comfortable there in Jerusalem. Brother, their numbers are phenomenal. They've got uh the power of numbers They're not alone. And uh boy, it's it's uh it's uh uh a great environment And I and I I don't mean to dis I don't mean to misrepresent God, but I can almost think God thinking this way, that's not what I intended. I'm glad the people are getting saved, and that's great, but I want you to go out into all the world. And so he disrupts things. for the church there. He takes away their security. He takes away their comfort He injects some persecution into their experience to stir them up, to disrupt them, and get them to go into all the world. He did something very similar to that in Genesis chapter 11. Remember, God had told Adam and Eve to be fruitful and replenish the earth, fill the whole earth Scatter across the whole planet. But in Genesis chapter 11, we find that man didn't do that. Now there's perhaps millions of people on the planet. And rather than scattering across the whole planet, they all got together and they decided they were going to build a what? They're going to build a tower. And without taking the time to get into detail, if you study the first part of chapter 11 out, it it implies that they were developing some type of government housing type things where everybody was living together, they all had one language, they were all working together rather than replenishing the earth. They were staying all together. And now they're building this tower. And their numbers are going to their heads. And they think they're something, they're not. And so God disrupts mankind by doing what? He changed their languages I mean, it's just a thought of God, and all of a sudden you've got all different languages being spoken, and they can't communicate anymore. God disrupted them They were very comfortable with what they were doing. They were very satisfied. They felt very secure. And God says, I need to disrupt that. That's not my intention. I need to stir things up. I think of Moses and uh uh when he uh was raised in Egypt as Pharaoh's adopted son. And he kind of takes things into his own hands and he kills an Egyptian who was uh persecuting a Jew and then the next day you know the story there's two Jews fighting, he says, Hey, why are you guys fighting? They say, Oh yeah, you're gonna kill us like you did that Egyptian He has to flee his own country, flee his parents. He lives on the backside of a desert, the Bible says, for 40 years. He's taking care of sheep. He's got a nice home. He's got a nice schedule. He's got a very secure job By all indications, when you study Moses, he was very satisfied, he was very content, he was very safe But God had a plan for Moses. There was a lot of people in Egypt that needed to be delivered from the bondage of Egypt. There was a lot of people that needed the Lord. And God disrupted Moses' comfort zone, his schedule, his security By exposing him to a burning bush. And Moses says, What is this? I see a bush burning, which in the desert probably wasn't that unusual. But it's not being consumed. It's burning, burning, burning, but it's not being burned up. And God steps into Moses' life and completely turns his world upside down. He said, I want you to go down to Egypt. Tell Pharaoh, let my people go. Moses gives all kinds of excuses and reasons why he can't do that. He needs to stay right where I need to stay right where I am. Everything's fine here. I'm happy with my life. I feel secure. My bills are paid. Uh my needs are being met. I'm I'm happy. And God says, that's not my plan. I've got people that need to be delivered From the bondage of Egypt. And so God disrupts it. And you find this throughout Scripture That God has a tool or a method he uses to get his people to step out in faith, get out of their comfort zone, and stir them up To do what God intends for us to do. God did that to the church there at Jerusalem. He allowed persecution to come in. I like what Psalms 119 and verse 67 says. David says this: Before I was afflicted, I went astray. That phrase, I went astray, has the idea of I got out of the will of God. Before affliction came, before my life was disrupted. Before this pain, this hurt, this difficulty came into my life, I was out of the will of God. I was very comfortable, I was very happy, and everything was fine, but I wasn't where God wanted me to be. And so God allowed affliction to come into my life to stir me up, to step out of my comfort zone and get where God wants me to be. In Psalms 119, verse 71, he says this. Listen to this. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. Wow. That word afflicted there has the idea of grief, difficulty, hardness. You could use the situation of Jerusalem, the church of Jerusalem. All of a sudden, persecution's coming in. They're being afflicted. And David said, that's been good for me. Sometimes I'll use the phrase, if somebody says something to me that seems outrageous or whatever, I'll say this, and many of you perhaps do, I'll say, good grief. Anybody ever say that? Anybody ever hear that said? Yeah, cool all cool people say that. And um Good Charlie Brown. And that's what he's saying here. It's good for me that I have been afflicted. This grief that has come into my heart that my life, this difficulty has come into my life, you know, God has used that for good Because of the heartache, because of the grief, because of the affliction, I am now where God wants me to be. I am now in the center of God's will. My faith has been stretched My my faith in God has grown and matured. This difficulty, this trial, this heartache has actually benefited me in the long run. God disrupts our lives sometimes. God steps in when things you say, man, everything's gone great now, this. You know what's a good thing to do? Is to look to God and say, God, what are you doing? What are you doing? Well, you got something here, Lord. You're disrupting my life. You're leading and directing. Something's happening. God's up to something. And he disrupted the church at Jerusalem. They're doing great, man. And people getting saved and baptized. They're meeting together every day. Oh man, a people's life. The people in town that were drunkards and self-righteous and hateful now are part of the church and they're a blessing and they're Happy in their lives are altered. And God says, Alright, persecution, come on. I need to spread this out. There's people in Antioch and Philippi and Thessalonica that need what you have. And as long as you're all right here, those people aren't getting it. You got your Bibles, you told me you do, so let's take them. And turn with me to one of my favorite verses in Scripture, Deuteronomy, all the way back in the Old Testament. Turn back there with me, would you? Now keep your place here in Acts. We're going to end up here when we're done. Come back to Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Old Testament, fifth one in. Chapter 32. This is Moses on the other end of his life. We talked about when God disrupted him in the desert there in the burning bush, and we know the story how he gets down to Egypt, let my people go. No, Pharaoh says I will not let my people And the ten plagues and finally they come out and cross the Red Sea and all of that. And uh now Moses is about to go to glory And the book of Deuteronomy, he is kind of rehashing what God had done for them and what God had instructed them. You get to verse 32. Look with me at verse number or chapter 32. Look with me at verse number eleven. Boy, what a what a neat statement. He says, as an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young Spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. So the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange God with him Now what's he saying here as a eagle stirreth up her nest? I enjoy fishing And I got a canoe and I was oh about a month ago. I went back here uh a month ago, right when the snow was melting off and freezing and it was uh it was the ice breakup like they have in Arctic Circle what was happening in Garrett County here. And um that was humorous, but it's not funny when it's real, is it? But anyway, I was back here on Broadford Lake and I was uh just killing the fish. I mean I I'm probably one of the best fishermen around and um uh I was just catching them. But uh anyway, I heard a sound, I thought I know what that sound is. That's an eagle. And I got looking around, and lo and behold, a bold eagle right back here comes swooping down across in front of the canoe with me and lands up on a perch. I sat there and looked at it. Coolest thing in the world. Lo and behold, another one comes by. And um they landed on my arms and we were floeling around and So eagles are cool, right? Very neat birds. And here he says that God In some instances we'll behave like an eagle does. Now I got studying this and looking this up And uh what he's saying here about the eagle is this: when it says that an eagle stirreth up her nest, she has her little eaglets in there. And they're now at a point in their life where it's time to then to get out of the nest and go establish their own lives Get out of the nest, find their mate, and uh establish their own eagle families. But the eaglets don't want to leave the nest. It's nice. It's warm. It's comfortable. Mama brings food for free. We want to stay in the nest. And so what Mama Eagle does, she stirs that nest up. And the idea is this: she takes her talons and she will claw around in the bottom of that nest with the sticks and the twigs and the branches and whatever she's used to make a nest, she'll claw that thing up and those little twigs and those little sticks will be poking up all over and all of a sudden those little eaglets are not nearly as comfortable as they were. And she stirs that thing up and makes it uncomfortable. You know what she's doing? She's disrupting their life And they will get up on the edge of that nest to try and get away from how uncomfortable it is now. And she'll then urge them to Jump off the edge of the nest. Notice notice how it's worded here. As an eagle stirreth up her nest and fluttereth over her young. Here's the idea behind that. She's she's scooting them up and out She's fluttering them. And they're on the edge of the nest, and mom's back there. But does she just let them fall to their death? No, they're scrambling and they're trying to fly and do everything. Look what it says. She spreadeth abroad her wings and taketh them and beareth them on her wings. You know what she does When that little eaglet goes off the edge of that nest, would you agree with me? At this point in time, their life has been disrupted. I've talked to them, they're scared to death. I mean they're falling, they think they're gonna die, and in instinctively they start whap flapping their wings. But they've never done this before. And they're not developed. So the mother eagle will spread forth her wings. She'll come down under them and catch them on her wings and bring them back up. And do that until they're able to establish on their own. Isn't that a beautiful picture? That is exactly what God is doing to the church of Jerusalem. He's sending persecution. Man, it's not comfortable here anymore. We're getting killed. We're getting thrown in prison. We're being dragged out of our houses. God says, Yeah, I want you and Antioch. I need Christians in Damascus and Philippi and Athens, Rome, and London. I need Christians around this whole world. There are other people that need what you have. And so I'm gonna stir up your nest, I'm gonna disrupt things for you. So you will get out, step out by faith. And then God says, and I'll help you. I'll help you. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 13, the Lord says that you and I, as believers, are the salt of the earth. The salt of the earth. How much good does salt do when it's setting in a container on the shelf? Doesn't it have any effect? What you got to do is get the salt out of the container into onto the food or whatever it's being used for if it's going to have any influence. So this past winter, I don't know how this happened, but um it was in the morning and I was I made myself some eggs and I like to put salt on my eggs. Salt and pepper on my eggs. Can I get a witness? Yeah. And so I got the pepper and I had my toast and my eggs. Had butter on the toast, had my coffee Put the pepper on just the right amount. And I don't know, do you do this? I took the salt and I always shake it on my hand first, see how fast it comes out, and then shake it on. Anybody ever do that? And so I shook it on perfect Put my salt on there, took a bite. Somebody had put sugar in the salt shaker. Now there's only one person in our house that fills the salt and pepper shaker, and I'm not gonna tell you who she is Don't ever put sugar on your eggs. It's terrible. But the only way that salt does any good If you turn the shaker upside down and shake it. And that's what God has to do in our lives sometimes. He has to take our world upside down and shake us and get us into the position and into the places he wants us to be. See, we can do one of two things. When God disrupts our life, we can do one of two things. I can get angry. We're going to talk about that tonight. I can get angry. This isn't fair. I'm trying to do right, I'm trying to do. I got my ducks in a row. I got my bills paid. I'm happy and fine. Now, God, you do this to me. You know a good response? Better response than that would be? Scott, what are you doing in my life? Show me, lead me, direct me. What are you trying to accomplish? How are you leading and directing me? I'm telling you, as I was preparing this this week, I was thinking of different people in our church who God turned their life upside down, and they're better people today because of it. There's folks tonight could stand up and say, Boy, we went through the hardest time of my life years ago, and God used that to either bring me to salvation or help me take a step out in faith Or change this in my life, or help me to learn this about the Lord. God disrupted my life. It was good for me that I had been afflicted. I've learned something about God through it. So the disruption. The disruption. We see here the dispersal of the church. They're scattered abroad. They're forced out of Jerusalem. God had told them in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, you shall be witnesses unto me both in Judea and Samaria. Oh, that's where they go. God disrupted things. He got them out where they were supposed to be, Judea and Samaria. Get to chapter 11, verse 19. They're scattered abroad, and they're going to Judea and Samaria in the uttermost part of the earth. Now they're going out into the farther regions. And they were getting to where God intended for them to be. Millions of people in the world would never be saved if the church had not been disrupted. And scattered abroad. Can I be so bold as to say this? You and I would not know of Christ. We would be on our way to hell. If the church back in Jerusalem had not been scattered abroad, the gospel came up into Europe. I would venture to say that's where most of our ancestors are from. Came up into England and across over into America. And you and I look back and read Acts chapter 8 and verse number 1 through 4, and we ought to say, thank God, that church was stirred up. Brought gospel into all the world. They were dispersed. There was a disruption, there was a dispersal, and then there was a declaration. Preaching the word, preaching the word. I hope you'll get this this morning. The primary function of the New Testament church Is the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church exists for the purpose of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in all the world. That is why we exist. That is our primary function to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in all the world I think we have great fellowship in our church. Last Saturday night last Sunday evening we had our our our international banquet. What a time. Laughing and carrying on, hooting and hollering and eating and eating and eating and eating. Then we were done, we went back and ate again. But that's not why we exist to laugh and hoot and holler. We exist for the preaching of the gospel into all the world. We have flags up around here representing different countries where we support missionaries. We exist for the purpose in these different countries, in all the countries of the world, to get the gospel of Jesus Christ. And God will stir our hearts up. God will disrupt our lives many times to get us to see what it is we really should be working at What his intentions really are for us. I like football. I'd rather watch it than play it at this point in my life. Well I like football. I'm not like some people who cheer for teams that are named after nasty birds. I I cheer for teams are named after real men. Work with their hands and steal and stuff like that. But anyway talk about vision disruption, yeah. Uh but in a football, you're familiar with the game, they always have a huddle And man all those players get together and they get in there and here's the plan and this is this and here's and this and that. And you know, huddles, uh my impression is the huddle is more comfortable than the game itself. Right? I mean you just stand there talking. I like that. I'm talking about all these great things you're gonna do and um all this stuff. But you know, they don't just stay there huddled together. There's thousands of people in the stands paid a lot of money. There's TV networks paid a gobble money and advertisers so that people would watch this. And nobody's paying all that money to watch them stand around and talk And plan. At some point, are you with me? At some point, they got to get out of that huddle and do what they're there to do. Right? And can you imagine? Let's just use, for sake of illustration, a team that's named after a bird. And um They won't get out of the huddle. They just stand there talking, yeah, what'd you do last night? Oh I I got pizza. What'd you do? Oh I love their pizza. That's the greatest pizza in the world. Yeah. And the coaches on the side saying, come on guys. Come on. And the refs are And the other team's like, what's the deal? What are you doing tomorrow night? Um going out for more pizza. Really? And all they do is stand there and huddle. Would you agree with me at some point somebody's going to disrupt that huddle? The referees or the coach or somebody's going to come out and start busting heads. Say, what are you idiots doing? You're. Hey, we have a coach that paid a lot for the church. Paid his own blood, Jesus Christ, so that you and I can be saved. Now is the huddle important? Sure. We gotta know what we're doing. We gotta get together and figure out. But that's not the purpose of the team. And we're together this morning. Church service is the huddle. And God gives us instructions. This is the plan. But then at some point we gotta get out. And we gotta get these resources out to the mission field. And we gotta, there has to be some Christians in Kazakhstan. There's nothing. 17 million people dying going to hell, there's nothing. And here we are. Maybe God has to disrupt us a little bit. Maybe your faith is fine in church, but you don't bring it home. There's no prayer in your house, no Bible reading, no talking of the Lord, no living right. You're home? Boy, at church it's all fine. God may have to disrupt that a little bit. Say, no, my intention isn't for your Christianity just to be at church. Christianity is supposed to be at home also. Amen. It's good for me that I've been afflicted. It's good for the church that persecution came and got them out doing what they're supposed to do. Now, I don't know what you might be going through this morning, but I know this: God's working in your life. God's trying to lead and direct you. And let's hear his voice. Let's trust him. Let's obey him. Father, bless us, I pray. Thank you for the word of God. And Lord, we hate it, but we know that affliction and difficulty and disruptions are good for us. Our faith grows during these times. Our faith is challenged during the times that we're disrupted. Lord, like the church of old that was scattered abroad, I pray that our faith and our witness here at Mountain Lake would be scattered abroad, that you would stir our hearts. Stir us up, Lord. Get involved in worldwide faith promise missions, maybe ourselves going to the mission field, being a witness out in our community. Lord knows, Lord, you know our community needs the gospel. Our state, our country. Stir us up, Lord, stir us on.