Peter chapter three. I want to read verses one through four to kind of keep the context here. We're going to look at, Lord willing, verses two and three. We started verse one last week. We're working our way through the book of Second Peter And uh chapter two, uh, he focused uh heavily on the false teachers, apostates coming in. We spent a long time looking at that. Now we're in chapter three He's shifting his focus a little bit, and you'll see it here in just a moment. Verse 1 says, this second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, so he's addressing the purpose of this uh epistle, uh continuing And he says, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance, that ye may be mindful. Now pay attention here, that ye may be mindful of the words Which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Savior Knowing this, that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. I want us to look at these fellows that he mentions in verse number three He calls them scoffers. Scoffers. Chapter 2 was false prophets, false teachers. Chapter 3 is scoffers. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us and teach us tonight. Father, thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for the Lord's Day, that we can assemble together, even when the weather's bad. You've blessed us with such tremendous facilities. I'm so grateful. And we ask now that you would meet with us. I pray your presence would be here in this auditorium, in this service, in this hour. I pray your spirit would take the word of God and Teach us what you'd have us to understand, challenge us, and I pray you'd apply your word and the principles here to our lives You know we need it. Lord, I don't know, but you do. And so I yield myself to you. Present my body anew. Pray you take me and speak through me, dear Lord. your word uh through the Holy Spirit speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We have the Bible. The Bible's a tremendous, amazing book There is no other book like the Bible. And it's precious. And I hope that we value, uh I hope that we understand the value of God's word that we hold in our hands. The Bible gives us information that we would not get from anywhere else. Vital information we could not find it anywhere else. Go back early in the Bible, in the beginning chapters of the Bible, uh beginning pages, and we will here in a little bit But you go back in the early page of the Bible, and we're given the information about where we came from and how we got here. In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. Then for the first three, two chapters there, three chapters, he goes into somewhat detail in explaining how God created the heaven and earth. Created with his word, spoke everything into existence, and then he formed man from the dust of the earth and breathed into the nostrils of man the breath of light Man became a living soul. And then he took the rib from man and uh formed woman and established a home in marriage. We would not have that information if we did not have the Bible Now we could look at creation. We could look at the design of this world we have, the intricate, I want to use the term technology really That makes up our brains and how this world functions in such an uh uh an intricate uh controlled way And and the laws of nature that are all in place. We could look at all of that, design, the DNA, the makeup, the organization, the design And we could say somebody made this. Something intelligent designed this world. There is no way in the world you will never ever convince me that everything came from nothing That would just by chance and happen say that is that is statistically, and there's a few honest uh scientists out there, statistically that's impossible. In any other realm, they would say that could never happen. No statistic-wise, it could never happen. So we look at creation and we say, something made this, something designed this Some some tremendous tremendously intelligent being made this, some uh incomprehensibly powerful being made this, but we don't know who. We don't know how it came about, we don't know. But God gave us his word. And in the Bible, we have that information: who it is that made this and how it came about. So our Bible is vitally important to where we came from. It gives us information about our origins and how that all came about. The Bible gives us information not just where we came from, the beginning of existence, but it also tells us how this thing ends up. The Bible tells us about what ultimately is going to happen to this world, to the heavens and the earth. The Bible clearly teaches if we just take the Bible at face value, take it for what it says, assuming that God means what he says and says what he means We come to the conclusion, it's very, very clear here, that there is a definite end to this world as we know it. There's an end to this world. There's going to be a catastrophic end to this planet and this world as we know it. The Bible gives us that information. If it wasn't for the Bible, we wouldn't have that information. We wouldn't know how things turn out. We wouldn't know what's going to happen to this whole world. The unbelieving world out there rejects the Bible. They have their theories and their ideas. They think they've got everything figured out And I'm here to tell you, they don't. The Bible tells us how this whole world ends. And in P in 2 Peter chapter 3, as we get through this chapter We're going to find that Peter gives us the most detailed account of how this world is going to end. And he spends uh nearly a whole chapter here addressing that. And he points out and he says very clearly, the world is going to end. In fact, if you would, let's jump ahead And uh uh look at verse number 10. Now we'll spend more time on this down the roadways. But in verse 10 he says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. Now listen to this In which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, look at this, wherein the heavens being on fire Shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Whoa. We would not get that information about how this world ends up if it if we didn't have the Bible. Peter's given us this information. And this is one of, if not the, most detailed account of how this world's going to end. How this world's going to end. And so he points out, so we know the world's going to end. We're going to look at that later on, as I said, in a little more detail. We'll spend some time on that. But as he begins this subject and addresses this subject, he says there's two things that we must understand When we're considering the last days and the end of the world. He's telling us there's two there's two truths, there's two issues That are very, very important for you and I to understand as we approach these last days and the end of the world And by the way, every day that goes by, we're a day closer to this event we just read here. And by the way, this here, these passages I just read, are just as true as John 3, verse 16. This is God's word. This is going to happen. You say, well, I don't see how that could happen. We'll talk about that a little bit more later, but I'm here to tell you, if God said it, it's so And we wouldn't have this information. Now, what are these two things? What are the two points that Peter makes right in the beginning of this chapter before he dives into this? What are these two points he makes? Number one is this, the certainty of the scriptures. The certainty of the scriptures. Look at verse 2. He says that ye might be mindful. In other words, keep in mind, bring back to mind. We talked about that last week. Keep this in remembrance. Keep this, I like this term, keep this in the forefront of your mind. Don't file this away. That you may be mindful, look at this, of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets Question, what are the words that were spoken before by the holy prophets? What were they? The Old Testament. He's saying you need to keep in mind the truths and the teachings, the illustrations The commandments and the warnings and the promises that God used those prophets in old times, back in the Old Testament, you need to keep them in mind. And then he says, he goes on, look what he says. He says, which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and he adds to it, the commandment of us the apostles Let me say it again. And of the commandment of the apostles of the Lord and Savior. What is he talking about? What are the commandments of the apostles of the Lord and Savior? That's the New Testament. Now they didn't have a complete Bible at this time. We need to understand that. But it was being given. God was the Holy Spirit, was inspiring. Paul, and here Peter, James, uh throughout uh uh uh the New Testament. He's inspiring Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and the Word of God is being assembled. At this point, they didn't have a complete New Testament. They will shortly after this And it's completed. But at this point they don't. And so he's saying, us apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are the ones that God used to deliver the New Testament. So in our case When he says the the the prop holy prophets of old time, it's the Old Testament. Us apostles, the commandments that the Lord gave us apostles to pass on to you, that's what we would call the New Testament. What he's saying is this. We need to keep God's word in the forefront of our mind. We've got to be mindful of the Bible. Every day goes by. Now get this. Every day goes by We are getting deeper and deeper and deeper into these last days. Every day goes by. We are approaching closer and closer and closer to the next Event on God's calendar is the rapture of the church, tribulation period, the millennial reign of Christ, Battle of Armageddon, the return of Christ, the millennial reign of Christ Great white throne judgment, then the dissolving of this heaven and new earth, and the development of the new heaven, new earth. Every day we're getting closer, closer, closer, closer, closer. And Peter's saying You better be established in the Word of God as we get closer and closer to those events. As we get deeper, the deeper we get into the final days of this world, the stronger our confidence in God's word needs to be. The stronger our understanding of God's Word needs to be as we get closer and closer and closer. How many people here believe that we are in the last days? Man alive, I don't know how you can't see that. Of course we've technically we've been in the last days since the resurrection of Christ. But We look around us and we see things that are characteristic of the days when the Lord comes back and we see it on every hand, amen or not? Good night. And so I'm not prophesying. I don't know when the rapture is going to happen. I don't know when these events take place here. But I know every day goes by. We're getting closer. And Peter says, listen, you better be mindful of the Word of God. You better keep God's word there in your mind. You need to be grounded on God's word. Everything we believe in this book, we believe by faith. We believe this is God's word. You say, preacher, how do you know those are true? I have faith in God that this is what he says is true here, that these events will take place. Everything we believe about prophecy is rooted in our faith and confidence in the teaching of Scripture. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted Amid the raging storms of time, its pages burn with the truth eternal, and they glow with the light sublime. Listen to this The Bible stands, though the hills may tumble, it will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble. I will plant my feet on its firm foundation, the Bible stands. When these events take place that Peter describes here, I'm here to tell you, this book will still be true. This book will stand. And we need to be grounded in the Word of God. Somebody said that ignorance is bliss. Oh, ignorance is bliss. I'll tell you, when it comes to the scriptures Ignorance isn't bliss. Ignorance is deadly. We're in the last days, my friend. We're approaching the return of Christ. And uh it could be any day. It could be any day. I'm telling you, we need that book there more than we ever needed it before. We need to understand what that book says. We need to understand what God wants us to know. We need to understand God's will for our lives. We need to avoid that which God warns us about. We need to claim that which God promises. And we need to follow the instructions that God gives us in the Word of God. We are in the last days. That book becomes more and more important. Every single day goes by. And that's what Peter's saying. He's going to talk about the stalpers. He's going to talk about the end of the world. And he starts off by saying, you need to be mindful of that Old Testament, New Testament. And by the way, we need both the Old and New Testament. And so, um the importance of God's Word, the certainty of the Scriptures. That's why we emphasize scripture reading here in church for All these years. Anybody here ever tell me anybody here ever hear me say you ought to read your Bible every day? Yeah. You know why we say that all the time? Because you ought to read your Bible every day, right? We need it. I need God every day, every morning. I need God to speak to me and Teach me, instruct me from his word. I need to absorb what this Bible has to say in my heart and soul. Why? We're in the last days. Evil men, seducers get worse and worse And we need the Word of God. It's why we emphasize Bible reading here at church. It's why we emphasize Bible preaching here at church. Anyone notice our services revolve around the preaching of the Word of God? Whether it's me or someone else. I'm telling you, a church is making a terrible, terrible mistake when they do away with the preaching of the Word of God. Peter said, you be mindful. That Old Testament, New Testament, you keep it in your mind. You understand what it says. You be confident in what it teaches. That's why we emphasize the preaching word of God. That's why we make sure all our music is Bible-based. Why? Because we need the Word of God. That's why in King's Kids uh memorize scripture down there and emphasize scripture and Pastor Matt and Brother Dave Preach the word of God down there and they learn and they memorize scripture down there. Learn the Bible, learn the books of the Bible, learn the uh uh uh all uh verses from the Bible. That's why in master clubs we teach the kids about the Bible and how to study and how to teach it. And that's why in teens they emphasize the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. That's why we memorize scriptures here. Why? Because Peter said you need to be mindful, you need to keep this in your mind. The Word of God. The Word of God. Uh uh pe people say, uh, well, I heard a preacher say one time, well, the Bible doesn't say you have to go to church on Sunday night and Wednesday night. That doesn't no where did they go to church in the Ba I tell you, uh Hebrews says, uh forsake not the assembling yourselves together as men or summons, but so much the more as you see the day approaching. We shouldn't be cutting back. We should be having more. If we had church as much as I wanted to, But uh we ought to have church. You ought to have church. You say, well, they didn't have Sunday night, Wednesday night in the Bible. No, let's do it the way they did in the book of Acts And daily, they assemble together every single day. And so we need the word of God. We need the word of God. We're in the last days. You think it's bad now? Stick around. You think this whole world is antichrist now, stick around. Okay, if we don't if we don't if we don't have a hold of this book, and if we're not saturated with the teaching of this book and understand that what this book is instructing us to do, I tell you, we won't be able to stand as we get closer and closer. to the day of Christ, the rapture. Peter says you need to be mindful of this. He says, I'm about to discuss some things that are going to happen in the future. I'm going to discuss some things that people are doing And you have to make sure you're grounded in this book. Daddies, you ought to make sure your kids know the Word of God. Mommies and daddies ought to emphasize the Bible in the home. I uh uh uh I know I hound this and I I mean it with all my heart. Every home ought to have a family altar. It ought to be established, mom and dad, husband and wife, whatever the home makeup. husband, wife, mom and dad, if there's kids there in the home, if it's just husband and wife, it just plays there ought to be a time. We get together, we pray, read the scriptures, maybe sing a hymn. and keep the Bible forefront in our homes, mindful in our homes. Tell you that that was pretty common back in the day in the United States. I think America was better off when the Bible was read in the home than nowadays when it isn't. And I s you've heard me say a lot of these a lot, but I say it because I mean it. I feel strongly about this. I'm all for the Bible back in school. I'm all for the Bible back in in government and all. I'm all for that. But how about we start with our homes? Let's start reading the Bible in homes. Let's get the Bible back in our churches. What if everything that calls itself a church, United States of America, would start preaching that old King James Bible? What do you think that would do to America? It turned this thing around. Turn this thing around. And by the way, just because we have a new administration doesn't mean we have revival. just as wicked now in our society as we were two months ago. And we need revival now just as much as we did two months ago. Hey, I want to say this. I'm so far off the radar, I don't know if I'll ever get back But let me say this, a conservative Republican needs to be saved just as much as a liberal Democrat needs to be saved. And they get saved the same way. Same way. Righteousness exalts a nation, not a certain government, not a certain party. And the way we get righteous, we get back to that old book. And Peter says, we're approaching end days. It's going to get bad. There are people's going to be scoffers. You better have been grounded in this old book. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we better be grounded in this book. Alright, so he says, number one, he says, we need the certainty of the scriptures. Ye be mindful The words of the Old Testament, New Testament. Then in verse 3, he says this. We need to, two facts we need to be aware of: the certainty of Scriptures. We can trust the Bible. It'll help us. Number two, the coming of scoffers. That's where verse 3 comes in. Knowing this, knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers. Scoffers. The certainty of it. That word knowing this, that little phrase means this. To understand clearly or to be certain of, to be sure of. Peter's saying this, you mark it down. There's going to be scoffers in those last days. He's saying one thing we need to be aware of is that your faith and my faith is going to come under attack in the last days. What we believe is going to come under attack. This book is going to come under attack in the last days. And we need to make up our minds. We need to just decide That I believe that old book, let the world say what it wants to say, I'm sticking with the Bible. He says, you better be ready, because in the last days scoffers are coming They're going to mock your faith. They're going to try and undermine the Word of God. They're going to ridicule what you and I hold so dear. What Jesus Christ has done for us and who he is and what he's fixing to do in the future, they're going to mock that. They're going to undercut that. They're going to ridicule us for that. He said, you mark it down, the certainty of scoffers. Now, what in the world is a scoffer? What is somebody that's a scoffer? Well, the definition is this: one who mocks or ridicules another. I looked at various ways it's used. I came up with some descriptions of what I understand the word to me One who to be a scoffer means to reject something with scorn and ridicule. Has the idea of an one definition was this, an immature response to something considered ridiculous. In other words, somebody comes and they, in this case, the Word of God and some specific teaching in the Word of God, and they immature like a child Mock it, they consider it's ridiculous, and they just make fun of it. That's what these guys are. Peter said, it's what's going to be in the last days. People are going to, did anybody know that our society is getting more and more immature all the time? I mean our politicians talk like they're junior high. Calling each other names and making fun and ridiculing. Both sides. Both sides. He goes, that's what they're going to do in the last days concerning the Word of God Making fun. Scoffers, scoffers. A scoffering, scoffing is rooted in pride and self-exaltation. These scoffers, it's a form of rejection. I reject what that Bible teaches, and I'm going to make fun of it. I look down on it, I'll ridicule it, I'll mock it, I reject what that thing says. And he says, that's what's going to be in the last days. That's what you and I are going to face as we get closer and closer and closer the last days. The Old Testament term for scoffer is scorner. If you would, take your Bibles real quickly with me and come with me to Proverbs. Proverbs talks repeatedly about the scorner, which is, I understand, the Old Testament term for scoffer. Proverbs chapter number three, if you would, and notice with me verse thirty-four. Scoffer, scorner, Proverbs 3, verse 24. Notice what he says here. He says, uh verse 34, surely he scorneth he being God. Surely he, God, scorneth the scorner. But he giveth grace unto the lowly. Do you see the pride there? God gives grace to the lowly, but the scorner, he's proud. And God will scorn him. I don't know about you. I wouldn't want God mocking me. I wouldn't want God ridiculing me and rejecting me. And he says, these scoffers, that's exactly what God will do. Come over, if you would, to chapter number 19 of Proverbs. Again, he addresses these scorners, is the term the Old Testament uses, and chapter 19, verse 29. He says, judgments are prepared for what? Scorners, one who mocks and derides the Word of God and God's people, makes fun of them, ridicules them. Judgments are prepared, and stripes for the backs of fools. I tell you, God takes this seriously. Making fun of God and his word and his people, ridiculing, scoffing and scorning them. God takes it seriously. Come over to chapter 29, a few pages over. Proverbs chapter 29, and notice with me verse number 8. Proverbs 29 and verse 8. Scornful men bring a city into a snare. But wise men turn away wrath. I tell you, you've got a society that is making fun of the Word of God and mocking the things of God and mocking the people of God and ridiculing the teachings of God's word, I tell you that society is setting its up for total disaster, setting itself up for total disaster. And if you'll notice, the farther our society gets from the Word of God, and the more that our society ridicules, and our education system ridicules the Word of God, the more disaster we see in it. Amen or not? Mocking and ridiculing. And Peter saying, you better be ground in this old book because it's for certain there's going to be mockers. There's going to be scoffers and scorners Fact of the matter is there always has been scorners from the very beginning. If you would, come with me very quickly. I don't try and wind down here, but come with me to Genesis chapter number three We have the first instance, I believe, in history of somebody scoffing the things of God and the Word of God in particular. Genesis Chapter number three. Look with me if you would at verse number one. Genesis chapter three and verse one. Now the serpent was more subtle, tricky, deceitful, sneaky, than any beast of the field whom the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, woman, now look, just kind of imagine your mind, the tone of voice here. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said Ye shall not eat of any of every tree of the garden? Did God really say that? Come on. Now I'm living here a little bit Are you got to be kidding me? Did God really say to you, you can't eat any of this fruit? What was he doing? He was scorning what God told her. He was ridiculing to get her to doubt and question. Oh, for Pete's sake. That's in the Hebrew, I think. Oh, for Pete's sake. You can't eat of anything? And Eve just got sucked right into that And a woman said unto the son, Oh, we may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden. It's the fruit of the but the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat of it, and ye shall not touch it lest ye die. I can hear the devil going, oh brother, ye uh uh ye shall not surely die. For God doth know that in the day you eat thereof, your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And he mocked God's word, he ridiculed God's word, he scoffed at what God said, and he brought mankind down into sin, and man fell. And from that point on, all through history, there have been scoffers and scoffers and scoffers and scoffers. We don't have time, and I wouldn't take the time, but we could go to Numbers chapter 16, where Korah Begins scoffing at Moses because Moses was God's man that established the leadership. Take Israel out of Egypt And Korah begins mocking and scoffing. Oh, you think you're the only one with authority? You think you're the only one that can be a priest, you and Aaron? You're the only ones that can do that? And I'm telling you, God judged them severely Scoffers infiltrated the nation of Israel and it cost them dearly. We could go to Nehemiah when God calls Nehemiah back to Jerusalem to rebuild the wall and he's surveying it and he gets the team together and they start rebuilding the wall and Sambala and Tobiah show up And they begin stuffing what they're doing. Oh, Tobias says, Oh, if a fox ran on that wall, it would fall down. You know it was hilarious Scoffers, scoffers, scoffers. They got into the nation of Israel. Cause havoc, reeked havoc. In 2 Samuel chapter 16, David's fleeing from his son Absalom. Pleeing for his life, people with him. There's a guy up on the side of the hill and begins scoffing David. Takes dust and throws them and throwing rocks down at him. Oh, you bloody man Starts scoffing David Shimei. And all through the Bible, all through the Bible. You get in the Gospels, the Jews mocked and scoffed Jesus. They're beating him at the crucifixion. He's hanging there naked, bleeding and dying, beaten to hamburger pulp. And they begin mocking him. Oh, you saved others. Why don't you save yourself? Mocking, scoffing, scoffing, scoffing. Even the thief as about to die looks over and the Bible says he mocked him, reviled him, scoffed him. You save the others, why don't you get us down from here? I tell you, there's always been scoffers, but Peter tells us, you mark it down. As we get in the last days, it's going to get worse. It's going to get worse. Christianity is not going to get more popular in the world. It's going to get less popular. There's going to be people mocking and scoffing. There always have been. We must determine right here and now. I'm saying we must determine right here and now that we're not going to be intimidated by the fools that scoff this book. We're standing on the book. You say, preacher, if you keep preaching that book and you keep if we keep doing what the Bible says We may end up in jail. Then we'll teach it and preach it in jail. They can mock us and they can scorn us and they can ri ridicule us and scoff us all they want. But I believe this book when it says Jesus coming back again. Believe this book when Jesus says the only way to be saved is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe this book when he says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. I believe this book when he says, Do right. Do right. Trust God and do right. This whole book. Amen? We need to know it. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us. As we see the day approaching, and we see this old history of mankind winding down a bit, I pray you'd help us stay true to the Word of God. Lord, don't let us be intimidated. God, don't let us be influenced by folks that would mock the clear teaching of the Word of God. Scoff at it. Lord, help us stand true. Help us be unmovable. I wonder tonight, I don't know what where your need may be spiritually. I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, I need to get a better grip on that book I need to get more uh uh uh more committed to the Word of God and read it and study it and memorize it And hold on to that. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I need that. Maybe our home. Get in our homes personally, daily basis, memorizing And just holding to this book and getting a grasp of it. I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, I run into scoffers, maybe at work, maybe within your family. Neighbors, kids in school, whatever it may be, I run into sculptors. Maybe you might say tonight, preacher, pray with me that I'll stand true to the Word of God. And God will give me boldness to stand true and not be wavered, not be influenced. It's very like that by the uplifted hand. I tell you, preachers get it. Preachers get it. And so we need to stay true. Father bless now. As we prepare to go into a work week, help us stand true in the Word of God. Help us to commit to spend time keeping this Bible in our minds and in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together