Ecclesiastes chapter number one. We're continuing our study in the book of Ecclesiastes, and um Ecclesiastes chapter 1. We're going to be reading verses 12, 13, and 14, three verses, while you're finding your place. Just want to encourage folks. Let's uh put our phones up and uh our cell phones away and put them uh turn them off and uh put 'em up and put 'em away. Let's give our attention to the Word of God. I really believe with all my heart that what is being preached here tonight is the most important thing In all the world going on, more important than anything on the internet, more important than what's on Facebook, more important than what's happening um on the football field, more important than anything going on uh more important what's going on in Washington DC. Not because it's me or my great uh ideas, but because it's the word of God. So I want to encourage folks, let's put our our uh phones up and let's give our attention up here, young and old, let's give all our attention to the word of God. Um Uh somebody was I tell you these cell phones are handy, they're helpful. I have one, I use it, I got it there, I use it quite a bit, but um sometimes they can be a distracting And uh one fellow was driving to church and the preacher said, Where were you last Sunday? You weren't in church. He goes, Well, I was on my way to church and uh I looked at my cell phone, it said, No service So I turned around and went home. Shirley gave that to me. That was a good one, Shirley. That was better than mine. So uh let's put them up and let's give our attention and everybody be real careful to uh give our attention to the Word of God up here. Ecclesiastes chapter number one. I want to read verses twelve through fourteen And am I turned on? Uh yes I am. How about that? You know you're getting old when you forgot what you did forty seconds ago Verse 12. I the preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem. And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done. Now think about what he just said. I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done. Under heaven, all things that are done under heaven, this sword travail hath God given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun. And behold, all is what? Vanity and Vexation of Spirit. I've had a trouble, I had a tough time coming up with a title. I'm not real creative on these. I just called it searching out wisdom. Or you could kind of summarize what he's saying here. Wisdom without God. And so let's pray and we'll try and see what he's saying and how it applies to our lives. Let's ask the Lord to help us Father in heaven, we bow before you again this evening. Our Bibles are open in front of us with this passage. And Lord, we understand, God, that you are sovereign It's not just a coincidence that we're talking about this passage tonight in this audience. And so I believe you have something for every one of us. And I pray that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would be receptive to what that is you have for us. I pray we would make wise decisions Lord, I pray that you'd prepare us for the coming week, that we could live victoriously and be able to make good decisions throughout the week And that we would be a good testimony for you. I ask, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me again, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Excuse me. We look out, we talked about this all through the summer, and uh we look out at creation and we come to two conclusions. One is, I mean if we're honest, and we're just common sense, we look out at creation, the first conclusion we come to, this stuff didn't just happen. Something created this. Something made this. It is a scientific impossibility that something comes from nothing. That is impossible. As much as they try and explain it away, that's impossible. Life, it is a scientific impossibility that life can come from non-life. Only life can produce life. And so we look at creation and our first conclusion is, if we're honest, something made this. There's a designer. There's a God behind this. The second conclusion, just looking at creation, is something's out of whack. Something's wrong. Creation is not operating the way it obviously is supposed to. There's a lot of death. There's a lot of misery. There's a lot of heartache. There's a lot of disappointment We live in a world that is an amazing, amazing world as far as creation is concerned, but spiritually it is an empty world. People are living empty lives. And they're frustrated and they're angry and they're uh they're empty. And you hear statements like this, well I have no reason to live. Uh what's why go on? You know why people say that? Because there's something seriously missing in their heart and soul. There's a vacuum there. And what they're doing is they're grabbing at a broken world to try and fill that vacuum, and nothing fills it, nothing fills it, nothing fills it. And so their life is empty. And there's no meaning and there's no purpose. And so there's something wrong with this world. This is not the way it's intended. We know that. And so when we look at creation and we see evidence, obvious evidence, that there is a creator, there is a God, There's something wrong here. So what the world does, they remove God from the world. They remove God from the equation. And all you've got left is a mess. All you've got left is emptiness, material, just nothing. That is what the opening statements to Ecclesiastes is saying Let's come back to the beginning of chapter one, and we've already preached on this and we've touched on it a number of times. But let's look at it again, because this is the premise of the book. Verse 2, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, and here's his conclusion: all is vanity. Verse 3 expounds on it. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? And so the entire premise of the book of Ecclesiastes is this: life without God, life that is lived just under the sun, nothing beyond what I can see, feel, hear, touch. Everything I live for, everything I engage in, everything I indulge in is physical, material, here and now. God is excluded. He said that life is vain. That life is empty. That life is frustration. Um, like the one Some messed up rock group used to saying, all we are is dust in the wind. And that is the conclusion if there is no God. If there is no God, all we are is dust that turns back to dust. There's nothing more to us. This that I just read, verses 1 and 2 of that we just read here a few moments ago, that's a serious, that's a serious allegation. That all of life is vain. Um that's that's not that's a pretty serious statement. Now, where we're at now, verse 12, and down through the next several large portions of this book, Solomon is attempting to verify his claim That under the sun, a life lived without God, God's excluded, he's not a part of the equation, that life is vain. Now he's going to try and verify that. And he's going to give a series of A series of attempts that he made to find meaning under the sun, to find purpose in life that excludes God. And the first one is here in verse 12 through 14, and he kind of goes down through verse 18 as tacked on to it. We'll look at that separately, but I want to look at verse 12, 13, and 14 tonight. And the first thing I notice here In verse number 12, Solomon states his position. It's kind of like now he is formally introducing himself as the author of this book, as the the uh the author humanly speaking of this book. Look at verse 12. He says, I, the preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. Then he's going to go on and give testimony. To verify the fact that life under the sun and various pursuits is vain and empty. So he introduces himself, he states his position. He's the preacher and he was the king over Israel. Now, what do we know about Solomon? Solomon was one of the greatest kings in all of Israel's history. Now they had some great kings. And Solomon was up there. He was in the top ten. I'd say he was in the top five. I mean, white would have put him in the top three. He was without a doubt one of Israel's greatest kings. And in his day, he was not only one of the greatest kings in Israel, he was one of the greatest kings in all the Middle East He was unsurpassed in his wealth. There was no other king as wealthy as Solomon was. Now can you imagine the wealth that we read about people having today? And then here you have a man that has the resources. Now get this. Here is a man that has the resources to pursue anything he wants to pursue. Money is not an issue for him. So if he wants to get involved in this, he wants to take it to its extreme. Whatever it costs, he's got He's got it. So he's unsurpassed in his wealth. His nation at this period is undisturbed by peace. I'm sorry, let me take that back. Has an undisturbed peace In other words, he's not distracted with fighting wars. How many people would agree a war is distracting? Sure. Uh we've got a bunch of men here in Vietnam and World War Two and other wars. You had your plans, your life laid out and that old uh um uh draft notice shows up in the mail and your life is distracted. Right or wrong? This is one of what I planned. So here you have Solomon. He has incredible wealth. He's a great, great king. He's not having to be distracted by wars. He can apply himself to whatever he wants to And uh I guess another way of saying it was, and this is kind of simplifying it, but for the most part, it's got a lot of free time. So he can invest into whatever he wants to invest into. He doesn't he's not distracted by war. So he has unsurpassed wealth. He has an undisturbed peace. And I put it down this way, he is un he has unequaled wisdom. The most distinctive characteristic about Solomon, when you think of Solomon, what do you think about? You think about Wisdom. Wisdom. Jesus referenced Solomon as being the wisest man. Are you listening, young people? Jesus referenced Solomon as a wise man as the wisest man. So his most distinctive characteristic is his great wisdom. Now let's consider Solomon's wisdom a little bit. Now I'm going somewhere with this, so bear with me. His wisdom was supernaturally given. I'd like for you to turn over to 1 Kings. Now keep your place here. 1 Kings chapter 3. And here we find where Solomon got this wisdom. And by the way, it's a good. Instruction for us if we need wisdom. How many folks here? Let's just be honest, it's just us tonight. How many folks here you've got some situations going on, you could use a little bit of wisdom Anybody here? Anybody here have s maybe something going on? You're really not sure what the best thing is to do and you're trying to sort it out, trying to figure out what's the best thing to do in this situation. Anybody like that? Sure We need wisdom. So where did Solomon get all his wisdom? Let's find out. Maybe that's where we could get some wisdom for ourselves. 1 Kings chapter 3, notice with me verse number 5. 1 Kings 3. 5. And it says this, in Gibeah the Lord appeared unto Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, now look at this. Now, put yourself in Solomon's shoes. You're in bed, and God shows up. And God says, This: ask what I shall give thee. How do people know immediately what you would ask God if that situation was? I know. I got some things. God says, Dennis asked me what you get God calls me Dennis. But uh He says, Dennis, ask what you will. And uh man I could rattle a few things off right like that. I'd like for you to do this and this. Anybody else like that? And uh so God shows up to Solomon. Look at this And Solomon says, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy. According as he walked with thee in truth and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart with thee. That tells us Solomon's estimation of his father. Would you agree with me? He thought highly of his father Man, what a testimony. And thou hast kept for him this great kindness that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. Now this is Solomon speaking to God And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father. In other words, he means in place of. He's passed away. Now I'm in the king. Look at this. And I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. Boy, what a contrast to some people today. We could take that there and we could conclude this. Solomon was not a know-it-all. He didn't think he had the answers to everything. He didn't think he had all of life figured out. He didn't think he said, I'm just a child. I'm put in this position. I don't know how to go out or come in. I'm just a child. Let me throw this out to you. If we want wisdom, we've got to acknowledge the fact that we don't have it. If I want God's help, I need to acknowledge the fact I need God's help. And what worries me sometimes with some people is they've got all the answers They've got a response to every situation. They've got it all figured out. And Solomon, the wisest man in the world, starts out saying, I don't have it all figured out. I'm just a child. I don't know how to go in or come out. Verse 8, and thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be accounted Multitude. I think he's saying here is, Lord, I'm overwhelmed by life. I'm overwhelmed with the situation I find myself in. Now here's his request. God said, ask me what you want me to do. Here's his request. Give therefore thy servant An understanding heart to judge thy people that I may discern between good and bad. There's a lot of folks I know that it would be good for them to ask God to help them figure out what's right and wrong and stop figuring out themselves what's right and wrong. It would be good for our country, from the leadership down, to quit deciding on our minds what's right and wrong and come to God and say, God, you tell me what's right and wrong. That's what Solomon's saying. Look at verse 10. Oh, for the rest of verse 9. For who is able to judge this by so great a people? Verse 10. And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast thou asked riches for thyself, nor asked for the life of thine enemies, but had asked for thyself But as for thyself understanding to discern judgment, behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, look at this, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before, neither after thee shall there arise like unto thee. And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all days. Wow! So was Solomon a wise man? Absolutely. I think his wisdom is displayed even before God gave him wisdom in humbling himself before the Lord and asking wisely for wisdom. And God blesses them and answers that. So he has a supernaturally given wisdom. Look at chapter four with me of 1 Kings. And verse number 29, here it kind of reiterates this, and it gives us, tells us a little bit more about Solomon. And God gave Solomon, I circled the word gave, wisdom, it comes from God. God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding, exceeding much. And large n largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea. And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the East Country and all the wisdom of Egypt. For he was wiser than all men. Wow. So Ecclesiastes, he says, I, the preacher, was king over Israel. He's introducing himself. What do we know about this man that's writing these gloomy statements? Vanity of vanity, always vanity. What do we know about it? Well we know he was incredibly wise, supernaturally wise But not only was his wisdom supernaturally given, but he was very famous for his wisdom. People knew about his wisdom all throughout the region. If you would come over to chapter 10 of 1 Kings. And here's a neat event that took place in Solomon's life in the history of Israel. A gal that was a queen of a country of Sheba. Now we don't know a whole lot about the country of Sheba. We're not sure where exactly it was. Most things that I looked up suggest that somewhere Ethiopia, down northern Africa, down there She travels all the way to Israel and she wants to meet Solomon. And look in verse number six. After she meets with him and she sees everything, she talks to him, she asks him hard questions, he answers them flawlessly. Verse 6, she said to the king, Solomon, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom. Now she heard this in her own land, probably North Africa somewhere. It's a ways off. She traveled a long way. Howbeit, I believe not the words. Until I came and mine eyes seen it, and behold, the half was not told me. Thy wisdom and prosperity exceedeth the fame Which I heard. So, what do we know about Solomon? He was supernaturally wise, and his wisdom was known throughout the region. Everybody knew about the king of Israel, Solomon. It's the wisest man. And this gal says, I don't believe it. I gotta go up there and see it myself. She travels, her entourage, whole crowd gets up there, she spends some time with them. She goes, You have blown my mind. I can't believe it. You are wiser than even what I heard. So Solomon's an amazing man. So let's come back to Ecclesiastes. And he's telling us that life under the sun, without God, God excluded, is empty, it's vain, it's meaningless. I would say that he has legitimate authority to speak on the meaning of life, right? And so we just noticed about him. This is not some crackpot out there just rambling on, oh, this is the meaning of life and all. No, no, no. This is somebody that's legit. This is somebody that we would highly respect. As far as his wisdom and understanding is concerned. However, as wise as he was, I believe he misappropriated his wisdom And he began leaning on this wisdom that God had given him rather than leaning on God. And he took this ability to learn and understand and see things and gain insight, and he applied it to temporal issues. He warned us in the book of Proverbs to not do what he ended up doing. One of the great passages of Scripture that probably most, if not all, of us, are very familiar with. If not, we ought to be. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean Not unto thine own understanding. But in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Are you listening, young people? And Solomon turned to end up doing the opposite of what he knew people should do. And he began leaning on his understanding. You know what that tells me? Even a wise man can act foolishly. Even an intelligent man can be stupid. And you and I need to understand that we need God. We need God. But we're gonna mess up. And mess up Ben. So the first thing I notice is the Solomon presents presents his position. I was the preacher. I was king over Israel in Jerusalem. And he was an amazing man, no doubt about it. Then in verse 13, I notice his pursuit. He says, I was a king, uh I'm the I the preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem, and I gave my heart. to seek and to search out by wisdom, the wisdom that God had given. And so I'm going to use this gift, this ability that God gave me And I'm going to search out all things that are done under the sun, under heaven. He's explaining to us here how he came to the conclusion that life without God is vain, is empty. And what he's saying here is, I was determined to learn as much as I possibly can about this world I'm going to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under the sun. I want to learn everything I can about this world. I want to know every pursuit. I want to know every science. I want to know every art. I want to know everything that this world has to offer. I want to know everything that this world has to teach me. I want to learn it all And then I can find meaning and purpose with God being excluded. I'm going to push God out of the way I'm just going to be under the sun, and I'm going to learn every science, every art, every pursuit, everything this world has to teach me and offer me, and I'm going to find meaning, I'm going to find purpose, and this emptiness and life without God will be filled. That's his attempt. That's what he's pursuing to do. Now notice he was very sincere in this. Verse 13, he says, I gave my heart. Uh he wasn't just trying to be part of the crowd. It wasn't just some cool fat he was getting into. Did anybody here ever At some point in your life you hear about some hobby or something and you think, Oh, that'd be great, and you get involved with it, and after a while it just kinda dies out, you were just kinda half-hearted. Anyone know what I'm talking about at all? That's not the way it was with Solomon. This was his whole heart. He gave himself to this. He was sincere in seeking this. I talk to people all the time about God. It's my life. I talk to people all the time about the meaning of life and purpose and things beyond the material world, talk about the spiritual world all the time. And it's crazy. I had a fellow, a young man one time, he was probably 18, maybe 20, somewhere around there. He had all the answers to everything. He'd been around for so long. He knew so much. And so I started, I was witnessing to him, and I had a couple verses. I began quoting some verses. And he says, I don't want to hear anything from the Bible. That was just written by man. I said, really? He goes, yeah, it was all written by man. It's just a book, full fairy tales, all written by I said, uh how do you know that? I said, how'd you come to the conclusion that the Bible's not God's Word? It's just written by man. Here was his answer. I saw a TV show about it one time. Seriously. He was yeah. I said, Do you believe everything you see a TV show about? Well no, but this was legit. I said, really? How do you know that? Well, they had experts. I said, seriously, you're basing your eternal destiny. You're basing your very purpose and meaning in life. On what you saw on a TV show. Serious. Well, you know, went on I was up in Connecticut last week as you know preaching up there and we were out visiting. We came across I think I mentioned this guy came across this atheist guy. So we're going round and round and I I got sucked into it So we're going round and round, I'm giving my arguments and he's coming back with these different things. And he made a statement about the Bible that uh statement about uh the church and the Bible and the Bible wasn't around until this. I said, Well that's that's not correct. He goes, Yeah, it is correct. I said, How do you know? He goes, I read it on the internet. I said, oh well, it's everybody knows that it's required by law that everything has to be true on the internet. I mean Abraham Lincoln told us that. He says, You making fun of me? I said, No, I'm not making fun of you. I said, But what you said is silly. Just because it's on the internet doesn't make it true. I'm saying all that to say this. That wasn't Solomon's approach. He didn't come to this conclusion because he saw it on TV, a documentary on TV, or some internet article said this or the other. He gave his heart to it. He was serious about this He wanted to find if this world, God excluded, could meet the needs of his soul. If this world without God could give him meaning and purpose and fulfillment in life, he said, that's what I'm after. That's what I'm trying to find. So he was very sincere. He was very sincere. I put this down. He was very scrupulous. Now, what do we mean by that? The word scrupulous means to be very meticulous, very thorough. He says, by I gave my heart to seek And to search out. The word seek there has this idea to do in-depth research. I mean, he applied himself to this. He dug. He talked. He checked things out. The word search out has this idea of exploring all the aspects of it. In other words, he looked up the references. And he followed all the rabbit trails And every area that he researched, in every area of life that had anything to offer to him, whether it was noble or whether it was base. No matter how pure and good it might be and honorable it might be, or how perverse and how wicked it might be, he pursued them all. He said, I want to find meaning. I want to find purpose and fulfillment in life without God. And I applied myself to this. I sought it and searched it out. I explored all the aspects of it. He wanted to be an expert in everything. And if anybody was had the potential of being an expert in everything, he's the guy. He has supernatural wisdom. He has supernatural insight. Nobody is like him. And so if anybody's going to pursue this Endeavor to find meaning, fulfillment, spiritual fulfillment, find something to fill the spiritual part of my life. But God excluded just this will. If anybody could do that, this is Him. He's the one. Then last of all, I notice his pronouncement. Now he's introducing, he's going to present a series in the next several passages here, he's going to present a series of of of areas of study, so to speak, that he went off in. He's going to give us his conclusion on that. I pursued this. I pursued that. I pursued this. This is my conclusion. But he's kind of stating his conclusion in the front, up front here, then he'll expand on it later. And look what his pronouncement is, the second part of verse 13. First party says, I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven. Now here's his pronouncement. Here's my pronouncement. This is sore travail that God hath given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith. He says this, when it's all said and done, none of this was pleasant. None of this was a blessing to me. There's a sore travail. It's disappointing. Every avenue, trying to find meaning and purpose, every one of them, ended up with sore travail, ended up empty. Look at verse 14. I have seen I've studied this, I've looked, I've applied it, I've seen. All the works that are done under the sun, I've pursued everything this world has to offer. And behold, all is what? Vanity and vexation of spirit. It is miserable. It is miserable. Let's talk about that atheist. When we finished up the conversation, he had made this statement several times. His words, life is miserable. Life is miserable. I said, you know why it's miserable? Because you've got an emptiness in your heart and life that nothing but God can fill. That's why it's miserable. I saw an interview Christian was doing just this past week, an interview a Christian was doing with an atheist. He had interviewed a series of atheists. It was fascinating. And every one of them that expanded on that engaged him for a while, almost every one of them said something like this. I find no purpose, I find no meaning in life One guy said, All we are is molecules and there's no meaning. This is all empty. In fact the one fella, he's probably about my age, he made this statement. He says, I wish, to be honest with you, I wish I could just die and get it over with. Now that is what the world offers. That is what the world produces. And Solomon says, everything under the sun, that's all you're gonna get. That's all you're gonna get. You exclude God You push the spiritual reality out of your experience. You try and ignore the spiritual makeup of your being. And it's going to be empty. It's going to be miserable. It's vexation. He says here, sword travail and vexation of spirit. He comes to this conclusion. Solomon's the wisest, most educated man in all the world, and his conclusion, education without God is emptiness. Worldly wisdom and earthly education cannot bring purpose and meaning to life. My experience has been some of the most educated people in the world are the most miserable people in the world. It's like the more I learn about this world, the more empty I realize my life is without God. On the other hand, I've met some folks that, by the way, there are some tremendously educated people that know the Lord. And found meaning and purpose in life. We're not, I want to back up here a little bit. We're not disparaging education But education in and of itself cannot do for me what only God can do for me. He's going to talk about pleasure a little bit later. There's nothing wrong with pleasure within scriptural bounds, and there's nothing wrong with that, but pleasure without God is not gonna Posure will not do for me what only God can do for me in any anything under the sun And so that he comes to that conclusion. But I was going to start to say this. I know some folks that are very uneducated. Just simple folks that never got hardly beyond a third grade education And they don't know much about molecular dynamics and interstellar galactic, uh. I'm just trying to think of big words, just throwing them all together, plasmatic uh Interactions. I have no idea what I just said. But they know God. And their lives are filled with joy and meaning and fulfillment and purpose. I could take you to some back collars over in West Virginia. I'm so tempted to say something. Where the sun shines between eleven in the morning and one in the afternoon. And some dear old folks that know God and love the Lord with all their heart and are some of the happiest people in the world. I talked about that blind and deaf guy, remember the other week down in Dominican? Happy man. Happy man. He he couldn't do algebra if his life depended on him. But he knows that God loves him and that his life has meaning and purpose. That's something. Solomon. Those who have learned all the facts of life and experienced all the pleasures of life. Are sometimes those that find the emptiest lives of all. We read about, we see these interviews and we read about these great movie stars It's great rock and roll stars, rock stars. They've got everything the world has to offer. And you talk to them, you look at them, and their lives are absolutely miserable. They can't stay married to one person but a few months. They can't find any purpose or meaning Drunk drugs. You know what drunkenness and drugs is? Listen, young people. You know what drunkenness and drugs are? It's trying to fill a hole in my soul that only God can fill. Perversion. Let's try to do something that only God can feel. Grabbing something, something, something. And it's often the people that have experienced the most that the world offers whose lives are the emptiest. That are so dependent, trying to find something. And that's Solomon's conclusion. The most educated man in history, perhaps. And he says, under the sun, vanity of vanity. Say, what does this have to do with me? I'm saved. I know God. I'm trying to live for God. I think there's a couple applications. One is let's nurture our relationship with the Lord very diligently Let's not let the lights and bells and whistles of this world get our eyes off the Lord. I'm telling you, that's what happened to Solomon. It's the wisest the supernaturally wisest man in the world to get distracted. How much more can you and I? So let's stay close to the Lord. Let's keep our minds stayed on Christ. Let's keep our eyes focused on Christ, looking unto Jesus. But there's a second application, I think, for us. We live in a world full of empty people. We see them all around us. Why don't we give ourselves to introduce these other people to the one that means so much to us? Let's give ourselves to try and introduce other people so that they can find the meaning and purpose in life that only Christ can give How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Let's take what Christ has done for us, share it with others. Got a lot of means of doing that. Gospel tracts are great. Just talking to people, telling them what Christ means to us and what he's done for us. Come out and visit on Thursday night. We'll go through houses and neighborhoods and talk to people. It's a blessing. We can help this old empty world find some purpose and meaning in the Lord Jesus. Amen? It's a good Lord's Day. Let's finish out the Lord's day before the Lord. As we go into this coming week, let's ask him to give us wisdom. Let's ask him to help us keep our eyes on him, nurture that relationship, and then share him with others. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. And help us be that witness in this old world under the sun that's living under the sun. Help us point to someone that's beyond the sun. That's bigger than this world and can meet every one of their needs. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How would it say, preacher? I need to give a little more effort and attention to nurturing my walk with God Keeping my guard and being careful. Is there any like that, preacher? I do. I need to give more attention to that. My Bible, my time with the Lord, prayer. Careful. How about it? God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe tonight at an altar we'll say, Lord, now help me this coming week. Do those things. Show me I'll respond to you, Lord. How many here know someone that's life is empty? And you'd say, Preacher, I really want to be a witness to them. I want to be effective in bringing them to Christ, find the meaning in my life. Is there anything like that? I know someone that needs Christ, so bad. God bless you They need our prayers. And ask God to help us be what they need. Father, I pray you'd bless now. One last question, with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Let me ask this: is there someone happen to be here tonight Say, preacher, I don't know Christ as Savior. My heart and life is empty. And I need the Lord Jesus Christ to give me meaning. I need that, what you've been talking about. And you say, preacher, pray for me. That God would help me settle my salvation. That I would know the Lord as my personal Savior. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me That's what I need. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I want to know the Lord. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now. We ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.