Amen. How many people are glad you came to church today? How many people aren't? Glad nobody said anything there. Praise the Lord. Let's uh look, I'd like for you to read verse ten with me, if you would please. Let's all read it together. Ready? For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. Feels a little strong up here now, Dave, maybe. Let's read that again. Ready? For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. Two words in that verse stand out in my mind this morning. Seek and to save. To search and rescue. That's our theme for the month, track month. Seek and save. Search and rescue Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for good service this morning. The music's been a blessing to me. God, I thank you. for the fellowship we've had, folks that are out. Lord, we're always glad when folks are visiting with us and come back again. That's a joy and blessing And so we ask that uh all of us, the the old timers, the new folks, all of us, the young ones, uh the ones that are not so young I pray that we get a blessing today and walk out of here a little stronger, the joy of the Lord in our lives, and our faith increase Fill me with your spirit. I pray, Lord, I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew. I pray you take me and uh speak through me. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 19, 10 says, the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost, to search and rescue. When Jesus Christ left heaven, he came down to earth. Now, I believe we all understand that there in Bethlehem, when Jesus was born to the Virgin Mary, that was not the beginning of his existence. You understand that, right? From everlasting to everlasting, Jesus Christ has, is, and always will be God And so that was not the beginning of his existence, but that was the beginning of his ministry and his immediate presence here on earth for an extended period of time. Now the question is this, why did Jesus Christ come to earth? Well, you go to ten different churches, you'll get ten different answers. Some folks would say he came to earth to be an example to mankind. He showed us how God wants mankind to live. He came to be an example. Listen, we'll agree that there was an aspect of his life here on earth that he was uh uh an example. We're told to follow in his steps Things he did were an example for us. But I suggest to you that was not his reason for coming. That was secondary. That was a byproduct of his being here. Some say he came to teach us what it is to be a good person and how to interact with others. And we would say, yes, if you study the Bible, we agree that there's an aspect of that. And boy, nobody's ever beat the nobody's ever taught the uh the uh beatitudes as far as teaching, uh getting along with others and and uh a higher level of living. Uh nobody's taught the Lord Jesus teaching, but that's not why he came. He didn't come to be necessarily to be an example. His purpose in coming wasn't to uh teach us how to uh all get along. Um why did he come? Some would say he came to do mighty miracles. Hey, we believe every word the Bible says about the miracles Jesus taught. We believe every word the Bible says. But he came to do miracles. There's no denying that. He did tremendous miracles. The one that captures my attention is walking on the water. That to me would be the coolest thing in the world. Be able to walk in the water. And Peter did it. He came to do miracles. Yeah, he did miracles here, but that's not why he came. The Bible says in Luke chapter 19 verse 10, in a nutshell, he tells us the purpose of Jesus leaving heaven. Coming to earth, living thirty-three and a half years thereabout, giving his life on a cross, dying horrible death, being buried and rise again. The purpose of it all was the Search and rescue. It was a search and rescue mission. To seek and to save sinners. From God's judgment on their sin. That was the purpose of Jesus' coming. That was the whole motivation behind it. That was the whole idea Of Jesus coming to earth to seek and to save, to search and rescue. Now I got looking at this verse. Let's read it together again, would you? Would you read it with me one more time? For the Son of Man is come. To seek and to save that which was lost. That word seek is a key word in this passage When we think of the word seek, we have the idea of not knowing where something is and going and trying to find it. When we were kids, we used to play hide and seek. Anybody ever play that when you're a kid? I still do that with my wife. Here she comes. I better hide. Where do you go? hide and seek. And the idea there is, well I don't know where they are and I have to find them. When the Bible says Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost, that seeking part it didn't mean he didn't know where man was. Now, where those guys get to That's not what it is. The word seek there has this idea to diligently look for But it includes this aspect, and this is what sets it apart, to crave or desire intently. He didn't come to Earth seeking man. He didn't come looking for information about man. He knew where man was. He knew what man was, and I should say is. He knew all that It wasn't a matter of God up in heaven, Jesus, God up in heaven saying, Jesus, I wonder what those men and I wonder what mankind's up to. Go down there and seek and find out what's going on. That wasn't it at all. Our God is all-knowing. The theological term, the big term, if you come to the Bible Institute, you would learn this, is omniscient. All-knowing. So his coming to earth wasn't to find out who's naughty and nice. Wasn't to find out what we're up to. There was an intensity of desire. Behind his seeking man. There's something about every individual, man, woman, and child. There's something about us that God loves intensely. And God desires our attention He desires our affection. He desires our fellowship. He loves us and he wants us to love him. He knows us and he wants us to know him. So when the Bible says he came to seek and to save, behind that word seek is a strong affection He's wanting mankind to know him, to know his love, to know his experience, to know his blessings, to experience his blessings on their life, to have his direction, his will accomplished in their life. John 3. 16 puts it as clear as any verse in the Bible puts it. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save. It has to inquire after, the idea of that word seek is to inquire after with an intense passion, a longing. A strong desire. It's the idea. I was trying to think, well, how do you, how can I picture in my mind this word seek and all that it involves One thing that came to mind was it would be a much like a father of a small child. This falls short of exactly what this means, but uh make help us understand It's like the father of a small child and that small child is lost out in the woods. Now it breaks down in the sense the father doesn't know where the child is, but what I'm trying to illustrate is the longing of the father to restore that child to safety. To security. Do you follow what I'm saying? And the intensity behind that. I've got to find my son. He's in danger. The elements, the animals and whatnot, I don't know where my there I tell you, some of you will know what I'm talking about. There is nothing like the terror of a parent not knowing where their small child is. Did any of you ever have been a mall somewhere and your little child got away and you didn't know where they were? Just maybe in just 10-15 seconds. But the sheer terror of those can anybody anybody get a witness? Sure, you've got to be a parent to understand that. And a child's just like la vida. I don't think they grow out of that until they're about forty. But um But that's the idea here is. God loves mankind, and mankind is in danger. And he has to rescue them. He has to go down there. That idea seeking is an intense desire. Or like a family member, a husband or has a wife and the house is burning and the wife is in the house. And everybody's out and where's wifey? Where's wifey? He's got to find her. She's in danger. I've got to find out. I've got to go get her. That's the intensity behind this. For the Son of Man, God Came to seek and to save that which was lost. Another word here that is key in this passage, for the Son of Man has come to seek, and then the next phrase, and to save. You know, we get out visiting, and this has been true everywhere I've lived, with perhaps the exception of Boulder, Colorado. That's a whole nother planet. But um It was true in when I lived in Philly, outside Philly, right shortly after I got saved, it was true in Chattanooga, it was true in Indianapolis, it's true around here We get out and knock on doors and we try and talk to people about the Lord, about their relationship with Him, about where they spend eternity. And we get this all the time. And in fact, I quit asking this question We used to ask, are you saved? And everybody knows, especially in China, everybody in the saved. Oh yeah, I'm saved. Yeah, I'm saved. Saved. Do you know for sure you're going to heaven and not to hell when you die? Well, I don't know that. And so when you ask people, what do you mean by being saved? Well, I was in a car wreck when I was 14, and they said I was going to die, and God saved me. Now I praise the Lord for that. And when someone tells me that, I always say something like this. Sounds to me like you're not quite where God's ready for you to die yet. Looks like something needs to still happen in your life. God spared your life So what does he mean when he says the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost? It's a very simple answer. Now the word seek there, there was some kind of uh meanings there that aren't real clear, and you kind of bring them out and gives you an idea of what he means by the word seek with the especially with the emotion and the intensity, the concern there behind that word. But the word save is very basic. The word save simply means this, to rescue from danger. The Son of Man passionately came to earth with an intense love and a gopy love, a love that only God can exhibit. That a love that finds its source in God, I should say, and came down to earth to seek man because he loves him intensely. He's very concerned for man. What is he seeking him for? To rescue him from danger. What danger is man in? Nuclear war. We're in danger of global warming. I don't know about you. I could use some global warming, huh? I mean I just run the car all day and launch everything up. Trying to not really. Well, I'll get letters over that one To rescue man from danger, what is the danger that God is so intensely concerned about rescuing man from? Well, the generic definition of the word save is to rescue from danger. And that fits a hundred different contexts. The biblical sense, the definition in a biblical sense is this, and this is what it is here in this context. To deliver from God's judgment on sin. That is the danger that man faces. The judgment of God on man's sin. If you would, keep your place here. We'll refer back to this, but turn with me to the Romans, the book of Romans. You're in John, just go Acts Romans. Just go back two books. And Romans chapter 6. We're going to look at a couple verses here in the next few minutes. Romans chapter 6, and look with me, if you would, at verse number 23. Now, many of us are very familiar with this passage. If you've been around here very long, you're familiar with it. But notice what Romans chapter 6 says. In verse 23 says, and this ties in with Luke 19. 10. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save, rescue from the judgment of God's judgment on man's sin. Look at Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is what? What are wages? Payment is a good way to put it. The wages is your boss's Payment for your work, right? It's what he owes you for what you've done, the actions you've taken, the time you put in. the skills and talents you've brought to that business, how you've benefited that business, and he reimburses you, he pays you, he owes you those wages. So the wages of our sin. Now, let's break this down. I try and be as simple as I can. What is sin? Doing bad stuff. That's true. Sin is any violation of God's law. Sin is to violate God's law. God has given us, in a very condensed form, Ten Commandments. Now there's a whole lot more in the Bible than just those stand, but they pretty much encompass God's holiness, their expression of God's holiness. Sin is whenever I break one of God's commands. And in so doing, I am violating the holiness of my Creator, my God. And so it's more than just God saying, don't do that, you did it! No, it's part of God's very being. I am violating So sin is when I disobey God's command. Now we could take a series, in fact, we did last year, we went a series of messages through the Ten Commandments. You could do a series on each command But sin is breaking God's command. So the wages of sin, when I break one of God's commands, Now, don't even come to me and try and tell me you've never broken one of God's commands. That doesn't fly. Every person that's ever said that to me could not even quote to me what the Ten Commandments were And yet they want me to believe they've never broken them. There's not a person walk this earth apart from the Lord Jesus Christ that has not broken God's commandments. Not one. Uh let's let y you don't believe me? Let's uh how many folks here ever told uh everybody here knows this, I do it all the time, but how many folks here ever told a lie? In your life. In your entire life. Some of y'all are lying right now. Our church is really good. They laugh at stuff even though I've heard it a hundred times, but they know I laugh. to hear them laugh, so they do it. So we've all lied. Some of us drape now. How many folks in your life have lied maybe five times? In your entire life, you've lied five times. Some of y'all lied twice right here in the last few minutes. Ten times? A hundred times? A thousand? Hey, we've sinned. We won't even talk about dishonoring our parents. We won't talk about thou shalt not steal. We won't talk about loving God with all our heart, soul, and mind. You know, I don't think I've never met anybody that has loved God with all their heart, with all their soul, with all their mind, every minute they've been alive. In fact, the matter is, we love ourselves far more than we love God the majority of the time. So my point is this: the wages of sin. Disobeying God, which we've all done, the wages of that, what is owed, because we've done that, the wages of sin is death. Now, I used to view that as that's what God owes me. Because I've sinned his own. Actually, what it is, that's what I owe to God. That's the penalty. Now don't raise your hand. I'm tempted to have you raise your hand, but I wonder how many of us how many of us have ever got a ticket for speeding. What I should do is ask how many have never. I bet you it would be the only people that don't drive. Sarah's lying. But um He've never gotten a ticket. Give her time, folks. Just give her time. Um So uh The ticket $100 for speeding. You're driving on Broadford Road 50 miles an hour. Speed limits 25. Got a ticket for $100 or whatever. You don't go down to the judge and say, all right, judge, you owe me a hundred bucks. The wages for speeding is a hundred dollars. It's not what the judge owes me, it's what what What I owe the judge. Hey, the wages of sin, me breaking God's law, it's not God owing me anything. I owe God my death. That's the penalty for my sin is death. Now, well we're all gonna die. That's not talking about physical death, although that's included in the overall equation. The context of Romans 6. 23 is talking about my spirit-soul death. We say this all the time. We've got to keep this in our mind. You and I are not a body. We don't have a soul. We are a soul and we have a body. Do you ever notice when you talk to someone, you look them in the eyes? Why is that? Because that body is not the person. It's what's inside that body that's the person. Do you ever notice when your child's guilty or somebody's guilty, you notice they don't look you in the eye? Look me in the eye. You know, looking everywhere else. You know what they're trying to do? They're trying to hide. They're hiding inside there, and they don't want you to see That's because you and I do not have a body. We do not have a soul. That's what we are a soul, and we indwell inside this body And the eyes are the windows to the soul. We look through the eyes of the body, and that's where the soul is. So when the Bible says the wages of sin is death, it's not talking about me dying physically. It's talking about me dying as a person. Spiritually. Now the question comes to this. Is death ceasing to exist? Is that what death means, to cease to exist? No. Nowhere in the Bible is that true. Nowhere is that even remotely suggested. To die doesn't mean to cease to exist. Even our bodies. When our bodies die, do they cease to exist? No, they just change form. Right? They turn dust to dust. Become soil. And so our soul, when our soul dies, the wages of sin is death. Spiritual, that's soul death, it doesn't mean my soul that I cease to exist, but it simply means this. James sheds light on this, the book of James, it means to be separated from And so the wages of my sin, I disobey God, I violate God's holiness by disobeying him one way or another. I'm a sinner, I'm guilty. The wages of that sin is me, what I am, my soul. Is separated from God. Now that's true while on alive in this body. If a person is unsaved, Ephesians chapter 2 tells us they are without God. And without hope in the world, they're separated from God. They can pray, they can be religious, they can have religious feelings, they can learn the Bible, but they don't have God They're on their own. They can be a church member and not have God. They can go through all the motions. They can say the right words But if the wages of their sin is death, to be separated from God. And to die in that condition For my body to die and I'm in that condition of being separated from God, I am separated from God for all eternity. In a horrible place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. No escape, no end, no changes. So God loves mankind. Mankind is in danger. Man from Adam and Eve has sinned against God. And on down the generations to today, 2011, we have violated God's holiness. We have disobeyed His clear commands. We are sinners. We are guilty. And what we owe God for our sin is our death. And we're separated from it. That's the consequence of our sin. And God says, I've got to rescue man. Search and rescue. I'm going to send my son down. The Bible tells us before the foundations of the world, God had it planned out how He was going to rescue man from His horrible condition he's in, the danger. So the word save in the biblical sense is to deliver from God's judgment on our sin. We won't take the time. You could jot down Revelation chapter 20, verse 11 through 15. Tells us that the end of the earth, as we understand it, the Bible gives us a window into the future. And God says there's an event that takes place called the Great White Throne. Judgment. At that judgment, the Bible says the books are opened. And he says that man with the unsaved were judged out of those books, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. God does not want anyone to die in their sins and end up in the lake of fire. It's not why he created man. It's not the purpose of our existence. God loves us. God, our Creator, the one that is all-knowing, all-powerful, ever-present, here now He loves us. And he intensely desires to rescue us. From dying in our sins and being separated from God. Seek and to save. Now I want to suggest to you not only Did Jesus Christ come to earth to save us from the ultimate judgment of our sin, hell, and lake of fire for eternity? Not only did he seek to save us from that, but he came to save us from our sins, destruction of our lives even now. While we're here in this body on this earth 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if any man be in Christ, if he be rescued, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things have become new. I've been studying the gospel the last couple weeks, just going back over what the Bible says about it. You know what I found the Bible says repeatedly I can't find anywhere where it says these words. Now it's true, but it doesn't say these words, that Jesus died on the cross to save us from hell. It doesn't say that anywhere in the Bible. It says he died on the cross to save us from our sins. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, was crucified, was buried, and rose again for our sins, for our sins, for our sins. Jesus Christ came to seek and to save, not just from judgment in hell. So, uh praise the Lord, I'm not going to hell when I die. Hey, if Jesus has saved you, you're not going to hell when you die. But he came to save us from our sins. I'm afraid we've got a mentality in Christianity, even among our independent fundamental Baptists, this idea, as long as I'm saved, I'm not going to hell, well then it doesn't matter how I live. That is not true. Jesus came not just to save us from hell, but he came to save us from cussing and lying and drinking and fornication, adultery, and blasphemy. He came to save us from all of that. Now we are never we are not ultimately saved from the presence of sin in our lives until the rapture we're out of here. We have new bodies. But the salvation he gives us is the ability to have victory over those things Let me give you my testimony. I've done it many times. But when I trusted Christ, May 7, 1979, that night when I knelt by my bed and called out to God, Have mercy and invite Lord Jesus to come in my life and save my soul The last thing in my mind was saving me from going to hell. I just turned 19. The last thing I planned on doing was dying. I wasn't thinking about heaven or hell. You know what I was concerned about? I was concerned about what sin was doing to my life. It's destroying me. I can tell you, I would look in the I hated to look in the mirror. I would look in the mirror and I hated the person I was becoming. I hated it. I do not want to be this kind of person. I do not want to live this. This is not right. My life and the things of my life are not good. I found the only way to be saved from the sins in my life was Jesus Christ. Because I tried going to church, I tried changing lifestyles, I tried changing, I tried changing music I know if I listened to I mean it was just messed up music I thought if I listen to more mellow music and some nice stuff and um we had uh uh some of y'all be able to relate to this we had eight track tapes I don't know why they're funny, but everybody laughs when you say that. That was back around the time that uh George or um Benjamin Franklin invented electricity He had it plugged into an eight-track player and um So I bought these more nice musics, you know, like Ann Murray. Put your hand And uh I thought, well I'll listen to that stuff and that that'll straighten my life up. No joke. I stuck that eight-track in my m my car. You know what the very first thing happened It ate that tape. Shh. Tape gone everywhere. I hate to admit it. I pulled out and threw it out the window. I said, that ain't that ain't the answer. You know what the answer was? I needed someone to save me I couldn't save myself. Search and rescue. Jesus Christ, God, looked down to earth, they didn't really look down to earth, but they they they love man And man had sinned. And we're the God, because he's holy, his judgment was upon man And God and Jesus said, we love man. We don't want them to be destroyed. We don't want them to live empty, meaningless, purposeless lives. We don't want them to be destroyed. We want them to have a good life with the blessings of God and the peace of God and of God. We don't want him to go to hell. We love man. We created him. We want him to know us and in fellowship with us. We want to have a relationship with him. We don't want him to go to hell and burn for eternity. So Jesus came to save man, to rescue man from God's judgment on sin and the destructiveness of sin. That tells me that people who are lost. Well look what he there in Luke 19, 10. He says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Now that word lost this scenario, and I'm not going to take time in this message to deal with it, but it's simply talking about people who are still under their sin, who are separated from God, who are still under the judgment of God Haven't been saved from God's judgment on their sin and the power of sin in their life. And he came to those who are lost. This verse tells me that the lost are the purpose of Christ's coming. It is the lost people that Jesus came down and went through the incarnation, became flesh. It wasn't for righteous people. Man, there's some people down there that are so good. I'm going to go down there for them. No, that's not why he came. He came for the laws. He doesn't call the righteous to repent. He calls the sinners to repent. Why in the world would Jesus Christ, right hand of the Father, the glory of God, the adoration of gazillions of angels? Why would he leave that and come down and be born in a manger? Have to have diapers changed and nurse and be carried around. Why wouldn't the Son of God do that? Because of lost people. Not because people who are righteous, but lost people. Why would Jesus be rejected of man? Why would he come to the Jews, his own people, and have them flat out publicly blantly reject him. I don't know about you. I don't like rejection. I like to be accepted I don't want people to I want to be friendly. That's giving out tracts and so on. I try to be as friendly as I can to try and lose it use a little humor if I can. I want people to accept me God wanted his people to accept him, to understand who he was and what he was there for, what their need was. And they flat out rejected him. We'll not have this man rule over us. Crucify him! Crucify him! Why would he do that? Well, because there were some people that are so righteous and he just went. No, no, no. He came to seek and to say that which was lost. It's the unsaved who were the motivation behind it, the purpose behind it. Why would he be crucified? Man, we could take a year and talk about the horrors of crucifixion, not just the physical, but the spiritual aspect of it. Take your Bible, if you would, turn with me to Matthew chapter 18, please. Matthew chapter eighteen. And I'd like you to notice verse twelve. Matthew 18, 12. Now think about the context, what I've been talking about. And pay attention to this passage. Look what it says. Well, look at verse 11. How about this? For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. Here's Matthew's statement of what Luke 19 is. Now look, he he He explains what he means here. Look at verse 11, verse 12. How think ye, if a man have a hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, is lost, is separated. Doth not he leave the ninety and nine and goeth into the mountains and seeketh that which is gone astray? And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more than the sheep. He rejoices more of that sheep than of the ninety-and-nine which were not astray. Even so, it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish. Perish, die, and go to hell. What is that shepherd doing out in the mountains? There's a lost sheep. Well you got 90 and 9 back here, yeah, but he loves that one He left his home because of the lost sheep. He gave up the attention and affection of his wife and kids, family. For the sheep that was lost. He gave up the comfortable bed and the warm fire. For the sheep that was lost. It was the lost that drew him out of his home into the world of danger, cold, discomfort. Because of the laws. That is what Jesus did. He came to earth not because we're so righteous and we're so great and we got really cool buildings and Neat stuff. Man, there's nothing on earth going to compare to what Jesus has in heaven. What are you doing down here, Jesus? Why would you leave heaven? Why would you be tickling the form of a man? Good grief. Because of the lost. Because of people who are separated from God, who are still under the judgment of God, whose lives are being destroyed by sin, who are facing an eternity in hell and a lake of fire. That's why I came. Search and rescue. Search and rescue It's interesting if you study your Bible carefully. Nowhere in Scripture are there degrees of lostness. Sometimes. We knock on doors and we'll say, Here I'm I'm Barrett Sleatherman from Mount Lake in the Bent Bad Church or our church folk do this and um we're we're out and uh we uh want to invite you to come to our church. We got services going on. I'd like to leave it with you. Can we leave an invitation? Sure Thank you. That's nice. Um uh we always tell folks going to church is important, but more important than that, it's known for sure that our sins are forgiven. When we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. Do you ever give that any thought? Oh yeah, some Sometimes. Um uh do you know for sure that when you d do you ever give that any thought? Yeah, I think about that a lot. Uh do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven, not to hell? Uh well, uh no, I can't say I know For sure. Well, I'd like to take a Bible. I'd like to show you from the Bible. Just take a few moments how you can know for sure that Jesus has forgiven you. Come in your life, and that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. How to be saved. You know what they'll say sometimes Well I appreciate that, but see that house over there? That guy really needs it. Go talk to him. I'm telling you, that guy really needs it. Fact of the matter is nobody really needs it more than anybody else. There aren't degrees of lostness That guy's really lost. Hey, the wino drunkard crack addict is no more lost than the Mare that has never touched a cigarette if they're without Christ. The church member that's without Christ is no more lost than the perverted Hollywood rock and roll sicko. There aren't degrees of lostness So Jesus came to seek and to say, you say, preacher, you know, I've never trusted Christ, and I know I've broken God's law, but I'm not that bad I'm not as bad as someone else. Listen, if you keep comparing yourself to someone else, can I be very frank with you, you're gonna die and go to hell. Because you're gonna find so you're always gonna find someone that's worse than you The fact is, one violation makes us lost. Jesus loves us. He doesn't want our lives to be destroyed. He doesn't want people to die and go to hell. He came to rescue mankind from that. There aren't degrees. Now I will say this, there are degrees of judgment in hell Matthew 11 tells us that there, once a person dies and goes to hell, there are degrees of judgment. Now, lest you think, well, I've not been that bad, therefore, I uh I'll just have the nice part of hell. There is no nice part of hell. The quote-unquote nicest part of hell is 10 million times worse than your most horrible nightmare. And it never ends. In fact, you say, well, who is it that goes to the worst parts of hell? The deepest hell The hottest hell. Who is it that goes there? I know who. I know who. Hitler. I know who. Um uh My mind went black. What's the guy in I Iran or Iraq that killed? Saddam Hussein. Ah, Saddam Hussein's in hell. He's in the worst part. If I understand my Bible right, if I studied my Bible correctly. The people that suffer the worst part of hell are the ones that had the most opportunities to be saved and turned it down. Every time Jesus talks about degrees of judgment in hell, it is always with those that had the most information about salvation and turned it down. You know what that suggests? That it's possible for a person who grew up in a Christian home, went to church, heard preaching, had opportunity after opportunity. Opportunity after opportunity to be saved, turned it down, turned it down, turned it down. It's possible for that person to be in a worse predicament of hell than some of what we consider to be a horrible person. So there are not degrees of lostness. Lost is lost is lost. Saved is saved is saved. There are degrees of judgment in hell. There are not degrees of lostness. Regardless of how we may measure up to other folks, in God's eyes, a sinner is a sinner. And God desperately wants sinners to be saved from sin. God desperately wants sinners to be delivered from sin and its judgment. The Lord is not looking for righteous folks. When Jesus was here on earth, he had folks all around him who considered themselves righteous Remember the two men went up to the temple to pray? One was a Pharisee. He said, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like this guy. I tithe of all that I have. I fast. And he goes down the list of things of how wonderful he is. The other guy was a publican. He said, Lord, have mercy on me. He smote his breast, God just have mercy on me, a sinner. said. That publican went down rescued from his sins. He went down justified. He went down saved. That self-righteous Pharisee thought he was so good. He's still under his sin. He's still lost under the judgment of God. Jesus had people all around him who thought they were righteous. Surely we'll make it to heaven. Even Peter and them had that mentality for a period of time. You know what Jesus called him? You hypocrites. Woe unto you hypocrites! You think you're righteous? You think you're so much better? You can serve. Jesus didn't come for the right. In reality, there are none. That's a little bit of the mentality. Would you agree with me? That's a little bit of the mentality that says, well, when we get to heaven, God's going to weigh my good works. and my bad works, and I think I'll make it to heaven. I got enough good works to outweigh my bad works. You know what they're saying? I deserve it. I've been good enough. It's what the Pharisees said. I don't do those things and these things. I'm not like him. I've got more good things in the scale than bad things. Jesus says, woe unto you that think that way. You're doomed. You're deceiving yourself. You're on a fast track to a hot hell. Don't even think that way. He came not to call the righteous, but sinners He doesn't say in Luke 19, 10, that he came to make the law sable. He doesn't say he came to help man save himself, to help man get saved. He came to save. He does it. He's the Savior. How does he save the lost? Well, 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says that he took upon him for he was made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. How does he save us? He takes the punishment of our sin that we deserve, the wrath and judgment of God on our sin, and the Bible says he took that upon himself. That's how he saves us. So to speak, he stood in front of the gun for us. He took our bullet. That's how he saves us. Say, when and how did he do that? On the old rugged cross 2,000 years ago. The darkness of hell, the darkness of the judgment of God came down upon earth, and in that darkness Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? You know what God was doing was pouring out his judgment on Jesus Christ for your sins and my sins. Every word we ever said we ought not to say, every Every scene we've ever viewed, we ought not to view, everything we've ever listened to, we ought not to listen to. All the things we should have done that we did not do was poured out, God's judgment was poured out on Jesus Christ as our substitute. That's how he saves. By taking our sin and our judgment on himself. You say, therefore, because Jesus died on the cross and died for the sins of all mankind, therefore everybody saved no. He leaves that up to us. He doesn't coerce us to be saved. He offers it. I paid for your sins. I suffered hell for you. I did it all for you. Now you can either accept it or reject it. You can take what I've done, or you can walk away from it. Romans ten nine and ten says, for he that can uh help me, for the he that believeth on him For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be not that's verse 13. Help me out here, the devil's messing me up. If we confess our sins, no. Let's turn there. Romans 10, 9 and 10. I have this memorized since I was 10. See how the devil is? Now everybody's debating how how that verse goes. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, how does he save us from our sins? He takes our sins upon him. He died in our place. And he leaves it up to us. We can accept it or reject it. How do I accept it? How do I receive what he's done and make it mine? If we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus Christ. and believe in our heart that God hath raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. If you'll say, yes, God, I'm a sinner, I'm guilty, I'm not righteous, I don't deserve heaven. I believe you died for me, I believe you took my judgment on yourself, I believe that In my heart, I'm trusting and depending and relying on you to forgive me and save me from what sin is doing to my life, save me from going to hell someday. I believe that, and God says, You're saved. I've saved you from hell. It is an act of faith. Ephesians 2. 89. For by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourself, it's a gift of God. Not of works. Are you going to go That's how we're saved. We give out little gospel tracts. I got a phone call, as I said, this morning from Lady, thank you for that track. You know what it is? It's trying to get people not uh listen, we would love for everyone to join our church. Amen? I would love for every member, every person who lives in Garrett County to be a member to come and join our church But that that's not the goal. The goal is to get people get saved. He didn't come to Jesus, the Son of Man has come to seek and to populate the church. It came to save Rescue us from I hesitate to use this, but um I have here an obituary. Young man. Many of you know him. Some of you, I believe, are akin to him. Stuart worked with him all day Thursday. He's going home from work. As I understand it, Stuart talked to him about the Lord somewhat Thursday. He's going home from work Thursday afternoon riding a motorcycle. Motorcycle clipped the side of the car he was passing, rolled, I believe, if I understand it correctly, he was pronounced dead at the scene. Or at the hospital shortly after. Now I don't know anything about this young man. I d uh uh uh in fact I got word uh third hand that he knows knew the Lord as Savior. I certainly pray and I trust that's true. But the purpose of me sharing this this morning is to bring home the reality of the fact that this matter of being saved is So urgent. So urgent. You think Jesus Christ would leave heaven and go through all of that for something that isn't important. And you think about the way we as mankind treat this matter of being saved as so insignificant, as so trifle, when it costs Jesus Everything. And it's a matter of urgency. Just like you and I crawled out of bed this morning, this young man crawled out of bed Thursday morning. You and I had no thought today that we're going to end up in eternity today. I guarantee you he had no thought that either. And we could give a thousand illustrations over the years of other people that I'm not picking on him, I'm saying this is reality. You follow what I'm trying to say? Urgency Urgency. Now, those of us who are saved, those of us who have trusted Christ, we have a responsibility to join in with the work of Christ. He says, as the Father has sent me, even so send I you Hey, those of you that are already saved, us that are already saved, we have a responsibility to get this message to others. God works through us. You're here this morning and you don't have that settled, you don't have the assurance, I'm telling you, this is absolutely urgent. Search and read. Father in heaven, bless our time now. Lord, I believe this message, this truth, and this passage grips our hearts. Those of us that know you as Savior relate very intimately with the truth given here. And I pray that we would live our lives in light of the fact that you love us dearly. And that you have a plan and purpose for our lives. That you want us free and delivered from sin and its destruction, disobedience, self. I pray that those of us that know you as Savior have that matter settled, that we would live that way, and that we would share that wonderful message with others every way we possibly can. Lord, for those who are here with us this morning that do not have that matter settled, perhaps some tuning in through the internet, listening by CD a later time. I pray, Father, that today would be the day of salvation. That they would believe on Christ today, receive Christ as their personal Savior, and have this matter settled. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many