Take your Bible, if you would. Psalm 31. And yes, I do preach other places than the Psalms, but you might question that today. Psalm 31 And I want you to notice in verse 14, Psalm 31 and verse 14, David is speaking under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and he says. But I trusted in thee, O Lord. I said, Thou art my God. My times are in thy hand. Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies and from them that persecute me Make thy face to shine upon thy servant. Save me for thy mercy's sake. Would you pray with me? Father, we're grateful for this morning that you've given us and this opportunity to be together. Thank you for these who have gathered today. Lord, I know why they're here. I know that they love you. They love their church. They love one another. Lord, every heart needs something from your word this morning. And I pray that you would meet that need. There are some here that are unsaved. And I pray that you would speak into their hearts about the greatest need they have in their life. It is to be saved. I pray that you would convince them of their sin, but also would you please convince them that you love them, that you want to be a savior to them. Lord, I pray for believers that you would encourage. But I also pray that you would challenge, convict, where we need to be convicted about some things. Would you speak to us and help us to make decisions that will honor you? So, Holy Spirit, we give you these moments and we ask you to work. We pray it for Jesus' sake. Amen. I ask this question. It's one of the things that I do when I study my Bible. I try to ask questions like: why did David say that there? And my question is verse 14, why does he draw our attention to this fact? But I trusted in thee, O Lord. Why is David saying, I trusted in God in this circumstance? Well, I think the answer can be found if we go back up to verse 9. Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble The word trouble is an interesting word. It's not just a passing little difficulty. David is in real difficult circumstances. He defines them. Look at what he says. He said My eye is consumed with grief. He said, For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing. He said, my strength is failing. I mean, it is not just a little deal. It is a very big moment of difficulty in David's life, and he's calling out to the Lord. It is probable, though we can't know for sure, it's probable that David is writing this psalm during or at a time when he's looking back on Absalom's rebellion. It'd be hard to find a much lower point in his life than that time that a second time a son rebelled against him. tried to kill him, tried to uh kill many of his family members to take the throne in David's place. David has escaped down over the brook Hedron taken his wives, his children, the ones that were there that he could get out. Uh he is not prepared for it. He doesn't have his army around him. He has scant supplies, and it's a very, very difficult moment in his life. And he's saying, Lord, I'm in trouble And as bad as the trouble is, David's not the only one who has seen problems. One of the realities of our lives in this world is that we too experience seasons of stress. I don't know if you've noticed it, but our world is a mess right now. There is social unrest. I'm uh not a young man. I've lived a number of years and And I'm going to be frank with you, I've never seen our nation quite where it's at right now. I've never seen the level of disunity. I've never seen the amount of social unrest We face great economic uncertainties. We have wars and rumors of wars all around us. Am I encouraging you yet? I'm not trying to discourage you, but I am telling you that it's a difficult moment, and here's the truth. All life is lived in and out of seasons of distress. We're not the first ones who have ever faced difficult things. I doubt that any of us have faced things like David faced. He had to kill a bear. I don't know if he killed it with his bare hands, but he killed the bear. He killed the lion as he stood defending his flock. As a young king, Saul was absolutely out of jealousy, determined to kill him, tried many times to snuff out his life. When he became king, he had a difficult kingdom to manage. I don't think there was ever a day when there was not some kind of drama. some of it his own doing and fault, but there was just always something that David had to manage. He was surrounded by wars and fighting. I'm just saying that life is not A constant uh wonderful rose garden kind of thing. It's a Can be a difficult moment in and out of season. Here's what I love about what he said in verse 50 He said, My times, as tumultuous as they are, notice this, are in thy hand. That's what I want to speak to you for a few moments about this morning. Is that as tumultuous as our times are They are lived in God's hand. Notice with me. First of all, my times. David's life and our lives are marked by changes. They're marked by instability. That word that David uses for times Is a word that indicates seasons or changeableness. I'll talk more about that specific word in just a moment. But here's what I want us to understand God created this world and our lives in this world to be lived in seasons. What do I mean by that? Well, think with me I don't know about you. Yes, I do. I do know about me. I was born as an infant, were you? I I don't remember it, but they tell me my mom was there, and the doctor was there, and they tell me I was a beautiful baby. Oh man, I'm so thankful for parents that loved me and parents that got up at the middle of the night to meet my needs and cared for me in those years of infancy when nobody could care for me They loved me and cared for me. But you know what? That season of infancy passed and I became a toddler. I was a precious toddler. If you look up terrible twos, you'll find my name is the definition for terrible twos. And I'm sure my mother was so happy. when that season of toddler changed in my life. And I moved from toddler to junior. And I went off to kindergarten in first grade and second grade and third grade. And Those were wonderful years in my life, and I'm so glad for all that I learned and what I became and did and so on. But you know what? Those years of being a junior, they turned over, and I became A teenager. And those were wonderful years when I informed the world of everything I knew and they did not know. I helped my parents so much in those years They needed me to teach them so much about life. And once again, they were glad when I was no longer a teenager. I became a young adult and I saw her for the first time and it was love at first sight for me, not so for her. I had to work at it. But she finally married me, and then there was a season of being young parents, and one came and two came and three came. And by the way, that's when we got saved as young married adults. That was a good season. But that season passed. And we became empty nesters. And we found out that ain't so bad either. And then that season passed, and we became senior citizens almost back to infancy. What are you saying, preacher? I'm telling you, I'm saying it's always moving. It's always changing. It never stays the same. It's always different tomorrow and and it's always something we'd like to hold on to, but it keeps moving and keeps moving and keeps moving. I remember As a pastor, one of my favorite things to do, preacher, was and we had lots of young couples in our church, and and they would have babies, and I loved to go to the hospital where a newborn has just come into the world, and especially if it's a couple's first child, they are filled with hope and excitement. They're exhausted, but man, it's just a great moment. And I remember going into that room and I was talking to the young man, I think it was a young Marine couple, and uh he and I were talking about important things, no no doubt football or something. But but over sitting in the rocking chair And she could care less if I was there. I don't I'm sure she cared he was there. But but here is this little new mom. And they've got a little blue beanie over this baby's head and wrapped in a blue blanket. And she is sitting in that rocking chair, and I can't quite quote her, but this is the essence of what she said. I hear her talking to her baby For the first time, it's out of her womb and in her arms. And she says, I just always want you to be my baby. I just always want to have this moment with you. And boy, I'll tell you the fundamental Baptist preacher kind of welled up inside me. And I was going to turn, I was going to say, well, sister, that baby's not always going to be with you. That baby's going to grow up and find somebody they love more than you, and they're going to leave you something. Now I fought the urge. I didn't do it, okay? But that's true, isn't it? Because it's always moving. It's always changing. Seems like we can never hold on to those moments that we want. And sometimes those moments that are so difficult come and they seem to stay so long. Because life is always moving. It was the same in David's life. There was one day he's sitting on a hillside tending his sheep, playing his harp writing songs that honor the Lord. In the next moment he's called to the house, and man, the prophet and the judge Samuel is there And David, a young boy, is anointed to be king. I'm thinking his head is spinning. He doesn't even understand what it's all about. One moment he's a hero with his foot on Goliath's chest. The next moment he's dodging a spear from Saul. One moment he's a king. Just as quickly he's out in the Judean wilderness, his son rebelling against him. We simply don't know what the next day holds. But thank God. In this ever-changing life, it's held in the hands of God My times, as wild as they are, as changing as they are, are lived in God's hands. Think about that with me for a moment. David's times may have been unstable and changing, but David's God was stable and never changing. He uses words in this psalm like rock and fortress and strong house of defense. Folks, as saved people, that's what we have in the Lord. I know there's a war going on. I know the stock market is down. I know that gas is up. I know that people are crazy To include me at times. But God, God is stable God never changes. One of the attributes that we often don't think about as much as we should We think about the O's. We think that God is omniscient or He knows everything. We think about God is omnipotent. God can do anything he wants. We think about that he is omnipresent. He is everywhere with us, everywhere we are. One of the ones we don't often think about is that God is immutable. God never changes. He's always the same. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And all through the seasons of our lives, though they are wild and crazy, God never changes. Let me add a couple of thoughts to that. God is sovereign. Sometimes we as fundamental Baptists are a little bit fearful of that word. But we don't have to be fearful of that word. God is a sovereign God. The word that David uses for times, I said a moment ago, is the same word that Daniel uses when he makes this statement. Listen to it. It's in Daniel chapter 2 and verse 20 and 21, but don't turn there. Just listen. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. And he changeth the times and the seasons. He removeth kings and setteth up kings. He giveth wisdom unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding. A little later wa uh Solomon or earlier Solomon said this To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. What are those verses telling us That when we think of that word times, when we think of how life moves and how things are always changing, understand this. They are not changing by chance. They are not chaotic and out of control. Our God is not sitting up in heaven biting his fingernails saying I wonder if they're going to get the Strait of Hormuz open. God is not wondering. I wonder who's going to get elected in the midterms. God is not up there saying, is the stock market going to come back up? God knows. And it is God who is moving it, not men. Men think that they move the world. Men think that they make history. It is his story and beyond our understanding God, a sovereign God, moves things to his will and his end. And by the way, I am just a little fleck of dust in time, but God knows where he's moving me. Because that's the next thought of this. Not only is God sovereign, God is personal. Aren't you glad that David said, Thou art my God? God is not some unknowable power. God is not the force. God is God. God is a God who knows who you are. God is a God that knows where you are. God is a God that knows what you're going through. God is a God who knows where He's taking you. And oh by the way, God knows how to get you there. And so in this universe that is so ever changing and in this chaotic place where Things change overnight and and where this leader is that and that country is this and that circumstance seems so out of control. God is moving it all And God is taking it exactly where he wants it to go. And oh, by the way, little Mike Edwards is moving along in that current, but God knows where he's at. And God knows exactly what he needs. And by the way, God loves this little flack of dust, and God loves you. And God's thoughts and intentions for you, as evil as this world is, and as swirling in chaos as it is, God's intentions towards you and I is good. And we'll see it to be such. Well, you say, preacher, if that's how it is, if God is sovereign And he is so big that he moves the entire universe. He sets kings up. He takes kings down. He changes seasons. He brings this new season in. And God knows where I'm going. And God is taking me where he wants to take me. Then I have no responsibility but to just drift along in the cart. Let me go. No, no, no, no, no. We go back to the beginning of the message. And that's why David said, But I trusted in thee. Yes, God is sovereign. Yes, God does change the times and seasons. Yes, God has a purpose in every one of them. And by the way, can make them beautiful. But I also have a responsibility that wherever I am in that changeable season, I am trusting the Lord. You see, what happens to Mike Edwards is in the comfortable seasons, I trust the Lord. But in the difficult seasons, sometimes I question the Lord. I doubt the Lord. I've even been known to argue with the Lord David says, learn to trust the Lord. What is it to trust the Lord? When I trust God in a difficult season, it doesn't always mean or normally even mean that He's going to remove the source of stress. What it does mean is that he's going to give me the grace and the strength to handle that time, that season. Now he can remove it. I try to compare it to this. There was a time when the disciples, by the command of the Lord, had gotten into the boat. And they're sailing across the Sea of Galilee. And of course, it's known for violent, sudden storms. And Jesus is asleep in the hinder part of the ship. And the disciples are, oh my goodness, man, they're rowing and toiling and they are scared. And they they wake Jesus up and like I would sometimes they would say, Hey, don't you even care if we perish? Carest thou not that we perish? What a dumb question. Answer? Of course he does. Of course he cares where you are. Of course he cares you're fearful. Of course he cares about your circumstance. Don't ever question that. And in that moment, you know what Jesus did? A wonderful thing. He calmed the storm. And the disciples, oh, we're safe again. You were always safe. You were always secure. It's just you're not rocking in the boat now. Oh, by the way, sometimes God doesn't quiet the storm. Go ask the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul found himself in Euryclidon, a vicious storm on the Mediterranean Sea, and he goes in the belly of that ship and prays and prays and fasts and praise. I don't think Paul was a seaman, and I think he probably spent some substantial time at the rail tossing up whatever he had eaten eight days ago But he's begging God, please, will you take the storm away? God doesn't take the storm away. What God says to him is: hey, by the way, I'm not taking the storm away, and the ship's going down. But there's not going to anybody lose their life. And at the exact moment when it was necessary, God brought a board by so that Paul could latch onto the board and get to the shore And when he got to the shore, he was cold, and so he lit a fire. And you know what happened at the fire, don't you? A snake came out and bit him on the arm, and they all waited for him to blow up and die. But he didn't die, because God is God. And God knows where we are, and God knows when the wind is blowing, and God knows when the waves are high, and sometimes He will comb them, and it'll be great, but sometimes He'll let us go through them. But his hand is always on us. We're always in his hand. He always knows when to bring the board by. He always knows when the snake's there. And our job is to trust him. To trust him. Say, Lord, in this horrible circumstance, I'm not going to argue with you. I'm not going to get bitter because I'm going through it. I'm going to trust that you know exactly where I'm at. and exactly what is best for me and Lord, what a testimony I'm going to have when I shake that snake off into the fire. Because I'm going to trust you. Two things and I'm done. My conclusions are long, by the way. The best time to prepare for a difficult season is before it hits. As believers, sometimes in the good seasons, we get kind of independent of the Lord. And when everything is sailing right, and the winds are not high and the waves aren't too bad, and everything seems to be manageable and good, we can think we've got this. And it's never that we forget the Lord. It's never that we stop loving the Lord. It's that we no longer desperately need the Lord. Sometimes we can pull back. Can I suggest to you that every day Even when the sun is shining and even when it isn't snowing in Garrett County and everything is beautiful, we still desperately need the Lord. Train yourself to desperately need the Lord in the sunshine days as much as in the cloudy days. But I'd say to those who are here, and there are some here, no doubt, that don't know Christ as their Savior, you need Jesus as your Savior more than anything in your life. Prepare now. You say, well I I I came because I need a job. I I'm here because the economy's so bad. I'm I'm here because there's trouble in my home. I'm here because there's something. Hey, your greatest need is not a job. Your greatest need is not an economy. Your greatest need is not a house payment. Your greatest need is Jesus Christ. Because there's a season coming to your existence that He is the only answer to. I talked about the seasons of my life. I don't want to bore you, but I was an infant. I was a toddler. I was a junior. I was a teenager. I was a young adult. I was a young married man. I was a young dad. We became empty nesters. I am a senior citizen. I'm going to die. Did you realize that the seasons of our life that started when we were conceived in our mother's womb end up with us returning to dust? I'm not trying to be morbid. I'm just telling you, you couldn't change any of the other seasons, and you can't change that one. And after I die, you know what's going to happen to me? Stand before God. I can't change that. I can't stop that. I can't wish that away No more than I could wish I wasn't a teenager. No more than I could wish that I wasn't a senior citizen. It happens. It comes. And I'm dying and going to die. And I'm going to stand before the Lord. Nothing. Nothing, nothing can stop it. But there is one thing that can make it beautiful. And that is to take Jesus as my Savior. For me, I was twenty-three years old. I was a young father, a married man. We were struggling to get by. My dad got saved at 63 years old. A soul winner came by the door, knocked on the door. He let them in on a Saturday afternoon, and they led my 63-year-old dad to Christ. It changed the whole trajectory of our family. My mom got saved. My brother and his wife got saved. Long story short, my wife and I got saved. Now all of our kids are saved. All of our grandchildren are saved. My brother's kids are saved. I'm just telling you, it changed the whole trajectory of our life. And as good as that is for all the seasons of this life My son is my pastor now. Woo! That's tough. I gotta do what he says sometimes. The greatest thing that occurred back in nineteen seventy-five was this It gave me the answer to when I stand before God. Where did he ask me the question Well, why would I let you in here? My answer would be very simple. It would not be because I've done some good things. It would not be because, well, I wrote a check to the church one time. It would not be, well, I married a really good girl who was a really great mom and we had great kids. It would be because in February of 1975 I read in my Bible, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I asked you to save me, and you did. That's the greatest result of that day in my living room And if you're not saved today, it's your greatest need. It's the thing you need to most prepare for. Oh, I don't, I you need to prepare for retirement. Do it. You need to prepare for having your kids go off, do it. You need to prepare for work tomorrow. You need to prepare for this and prepare for that. Oh my friend. The greatest moment in your existence you need to prepare for before you get there is when you stand before God. Because there are only two results from that meeting. You are ushered into heaven. Or a thousand years later, when you stand before God, You are irrevocably and unquestionably committed to hell. And you know what? That verse is still in the Bible. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And today, if you would make that decision Ten years from now, 30 years from now, whenever it is you face the Lord, your answer would have been written because your name is in the book of life. Last thought. Prepare before the problem comes. Number two, you may be overwhelmed in a season of life Jesus never is. Run to the rock that is higher than I. I did something with each of my children. We didn't go to the ocean to go swimming, but I wanted my children to see the ocean. And I wanted them to have the experience of knowing how little they were and how big God was. And so when we went to the ocean, and I did it with all of them, I would hold my child and we would be there in cold weather, and so mildly cold weather and we would walk into I'd I'd take one child and I'd walk in and they thought it was so cool to be at the ocean and the water's hitting daddy and It's at his ankles, and I'd go a little bit further and it's hitting at my knees. And by that time I'm going, this this is fun, isn't it? Because I'm freezing, all right It gets up to my thighs and Daddy's gonna show you the ocean. And they think it's pretty cool. And then the water hits them. We get out there just far enough that it hits their feet and they realize this probably is not a great idea. By the way, my wife is on the shore saying, not one step further. I ignored her. And as I walked further into the water, and the water rises on them, there was a moment when they hugged me tighter. But as it got up to their chest in each of my children, there was a moment when they pushed away. Why did they push away? They wanted to save themselves. They thought that they had the resource to get back to shore. They thought that the best thing was to cut trail and run. When in truth, the best thing was no matter what, hold on to the guy that was taller than them. Sometimes when we're undergoing a difficult season, our impulse is we need to change something up. I I know what we need. We need to go to a church that maybe has different music. Yeah, that's what we need. I know what we need. We need a different version. I know what we need. You need the Lord. Because He knows exactly where you are. He knows exactly what you need. He knows exactly where he's taking you. And he knows exactly how to get you there. Hang on to the one who is never overwhelmed when you are. Would you pray with me? My times, changeable, are lived in the never-changing hands of my loving God. You're here this morning and you say, man, I'm in a difficult season. Sometimes I wonder, does the Lord know where I'm at? Does the Lord know how difficult this is? The answer is always yes, he does. And he knows why he's letting you have this season, and he knows exactly how to make it beautiful in its time. Don't push away. You hear maybe you've gotten a little independence of the Lord. Been a pretty good run. Maybe God's just spoken to you this morning and said, hey, you need to run back to me because there are difficult seasons ahead. Maybe you're here this morning and you're unsaved. There's never been a time in your life, oh, you know about the Lord, you know about church, you've heard a lot of things, but there's never been that moment in your life where you've taken Christ personally as your Savior, where you've said, Lord, I need you because I'm a sinner. There's nothing I can do about my sin. I'm asking you I take what Jesus did for me on the cross. Would you save me? And he will. That's what the Bible says. Whosoever Now that means acknowledging my sin and acknowledging that only what Christ did on the cross can be the payment for my sin. God says, if you'll call on me, I'll save you. And by the way, you may be young today, may be healthy today, may have life by the tail today. But you're moving through seasons that cannot be stopped. You're moving through a progression that will absolutely take you to the end. And the end is not how you determine it, it is standing before a sovereign God who knows you. He knows whether your name is in that book of life or not. He knows whether you've humbled yourself and called out or not. You may fool a lot of people, but in that last moment, before your eternity is pronounced. You will not fool a sovereign God. I wonder if there'd be one that would be here today that would say, you know, preacher, I don't want to mess with this. I don't want to be careless in this moment. And I don't know for sure that if I died tonight and I stood before God, which you absolutely will. I don't know that I've trusted him as my Savior. I don't know that I would go to heaven. I'd love to pray for you. And if that's you, would you give me that privilege? I wouldn't call your name, I wouldn't come to your seat, not about embarrassing you. But I'm telling you, I've got a Bible that can help you answer that today and get that resolved. And just by an uplifted hand, would you say, preacher, would you at least pray with me? I can't say for sure That when I stand before God, I will absolutely be allowed into heaven. Can I pray for you? Is there one? Is there one? You're going there. You're going to stand before the Lord. It's inevitable. Just like you went to kindergarten, but you're not there anymore. Just like you were a teen, but you're not there anymore. Because it keeps moving. Keeps moving. Keeps moving. I wonder if there'd be some that would say, preacher, I'm in a really difficult season. I just want to acknowledge to God, I need your help right now. I feel overwhelmed Lord, I'm I'm calling out to you, and instead of pushing away, I'm going to hold tighter. I wonder if there's some that would say, you know I'm in a great spot right now, but I also know that sometimes I can get independent of the Lord. And Lord, I'm going to say to you this morning, I'm coming back to you on a regular basis. I'm not going to try to be independent of you and hold on to you. The Holy Spirit, would you work in hearts? Thank you, Lord, that our times are lived in your hands. Thank you, Lord, when we're overwhelmed, you are never overwhelmed. Thank you, Lord, that you're sovereign and powerful enough to do whatever we need. You're personable enough to know exactly what we need. Lord, forgive us when we get independent of you and think we can do it without you. The preacher said we're prone to wander away a little bit. So Lord, for those who are overwhelmed, would you help them find strength today? For those who are experiencing just great times, would you remind them? It's always moving. And for the unsaved, would you help them to see their greatest need is not a job, a car, a house, a partner? It's you. Work in our hearts, we pray for Jesus' sake. Amen. Would you quietly stand to your