We're looking at the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. It's the longest sermon recorded in the Bible. Matthew 5 through Matthew 7. We're trying to preach our way through this. And if you could turn me down just a little bit, Dave. Let me get fed up here. Matthew chapter 5, we're looking at a series of six illustrations the Lord gives. He's illustrating a statement he made in verse 20, just by way of reminder, to get our minds back on what's going on here Did anybody hear your mind ever wander in your middle of something? Your mind ever wanders? Anybody here in the middle of a song and your mind wanders when you're singing? Maybe you're leading the song and you get the next verse, you don't remember what verse you're singing or anything like that That I've heard of that happening to people. And so with weeks in between, our mind can wander and we and uh we lose track of what's being said here. So This is why I'm reviewing like this so much, but um the Lord gives six illustrations here, uh. Illustrating a statement he makes in verse number 20. And he is addressing the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. where they had interpreted the law in a very superficial way. They had just taken the letter of the law and applied it just in an outward i on outward issues and never really dealt they never really dealt with the can the condition of the person's heart, of their own heart or the people they were teaching. And so the Lord makes a statement in verse 20. He said, Except your righteousness exceed what? What did he say? Anybody remember? Exceed the righteousness of who? Of the Pharisees. He's talking to his disciples. He said, if your righteousness doesn't exceed now he's not uh he he's talking about exceeding in its quality If your righteousness doesn't exceed that of the Pharisees, you'll no wise enter the kingdom of heaven. And then he gives these series of six illustrations, these six statements. uh to point that out, to show that what they were saying about the law and and the righteousness that they were teaching about the law. And right the righteous that the law required were two very different things. One was far greater than the other. And so he's illustrating that He's not giving a plan of salvation here. He's not saying if you do these things, you'll be saved. We know that we are not saved by Works. We're not saved by works. We're saved by grace. Now that grace produces good works, we're saved unto good works But doing these things and following these instructions isn't going to save us. In fact, he's using these here to point out to us our need of salvation. how we're falling short of what the law is requiring. So if you remember, we noted the first illustration he gave, verse 21, he talked about murder. He says, um he said, There I should not kill. That's what the Pharisees were teaching. He says, Hey, I'm saying, if you got hatred in your heart, you got a problem And he comes on down through here, then he talks about adultery and lust, and then he talks about uh divorce and remarriage, and he got down there About verse number 33. He says, Thou shalt not forswear. He's talking about honesty, being true and honest in our speech. Then we get down to verse 38, and we looked at this, we already started this, and this is the fifth of these six illustrations that our righteousness must exceed the superficial works-based righteousness of the Pharisees. Now I said all that because this is a somewhat of a I want to use the word difficult, that's not really the word I want, but somewhat of a challenging interpretation as we go through here. So I hope it will be helpful. Look at verse 38. But ye have heard. That it hath been said, again, he's not quoting Scripture, he's quoting what the Pharisees were saying about Scripture. You've heard that it had been said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you That ye should ye resist not evil. But whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. How many people have ever heard that before Turn the other cheek. Turn the other cheek. The world likes to use that and twist it around. Verse 40. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twae. Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow thee Turn thou not away. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you blessed now is our study of this portion, the statement you made many years ago. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to learn from this, apply it to our Christian lives. and that we could live as you intend for us to live and live the lives you've saved us to live. And help us now. I ask you'd fill me with your Spirit And uh I yield myself to you and I pray you teach through us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Last time we started this section, I took a good bit of time and pointed out that what the Pharisees were teaching was vengeance. They were saying if somebody knocks your tooth out, their teaching was if somebody knocks your tooth out, you ought to knock their tooth out. If somebody if somebody busts you in the eye, you ought to bust them in the eye back. And uh that was their teaching. Not that They were saying that's what you should do. You cannot let people get away with that. I think it was Gandhi said that if everybody lived by what the Pharisees were teaching of this, if everybody lived by eye for an eye and teeth for tooth We live in a world of blind, toothless people. And he has a point there. And the Lord's saying, listen He's not saying that's not what the law teaches. He's not saying the law doesn't say eye for an eye or teeth for a tooth. He says, but what they're saying about it, that you ought to go and take vengeance, is not what the law means And he comes back here and he goes on. And that's the world's attitude. They're going to pay for that. You mean getting away with that? Um eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth Now, just by way of review, we pointed out, first of all, the duty that the law required, and we went back and looked in the Old Testament, three particular places where eye for an eye and tooth for a tooth is referenced And we noted something. Does anybody remember when the when the Old Testament makes reference to an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth? Who was being addressed? Who was that given to to be carried out by? Who were the ones that were to carry out that instruction? The judges, the legitimate authorities, this was not given to individuals to carry out their own form of justice. and to carry out their own form of vengeance. We pointed out that if everybody uh carried out their their own justice, what would you d what would it deteriorate into? Remember anybody somebody used the word anarchy? It would just be chaos, vigilanteism, and just everybody God has established the government for a reason and to one of the purposes is to maintain a civil society where people can function. And that's what this is. It was given, this instruction here, verse 38 particularly, was given to the authorities, to the judges. So that when the issues came, they would know how to administer justice. And if you remember, we also pointed this out We pointed out that this is not requiring an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. The Lord was not requiring that. It was making sure you were not unjust. in the administration of law. In other words, if someone lost their eye, you would never demand from them more than an eye in a matter of justice. Wouldn't demand if somebody lost a tooth, he would not demand more than a tooth. Now it's a principle here. I'm going to touch on that. It had application across the board. If one guy, uh, for whatever reason, got mad or whatever, killed his neighbor's oxen. Then the response was, you did not require five oxen back or anything. It was an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. It was to restrict Vengeance. It was to keep them from going extreme in their administration of justice. And so that was the purpose in the Old Testament. Then we pointed out that not only did uh we looked at the duty required by the law in this matter, then we had the distortion advanced by the Pharisees And they took this negative precept and they turned it into a positive. The law said, don't go beyond this. The Pharisees said, make sure you do this. You see what I'm saying? The law, it was a negative thing, holding it back from getting carried away, where the Pharisees were advancing it. And saying, uh, be sure, you be sure and get vengeance. You be sure and get what's coming to you. You be sure and make them pay. That's what the Pharisees were teaching. So they turned this negative precept into a positive. And yet the other thing they had, we already touched on the other thing they were doing, they were giving personal application to a law that only had judicial application. They're telling everybody go out and do this when the law said this is for the judges, this is for those in authority. Now we're getting to, I think we started this, uh, number three, we're going to look at the demeanor Of Jesus' disciples. He says, but I say unto you, he's saying in so many words, I don't want, you don't, my disciples don't think that way. That's not the way we operate. If you remember, we made the statement we said that the disciples of Christ live by a higher standard than what the world does I'd like to adopt that, adapt that statement, modify that statement. The disciples of Christ live by a purer standard. Than what the world lives by. You follow what I'm saying? He's talking about your righteousness exceeding that of the Pharisees. The Pharisees simply took the world's mentality. and legitimatized it by taking these statements from the Old Testament and applying it to the world's theory. And the Lord saying, no, no, no, that's not what this is at all. We live by, my disciples live by a purer standard than the world does. We live by, we have a he says, my disciples, in so many words, he's saying The disciples of mine, as uh Christ is saying, uh live with a different frame of mind. We see these issues differently Then the world sees them. We have a different understanding and response than the world does. And remember I made a big deal last time about being distinctively Christian. Anybody remember that? I love that statement. And I think that would be a great motto for a church. And uh, you know, it's kind of Highland Park and Tennessee Temple. That w that's what they were known for, the distinctively Christian. But that's a great statement. Every one of us ought to adopt that motto for ourselves. We want to be distinctively Christian. In all our affairs of life, I want to live by the principles of Jesus Christ. I want to live by the morals and the values that Jesus Christ lived by. And that's what he's doing here. He says, But I say unto you, we live differently. We have a whole different set of values. Now Then he gives uh several statements here. And I think we touched on this a little bit. I have two thoughts under that the point Demeanor of Christ's disciples, two thoughts. Number one our private interaction with others, or our personal interaction with others. When he says here, You resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on the right hand cheek, turn to him the other also. If any man will sue thee at the law, And take away thy coat. Let him have thy cloak also. And he goes down through here. He's not talking to the judges at this point. He's not saying, now this is important to understand, he is not saying that the judicial authorities should adopt this practice. To be honest with you, I don't believe we want our judges and our policemen and the authorities to follow these principles here as far as society is concerned. You follow what I'm saying? If there's no justice administered, we're going to fall into the same type of thing. We're going to have chaos and anarchy. There has to be some justice administered. There has to be some right and wrong and judgment made on me. So He's applying this to a personal aspect. He's not dealing with authorities in society. He's not even talking about necessarily a self-defense type thing. We're going to look at these here in a moment, a little more detail. But he's not saying we ought not to that we ought not to try and defend ourselves. He's not saying we shouldn't put locks on our doors. If somebody wants to break in the house and steal everything we have, that's not how this applies. When he says resist not evil He's not saying we should not try and keep crime and those types of things, drug abuse and crime and that type of stuff. We don't resist that. In fact, uh, we're told in other places to resist the devil and he will flee from you, to say no to these things. So he's talking to us. He's talking about a uh it's the issue here is not a criminal issue He's not teaching us we cannot defend ourselves. He's not teaching us we cannot defend our families or our nation. He's not teaching us we cannot defend society from the criminal elements in society. Those are in place and that's addressed other places He's speaking here, and this is my second point, number one, he's talking about private interaction with others, and what he's given us here are principles to govern our attitudes. I believe that's what he's talking about. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, the attitudes I have towards others and towards injustices done me This is the attitude I have. This is the approach I'm supposed to have. I cannot emphasize enough that Christians think differently than the world does. If you have uh, and now we're all we all do better on this sometimes than others, and we fluctuate and we have our ups and downs, but if you have somebody that continually thinks according to the world That tells me they've got the world in their heart, right? If somebody's continually living by the world's values and the world's And they view themselves the way the world views itself, and they respond to circumstances the way the world responds to circumstances. You have somebody operating that way, that tells me something. They've got the world in their head and their heart As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I have a completely different heart. I have a completely different nature. I have a completely different frame of mind, and thus I respond to these circumstances he's addressing here in a completely different way. Before we even start looking at these, would you turn with me to Romans chapter 12? And I just find myself coming back to this passage of Scripture over and over and over. Romans chapter 12 and verse number one. If you don't have this memorized, it'd be a good verse to memorize. If you don't have it underscored in your Bible, I highly recommend highlighting these first two verses in your Bible. They're very, very significant in the Christian life. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, God has been so merciful to you as a believer and forgiving your sin and and uh and uh giving you new life is grace and mercy by the mercies of God that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Who's he talking to here? What type of person is he talking to? Christians, he's talking to saved people. They've already trusted Christ. And he's saying, now you need to get to the point in your Christian life where you just present your body And uh your whole being, everything, you just present yourself to Christ, your body, as a living sacrifice. Living for him, living by his principles, living uh in the power of his Holy Spirit. And he goes on Which is your reasonable service. Now look at verse 2. And be not conformed to this world. In other words, we don't we're as as a as a child of God presenting myself I don't live by the principles of this world. I'm not conform to this world's values. I don't respond to things the way the world responds. I don't view things the way the world views it. He's making a clear distinction here, and that's what the Lord Jesus is doing. Then he says this, by the renewing of your mind Can I, for sake of our message, adapt the application here? Let me suggest this. By the renewing of your mind, by adjusting the principles that you live by By viewing things and situations, and I respond differently than the world does. I live by a different set of principles than the world does that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So there's the standard. Presenting our bodies, not conform to this will, but be transformed by the renewing of our mind, the way I think. The way I view and evaluate things, the way I respond to things, I change that, I renew that. And so I believe that's what he's addressing. Now, come on back to chapter 5. Let's look. He's got four here. He lists four things. Now, another thing as we get as you're finding your place back here, the Bible does not give And I touched on this recently. The Bible does not give a comprehensive, exhaustive list of do's and don'ts for every possible scenario Anybody ever find that out? There's some things that the Bible doesn't address specifically. And uh the classic illustration we always use for a statement like this is the Bible doesn't say, anywhere does the Bible doesn't say Thou shalt not smoke marble. Doesn't even say thou shalt not smoke cigarettes. Doesn't say that. The Bible doesn't give us an exhaustive list of here's the thing, all the things you have to do in every possible scenario you find yourself in, and here's all the things you must not do in every possible circumstance you find yourself in. Bible doesn't give us that. Now he does give us some lists of do's and don'ts. Some are very clear. But primarily the Bible gives us principles to live by. Statements that give a truth, a way of thinking, perimeters that I operate in, and then I have to study the scriptures and have a little bit of spiritual maturity. so that I can apply that principle to each and every circumstance and each and every situation I find myself. And I believe that's what we find here. These principles. That means because the Bible doesn't give us this exhaustive list of do's and don'ts, but rather it gives us principles, that tells me that studying my Bible is pretty important. Right? Learning what those principles are. And getting in, being in church, and being under teaching and preaching and studying it on my own And it makes learning, uh the understanding of Scripture important. Now here's where some people get hung up. Sometimes folks will see the letter of the law. Look at all the details that the Bible says But they never are able to get the spirit of that law or the principle behind that. And they fall into the same trap the Pharisees got themselves into, where I start living by the letter and applying it and missing the point behind what was said. And so the Pharisees sold, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, ha! That means you've got to. And the Lord says, no, no, no, you missed the point behind it. You missed the spirit, the principle behind that teaching. It's not saying you have to do that And so he's given us some principles here. And uh the Pharisees, they knew the letter of God's law. They sure did. Good night When the Lord says, you know, about putting the uh the scripture on your mind, boy, they wrote it on their head. They didn't have it in their heart their hearts Boy, they got it on their clothes and everything. And um they had the they had the letter of God's law, but they completely missed the principle or the spirit behind it. So he gives four illustrations. Dealing with the principle behind this law of justice and vengeance. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth. He's saying, all right, here's the spirit behind that. Here's the principle behind that. Again, he's not suggesting that injustice should not be addressed. There is a place for that. There is a process for that. But you and I as individual disciples, you as I as a child of God as an individual, I need to understand. So let's look at these. The first illustration he gives In giving the principle behind this statement is in verse 39, the second half of the verse. Look what he says. But I say unto you that resist not evil. There's the general statement. But whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. Now the word smite thee there has the idea of slapping you. It is not, it is not a, it is, and I think this is important to understand, it is not an attempt on a person's life. He's not saying if somebody's trying to kill you, then just if they're trying to stab you in the chest, turn around and let them stab you in the back. He's not saying that at all. He's saying if they smite you, if they slap you in the face, if they do something that is offensive to you, They do something that that uh is disrespectful to you. They treat you in that way. They do something, it's not threatening your life But it's it's slapping you, it's smiting you in the face. Then he says turn the other cheek. And what he's saying is I need the I I think this is the spirit behind this, the principle behind this I need to get the spirit of retaliation out of my mind. As a child of God, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, I do not go about seeking vengeance. I do not go about seeking to retaliate to every little injustice that's done for me, every little disrespect that's said or or done to me, every little thing that dishonors me is unpleasant to me. I'm going to retaliate. He says you've got to get that out. That's what he's saying when he says, resist not evil. If they smite thee, turn the other cheek for Pete's sake. You're a child of God, you're a disciple of Christ. We don't act that way. We don't have this spirit of retaliation. He's saying, get this thinking out of your head. Get this thinking out of your head. Nobody's treating me that way. Yeah, it's a Mormon insult. And and it applies, I believe, as we'll see here in a minute, it applies uh to our Christian walk, our God, uh our testimony of God. If I'm witnessing somebody and they slap me Oh yeah, pshh, I'll slap you back. That's what the Pharisees would have said. The Lord says, no, no, no, don't even think that way. They're gonna slap you, they're gonna smite you on the cheek. He's turning out. Here, if if if if me being a Christian and me doing right, living for God is an offense to you here. the other side. I don't I don't tolerate, I don't, I don't, I don't foster a spirit of retaliation. Um A classic illustration of this, Hudson Taylor. How many people recognize that name? Hudson Taylor was a fantastic missionary to China many, many years ago, back in the late 1800s. He was a pioneering missionary and he went into China, had such a burden. Boy, if you ever get a chance to read his biography, it is powerful. There's several of him. And they are absolutely tremendous. Hudson Taylor was in China and one of the things he did, and right or wrong whether you agree with it or not, but one of the things he did was he sh he stood out so much as a foreigner. Now this is back hundred and some years ago. They're not used to white people coming out. I mean that is very, very strange. Caucasians, and he's in Oriental. So he just stood out so much people were scared of him. They wouldn't listen to him And it his ministry was ineffective, so he decided he was going to adopt their appearance as much as he could. And so he would dress as uh as the Chinese and try and adapt their customs as much as he could And uh so that he that he could uh build rapport with them. Uh you have to be careful about that, but that's what he did. So nevertheless, he's here and he's crossing a river And they had very crude types of ferries to get people across. And the old boat was on the other side of the river, and he hailed the boat to come over. He needed to cross the river, and he hailed the boat to come over. The boat got over to the other side, just a little thing, just to haul individuals across, and just as he was coming down the bank to get in the boat, another Chinese fellow who was very wealthy and kind of a big shot in their society came down and literally pushed Hudson Taylor in the mud to get on the boat before he had. He said something to the effect, I'm in a hurry, I need this, and pushed him in the mud and uh jumped on the boat So what's Hudson Taylor going to do? If he would follow the Pharisees' teaching, he would do what He'd get up and push that guy in the mud. In the mud for the in the mud. Right? What do you think Hudson Taylor did? He got up and said, No, no, no, I understand. You can go across, that's fine. And he wanted to have a witness and he and he talked and he tried to talk to him about the Lord. The man in the boat that owned the boat, he knew who Hudson Taylor was And he says, oh no. He says, Mr. Taylor hailed me first. He's the one that called me over. He rides the boat And Hudson Taylor said, No, no, no, that's fine. I defer to him. And he said in his biography, in his autobiography, he said that uh I had a chance, and this is his word, to powerfully witness of the gospel of our Savior to that wealthy Chinese man. By not retaliating. That is what Jesus is talking about. If somebody smites in the mud, Don't smite them in the mud. You just turn the other seat. No, no, no. Go right ahead. Go right ahead. He's saying get that mentality of vengeance out of your thinking. Don't let that root In your thinking and mind, get that vengeance out. They smite thee on the right. He says, if they if they whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek. Turn to him, the other also. The concern here of the Lord is this: my attitude towards the person mistreating me That's what he's addressing. What is my attitude? A lot of it has to do with my attitude about myself. This is the way we think. Tell me if I'm wrong. This is the way we think. I deserve better treatment than this. Don't we? We might not say those words, but that's what our actions are. Oh, I deserve to be treated better than this And so I'm going to have that vengeance in there. You're not going to get away with that. Turn with me, if you would, over to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Maybe I'll just read it. Chapter 4 and verse number 3. Paul is writing the church at Corinth, and we'll get to this eventually in Sunday school. It's chapter 4, so about five years down the road, we'll probably get to this. But he says in uh verse number three, he says, but with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you. Or of man's judgment, yea, I judge not my own self. Now what's he talking about here? Now those that are in our Sunday school class The first problem that Paul addressed to the church at Corinth was a problem of what? Who remembers from Sunday school? The very first issue he's addressing, they were very. Divide what? Divided. Very good. Smart crowd tonight, Doc. Remember, some said I'm of Paul and I'm of Silas and I'm of Apollos and I'm of Cephas and I'm of Christ. And that whole thing was just rife with division, serious division over personalities. And what was happening If some people were saying nasty stuff about Paul, they were saying, uh, Paul, he can't even talk right, you know, and he's half blind and he's bald and and uh I don't see whether that would be an issue, but um Anyway, I mean they're trash talking Paul among themselves and the others are trash and Paul says listen he says there he says that's a small thing if you're judging me, you're calling me names and saying I'm telling you. He said, I'm not going to respond to that That's not an issue for me. Paul was in a very real sense practicing what the Lord was teaching here. So the first illustration he gives on the principle behind eye for eye for tooth for tooth is he says, let me illustrate. Somebody smites you on the right cheek, turned them the left Don't get this vengeful thinking in your mind. The second one he gives in verse number 40. And if any man will sue thee at the wall and take away thy coat. Sue him and take away his coat. No. Take away thy coat, let him what? Let him have your cloak also. Now, the words the sue there has the idea of making a legal case against you. The idea is I was studying this in the way that phrase is used in other places according to this um uh Greek scholar I was reading, he says that's used in a lot of places on frivolous things. He s he referred he said it it often is used to describe a troublemaker. He just wants to make a big deal out of little things. Big deal out of little things. And he said, if somebody does that to you, if somebody sues you in the court of law, they're going to go and and uh do that, and they want to take your coat, let them have your cloak also Now, the coat is kind of the opposite of the way we might think, but the coat was an inner garment. It would be like if uh in the wintertime you wear, for us fellows, we wear a suit coat And then over it we would have a um uh an overcoat or you know, your London fog or whatever. I got a $200 London Fog overcoat down at the Goodwill for ten bucks. Brand new. Still had everything on it. I can't wait till the weather's bad so I can wear that baby I couldn't believe it. And it fit. So that's my cloak. I should have brought it. I could have used it tonight. Ah So he says, you know, a and I think the the way the law was, as I understand it, the law was at that time that you could sue if you're going to take away their coat, you had to take the undercoat. Don't you couldn't take their overcoat. For weather wise, you know, they would be bad. So if you're gonna sue them and you're gonna take their coat, take their the coat underneath, not the cloak, not the overcoat. Yeah, that could be, yeah. Yeah. He prepares my lessons for me and so but uh the idea was that you don't leave the guy exposed and everything and club. Yeah. Which is I kinda understand that. That's your outer bone, but why would you sleep with third? They said it was bigger, so that's what it did. Yeah. Uh good. Thank you. What he said. But the point was this. The Lord was saying here, listen, he's not saying don't ever defend yourself. He's not saying that. He's saying this: it's better to be stripped down than to hurt your testimony over swabbling over trivial stuff. That's what he's talking about. It's better Uh, you know, don't hurt your testimony. Don't come across somebody that squabbles over everything. Come across somebody that lives by a pure principle, a pure standard that says, listen, you want my coat? Take the cloak also for Pete's sake I don't want to hurt my testimony. I don't want to drag myself through the mud. You know, you can win, I like this statement, you can win a fight with a skunk. You can beat that skunk very easily, but you're going to come out stinking just like the skunk does. And you know, you can get in little squabbles with people and you might win. But you know what? You're going to stink pretty bad when it's all said and done. And that's what the Lord's saying here. He's saying, don't let these little meaning of things you get caught up. Let him have it. Let them take it. Now he's not saying never defend yourself. Paul, remember when they jailed Paul unjustly? And he continually appealed to the fact, hey, I'm a Roman citizen. What? Yikes! We touched them. They were very strict. They couldn't mess with the Roman citizen. And then he did what? He ultimately appealed to Caesar. So he used the legal system in a just way, in a legitimate way. So the Lord isn't saying there's never a place for this, but he's saying, don't you're a disciple of Christ, live above that. Jesus, when he was slapped, remember, before the high priest, he was slapped And Jesus rebuked him. You slap a man being uncondemned. And so he's not saying there's never a place, but he's saying this. Stop insisting on your rights. This is my this is my code. I've taken that, so here have it. Um Remember, verse 20, our righteousness needs to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. And brother, they were to the letter. It is going to be this, this, that. Lord says, don't you worry about that. The issue is my attitude about myself. How highly do I think of myself? How much do I think I deserve? Well the fact is, Kathy and I were talking at lunch today, the fact is, we all we deserve is hell. And anything I get beyond that is far more than I deserve. And so if they want to squabble over this little stuff, for peace's sake, just have it. You know, it's not an issue. One of the greatest virtues in Christian life is humility. One of the greatest virtues in Christian life, here's the statement we use so often, is dying to self. Just die to self. Dr. Robertson bound that into our heads. Die to self. Die to self. Had a lady in a big fuss in this church over some little thing. And he says, ma'am, you just need to die to self. You know what she did? She got mad I ain't going there. She walked out. He said about a week or two later after the service she was standing back by the road and came up. Dr. Robertson says, yes, ma'am. He goes, you're right. I've just been selfish I died itself. And he said she became a happy Christian again, had God's blessing. That's what the Lord say. Just died itself. Then look, uh, we got he has a gives a third one here Verse 41, Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. The word compel means to press into service. And the whole idea here was the apparently the Roman government had set up where the authorities and the soldiers, if they're going through an area and you were there and they needed help moving their equipment and whatever, they could compel you, but you could not go more than one mile. Legally, they could not compel you to go beyond that. And of course, knowing people, that law was abused And so the soldiers and and even the government authorities and different ones would come in and they'd compel people to do stuff that really shouldn't have had to do. It had nothing to do with uh government business and nothing to do with military stuff and they would just come in, I got authority, you need to help me do this or do that and go one mile. The Lord says, Listen For your Christian testimony for the for your you're a disciple of Christ, you live by a different month, they want you to go a mile, go ahead and do two Don't be like they are. Don't respond in kind. He's dealing, again, with an exalted view of self and learning to die to self. Something the Pharisees never did. The Pharisees never died to self. It was always, I get what's coming to me. You treat me exactly the way the law says. If it's an eye, if it's an eye you take, it's an eye you're going to give. If it's a tooth you take, it's a tooth you're going to give. The L The Lord says no no no. You disciple Christ, you'll think that way We died a self. We live for Christ, for his glory. Then he has one more in verse number 42. Give to him that asketh thee. And from him that would borrow thee, turn thou not away. The word ask has the idea of begging. Has the idea of somebody in great need and asking for something. Now, I want to put a word of caution out here. I do not believe for one minute That if somebody's trying to steal something from me, that I need to give him. He doesn't say give to him that stealeth from thee. He doesn't say, give to him that lieth unto thee. I wasn't in ministry very long in Indianapolis, is where this I became really exposed to this. But there are some people, there is a whole occupation out there of lying to churches and ministries to get stuff to advance themselves, to make themselves very wealthy. You've seen them when you go to the cities, occasionally you will see somebody here. They stand on the street corner. Um what what do their little signs say? Help! Can you give me help me out? One of the news things, I forget it's been a number of years ago, they followed one of these guys around. They found out this was years ago before I was here as Facebook They found out that that one person in New York was making at that point over $60 an hour standing at a street corner asking people to give them stuff, making more money than most people had a nice apartment with had a lucrative business begging. Now the Lord, I do not believe for one minute the Lord's telling us that we need to be gullible and just give like in situations like that. You follow what I'm saying? In fact, Proverbs says, the simple believeth every word. I was in Indianapolis and some folks showed up and we had a policy in place if people wanted something, we would help them, but we'd check it out as best we could, and uh they had to sit and listen to the gospel first before we did anything for them So this guy shows up, comes in, he says, oh, and and every story was always the same. We're in Indianapolis. Oh, I got a family member died in Kentucky. It was always a family member died in Kentucky And I'd be tempted to, and you don't have any gas to get down there. And I don't have any gas to get down there. Could you help a brother out? We go through the little process. So one guy did all this, and I said, and our and as it is here, said we don't give money away. We're not going to give you any money. I said, but I'll buy you some gas. I'll fill your tank for you so you can get to Kentucky to your fa relative's hand. By the way, who was it that died? Oh, it was Uncle Arnold. Oh, okay. So we got out there and I didn't have a vehicle. After I'd said all this, we got out. I didn't have a vehicle. This is one of the dumbest things I've ever done. I said, all right, I'll ride down to the gas station with you in your car. He says, okay. So I'm in this guy's car. I'm just preaching to him the whole way. You know, the Bible says we're all sinners and we lie and steal stuff. We die and go to hell unless we get saved, you know, and I'm just going on the whole way He said, yes sir, yes sir. And we get down there. And so I hop out and I get the pump. This is before you had to pay to pump. I get out, I start pumping. It pumped about twenty cents click. Click, click. He had a full tank. I walked down, I said, your tank's full. He goes, oh your kid. There must be something wrong with that gauge there. So he'd drive me back. It was just a mile down the road, but he drove back and I said, you know, you were lying to me, weren't you? No man, I'm sorry. I just thought I said, Don't ever come by here again and ask us for anything. Ever again. I'm sorry I'm sorry. The Lord is not telling us we got to be stupid and just give our stuff away, people lying and stealing from us It's not what he's saying. Had a lady in Indianapolis showed up, came into the uh or not Indianapolis Boulder, I was a intern pastor there, and she goes, I need some food, my family, my kids don't have what they need I said, well we got a little food here and I went through the little plan. I started carrying out to her car. She she kept says she kept saying, I'll take it, I can take it out, I can take it out. I said, No, no, I'll carry it out. And I got out there. Her car was packed full of groceries. She had hit every church in town. I mean, there was hardly room for it That's not what the Lord's talking about here. He's not saying be dumb. Let people steal from you. Let people rob you. But what he's saying is this. He's saying, remember the Spirit. of helping others, giving to others. Now it's better, I think the spirit of this, the principle of this, it's better to maybe be ripped off. There's a chance, Rickle. Uh just Monday I was home. Were you at home then, Kathy? I got a phone call. I was studying. I had all my books out. I studied, and the phone call says, uh Pastor Letterman this is so-and-so, and I knew immediately they're going to ask for some I said, okay. She goes, I need gas really bad. I'm on empty. I said, all right. And I'm starting thinking all these reasons. I can't get you, I can't get you gas kick. And uh she goes, I said, well, I gotta go out of town in a little bit. I got a lady up at the hospital to go visit. I said, uh, you know, when uh she goes, well, I'm sitting at the pump right now I said, all right, I'll be right down. So I went down there and I know she goes, I'm just borrowing, I'll pay back. She's borrowed hundreds of dollars from me and never paid it back. That's the way some guys do fishing. But um sorry, I just had this thing. But anyway, uh I I I'm digging myself in a hole here, but um The Spirit here, he's saying, listen, remember the Spirit. I think this is what he's saying. I need to consider other people's needs over mine. You know what I found out? There's a principle in Luke. It says, give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together. You know what I found out? When people ask something of me, And if it's legit, you know, it's not some obviously stealing from the obvious. And I help him out, you know what I found out? God always takes care of that. We Kathy and I have never gone without because we gave to someone else. Never. We taken we've taken cereal off of our shelves and given it to other people that didn't have, and we never went hungry. In fact, I'm having a hard time not eating. You see what I'm saying? And that's what the Lord's saying. We've got to get rid of this vengeance thing. We've got to get rid of this self-centered thing. We've got to get rid of The life of a disciple of Jesus Christ is a total abandonment of self-seeking. A total abandonment of self-exaltation. That is impossible without a new heart. I need to be saved. I need that new nature to get this spirit that the Lord is teaching, where if they smite me on the right, I turn the left. They make me go a mile, I go two. They take my coat, I give them my cloak. They ask of me, I give it to them. When I get that mentality, that requires a new nature. And that's the whole point the Lord is making. The law shows us we need a new nature. Anyone know what Galatians 2. 20 says? Galatians 2. 20. Great verse to memorize. For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. That is what the Lord's talking about. Die to self. Let Christ live through you. Let Christ take care. Yeah, but they slapped me. Oh, let the Lord take care of that. Turn the other cheek. Ah, they took that. They're asking it. Give it. Because we live by a completely different set of principles. Does that make sense? I mean the Lord's taken it to these Pharisees. They didn't do that. And uh but we're disciples. Father in heaven, I pray that somehow you could Take these thoughts and this passage and I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives in the different situations we find ourselves That you would give us a spirit of Christ, a spirit of graciousness, of dying to self, and trusting you and giving you the glory. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how would you say, preacher, you know I've got several situations, maybe it's at work or whatever. You see, I've been all worked up about it. You know, I'm just going to give that to Christ. I'm just going to turn the other cheek. I'll just go that extra mile and let God deal with it. Maybe it's at home and neighbors sometimes these things come up. How many of you say, preacher, pray with me? I've got something and I just want to trust the Lord on that I'll let the Lord take care of that and uh I'll I'll I'll try and live by these principles the Lord's given. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you, we'd have a whole lot of less problems in this whole world if we could just live by those few thoughts right there. How different things would be. Father, bless us. Help us, Lord. Give us the Spirit to fill us and enable us. to follow these principles you give us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads bowed, eyes closed. Maybe tonight at the altar, you just want to find a place the altar. Say, Lord,