And that we here. Thank you, Dr. Melvin. I really appreciate your passive tools. Thank you, Mr. This is very Testimonies I told the preacher the other night that uh Uh-uh, I know the clock of the channel that there was no channel to deny. And I was openly rewinded here at the Missions Conference in Morningside Baptist Church in Breamers, South Carolina. And uh one evening a large group of young people came to the house and all. And among those was Joe and Kanye Collinson I didn't know at the time. Pennya had surrendered her life as a young girl to be a missionary. But it was at that meeting in Morning Science Baptist Church that they Khan's a creator himself to be missionaries. And uh you've seen that film, I don't even know. Alright. Well if you see it again, remember that in that she gets a testimony in Fender's church that a Grace missionary was preaching. And uh Thank God for people that are going there. I have a wouldn't you like to just go everywhere in everywhere I hear uh I decided, so I appreciate that. Uh this thing He's openly wildly crazy several faces. By the way, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for such great meals that we've had here. God bless you folks. I appreciate it so much. Thank you, missionaries, Mama, the great group of missionaries that you have here. We appreciate you so much. I'm going to pray and then I'm just going to read one verse and then we're going to read other verses in the book of Acts. Father. Uh more she served many people in the slides that we saw last night, uh the pictures we saw tonight. Father Happens you care about the whole world. And even our country, which we'll hear about tomorrow. You're such a need to ever prayer. Help us to be in the center of your will. Now Father Clean is saying God has said one more time. Please put your hand upon us. Please help us to be filled with thy Spirit and may our hearts be broken for souls around the world. Bless the reading of your word and the explanation of it May Christ be lifted up and blessed the faithfulness. Please, oh Lord, please help your people. That at this church that have done so much to recognize that we can always do more than help this Lord, lead, and guide each and every individual for Jesus' sake. I pray all of this. Amen. Still standing in verse 11. Only Luke is with me. A Mark, I'm sorry, 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 11. It would help you might be. 2 Timothy chapter 4. And verse 11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. Thank you, you may be sealed. I want to bring a message this evening on this subject, a second chance. For John Martin. If you go through the Bible, you'll find many that had second chances, and I think I have Kind of a series of the messages on second chances. The Bible says that God spoke to John and Jonah a second time. Well, there's only twelve verses that speak of John Mark in the Bible. These verses are full of rum. Compassion, failure, and then success. Here is the story of a young man that started out well But he lost his courage. But God gave him a second chance. So grateful for that. John Mark had some tremendous advantages. Number one, his mother was a nothing lady. In Jerusalem, she even hosted the church in Jerusalem in her home. Her home was the church by the Jerusalem Christians. One of us was John Mark's uncle, which was a great missionary. Godmark and seen God's hours, God's mirrors. You remember that Peter was to be beheaded the next day. Where do you find Peter? In jail, sleeping. Say, how can a man sleep if he's going to be hidden the next day? Well, he knew he wasn't. Jesus had told him in John, when thou art old, they shall carry thee where thou wouldest not. He went old again. He knew that he was born in the high. Yes, but it was the church That was united in John Lord's home that gray when all of a sudden they lock into the door. And a little maid opened the lattice and saw Peter stand there and shut it. Then a wet Peter knocked again. She went and told one of the demons. He's on his knee trail. Hey, Simon Peter's at the door. Young lady, don't bother me. I'm praying. I gotta get Peter out of jail. We're praying and won't die. And she said when he's at the door, young lady, I said, don't bother me. I'm praying. I'm in order. He said, God would release me. Finally, they recognized that Peter was there and he walked in America. John Mark was indoctrinated with the right doctrine. And then turning your Bibles to Acts chapter 13 and verse 5, he became a missionary. Acts chapter 13, 10 verse 5. I think your Bible's open in Acts. Paul and Barnabas are starting their first missionary. And it says in verse 5, and when they were at Solomon, they preached the word of God in the synagogue to the Jews of And they have also John to their minister. Here is John War, three of them. Can you see him riding home and saying, I am a servant and a companion of the Apostle Paul and Uncle Marcus, what enjoyed! Evidently the Spirit did not separate John as he did Paul in Barnabas in verse 2. But I believe it was God's will that he went. Now you just see John, just like Brother Luke here this uh evening uh rubbing his hands together and saying, my great guy, this is such a wonderful life. I enjoy and me people enjoy and I'll destroy New cities, different people, new experiences, his writing, his letter. Then all of a sudden. And then all of a sudden, the second day, he became a runaway. Look in verse 13 of this chapter. Now when Paul and his company loose from Phabos, They came to Purda in Pomphylia, and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem. K. A. Alexander. I hope that's not Jell gender, Jessica, the word imparting there. Uh it doesn't mean just separated uh in distance, if victory means deserted. What happened? That this young man on fire for God had so thrilled to be with Paul and his uncle Barnabas all of a sudden in search. And turns around. And goes back to Jews. I can only imagine what happened knowing what we know about the Apostle Paul. This show matter against a thing. All He's all the time talking about reaching the Gentile. Doesn't he recognize he's a Jewish believer? Why? This urgency to reach the Gentiles. And all I hear from Law is to the region's beyond let's go further and further and further. He's even talking about Asia Money. Talking about preaching to barbarius. I can see John say to himself, now Lord, I don't want to be on fire, but this ball. He's fanatically hot. He's born alone. Uh uh it makes me nervous uh to see him always talking about founding churches, uh, soul many uh and all he has in front of him uh is founding churches. And show and that means you want to get married. I hang around here. I'll never be able to get married. Don't you imagine we bought some of those things? He's becoming slowly discouraged. Then one day he just deserted and up and went. He Say the mission field oh vision field or hold. But because she's so discouraged, said I believe I'm home home. I can't continue anymore. Just that time, I believe our Lord whispered in his ear and said, John, I made the shirt for the cross. I never gave up. I don't want you to be a quitter and give up. John Martin maybe thought about his friends. Here's a fictitious name, it's not in the scripture, but a man we thought about Joseph, a good Christian man. And in God, everybody respects Joseph. He's a successful lawyer. He has a nice soul. He has a nice house. And a good looking dog. You know he's pretty. Well uh look at me And then he thought maybe about Rachel. She's also fictitious. But I believe comes the way. I believe she liked me at one time. But hanging around Paul, I'm never going to have a chance to even think about getting married. And I know whether Rachel will be there by the time we get back. Should be buried and long gone. And then he sighs and says, Oh my, why did I say where he leaves me out from? Why did I stand there and see where he leads me? I'll follow it. In the silence of the night. He rolls his clothing up in his blanket. And he deserves. He runs away. Why? Number one, lack of courage. You see, they're about to go to Perga, which is a tremendously hard place, mountains range. Something like what you saw just a few minutes ago Hey, well, serving God isn't for weak knee. I mean, Paul and Pornus packed their vibes for curbula, and Mark packed his vibes for truth. One of our commissioners in Brazil, when I say ours, I mean supported by our our church there in Brazil. I guess about a hundred Brazilian missionaries right now. This man was a tall, lanky man. Light hair, most Brazilians are short and dark skinned, and you both say all wanky man backwards of what should be said And he surrendered in one of the most fierce tribes in all Brazil is called the Yellow Mummy Tribe. They went with their families so far up the river, and then they had to leave their wives or any children. He had no children at the time behind. And they got into the Yellow Mamadili real early in the morning before they had awakened. He said, all of a sudden a tremendous fear came upon him. And he got down on his knees with the other two missionaries and he prayed, Lord, help me to be willing even to die right here if it's your real. He said that he prayed until finally he was really ready to die right there by the spear of a young one. Another thing, lack of courage But another thing that prompted him to go back is homesickness. How many of you have ever been in the service? Raise your hand. I know Derek had it, all right. Did you ever get homesick? Come on, yeah. Yes, amen. What do you think about these missionaries? The law in their hearts as they think about home. I think John Mark even bought. Boy, you can even you can make up some good excuses. I maybe felt, well, uh, you know there's a pavement in Jerusalem, and maybe I ought to go home and look out for mom. Oh yeah. But I believe that you remember the verse that our Lord spake, when our Lord said, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren, and Sister said his own mother also, he cannot be my disciple. Now, hate doesn't mean to be text. It means to put them in second place. You remember what uh Jacob said? Have I loved Butle? Have I hated? Well, he didn't detest Leah. He had a yaga yoga. It's not right to us in first place. It's like a young man gets married and all of a sudden sometimes his mother may say, Hey, my boy doesn't help me like he used to. Oh yes he does. Just another young lady has stepped in first place, and now you're in second place. Come on now, amen or not. And that's what our Lord is talking about. Man came up to a creature one time and said, Sir, do you know me? Creature said, No, sir. Results, the man said, uh, I was a preacher. I was instrumental in leading thousands to the Lord, uh, Jesus Christ. But in a moment of weakness, I turned my back. Of the ministry and rich. Because of coverage. I lost my church. I lost my wife. My children. Don't even want to see. You wept like you hardly ever see anybody weep. Yes, there was his nagging in his heart of missing his family. Back home. Now what did this mean? When he departed and we were shook or destroyed the apostle father and one. Number one, this is an unthankful act. I told somebody at the table the other day. And we had in our nations conference in Brazil recently in March. Dr. Snyder was even there. And we were alternating preaching one morning, one night, and Vice versa. Having asked how many missionaries, have been on the field for over 30 years, you'd be amazed at how many stood up. They have stood in there, stay in there, and they refuse to quit. Oh great. Mark that want to go to Kurka. God's word suffers because of it. I was here in the States, I was still a missionary. I wasn't directed years ago, but a friend of mine called me and he said good to me. And he said, I'm going to come home from Brazil, and I call his faith and I bend his free stone. You said, my wife can't take it. She's even threatened suicide. Oh Jesus, he was a good man and still he is on asking. I haven't seen him in your But he quit. He quit just recently. This hardly ever happened. So we had uh uh one of our missionaries uh uh tell me uh that he's coming home and the reason is it Mrs. Nick Walker, you will never know how important it is to say what you said tonight. You ladies have to be behind your husband. 100% standard with him. Have much what he loves. Have more as long as he loves. If you want to read books that are through your hearts that you can find them anywhere, read uh yes, ma'am, you read that. Isabel Poo. She wrote about the Matthews family that had come to China. And when communism took over uh China, they became prisoners not in jail and put in their homes. All their letters were confiscated on the hell why are we? But missionaries heard of their needs and sent them money. Those letters were not confiscated because they didn't come from the United States of America. In the winter time, as they were deliberately having a long grown out trial for Mr. and Mrs. Matthews, uh, they had a long grown-out trial and during that time in the winter. He was very believed to be able to keep body and soul from priests. Why waves? Adam's father, I think it was his father, birthday day. Chinese were forbidden to be able to play or go to his house. He set up carton for the children. round the table and they shine happy birthday. Shine Happy Birthday. This is values for us excluded in Kicked out of the land of China. Many tears and embracing she kissed her husband goodbye because he knew that as he stood before the judge, he would be sentenced to death. It's like any John Stand over. I passed on and stood before the judge. And still, the judge given him a dead sentence, the judge, extra muted to take him from the land of China. Here he was here again to his hometown by plane, escaping death. At the airport there was the whole church out there with banners and singing as a gone and all the point around his wife and there and then all of a sudden he understood. I have a screen because when people cry, many cry. I don't know what it was a renown. Faithful afterwards and own kind had suddenly queen David Paul and Barnabas short-handed just before they got into a rough situation. Hey folks, quitters. I'm not trying to be unkind tonight, but quitters are always unkind and selfish. They're thinking about one person themselves. That's all it's It's your own well. What perks me the most, forgive me, forgive me, irritated and angry. They come up with this, the war. The Lord is reading English. It was an unspiritual. And on one grave of spirituality depicted here, a God is in this. Here's a man that ran away. But secondly, I want you to see his repentance. The Bible doesn't tell us where he repented, but somewhere, somewhere repented. Oh, can you see him back in Jerusalem? He's home. He's with his family. He's with his whole church. His pastor James is there. And Ken's lead sees Peter. But is he happy? Oh no, let me tell you who he really misses. Lady's running to bed at night. Thinking, I wonder where Uncle Barnabas is. Or I should like to see Uncle Barnaby. Then all of a sudden he thought of it. Oh, he said, you know what I mean? I didn't want to see that fanatic home again. He missed his name. Of all the people. He missed his name. His conscience. His memory is tormenting him as his word when he is done Equipment. Because they would use. What did desertion cost people? It always cost something. Well firstly let me say it costume privileges. Can you imagine traveling and preaching and ministering to the Apostle Paul and Martin? Can you imagine what a privilege? What another that was It's a privilege, it's an honor to be a missionary for Jesus Christ. And so many young people I'm tired, mission at all, for giving it up. What they call the American dream. Of course, I don't think John Mark was like most Christians, but most Christians sure have said done. Sat around the movie and say, my great day. James doesn't give me anything to do with this thing. I just sit around. He lost his privileges, he lost opportunities, and thirdly, he lost respect. Look at verse Chapter fifteen. Verse thirty-seven and thirty-eight. And third and I was determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark, but Paul bought. You take him with him, who you fall from them, from compilia, and bring them with them to the world. And the conviction was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from the other, and so Arnold stood mark and sailed on the side. Who do you really respect? The Apostle Paul. The Postgre Paul does not respect this young man. Who tried Um up here and be trying to mark this. He stands on the heel. Here is Paul. Barnabas shame. And Barnabas is shame. Hey Why can't we just go back to the mission here? And Paul is saying, never. No! How do you think he felt? And why? I don't need more! Mr. Shimmy Pictures! We got a job to do! Well they got into it. I haven't really got the other thing. They got into it. Part of us. Trying to convince Paul to take John Mark and Paul shaking his finger vigorously saying, No, no, no, no way! Have you lost the mistake? Thank you, Castro. Thank you. You lost respect. Now we have possible. Now I know you want to be saying the woodwise books are doing. If you will uh uh some view with all your eyes clean that Verse 40, look at it, and Paul souls Celus and departed, being recommended by the brethren under the grace of God. The Bible doesn't say anything about the other, about us, and uh Mark being separated. Sin out. So it looks like the church recognized Oh, here's a judge stubborn. Stirred, impatient, overbearing, missionary. No, I think in his mind that he has Proverbs 25, 19, confidence. In an unclean man, a time of trouble is like a broken tumor and a full-of-shirt. The mission field is not recreation. It's work. So here's the second requirements. And the shield gender barn was shaken and shame. You remember when no one would have anything to do with you and they doubted whether you really got saved? Who wasn't the king of your rescue? Do you remember who that was? Yeah, I remember Mark. Some even feel like one of us restored John Mark. But I believe it was Peter that restored John Mark. Not Marcus. And the reason I believe that is 1 Peter 5 13, where Peter says, Marcus My son. He had the shadow here, but he said, Mondras, my son! A little speed and restored Now, Paul didn't get angry forever with one of us. He praised him in 1 Corinthians 9, 6, Colossians 4, and verse 10. He praised him. So now we've seen the runaway. We've seen the repentance. I don't know where it happened or where it happened, but it did happen. But lastly, I want you to see the return of John War. Thank God that he's a God of second chance. Amen or not. Amen. Thank God. Amen. For that fact. Ten years have gone by and Paul is in a free. himself and listen what he says. Take mark and bring him with thee, for he is comfortable to me. What ministry? Oh, for all the place approval on some art. Covers the height of his whole Yeah, I'm trying to mark for it either before that became a missionary approved of a no By the apostle thought appeared, he was a true man. Later on he wrote the book of Mark He failed. But have a shoe. But God gave him a second chance. Listen, the greatest failure is not to fail. And what we can do fail, not get up and not move forward. That's the biggest failure. Yeah. The vision states that Mark became a bishop and a martyr and was very intense as a missionary. But the opening it has been pretty good. I believe number one it was his dear mother. Don't you have an idea? Oh yes, you were glad to see him. But hey! She was so thrilled that he was back in the missionary work. And by the way, let me say this, not one time did John Moore, does the Bible insinuate that he went out to the world? I'm getting up from the wheelpanship, and those things! No, no, no. John Mark had a good trouble. Don't forget this. Church. That was a mission church. Brian church at that time. I remember my present. But almost other young ladies I've ever met in my life. She influenced me. Crushed. She went to Kennedy Campbell. She said that God had called her to be a missionary. And when I say godly, I mean she was godly. Pure. She married a Christian. She said it was out of God to do that. I don't know how to do it. Even all you just say. Champ character not to live with her husband. The bear her children let her husband die She was out of church for years just occasionally she would come. Dr. Syker and myself maybe even visited her home when Come on a girl. She went after the door. Her son was recently killed not too long ago. And then she died. She didn't pay the second chance. She didn't take it. And I'm not here to judge or say that she died prematurely. I'm not sure. Oh God help us. What does it matter? What does it matter? Our first missions conference. All we're called was given because And if you're willing to go anywhere, God wants you to go in Hellman. On that altar, I'm estimating there was maybe 200, 250 young people. On their faces. Saying not to go anywhere you want us to go. Out of that 200 to 250 coming in there for your families. That's our truth. And what the foreign feels. I'll never forget hearing Dr. Sandler say I I I'd love to have those young people! Should be here in the airport! Grandpa said tea and church-boubt. What's the matter now? Invitation after invitation. Broken that says, and now young people are unmoved, preacher. They shall be a high. They are unmoved. Amen. I'm not saying it happens. Oh! I'm saying that there's something wrong with you! You're not letting me know! You weren't your pastorship! Well, I mean you have a code. Yeah, that's true. We should bow down and shake or bottom later waiting for a new one. If we were saying she doesn't have to do I remember who Coming home and I found the home. After forty years of ministry in Regina, my wife and I were shocked. And surprise. We got off the airplane. Come again after 40 years to become executive director. The standing in the airport didn't have an extended. Everybody. There was, I guess, a hundred or four creatures standing there. Well, the alcohol thing it became the same relationship is How sweet it sounded. And I saw some of their tears when I thought, I'm so glad. I'm so glad that I give them prematurely when amen or not. I'm so glad You're under the age of 25. You're only the age of 25 years and astronauts. Unless you do in the current as well. And we'll call it We bow our parts. And we thank you for the great people here. Well we're not trying to force or trying to see wait for someone out of the mission field. We just think that everybody out here with their pastor being willing to I'm afraid that you've stirred up hearts of young people. That one stir down. Young couples, young people found this off and say, Oh, I'm looking for anybody won't be able to that's all. Well, you're the Lord of our father's brain. As if the emphasis first. All you young people in the age of 45, step out of your seats, please. I'm down here at home.