In Psalms 121, and I'd like to read the whole thing again, but we just did, so I just want to zero in on verse uh on the last two verses. And we'll look at the whole thing. But verse 7, the Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy what? Soul. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth even forevermore. I've titled the message, I just gave it the title, Security. Security. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for all the Bible. And Lord, some of these passages just seem to st to step out, stand out. from others. And we know it's all profitable, God. We understand that. But I thank you for Psalm 121. And as we spoke before earlier, I know there's several, many maybe, that have committed this passage to memory. So I pray you your Holy Spirit would teach us some truths from this passage and scripture Lord, I pray that our sense of security would be stronger as we leave here. Our boldness in the Lord would be stronger. Our love and commitment to you would be stronger. And God, I can't do that. I need that in my own heart. And so I yield my will to you, Lord, so that your word can be preeminent. Your word can be preached, not my thinking. And Lord, I yield my body to you. I present it anew so that your Holy Spirit can have an instrument to speak through and to our hearts and minds. So help us to be sensitive to your Spirit. Help us to be submissive to your word. And uh I pray for revival, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people, when you were young, uh how many people remember back when you used to play outside Anybody remember when you were young the the game hide and seek? Anyone remember that? That's a classic. And particularly in elementary school, first, second, third grade, back early in schooling, I'm telling you, we played hide and seek at recess. That was I I excelled at recess. That was my best class. We played hide and seek at recess, and I'm telling you, it was serious. You played hide and seek, you weren't playing around. You know, it's a lot of work to have fun And um we took it seriously. There were certain rules that were in place for hide and seek One is the first thing you had to do when you're playing hide and seek, you had to, now we played it maybe a little different than some. This is the way we played it. Our hide and seek was kind of a hybrid between hide and seek and tag. It's kind of a merger of the two. It was fantastic. And in fact, I'd want to go play it this afternoon So the first thing you had to do for our version of hide and seek is you had to determine where the base was. The base might have been a pole in the playground, it might have been a a rock or something, it might have been a a square or something on the ground, but it was a certain place, that was the base. That was the place of safety. The base. That's the first thing I do. All right. This table is base. Then you had to figure out who was it. Whoever was it, they're the ones that had to do most of the work. They had to find it. And then thirdly, the rest, however many were playing, and the more there was, the more fun it was Then their object, well, and the person that was it, would hide their eyes, cover their eyes, usually at the base, hide their, cover their eyes, and they would count to 100 And then everybody would run and try and hide. Y'all played it, right? Y'all know what I'm talking about. This is a great message today. Come to church. Hide and seek. So the object was, you wanted to hide really good, but you wanted to hide somewhere where you could make it back to the base, preferably without being seen. Definitely without being tagged. Right? So the uh I'm it, I count to a hundred, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. I'm not going to count all the way to a hundred, but Alright, ready or not, here I come. And we're all hiding. And the object, as I said, was to somehow Get back to the base. Now if the person that they're out looking for you, if they can tag you where you're at, that's better. You're done. You're cooked. Over And then you want to try and work your way back to that base without being seen and get back there. Or if you do get spotted, then it's a foot race. Then you just run as fast as you can get to that base. Anybody ever played that? No? What a great gig. Classic. Now here's what I'm getting at. Once you got to base Once you tagged that base or you were within that circle or perimeter, whatever the base was, once you got there, your worries were over. You were safe You were secure. Didn't have any anxiety. I'm telling you, we took it seriously. Once you got there, it was like, I'm safe And no more anxiety, and no more worrying. You could relax. You could uh uh it was just a good feeling To be safe at base, I made it. I survived. I'm safe on base. I'm out of danger Now, that sense of security that as a first and second grader that we got when we got to base, we made it safely to base, that sense of security we had then I want to suggest to you this morning is very, very important in life. Having a sense of security I think it's important for us to have a sense of security in the physical, physically safe. That I'm safe physically. Um, you know, we love our country and I know all the issues and but the but the fact of the matter is for the most part We as Americans really have very little fear of some sort of outside weaponry coming in, living in fear for our lives physically, for our physical well-being. You follow what I'm saying? I mean, not like some countries where they live in abject fear every day. In fact, they live in fear to such a degree they don't even they don't even think about the fact how fearful they are And we've had in America, for the most part, a physically secure environment and we feel safe. uh uh uh uh um physically. My son last summer my oldest son was hired by a outfitter he's involved in hunting and all that and he was hired by an outfitter bought a uh a camp, a hunting camp in Alaska, 9,000-acre hunting camp in Alaska. It had been abandoned for years. I think it was nine years it was abandoned. And so he hired my son to go up there and work on this camp, clear out a runway for the bush plane and and whatnot. Spent 40 days in the Outback alone. This is a grizzly hunting camp. So he's out in a little pup tent. Two hundred mile two two hour flight from the nearest so nearest road. And he's there. I said, son, you're nuts. He did have a ha satellite hook up and we could talk every day. But he made a statement to me that struck me. He said, when he was out in the bush, and there was a main camp that he had to do some repairs, but he was out in the bush clearing this runway, he was living in this little tent in Grizzly Land And he had a little electric fence up. He said he would come back and that fence would be torn down. The Grizzlies come in and electrocute him. I mean it didn't electrocute them. It would shock them. And so he'd have to fix it up. And he said, he said to me, he said, Dad, he said, this is the hardest thing I've ever done. He said, every moment your mind is focused on the danger that is eminent. He said, when I was done out there, I come back in, and there's a cabin there, and he said this, he said, just the ability to close a door behind you was huge in your mind. That I'm behind a door, I'm in a building, I am secure. What I'm trying to say is that sense of security is so important in life Physically, uh, would you agree with me? The sense of security financially would be important To get to the point where I feel secure financially, okay, I have uh I can pay my bills. My bills are less than I make Here's our problem. We get all these bills and then we try and make enough to pay our bills. Why don't we keep our bills under what we make? That's a novel idea. That didn't go over very well. But would you agree with me to have a sense of financial security it brings peace of mind Less anxiety, anxiousness, I can I can relax a little bit, I know I can pay my bill That sense of security that we is so important physically and is so important financially and we could maybe mention mentally other areas. What I'm saying this morning is that sense of security is equally, if not more so, important spiritually. The spiritual realm, that I am secure. Mabel, how many people remember Mabel uh Arg Bright? She moved down to Argum Argent. I always say her, I just call her Mabel. She moved down to Carolinas. Several years ago, Shirley Record, who is watching right now, she said, Will you, would you, Pastor, would you go visit my friend Mabel? I said, sure, I'd be glad to. And she gave me the address, and I didn't know Mabel. And James Kent was in town for a couple days, and he said, Pastor, you got any visits? I'll go make visits with you. I said, sure. And so uh Brother James and I went out and visited Mabel out south of town here. Uh sunny side road, I think. And we got in and visited and just she's sweet as can be. I don't know how you can't love Mabel. And uh we got talked a little bit. And uh telling her about the church, inviting her out, said surely wanted to come by. And I was going to work up to talk to her about her soul, about her salvation. And we were just making small talk, chit-chat a little bit to begin with And then just out of the blue, she said this. Pastor Leatherman, she goes, I have a question. I said, okay. She goes, how can a person know that their sins are forgiven? And that they go to heaven someday. How can you know that? Now I didn't bring that subject up. That was on her heart. It was on her mind. And what her concern was, she wanted some assurance, she wanted some security concerning her spiritual well-being. There was an anxiety there about being my sins are unforgiven and facing God With unforgiven sins. And she was anxious about that, she was concerned about that. And before I ever initiated the conversation, she brought it up and wanted some assurance there, wanted some security. And as most of you know the story, I was glad took my Bible. We sat there in her living room, and just as sweet as can be, she went right down through the plan of salvation on board, glued to every word I said. I invited her to call on the Lord and trust the Lord as their Savior. And there in their living room she bowed her head, prayed and trusted Jesus, Saviour Of course she started coming out the church, became friends, a precious part of our church family, Father Dorn Baptism right away. But she was concerned about her spiritual security, her spiritual well-being. She wanted to know that her soul was safe. She wanted to know that spiritually she was secure. She wanted to know that she was saved from God's judgment and eternity in the lake of fire. She wasn't looking for a hope-so-think-so-maybe. She wanted something that was definite. She wanted something that was secure. That she could rest assured on, like getting to home base, no longer had to worry about it. No longer had to be anxious about it. It settled. I can relax. I'm secure. I'm secure. That's what she wanted. And by the way, when she trusted Christ the Savior, that's exactly what she got. In Christ. In Christ. Biblical salvation is a secure salvation God's people, those of us who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, and that's primarily who I'm preaching to this morning, by the way, if you have not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, your soul is not secure. I'll just be honest with you. You're not on home base. You're still in grave danger spiritually. Outside of Christ, unforgiven sins. You need to settle that. But those that have, those who have come to the point in their life as sinners, understanding I'm a sinner before a holy God and trusting what Christ did on that cross for my sin, taking responsibility for my sin, being judged in my place, buried rose again, I'm putting my faith, my trust, my confidence in Christ Those are secure. We're safe. We've made it this is a poor illustration way to put it, but we've made it to the safe base. We're in Christ. I use the word security a bit. The word security simply means this: to be safe from danger. It means to be free from fear or worry. It means to be very it means to have the confidence of safety. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but if you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you this morning, and I'll try and bring this out from scripture here in the message, but if you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you don't have to worry about your eternal destiny anymore. You don't have to be anxious about being judged for your sins, or you don't have to be anxious about being in danger of hellfire. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, as a child of God, as someone who's been born again into the family of God, I am in Christ. You and I are secure in our salvation. And we can relax in that area. Relax. I don't have to worry about it. So he says, uh I was witnessing Phil Sherman. I mean, remember Phil Sherman? Oh, blind Phil, what a blessing he was. I love that man. He's been with the Lord now for a while. He's probably listening from heaven, I don't know. He was a hoot. He's uh he was coming out before he passed away. I'd stand it back, shake hands, and he'd come by and he says, Preacher, you're looking good today. I'd say Phil coming from you, that means nothing. First time I visited him way back 93. I'd just been here a brief time. One of the fellows in the church said, hey, come out, visit him. He used to come out. And we sat down. I didn't know him. He's there. Carolyn was there in the room. We're sitting around. We talked a little bit, and I just said what I always say when I first time visit like that, at least I try to. I said, Phil, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure if you died right now your sins are forgiven? And you're on your way to heaven And without hesitating, he he fired right back. He says, Do you? Now I'll be honest, not a lot of people do that to me. But I'm glad I could respond back with absolute confidence, without hesitation. I can respond back and say, Phil, I know for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. That's settled. I'm not in my own goodness, not in being a preacher, none of that. If any of y'all know me, you know my own goodness isn't getting me to heaven. But what Christ has done for me. In Christ. And that's where the security is. That's where the safe base is in Christ. We're secure. We're secure. Um they build these forts out west in the pioneer dates. And the and uh uh they uh who was that built the forts? The cavalry I guess, the army Would build these fil forts out there. And outside the fort there was danger and and uh you know you're fighting the Indians and the sa and all the dangers that were involved But if they could get back to that fort, inside the gates of that fort there was security They were safe. They were secure. That's what Jesus is for the believers. He is our security. We don't have to fear the wrath of God. I don't have to fear the judgment of God. I don't have to fear hell, lake of fire. I don't have to fear that. Not if I know Christ, not if I've been born again. If I'm in Christ, I'm secure. Psalms 121 is a psalm of security for God's people. Now the context here, of course, is the Jewish nation, but they were God's people. And by the way, in spite of all their ceremonies and sacrifices that God had them doing, the Jews were saved by grace through faith, just like you and I are. Nobody has ever been saved by works. Nobody has ever been saved by bringing offerings or going through religious ceremonies. Now they all had their place, they had a purpose Pointing to Christ, but those Old Testament saints were saved by trusting in the coming Messiah by grace through faith. And God's saying you're secure. That's what Psalm 121 is. It's security. Security. And what was true for them is true for you and I. Psalm 121 is a psalm of confidence, a psalm of security. I read this passage in my devotions about a week ago, and I just had to stop. I'm usually just reading through. I stopped. Psalm 121. I read it. I read it many, many, many times before. I have much of it underlined. I have notes around in my Bible. I just stop and come back. I want to read that again. And it stirred my heart anew that I'm secure in Christ, that God gives us security. I got looking it up a little bit and trying to find out a little bit about the psalm, as I always do, and I try and pass that on to you, and I found out that we know just about nothing about this psalm We have no idea who the penman is. We have no idea what the context is, the background is suggested other Bible scholars I looked up to see what they say, and there's different ideas Apparently, when looking at the psalm, apparently they were in some sort of danger. They were looking to God for help. They were looking to God for security, for safety physically, I believe. And the psalmist is writing to assure the people of God that they are safe. They're secure. And of course, it's Penned of the Inspiration of God. One thing I do did find, if you notice the title there above verse number one, it says A Song of Degrees. Now again, there's a little up in the air about what that means, whether some say it has some sort of musical in in notes there about how to sing it, it would increase maybe in a tempo or something, I don't know. But pretty much the consensus is, and if you'll notice, there's about 15, I believe, 15 Psalms. That had this title above the first verse. Psalm 120 through 134. They're all called the Psalms of Degrees. What we think that means is, and I'm pretty convinced of this, it means it was sung by the Jews, the Israelites. as they would have various ceremonies and sacrifices and feasts in Jerusalem, particularly at where the tabernacle was, later the temple They would sing these 15 Psalms as they made their way ascending up to The temple, the place of worship. The word degrees there has the idea of ascending, going up a staircase, rising up, going up. And so we believe that this was a song that was sung by the God's people in the Old Testament on a regular basis Along with the other fifteen, they would sing these songs. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. They would sing that Now the interesting thing, this is just a little trivia here maybe, the interesting thing about Jerusalem was no matter which direction you came from, when you went to Jerusalem, you were going up Jerusalem is up on a hill all through the Bible. You see him talk about up to Jerusalem. Up to Jerusalem. It's like going to Garrett County. What direction you come from, you have to go up a hill sooner at some point to get to Garrett County. That's the way Jerusalem was And so as they would ascend the uh the paths and the roadways uh uh to uh to get up to Jerusalem and then to the tabernacle or later the temple They would make their way up and they would see Jerusalem up on the hill, and there was hills around. They say, I lift up mine eyes unto the hills. So they're making our way up into the presence of God. From whence cometh my help? What they were saying is, my help is coming, and he says in verse 2, is from the Lord. But in the presence of God up in the hill of Jerusalem, that's where my help is at. And they would sing these songs of degrees that come up. Apparently, as I said, they were facing some sort of danger, and the psalmist, under the inspiration of God, is assuring them: listen, you're okay, it's going to be okay. You're secure, you're safe. If you would notice here, if you have your Bibles there, look with me at verse number three Speaking of the Lord, he says, he will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that, what's that next word? Keepeth thee will not slumber. Look at verse 4. Behold, he that what keepeth the Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Look at verse 5. The Lord is thy Keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon the right hand. Look at verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul Verse 8, the Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in. Here's the interesting thing. Six times he mentions keep or preserve. They both come from the exact same word. Keep, preserve, same word. It means this to guard, uh to hedge about Put a hedge up around, or a fence around, or some sort of wall of protection. It's inside the fort. The Lord shall keep thee. You're inside the fort of his protection. You're inside the perimeter of his defenses. It means to hedge about, to it has this idea to closely watch over. Sometimes we Preach to young people and say, you better be careful, God's watching everything you do. They like it when I point to them and do that later. And we use it in a threatening way, right? Come on, moms and dads, you did it. God's watching you But God watches us not just trying to see everything we do. Oh, he did wrong, boom. The idea here is God's watching over us to keep us secure. He's watching over us to make sure we're safe. We're secure. I'm glad God's watching over me. Because if it was left up to me, it'd be a mess Keep, preserve. Six times he says this. He's emphasizing the fact that God's people are secure. We're secure. God's watching over us. He's taking care of us. Now here's something I find fascinating. He uses the word keep and the word preserve comes from the same word. Keep your place here, because we're going to look at this here in a little bit of time. Come back to Psalm 12 Just back earlier in the book of Psalms, way back chapter 12. And he uses this same terminology But he's using it in a different context. And I think it helps us see the the the The level of security, the the intensity of the security that we have. Psalm 12, come down to verse 6. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. When he says the words of the Lord, what's he talking about? Talking about the Bible, Scripture. And he says they're pure. The words of the Lord are pure words. I just want to remind you, and I know we all understand this, but I think we need to continually remind ourselves God's word is pure. It has no mistakes, no errors. It is absolutely correct. It's been purified, to use the terminology here, the figure of speech, seven times. It is absolutely Pure. There are no errors, no mistakes in the Bible. Period. And don't let anyone tell you there is. Now notice what he says. The words of the Lord are pure words. He's talking about the Bible, Scripture. Look at verse 7. Thou shalt what? Keep them. What's the them? The words of the Lord. Scripture. That word keep is the exact same word we had in Psalm 121. Keep, preserve. Now look, he goes on. Thou shalt keep them, the words of the Lord, O Lord, thou shalt what? Preserve them from this generation forever. In other words, every generation will have the Word of God that God has for that generation. We should be able to trace our Bible back in an unbroken chain through every generation. And with that, I'm a little bit off the subject on this, but I'll tell you, the King James Bible, you can do that with the manuscripts of the King James Bible. You can follow that. But the point I'm trying to make is this. Would you agree with me? God's word is secure. In fact, we'll go so far to say this: heaven and earth shall pass away. But God's word will never pass away. They're secure. They're kept by God. They're always going to be Kingdoms may rise and kingdoms will go. Nations rise and nations fall. But God's word will stand the test of time. We'll always be. It's secure. It's preserved. That's God's words. Kept. Preserved. Now here's my point. That very same terminology is used for the soul of God's people. In other words, I'll just cut to the chase here. If God's word can be destroyed, If there ever comes a time then God's word will no longer be, then you and I can lose our salvation. However, As long as that Bible stands, you and I are secure in our salvation. You follow what I'm trying to say? The same word is used. God preserves his word, and God preserves the soul of his people. Our salvation is secure, just as secure as the Bible is. I'm no more worried about losing my salvation than I am about losing the Bible. Because the Bible's got to be. Stay it. Is anybody with me? You with me? And so the psalmist in 121 is using the exact same terminology that David used in Psalm 12 Without the Bible, he's using about the people of God. God's people are just as secure as the Word of God. Go to Psalm 37 with me. You're not far away. Come over to Psalm 37. And notice with me verse number twenty three. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. We memorized this a few years ago. Now look at verse 24. Psalm 37, verse 24. Though he fall, this good man that knows the Lord, though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. That phrase utterly cast down means thrown away totally rejected. If he falls, he's not going to be thrown away. He's not going to be totally rejected. He's not going to end up in hell Why? For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. Who's holding on to who here? God holding on to the man. God holding on to his people. So well you better hold on and hold out. Brother, I'm not holding on to nothing. It's God holding on to me. Um, look at verse 28. For the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. His saints, he doesn't forsake them, they are preserved forever. But the seed of the wicked, the unsaved, shall be what? Cut off. He says the saints are preserved forever. Preserved forever Listen to John 10. We won't turn there. Listen to John 10, 28. I give unto them eternal life. What kind of life? How long is eternal last? How long's that? It doesn't end. I give unto them, people that trust Christ, I give. It's a gift. I give unto them eternal life. They uh eternal life, not probationary life, not temporary life. What kind of life? How long does it last? How long's that? Then he he builds on that. And they shall never perish. Parish die and go to hell. When is never? Huh? When's never? When does never happen? Well, don't use the same word to define the word It has the idea in no way, under any circumstances at all whatsoever, never That's what the, if you look it up, that's what the idea behind the word is. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, never perish. And then he goes on, he says, this, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Who has a hold? Christ does. My hand, he says, nobody can pluck you out of my hand. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on the next day. He says, My father. Which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. So when a person trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, Brother Nathan was telling me how a fellow trusted the Lord this week. He was witness to trusted Christ Savior. When that fellow trusted Christ as Savior, we had a few people on Monday at the memorial that indicated they had trusted Christ When a person makes a decision, put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God gives them eternal life. It's not just for a few weeks or till they mess up, or it's not probationary. It's eternal. And they never, ever, under any circumstances, do they perish, die, and go to hell. Then he says And no man's able to pluck them out of my hand. I got a hold of them. And no man's able to pluck them out of my father's hand. God is the one that holds on to us, not us holding on to Him. My salvation is secure, my soul is secure because it's in the hands of an Almighty God. When we lived in Indianapolis, I've told this story before. I like it. I haven't told it a long time, but I really want to tell it every week, but I don't. But we lived in Indianapolis. We have a nice little house we rented there in in Beachwood Beach Grove, Indiana, outside of Indianapolis. And there's a sidewalk there. And it just had a slight slope, went up the hill, up to the houses above. So we'd like to get out and have a walk. One One Sunday afternoon or whatever it was, the salmon was real small, real small. And uh we said, let's go for a walk. So it was cold out. We bundled up I'm and we're walking along and do you ever do this? Walk along with a little toddler or whatever, you stick your finger out and they're holding on to your finger. Anybody ever do that? And they'll just walk along and he's holding on And we come around up the hill a little bit and there's a slope and there was one house where I guess it was their washing machine had drained the water just out down the driveway and it came out across the sidewalk. Well that was all frozen. So there was a patch of about 10 foot, 5, 10 foot, that was just ice all across the sidewalk, and there's all lint and everything in there from their wash or whatever. And so we got to that sidewalk and there was a very real chance my son was going to slip on that ice. So what I did was I pulled my finger out of his hand and I grabbed the hold of him And we made our way across that ice. Now who's holding on to who? I'm holding on to him And lo and behold, we got a few steps in on that ice, and I'm being real careful. Oh, so his feet are sliding out of it. But he didn't go down Because daddy had a hold of him, was holding on to him, kept him from falling. If he'd have been holding on to me, what would have happened? His feet would have gone out and that little finger hand wasn't throwing up and when you and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, he gives us eternal life, he promises us we will never perish, and then he says I, nobody can pluck you out of my hand. And when you hit a patch in your Christian life or you're struggling, and maybe you blow it, you do something stupid It's not me holding on to God, because if it was me holding on to the Lord, my feet would go out from underneath me and I would go straight to hell. But thank God, it's the Lord's got a hold of me. When I mess up, He holds me, He keeps me. Nobody can pluck me out. That's called security. Say, preacher, I got saved, but what if I blow it? Well, if you blow it, you need to make it right, and God will, if you don't, God will chasten you, but he never lets go of you. He never abandons you. He never forsakes you. He never revokes your salvation. Now he may chasten us if we get hard-headed and stiff-necked. We don't want to do it our way as a child of God. I'm going to do it my way. Alright, go ahead. But God knows how to deal with that But he does not abandon us. We are safe and secure in Christ. And that's where I would say, Amen. Amen. Security. Security. 2 Timothy 1. 12, Paul had absolute assurance of a salvation. He says, I know whom I have believed and am persuaded. That he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul knew it was God keeping him saved, not him. Read Romans 7. He says, man, the things I know I should do, I end up not doing. The things I shouldn't do, I end up doing. How many people thought I was going to fall there? It wasn't Paul's, and Paul was a devout Christian. He was probably one of the best Christians ever lived, as far as my assessment. But his security, his assurance of his salvation, his security in Christ wasn't based on his behavior. It was based on the faithfulness of Christ. Promises, I will keep you, I will preserve you, I will not fail you, I will not forsake you. Security, security. Back to our Psalm 121. The psalmist gives Israel, I believe, four reasons why they can rest in the security of their Lord. Verse 1 and 2, because of the power of God. I will lift up my eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. If God has the power to create this universe and create this world, God is able to keep his people. God is able. There's not a devil in hell that can steal the soul of a believer out from the hand of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those are the power of God. Philippians 1 6, I know whom I have believed it, and am persuaded that he He is able to keep that which I committed unto him against that day. 1 Peter 1:5. We are kept by the power of God. It's not the power of your commitment. It's not the power of your faith. It's not the power of your own righteousness. It's the power of God that keeps us saved. Number two, he says in verse 3 and 4, because of the promise of God. God has promised that he will continually keep his people. The word keep, as I said, means to guard, secure, protect. He says, He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. How many people know what slumber is? How many people are slumbering right now? He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. I'm glad God is never caught off guard. God never dozes off. Any here ever driving down the highway, a long trip, kind of start dozing off. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And then you kind of come to and you're 25 miles farther than you remembered being. Huh? Would you agree? That's a little dangerous I'm glad God never dozes off. God never says, Good night, help Leatherman get over there. We have the promise of God that He will not fail us. He will not take His eyes off of us. He will keep us. It's a promise of God. Remember in uh the reference is um uh 1 Kings 18. Remember Elijah has this challenge going on with the prophets of Baal? And he says, the God that answers by fire, let him be God. Anybody remember that? And so he gives the prophets of Baal, this false imaginary God. He gives them first shot. He says, Alright, you guys build this altar. And you pray to Baal and see if he sends fire down and burns up the altar and the sacrifice on it. And they said, all right, we'll take you up on that. And so they start praying to Baal. Oh Bell, send down fire. Baal, send down fire. And this goes on and on, and there's just nothing. And they start getting desperate, and they're going through these gyrations and start cutting themselves. Look, we mean business, Bill, you need to do this. I love Elijah. He says, Hey guys, maybe Baal is out hunting. They cried all the more, Baal And he says, then he says this, maybe he's asleep. I'm here to tell you, our God is never asleep. Imaginary gods, they don't even exist. But the true and living God, when we put our faith and trust in the Son of the true and living God, Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, Our soul is secure. He has promised us that. He has promised us that. Number three, he assures them of the protection of God. Verse 5 and 6. He says, the Lord is thy keeper. He's thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. You're going to be okay. I'll protect you. 2 Thessalonians 3. 3 says, The Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Deuteronomy 31, 6. Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. Isaiah 41:10. Fear not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Zechariah 2. 8. He that toucheth you, I like this statement, he that toucheth you, God's people, toucheth the apple of my eye. God says, no, the devil's in hell, nobody is going to take your salvation away from you any more than they're going to be able to touch the apple of my eye. Did you know that your eye is one of the most protected parts of your body? Some of the strongest bones are all around your eye. Eyelid comes down over it. You know it might be, I just thought of this, it might be good if we had a mouth lid. Can I get a witness? But we got eyelids, protect our eyes, eyelashes, eyebrows, all protect our And he says, nobody's going to touch you anymore, and they're going to touch my eye. Now, God doesn't have a literal eye, it's figurative speaking. But what he's assuring his people is, I promise you, I will protect you. You may mess up, you may blow it, you may be a knucklehead. But brother, I got a hold of you, my child. I'll protect you. I'll preserve you. You will not end up in hell. I will not allow you to lose your salvation. So he promises of God, the power of God, the promise of God, the protection of God. And I am with this, and he uses that word seven and eight. The Lord shall preserve thee. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out. And by the way, in verse seven, he says very specifically, I will preserve thy soul. That's our relationship with God. That's what we are. It's not talking about physically, although He helps us. God is our helper, God is our keeper, God is our preserver. H. A. Ironside was a great Bible teacher, preacher in the mid-1900s. Was president of Moody Bible Institute, and I think in the 50s, 40s and 50s. Uh he's one of my favorite authors. I've got just about all his commentaries. I like to read Ironside. He's preaching on Noah's Ark and he pointed this out. He said Noah's Ark, Noah's call, Noah's invitation was for any pagan, anybody could come if they get in that art, they'd be sealed in there. They'd be s God would close the door and seal it shut. They would be absolutely secure in that art from the flood. And he said it's important to note that God did not put on the outside of the ark pegs for people to hold on to as long as they could. He says, either you were in it or you were out of it. If you were in the art, you were secure. You were safe. If you were out of it, you were lost. You were doomed. The point being you need to get in, and in the ark is security. And what that applies to you and I is when we put our faith and trust in Christ, we are in Christ, we are secure, we are sealed, we are safe. Outside of Christ, there's nothing to hold on to. There's no pegs to hold on and hold out. It's either you're in or you're out. You're safe or you're lost. Are you with me? And those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have eternal security. And by the way, I do not apologize for that. We stand firmly on the Word of God. Eternal security. They were some scientists were in, I think it was the Alps or somewhere, and they were exploring there was some new flowers. That had been discovered, that was no record of, and they wanted to analyze them and document them and categorize them and all that. And so they're up there searching for them. They had heard of them And they had some national uh folks with them to help guide them through the treacherous mountains there. And lo and behold, they were looking through their binoculars or their glasses, and they saw across this ravine These flowers that were they've been looking for. And they were trying to figure out how to get over there. And finally they realized the only way to get to where those flowers are is this huge uh treacherous ravine straight down uh hundreds, thousands of feet down. They said, well, how do we get over there? And they got this brilliant idea. There was a young teenage boy there who was with uh the guys, the the nationals, the locals who were helping them And they said, Hey son, we got some rope here. Uh, we'll tie it to you, and we'll lower you down there, and you can go over and get some samples of these flowers and bring them back. We'll pull you back up. I mean, this is way down. And the boy said, uh hold on. And he went running back to town. I mean it was hours. They thought, well, he left us, so they're trying to figure out what to do Here, after a bit, the boy comes running up and he has a man with him, and he's got his own rope. And he came up there and he says, okay. He says, I'm ready to do this. They say, well, what's this all about? He says, well, I wanted my own rope. And he says, I wanted my dad. Holding on to the rope when he let me down because I know my dad would not fail me His faith, his trust, his confidence was in his daddy. And what I'm telling you this morning is when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God is our daddy. And our salvation, our security is not based on you or me. It's not on the church. It's not on any of that. Our assurance, our security is based on God, our daddy. And he has a hold of us and he will not fail. Amen. If you think that's something to rejoice in, I can relax. Let's pray. Father, help us, Lord, to put aside the anxiety, the anxiousness, the worry. And Lord, let us rest in your promises. Your assurance, your security of our salvation. With heads bowed, eyes closed. Well, there are some say, preacher, I've not been saved. Now I preached to believers this morning. You're unsaved, you don't have this security, you don't have this assurance. It's available, but until you trust Christ, you don't have it. You're outside the ark, you're in dangerous water. Maybe there's some this morning say, Preacher, I need to get this settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. And is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. No more doubts, no more worrying. I want to get that settled. I want to get it settled. Any of all? Any of all? There's some online. God's deal with your heart. Contact us. We'll show you. We can show you from the Bible. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I need to just take God at His Word. I just want to rest in these promises of God that He has a hold of me. And sometimes we mess up and sometimes we flat out sin and then we worry. And we need to come to Christ, acknowledge that sin, confess it, but rest in this promise. Is there any say, preacher, I just need to start taking God at His Word and just rest in that? Any like that, but the uplift in the hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some saying, preacher, if God's been that good to me, if what you said is true, then I ought to be living for Him. Not to stay saved, but because He's done so much for me. And maybe there's some area in your Christian life you know it's not right. So maybe a Christian life that's missing or shouldn't be there, something needs adjustment, something needs attention. And you say, Preacher, pray with me that I can get my Christian life in line with the promises of God. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me That God will help me, sure. We need revival. We do. Our hearts get cold, we get indifferent, we lose our enthusiasm. And we need that back. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen