Chapter eight and verse number twenty two. Gotta get there myself here. Mark chapter eight and verse twenty two And he cometh to Bethseida, and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw aught. And he looked up and said, I see men as trees walking. After that he put his hands again upon his eyes And made him look up. And he was restored and saw every man clearly. And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town. Let us pray Heavenly Father, thank you for the privilege of being with Mountain Lake Baptist Church. And Lord, I pray, I pray that you would bless the message tonight. What I need for you to guide. Father, we long to leave changed. We long to be edified and challenged by your word. May your Holy Spirit have liberty tonight. And may Christ alone be exalted. Thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for our salvation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's a story of a young Morse code operator who was applying for a position And he walked into the busy office, and much to his discouragement, there were several other young men in front of him in line. And so he thought, well, I have nothing better to do, and so I will wait my place in line. And he he began to sit there and he waited for several minutes. After about 20 minutes, he got up and walked into the manager's office, which was in the middle of the great room there. And of course the other applicants were less than amused that he had cut in line. That's not fair. The one who had been waiting the longest said, I was I've been waiting here for hours. And he just walked in. I'm going to have a word with him when he comes out And so, after about 20 minutes, the manager came out with his arm around the applicant and he said, Gentlemen, thank you for your interest in the position, but the job has been filled And of course that man who had been there first he said, hold on a minute, I've been waiting here for hours. I never even got to tell you of my experience or my expertise. And he just walks in and he gets the job And the manager said this, I'm sorry, but the last several hours while you've been sitting here, the telegraph has been ticking out the following message in Morse code. If you understand this message, then come right in. The job is yours. None of you heard it or understood it. This young man did the job is his. And that's just an illustration of how often can things be right in front of us. Things that we should know, things that we should understand, and yet in a sense we're blind to them. We can't see them. We're unaware of them In Mark chapter 8, look at verse 18. Jesus begs his disciples to consider their own blindness. He said, Having eyes, see ye not? Having ears, hear ye not, and do ye not remember? And so we have in our text a man who comes to Jesus with physical blindness. But I believe it is a great picture of a much greater blindness, and that is spiritual blindness. There is a blindness. What is spiritual blindness? I believe spiritual blindness is to see our life without the perspective or not through the lens of God's truth. When we don't see our lives through the perspective of God's Word, we make poor decisions. We make foolish decisions. But most tragically, when we do not view life through the lens of God's word, I believe very simply, we fail to see the lost as truly lost. Proverbs chapter 29 verse 18 says, Where there is no vision, the people perish. And I know I'm I'm speaking on missions tonight and and the the need for the gospel to go across the oceans And I know it is not a new thought. It is not I'm thankful it's not a new thought. And I know many sacrifice heavily to be involved in missions. I know many go each week to spread the gospel. But I'm uh coming to you tonight, growing up as a missionary kid, giving the mission, serving as a missionary, and I look at my own heart Excuse me, and I'm I must simply admit so often there is an urgency lacking in my heart. I should be given to sharing the gospel. I should never struggle to hand out a gospel tract I should be given to missions, but so often there is not, and I believe what is lacking is vision. And God wants to awake our awaken our sight. I believe if we truly saw the laws as Christ sees them No price would be too great. We would not hesitate to spend and be spent for the gospel. We would gladly rush into the highways and the byways And so we come to this story of the Lord healing this blind man. I'm sorry, I got a tickle in my boat tonight. Notice firstly Christ's separating work. Christ's separating work, verse number twenty-two, and they come unto Veseda, and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. Now that seems like a rather curious thing to do. Jesus is doing miracles. Jesus is making the lame to walk, the blind to see, the deaf to hear. Nobody has ever heard of this. Who does this? Jesus does this And so if Jesus is doing this, and Jesus says, if you don't believe me for my words, believe me for my works, Lord, if you're doing the impossible, why wouldn't you do it in the city? Why wouldn't you do it in the stadium so everybody can hear and everybody can trust you? But it takes them out of the city That's kind of strange, and it begs the question. Why would Jesus take the man out of the town to perform the miracle? Well we understand that this is not Christ's first time to Bethleida. Well, if you would turn just over to um Chapter 6 and verse number 45. And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the ship and to go to the other side before in the Bethsaida Well he sent away the people. So we're in Betheda, for sake of time, skip to verse fifty three. And when they had passed over, they came into the land of Gennesaret and drew to the shore. And when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knew him, and ran through that whole region round about, and began to carry about in beds those that were sick where they heard he was And whithersoever he entered into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment, and as many as touched him were made whole And so we see the first time Jesus comes to Bethsaida, there is an excitement, there is an urgency, an expectation, and they line the streets. all up and down the streets with sick people and people who need God to work in their lives and because they're anticipating God to do a great work God does a great work. And God always meets us at our faith. I'm so grateful that God answers their prayer requests. But between chapter 6 and chapter 8, there's a change of heart There's a change of mind. Look at chapter 8 and verse numbers 11 and 12. And the Pharisees came forth and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him And he sighed deeply in his spirit and saith, Why doth this generation seek after a sign? Verily I say unto you, there shall no sign be given unto this generation. And it wasn't that Jesus was saying he wasn't going to give them any sign. Rather, Jesus is reminding them, I have given you hundreds of signs And you still reject me. And so now we come to verse 22, and we see a complacency that is set in on the city of Bethsaeda. And he came to Bethsaeda And they bring a blind man unto him, and they besought him to touch him. And I we see a transition here. So before the streets were lined of People just reaching out if they might just touch if it were the hem of his garment. They're begging God, God, please work in my life. But the second time, they're directing God And there's no lining of the streets. Rather, there's just one blind man. And the people of the Saedars say, Jesus, why don't you come over here? Why don't you touch him? And I'm simply saying this we long for God to do a work in our lives. We long for God to awaken our lives, to heal the spiritual blindness in our lives. So common, so prevalent in my own heart, I long for God to stir my life. Lord, help me to save souls as I will ought to save them. Can we understand that for God to work in our lives, we cannot come to Him complacently? We cannot come to him conveniently. We cannot come to him casually But rather, if God is going to awaken our lives, our hearts, and our in our eyes, we must come out of the town, and God will always do a separating work in our lives before he opens our eyes. And I'm simply saying, are you allowing God to do that separating work in your life? God is constantly causing us to see him high and holy and lifted up. And before you and I will ever care for the lost, before we will ever care for the lost We must see Christ. And we must see Him as the King of Kings and as the Lord of Lords. Would you allow God to do that separating work in your life, separating Him from the crowd? of indifference. And notice also the separating work is the separating of from casualness and entitlement, but also it is the call to be with him. And I love that we see as this man, this blind man is taken out of the town, led by the hand of his beloved Savior. That the call, the separating call, is not just the call out of the world, the call from complacency, so often creeps up in our lives, but it is the call to be with him And we see the truth here, that vision comes not from being crowded by people, but free from being alone with the Savior. Can I say that again? Vision comes not from being crowded by people, but from being alone with the Savior. I believe it affects our hearts to see the mission field. I believe it is vital that you uh go and and see the the the billions in China and in India And see that the the 75 towns in Ireland, the 5,000 people or more that have no gospel life, it it changes us to see them. But what is so much greater needed is simply for us to sit at the feet of Jesus Because I believe no person who can truly sit at Christ's feet, truly live in God's presence, can live and not be moved for the lost. Rather, really a great litmus test of our walk with God is our brokenness for souls. And if our if there are no test for souls, if there's no gift going after souls, if there's no sacrifice for souls, if missions is not a priority in our life, well then there's something wrong. With our walk with God, because that's not normal. And that's not how it ought to be. If we would go with Jesus, we would meet we must needs go through Samaria If we would go with Jesus, we would see him who look on the multitudes and to be moved with compassion. Jesus ordained twelve, first that they should be with him, and then that he might send them forth to preach. Jesus said, follow me and I will make you fishers of men. Are you allowing Christ to do that separating work in your life where you're getting alone with him and you're being real with him It's really the work of revival in our hearts. That is what is needed. First the separating work. And then secondly, keeping with our alliteration here, notice Christ's spinning work. And it's in the text, so I believe it's allowed there. Verse number 23, and he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw aught. Now, why would Jesus spit on his eyes? Now, my very favorite thing to do when I'm not preaching is I or my hobby is mountain biking. I absolutely love mountain biking. It's not my um my passion. And so when we got married, uh one of the things I had to give up coming back from Ireland was I didn't have any bike That was a real sacrifice. But uh we would be driving uh driving through Virginia, Maryland all around on debutation, and as we passed the cyclist, I would hem and haul to my wife And I say, Oh Bayless of just a beautiful bike and see it's a double suspension and just beautiful So she finally said, Go buy yourself a bike I said, wonderful, and everything okay? Okay, we're good. So I scoured Craigslist, found the perfect track, and I was biking through the Prince William Forest there in Virginia, and I forgot to wear eye protection And I got a tiny, tiny speck of, I believe there's a leaf, tiny speck of something in my eye And my wife in our first month of marriage found out I can be a hypochondriac because I thought I was going to die. And so I came back And I uh it was ingrained in my eye, so we began watching YouTube videos of how to get this out of my eye. We used cotton pads, Q tips, everything we could think of, and it wasn't coming out out of my eye. After about forty five minutes or an hour I said, babe, we need to go to the emergency room. I'm gonna I'm going to lose my eyes. And finally, she uh un I I wasn't expecting it. She took a wet washcloth and just gouged it out of my eyes I am surprised my eyeball didn't come out, but she she got she got it. And uh what I'm grateful for is that she did not try to practice Christ's principle of spitting in my eye. That I'm grateful she didn't do that. Why did Jesus spit in his eye. Because it wasn't his normal way. His normal way was to speak and it would happen. Or his normal way was to touch and it would happen. But no other miracle did Jesus spit in his eye. It wasn't a way He was expecting. And I believe very simply we see the requirement of surrender. He comes to the Lord, and I'm so grateful that no in every area of our life, in every season of our lives, we can Pour out our problems to the Lord. And God is not uh just say, oh, I don't want to worry about it today. God wants to hear us. He wants us to pray. And he comes to the Lord and He understands that God does work in our lives, but his ways are never our ways. And his thoughts are never our thoughts. And can I remind you the next verse says his ways are higher than our ways, and his thoughts are higher than our thoughts. As as But we understand that God's way is different and if we are going to want God to truly open our eyes and to truly uh quicken our hearts in the area of of soul winning and and gospel work Can we can I remind you that we must be surrendered? And if we come to God less than surrendered And we're saying, Lord, Lord, bring revival to my heart. Lord, work in my heart, but there's not a surrender. We're not also saying, Lord, however you would work in my life. Work in my life. God is limited in what he can do. And God will not work in our lives. And so often God doesn't move because he's not allowed to move. And may I remind you, as we heard wonderfully last night, a surrender must be daily. Luke 9, verse 23 says, And he said to them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself. And take up his cross daily and follow me. And so we see the requirement of surrender. If God's going to use us To be involved in leading others to Christ on the mission field, surrender is an absolute. But then we see also the reminder of people Verse 23, and he put his hand upon him and asked him if he saw odd, and he looked up and said, I see men as trees walking. And so some people say, well, why did Jesus heal this man partially? Well, we have three options here. Number one, Jesus made a mistake. That's impossible. Our God makes no mistakes. Number two, some people say, well, some commentators say, well, this man had weak faith. And so because he had weak faith he got a partial answer. And if he would have greater faith, he would have got a full answer. And yet I don't think that's really biblical because James chapter 1 says For he that wavers is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss, for let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. And so if we have partial faith, we don't get anything And by the way, faith is not a mind game. You either trust him or you don't. Jesus said, Jesus' disciples said, Lord, increase our faith. And Jesus said, Well, if you had faith as the grain of a mustard seed, if you just had a tiny bit of faith faith You would say under this mountain, be moved. And Jesus was saying, you just need to have faith. You just need to trust me. And so that's not what happened. And so the third option is that Jesus healed him partially, intentionally. Why? Because I believe that if Jesus would have healed him normally, this man would have said, Thank you, Lord, thank you for that. And he would have gone on his way, thankful but unchanged. And so Jesus constrains him. And I'm so convicted because so many times have I cried out to the Lord And God's met me at my faith. And God's so graciously delivered me. And so often I might say, Thank you, Lord, I praise you, Lord, but so often I've went on on my way and I have not heard the still small voice saying, What about the people? What about souls? Can't you see them? And and God didn't save me and God didn't have them delivered me for me. God delivered me for others. And so Jesus causes him to see people, and he he says, he admits, I see men as trees walking. Well, what does that mean? A very, very strange picture there. I've never seen people as trees. I've never even seen the British as trees. But what does it mean to see people as trees? Two simple points tonight Number one, to see people as trees is simply to see them physically and not spiritually. It is to be blind to who they really are. And so often we can see people physically for the here and now and be oblivious to their spiritual eternality. We're speaking of vision tonight, seeing people as they are, seeing people as they are, so we don't pass them by. Would you turn to Lamentations chapter 3? And verse number forty-eight, one of the classic passages on vision in scripture. Lamentations chapter three. And verse number forty-eight says, Mine eye runneth down with the rivers of water for the destruction of the daughters of my people. Mine eye trickleth down and ceaseth not without any intermission, till the Lord look down, and behold from heaven, mine eye affecteth mine heart, because of all the daughters of my city What was it that moved? Jeremiah. What was it that caused him to weep? What was it that he saw? And very simply, it was that he actually got to witness the destruction he foretold. He warned the children of Israel. He warned that the kingdom of Judah, the southern kingdom. God's judgment is coming if you don't repent. And even though they had a pretense of spirituality in the southern kingdom There was no righteousness. And so Jeremiah preached and he preached and he preached. And he foretold that there was a judgment coming, but Jeremiah is just the loss of a long line, most recent of a long line. God's judgment isn't really coming, but what brought tears to Jeremiah's eyes was that when he actually saw that judgment was real. And judgment was coming. What does it mean to see men as trees? It means to see them and forget eternity. It means to be able to walk by them and not care for their souls and to forget that they are people approaching eternity either with Christ or or apart from Christ. Blindness is to disconnect people with God's inevitable judgment and then fail to alert them of God's great salvation in Christ. I love that Jeremiah didn't just have empty tears He didn't just have emotional tears, but verse fifty of Lamentations, till the Lord looked down, and behold from heaven, mine eye affecteth mine heart because of all the daughters of my city Blindness is not only to see them for their eternal state, but it is also To see them and care. What is blindness? It is also to see people as souls and not care. It is to see people that you know are approaching eternity and simply do nothing. It is a difference of pity or compassion. Compassion is a heart that is moved. Compassion is people who are moved to action. What is blindness? It is the hear of 7. 8 billion people and simply pause. It is to hear of one soul slipping into eternity every two seconds and simply say terrible. It is to hear of unrich people groups and say fascinating. It is to know co-workers and never weep for their soul. It is to have teammates on your soccer team and never one speak of Christ. It is to sit at A restaurant and hesitate to hand out a gospel tract. It is to hear God say, Whom shall I send? And not beg God, Lord, here am I, send me How often and how easy is it to see people as trees? It is either to forget there's eternity approaching or it is to see them And not care enough to be moved to action. Can I admit to you that is my norm? That is my common. So often I I'm focused on me. And so often I'm not moved to action. So I'm not trying to guilt trip you. And tonight, what must we do? Very simply, I love the picture of this text. We must admit our blindness. The Lord asked this man, do you see? And he said, I see men as tree is walking, and so many people are convicted about their blindness. They don't admit it. And they just go on with life. There's no priority about souls. There's no sacrifice for missions. And they live as if the people that they never hear of, they'll be okay, they'll be fine What must we do? We must admit our blindness. And he said, I see men as trees walking. In verse 25, after that he put his hands again upon his eyes and made him look up And he was restored and saw every man clearly. We don't see people as we ought, but God does. We don't see people as we ought. But God wants to awake our hearts. God wants to stir us, awake our vision so we would see people for their spiritual need And having compassion make a difference. And so we understand, Jeremiah said, mine eye affecteth mine heart. Vision moves us to action. George Deakin said, a vision without a task makes a visionary. A task without a vision makes a drudgery. A vision with a task makes a missionary. In closing, notice Christ's sending work. Christ's sending work. And verse number 26 of our text there And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town. That doesn't seem like much of a sending verse, it kind of seems like the opposite, until we put the text In its context, and we notice the very next verse, Jesus asked his disciples at Caesarea Philippi, But whom do men say that I am? And we know that Peter says, Thou art the Christ. And Jesus says in Matthew 16, 18, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And so I believe this text really is falling at a transitional time. Where Jesus first went to the Jews. He first went to Israel, but they rejected him. And so Jesus is telling this man Listen, I know you're excited about telling what I've done for you, but I don't want you to go to that say that they've already heard the gospel. They've already had their opportunity. And so we see, first of all, Christ's desire that all might hear. And can we remember that God's heart is missions? Missions isn't us getting God on our plan. Missions is God getting us on his plan. And we see Oswald Smith said, no one has the right to hear the gospel twice while there remains someone who has not heard it once And so we see the precursor of the Great Commission. If we miss it there, don't miss it in Mark 16, where Jesus says plainly, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. But we also see here That Christ revealed a specific place of service. Christ told this man, neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town, send him away to his house. Christ told them where to go. And Christ told them where not to go. And so we come in closing. God is longing to stir our hearts for missions. And if we are not admitting our blindness, it's not because God is not knocking at our door, it's because God it's because we're we're blocking God. Maybe maybe Christ needs to do that separating work in your life Maybe, just maybe, God needs to bring a trial into our lives. So we remember He is the goal, not us. And maybe God is wanting to do that separating work and cause us to realize our blindness and cause us to admit our blindness What does it mean when God opens our eyes? He gives us a job to do. And he gives us specific work to do. What is your specific work? In closing, turn to Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, a very well-known great commission verse. Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, but you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and in the othermost part of the earth. And I'd like you to notice the word both. So often we ask the question, Lord, where would you help me to go? And that's a great question, but that's not the full question. Because God is longing for us to have an impact in our Jerusalem and a worldwide impact. God's calling us to do both. Well, how can we do both? Well, number one, we have to go. And God is calling us all to go to our Jerusalem. And I know your your church is very involved in And uh sharing the gospel, I'm so grateful for that. But we should be a part of that. We must go. We cannot be obedient Christians if we don't go, but we also must give so that others can go in our place Because we are responsible for the world. And so we see to this man, God, when he finally Admitted his blindness and he finally surrendered. Lord, you work in my life, however you will. Lord, whatever you must do to heal your my blindness, Lord, do that work. When he finally surrendered and admitted his problem. God worked in his life. He said, I got a job for you to do. I got a place for you. I got a work for you. I have a calling for you. Will you do it? And God has a place for you in his missions. He's got a place, he's got people for you to talk to. He's got family for you to talk to, but he's also got an um got something for you to give. so that others can go with in your place and carry the gospel. Do you see men as trees tonight? If you'll admit it God wants to work in your heart. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I'm so grateful that you did not let this man go on the routine of life. But Father, you grabbed him and you made him aware of his blindness. Father, I'm ashamed that so often as a missionary a blindness creeps into my life where I can pass people in my Jerusalem and not care for their souls Heavenly Father, I'm sorry. Father, help me to see them as they are. Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Heads bowed, eyes closed for just another moment, please. If you could actually just stand to your feet as well. We'll have an invitation in just a moment