Take your Bible, if you will, and and turn with me to the book of Colossians. Book of Colossians. We're in chapter three In Colossians chapter three we read these verses. I'll read the first uh yeah let's read about four verses I guess If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth in the right hand of God, and set your affections on things above, not on things on this earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory. Set your affections on things above. Heavenly Father, we come to you tonight to thank you again for your goodness and the way you watch over us. And we uh take this moment just to uh pray for the pastor as he uh uh uh travels to his uh destination. He should return him safely. And we ask, Lord, that tonight that the Spirit of God would speak to hearts. And Lord, I pray you'd speak to my heart. And I pray, Lord, you'd open my mind and help me to to see the things that need to be preached tonight and and uh Pray that the uh that when the word of God goes out that uh it finds a a heart that's uh soft and suppliable and and wants to hear the truth. So bless our time around your word, and we thank you for it. Bless the chalk drawing that we showed in a little bit in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. In the second verse there it says, set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. Set your affections on things above. You know, all of us are looking for something, aren't we? All of us are s are seeking something. Uh my wife was seeking her glasses just before we uh came over here today, and I was seeking a Bible a couple of days ago Yeah, and uh uh all of us are are looking for something though, and uh and the world's the same way. Now people, you know, they they have different divisions of what they're you know, what they want to find. Some people are looking for riches and some people are looking for But the Christian is uh a different person And uh God has something to say about it because we're his children. He has something to say, what we should be searching for, uh where our interests ought to lie, and he gives it to us here in these verses of Scripture. He said to us again, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. If you then be risen with Christ, I guess that's the that's the bottom line, isn't it? If you then be risen with Christ, then you should be seeking these things which are above. How do you know that you're risen with Christ? Well it it has to do with this matter of being born again and we uh you know I look around and I see just about everybody in here tonight is is saved. You know what I'm talking about. But uh there's three things that that uh Christ wants us to seek, and that I want to talk about tonight anyway. One of them is uh is Christ Himself. The the Christ life, if I can put it that way. The Christ life. And when I say that, I mean uh when uh when he tells us to put on the mind of Christ That's what he's talking about. The Christ life. In the uh to receive Christ is like uh finding uh an inexhaustible gold mine. Now you know I d I don't know about how you are and uh you know how you are with your daily devotions and so forth But if you've been saved very long, you've found that the daily devotion time with the Lord is a special time. It's a special time because it's your meeting with him one-on-one. You're talking to him and you're telling him your problems and he's talking to you and he's telling you what your problems really need, how to solve the problems And there's a oneness there in a closeness that you develop as you develop that relationship with Christ. It's a day-by-day, faith-by-faith basis And more faith you put in him, the greater your uh your res your uh relationship with him will will uh gain. Uh To find Christ, how is it uh what's it like? Um there was a a prince We'll tell a story now, a prince. And this prince had a real cute little princess that he wanted to uh uh visit and he sent her a present And uh uh the princess was in her room and with her maids all around her, you know, and and they're giggling and doing what girls do and all that stuff and and uh They hear a horse come through the the uh castle gate. And uh one of the girls runs over and looks, and lo and behold, it's it's a messenger from the prince And so uh it isn't very long until a knock comes on the door and it's the messenger. And so uh the messenger is allowed to come in and and uh he uh uh uh presents to the princess a it's uh it's like a package. And so uh she takes the package and places it on the on the table there and uh the girls are all giggling and and of course the the the uh uh messenger he leaves and and uh She says, I wonder what's in it. And somebody says, Well, why don't you just open it and find out? And so that's what she did. She opened it up and when she looked down inside and picked it out, it was a A black ball, just an old black cast iron ball. Well it doesn't sound like much of a gift, you know. I know what my wife would do if I gave her a cast iron ball She would cast on my head. And so anyhow, uh so they you know, and it's from her prince though, right? And so that makes a difference where the principal comes from. And so she set it on the on the table, you know, and and looked stood back and looked at it and thought, you know Well, uh you know, I guess that's thoughtful. You know, he sent me a present anyway and and even it and just as he was about ready to say something more, why this cast iron ball just went Watch that. And lo behold inside the cast iron ball is a brass ball Well brass is better than cast iron anyway. And so she picks it up and looks at it and says, Oh yeah, it's beautiful. You know, it has little scribblings on it and stuff like that. And well it said, I love you. It said, Well open if you would I So I don't know what that says. So anyway she puts it back down and she said, Now see there, that's that's kind of a present my prince would give to me and and about that time lo and behold you guessed it. Uh the ball just opened up again. And lo and behold, inside that cast iron and now brass ball was a silver ball. And so uh she was really excited. Silver's a lot more expensive than brass and so so they looked at it, you know, and of course it's decorated, it has the little symbols on it and stuff like that, and and she was just really pleased with the thing And so uh while they're they're giggling at each other and talking about this, you know, this gift, why uh they heard a click Would you believe? It opened and bang it blew up and killed everybody there. I'm just kidding ya I just see I'm seeing if you're listening. And this time though, when it opened up, well here is a gold ball. And so this gold ball now is and you know, now she's ecstatic because now I was getting down to it, you know, and now we're talking about, you know, good stuff. And so Yeah, she's pleased. The girls are la laughing and and talking about how wonderful it is and and what a good prince he is and all that stuff. And uh when she picks it up and looks at it closely She knows a little thing on there, she touches it, and it opens up one more time. And when she when it opens up there in the in the in the the the the opening up was uh silhouetted in uh black velvet, uh blue-white diamonds, just just oodles of them just all over inside that ball Diamonds. That's a whole lot like it is to know Christ. As you get to know him, he becomes more precious to you. As you get to find out and and and begin to experience this thing we called faith and and and understand how God's grace answers our faith and our prayers uh it makes a difference uh your relationship with Christ the more that you go through in life And we have some some people that are you know are going through some hard times right now. Some of you have some and we have some. And they're g going through some really hard times. And the one thing that I've noticed in in the lives of those that we've talked with Is that there's a there's a common uh a ki uh a calm about them A calm, a contentment in their heart and their life. They know that God does everything well. Know that God is a good God. He doesn't do things for spitey, doesn't do things to, you know, to bring vengeance on anybody. He's a good God The things that happen, he has a purpose, and he has grace that's sufficient for every problem we run into So we need to look for the diamonds and seek those things which are above. Because God has some things for us that we're not going to find them except we go through the storm sometime in life So one thing we'd say is that uh uh the Christ life is just like I said, it just becomes diamonds the closer you get to him in your relationship with Christ. And then he would want us to have the Christ-like character The Christ-like character is something we should be seeking. You say, well, you know, we know that he's perfect. Is that what we're supposed to do? Well, in a sense, you know, that's what that's what our goal ought to be in life Uh I realize that uh you know we're just people. We're just we're just man, sinful man. We we uh we know what the history of man is and uh uh we're part of that And so this old life of ours is has is sprinkled with this old nature that uh makes mistakes and and causes us problems here in here in there in our life But uh he wants us to seek the Christ-like character. I'm looking over in 2 Peter in chapter 1. And if you'll just slip over there real quick with me, just read a verse of scripture or a few verses that uh kind of gives us an idea of what I'm talking about. We're in Second Peter and chapter one and verse four It says, whereby are given unto us, listen now, these are precious verses, whereby are given unto us exceeding and great and precious promises. That by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. And besides this, giving all diligence add to your faith virtue, virtue to knowledge And knowledge to temperance and temperance to patience and patience to godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity And that's just uh uh uh uh an action of uh of the character of God For if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye should neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and has forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. So there you have there you have the whole list of things that that God wants to do in our lives. And it's it's adding one to the other. Uh uh all of us are are short on on something in this list that he just laid out here. And if you look at it, he tells you how to how to accomplish that in your life In verse 5 again it says, besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. And virtue is just a uh uh a a moral righteousness, I guess, if you could put it. So these are the things that God says you need to be seeking in order to have that Christ-like caricature. And then there's another verse over in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. So if you'll flip over there, we'll we'll read that verse. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 16 For the Word of God says this: For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that ye may instruct him, but we have the mind of Christ. We now have the mind of Christ, which gives us access to the understanding of spiritual things. The mind of Christ. So those are two of the areas that we need to be looking at. We need to put on Christ. And secondly we do need to have the the uh Christ-like character. Excuse me. And then and then there's the third thing. Uh there's different kinds of life, and we're all aware of this I guess. You will be as soon as I tell you what it is. The uh there's different kinds of life. I mean, there there's plant life, you know, and there's insect life and animal life, bird life and reptile life and all these different lives. But I like to point your attention to a couple of them, if I may. One of them is um Is the life of a mole. I hate those things, don't you? My yard has molehills all over it And I'm not making a mountain out of a molehill. All right. Funny. But uh they do. They they uh they ruin our yard. And uh I have finally I got the shotgun out and killed one. With a shotgun. I did. I did. I honestly did. I saw I saw the dirt moving And I just went and got the shotgun and I said, You're the one that's not going to get away and I pointed it at it, bang, and I blew the dirt out of there, you know, and I went over and looked and there was part he w part of him. So anyhow. But the life of Moa, you stop and think about the life of Moa. You know, I I feel sorry for them. I don't think I could ever shoot another one. I feel sorry for them. They're in the dark all the time They're in the dark all the time and of course they they chew on the roots of your grass and that kills your grass and uh if you got flowers or anything like that kills them Whatever. But any the point is that they they're just they're a miserable animal. They have to be. And they're so ugly. I mean, have you ever s ever single up close? They're they're a homely thing. I'm not talking about the little moles Now I'm not talking about those. I'm talking about the ones that are about about like that, you know. They're b boy scary things But uh you know they they live in the dark all the time and uh you you know uh they cause all that problem And then there's uh there's another life that s also spends a lot of time in the dark in the ground, and that's uh how about an earthworm? I was we lived out on the golf course, uh out on this golf course here in Oakland uh years ago and they had a cottage, a little cottage down there in the bottom there right off nine number nine green. And uh one night I looked out, looked out in uh in the fairways out there, and I swear there was flying saucer out there And oh you're looking at me now, I got the interest of. And uh I could see these see these lights You know. Like that. And uh so I I thought, well this is this is really something exciting. So I decided to sneak out there and see what was going on. And when I snuck out there it was guys with flashlights looking for earthworms out there on their golf course. And and uh they I guess they got a bunch of 'em But the the point that I'm making is uh the earthworm is another one he lives his whole life within like a ten foot cube cube, I guess. I I don't think they travel very far. You know, they tr uh just in the dirt there and all that. And uh uh so you have the earthworm, he lives underground and dark and you know, makes a mess out of things, and you have the earthworm That's another life and it's just uh dark and and in in the dark all the time and and uh just lives in such a short space. And One thing I'm satisfied is that God does not want us to live the life of an earthworm or a mole. He wants us to not be in the dark. We're the children of the light. So he wants us to be in the light. And there's another kind of life And that's the that's the life of the eagle. Then there's something about an eagle that's just as majestic and it's just I mean I've got a couple of them back here, I'll sell you But they're they're just a they're a beautiful animal. Uh I've never had an eagle, you know, to train, but I have trained red tails. Now you guys have seen uh uh uh brother Caldwell and and uh Jason and and them. And uh uh I had uh I used to have a red tailor I'd take with me on my meetings, and that's how they got started in the thing. And uh the thing about the red tail, uh w when you train one, it takes uh three or four weeks to train one, so that it'll come back to you whenever you want it to. Otherwise it's gone But uh uh I remember this one time I was tak I just was uh was working with it uh uh exercising it because uh you don't fly 'em every day and the but the days you don't fly 'em you need to keep them exercised so their muscles are good, you know, when you actually fly 'em against some other other animal. And uh so I took the took my bird out. I think that was uh Mariah And I took Mariah out and uh tossed her up in the air and and uh she circled around a little bit like that and and I reached in my uh falconry bag and in my falconry bag is a is a uh uh squirrel skin. with a tail on it, you know, and I have it uh tethered to a a uh two pound uh lead ball And uh uh what ya what you do is you uh uh teach them to follow the Lord, because that's what that ra that squirrel is, is the Lord. And so I had just popped the lure out like that and I started swinging around my head and I let it get out to where it's about uh about a fourteen foot circle around my head like this And of course as soon as she saw it, man, she peeled off just, you know, boy. It's just nothing like watching a red tail come in, you know, coming in that steep dive. Right, wings tucked. You can almost hear the whistle of the uh wind through the feathers. And uh and just she gets it just the right place, you bring her bring your lure down past you like this and toss it high in the air and she comes down and swoops and Up upside down, grabs that thing and lands on the uh right at your feet. I just had to tell that story The truth is that uh and I I really enjoyed the falconry and I know the I know the Caldwells do too. Excuse me while I do get a little sip of water here And God says, seek those things which are above, where Christ said at the right hand of the Father. And we're not supposed to seek those things which are above it, but What was the other part of that verse? Excuse me. The other part of that verse says, set your affections on things above and not on things on the earth. I like that verse of scripture back in in the book of of Isaiah, chapter four, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings and eagles. They shall run and not be weary. I love that verse Because it uh it is a challenge to me to mount up with wings as an eagle. Now that's what that's what God wants out all of our lives. He wants us not to live in the darkness because this world is a place of darkness. It's a place of evilness. It's a place of of sin and and uh and they love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. But you and I who know Christ as Savior are children of the light. We're supposed to extend our influence into the dark and not stay there. Seek those things which are above, where Christ said it, at the right hand of the Father. We have a unique position in heaven because of our relationship with Christ. We're seated at the right hand of God the Father in Christ. That's that in itself is an exceeding uh exciting thing. You're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ. Or maybe, yeah, you're saved, but somehow or another you've kind of cooled off. And you'd probably relate more to that verse back in the book of Revelation where it talks about the church that was l getting lukewarm. And maybe you feel that way. Maybe you've just got to the place where Christianity and and and living for God is just not You know, doesn't do anything for you anymore. But my friend, there's there's different kinds of lives that you can live. And uh I've told you at least uh three of them there, and you can kind of make a choice because it is your choice. You don't have to live in the dark any longer If you're here tonight and you're not saved, then number one, you need to trust Christ as your Savior. He's the light of the world. He's the one that you need to come to for the light And then uh if you're here and you're you're saved, but eh, it's just Christianity has just kind of cooled off for you and and you know you're going through the motions, but it's not what it used to be. Then tonight, you know what you need to do? You just need to say, Lord, I I just can't take this anymore. I want, I want a closer relationship with you. I want to be involved in in your work and seeing people saved and getting and being excited about the things of God And that that can happen tonight if you'll find a place this old fashioned altar and confess your sin. Listen, don't just say, Lord, I've sinned and this and that You you need to name name 'em. You don't have to say it out loud, you know, but but name 'em to God. Say, Lord, I you know, I've done this and I've done that, and I've seen things I shouldn't have seen and done things I shouldn't have I need to get right with God and get right with God. Let Him cleanse your heart. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He'll he'll do it if we'll just uh trust him tonight. Father, as we do the chalk drawing now and show the picture, I pray that uh your hand would be upon it. And I pray especially Lord for that one that may be uncomfortable right now because they know that they need to make a decision. And I pray they would come and and make that thing final tonight. We're asking in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.