Chronicles chapter sixteen. If you would notice with me, verse number ten and eleven is what I want to use for our uh immediate text this morning. First second chronicles 16. Look at verse number 10. When we get to verse 11, I'd like for us to read that together in unison. All right? Are you awake? Everybody good? Got your voices ready? Read this together with me when we get to verse 11. Let me read verse 10 first, though. It says, Glory ye in his holy name. Now look at this statement. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Now altogether, verse number 11, read it with me. Seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face continually. Three times in the two verses he references seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. Then the third time he puts it this way, seek his face. I'm going to speak this morning on seeking the Lord. Let's pray and ask the Lord to stir our hearts and help us to do exactly what he tells us to do right here in this passage. Father in heaven I ask, Lord, that you would meet with us this morning. I'm grateful for every single person that came out to the house of God. And I pray, Lord, that your presence would be here. I know you are, but I pray you'd manifest your presence. I pray that every one of us Would sense that you are in our midst and God that you want to speak to our hearts, that you want to give us some direction, instruction this morning. Maybe you want to encourage some today, maybe convict some of us And so we ask you to open our hearts and minds, Lord, and have your way in our lives. Help us to agree with you when you do speak to our hearts. And Father, I as always, I readily acknowledge I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual value. Lord, I'm just an old sinner, like the Heimbull sang about. But you rescued me, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through these lips of clay as I present my body to you and touch our hearts, open our minds to do what you instruct us to do. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I had Pastor Matt read an extended portion here of Scripture this morning. It's actually A psalm that was penned by David. If you notice back there in verse number four, it says, On that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the Lord uh to the hand of Asaph. Asaph was one of like uh kind of like the song leader there in the uh in the worship of Jehovah at the tabernacle when they would assemble together, kind of like Mark is our song leader here in church. Asap kind of filled that role. And so uh David penned this psalm, this song, he gives it to Asaph to be sung by the people of Israel. Now I think it's important to understand the context Behind this psalm. If we had time, we could go back and look in a little more detail. But earlier in the chapter and then into the previous chapters, we find out that David had just accomplished What I consider to be one of the greatest accomplishments that he that uh one of the greatest accomplishments in his administration as king of Israel. And what he had done was this. He had gotten the people of Israel. He's newly king of the United Israel. They had Seven years civil war coming up to this. Of course, Saul was dead. David became king. The tribe of Judah recognized him, God's anointing. Seven years later, after war, then the whole nation came together. As a nation, they anoint David. So he's the new uh king of a united Israel. I mean, things are starting out very, very well. What I consider to be his greatest accomplishment was he led the nation of Israel to bring the Ark of the Covenant which was out in the country. They had uh uh had been out in the country, they had Saul had done some foolish things, and he says I want us. He leads the nation of Israel. And the Bible is very sp very clear to point out that he didn't just do it. He got the nation behind him. And they brought that ark from out in the country into the city of Jerusalem. Now Jerusalem is the new capital of Israel. It's the Washington, D. C. of Israel. And it is a very centrally located city in the nation of Israel. And he brings the Ark of the Covenant into the capital, into the center of the city, which is the center of the country. Now that is significant for several reasons. One is, is the ark represented to Israel the very presence of God. Now, we understand God is omniscient. Right? Somebody help me. Omniscient. What does that mean? Everywhere all the time. Omniscient. No, I'm sorry. That means he knows everything. I was just testing you to see. If you were uh paying attention. Omniscient means he knows everything. We were talking about his omniscience in Sunday school. How many people wish you had a pastor that actually remembered things? Um Me. Omnipresent is the word I'm looking for. And if God is omnipresent, it means that God is what? Everywhere all the time. Put it this way, there ain't no place God ain't. Alright? You got that So when we say the Ark of the Covenant represented the presence of God, it was a unique, special presence where God's presence was manifested. God is everywhere, but there's some places where he just manifests himself in a very profound way And the Ark of the Covenant was the place where God had chosen for Israel to experience that manifest presence of God, the Shekinah glory. that when the uh when the ark was first established uh came upon that. This was a very the ark was a very, very the ark was the most important feature in Israel It is where they came to meet with God. It is where they came to get their sins forgiven. Once a year on the Day of Atonement, the priest, the high priest. Would bring the blood of atonement and he'd sprinkle it on that mercy seat, and atonement was made. Forgiveness was made for the nation of Israel Now this was all in figure. This was all object lessons, if you will, of the coming Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose blood would be placed on the altar the ark in heaven, the mercy seat, the literal, actual mercy seat in heaven, he would place his blood. But this was a temporal picture of that coming. Would you agree with me? Pretty important in the nation of Israel And um this is where they came to communicate with God. This is where the priests were. Now I don't want to go to seat on this and uh don't You know, it's not exactly this way, but the ark in a sense, in some ways, was very much to the people of Israel what Jesus Christ is for the believer Do you realize we only have access to God Almighty the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ? Hebrews tells us, get this, Hebrews tells us that we can come boldly to God's throne through the blood of Jesus Christ, because of what was shed. And so David, in again, what I consider to be the most significant, important accomplishment of his administration Brings this Ark of the Covenant where the manifest presence of God is, where uh the nation of Israel interacted with God, found forgiveness found cleansing of sin, and he brings it into the very center of Israel. And um and so this was uh uh uh the uh very significant now the ark right when it was first construction back when Israel came out of uh Egypt and God gave the the measurements and uh uh the specks if you will, for the ark to be constructed, and then Bezalel and a lot of men that were gifted of God constructed that thing, overlaid with gold, and they did it exactly they built that thing. Exactly the way God told them to. By the way, it's good to do things exactly the way God says. And so they constructed that whole thing, and right from its construction God had instructed them to place that Ark of the Covenant in the very center of the camp. How many people remember when Israel came out of uh Egypt and they crossed the Red Sea and they uh they didn't trust God and they ended up having to wander in the wilderness for forty years. How many people remember that? I don't mean you were there, you remember, you remember reading about it. Okay Whenever they set up camp, anybody want to guess where that Ark of the Covenant was supposed to be? It was supposed to be smack dab in the middle of that camp. Every tribe they had assigned Areas where they were to set up camp. Every tribe circled around that center of the camp, and the Ark of the Covenant, the tabernacle, was directly in the middle. God was trying to teach an important lesson to Israel that their lives are to revolve around his presence and his person. Everything they did, all their work, their social life, every aspect of their life, the ark was the very center of it. Every aspect of the law of the life of the Israelites was to revolve around the presence and glory of God. If they were somewhere in the camp and they were going to go home, they had to go around the Ark of the Covenant. Their social life, they'd get together with their neighbors. The Ark of the Covenant wasn't far away. When they went to work, every aspect of their life, the Ark of the Covenant was uh was a very center. Now David As king, a man after God's own heart, he understood this precedent that God had set up right at the beginning of the life of the nation of Israel, that the Lord is to be the center of their lives. And so he's as king, he's looking at Jerusalem, the center, the capital of the city, the center of the nation, and he's looking at, and the Ark of the Covenant isn't in the center of the city. It's out there in the country, some guy's farm, sitting out behind the barn. And he says, this ain't right. This is the way God wants it. God doesn't want to be just set on the back shelf. He wants to be the center of the life of his people And so David, and a man, passionate man, stirred up for God, he loved the Lord, I'm telling you, whatever David did, he did it with all his heart. He says, we're getting that ark of the covenant. It ain't setting. It was something like this. It ain't setting out there no more. We're bringing into Jerusalem. We're putting it right where God wants it to be And the whole nation said, amen. And they all got fired up. Here's the problem. In his passion, he got careless. And he sent an art sent a cart out there. Remember the story? Sent a cart out there, and they set the Ark of the Covenant. Where the where the presence of God Almighty, they put the Ark of the Covenant on a cart and they start hauling it in. You know what they were doing? They were treating that Ark of the Covenant like it was a piece of furniture, like it was a sofa. We'll just set it up on this cart and haul it in. They treat it like a bunch of lumber. Well, load it up on the cart there, we'll strap her down and uh bring it in. I'm telling you, the Ark of the Covenant is not just a bunch of lumber. The Ark of Covenant represented the very presence of God. And David got reckless, and it cost the man his life. And so David stopped, and to his credit, he said, wait a minute, we did this wrong. He went back to scripture. He says, this isn't how it's supposed to be. The priests are to carry this in a very special and specific way. And so he learned from his mistake, he corrected it, they brought the Ark of the Covenant into the city of Jerusalem. And so that's the context here. Look there, look, come back to verse number one of 16. So they brought the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it And they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. So they got the thing where it's supposed to be. And now their worship of God is is beginning as it's intended to be, as it should be Right there in the middle of Jerusalem. As soon as that ark is in its place where it's supposed to be, David sits down and he pens this psalm. He pens this song. When the ark was where it was supposed to be, now David is saying, make sure you have the Lord in your life where he's supposed to be. Do you know Jesus until Jesus Christ is in your heart and life, you're going to have a hard time seeking the Lord. In fact, if I'm talking to somebody this morning, it's never been saved. Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? If I'm talking to somebody this morning, whether here in the auditorium online, somehow you're listening to my voice And you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Our text, verse 10-11, seek the Lord, seek the Lord, seek his face. That doesn't apply to an unsaved person. You know why? Because you're not seeking the Lord, the Lord's seeking you. The Bible says a person without Christ is without God and without hope in the world. And Luke 19, 10 says, the Son of Man has come. to seek and to save that which was lost. I'll be very honest with you. I wasn't too interested in the Lord and the things of God until I made a mess of things I started reading my Bible. You know what I found out? God had been seeking me the whole time. He had been working in my life. He had been knocking on my heart. door trying to get my attention and let me know how much he loved me and that he was willing to save a sinner like me And then once a person gets saved, then once I know the Lord, once the ark is in its place, once Christ is in my life, Now I begin to seek the Lord. I begin to seek his face. Are you with me? You follow my thinking here? And uh persons unsaved, their life is empty. Their life is without purpose. Their life is without meaning. But when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I have the very presence of God in my very life. That's an amazing thing. And David says, all right, we got the ark in place here. Now here's what we need to do. Here's how we need to get the Lord in the right place in our life. Verse 10 and 11 he says, Glory in his holy name. Now remember the ark is where it ought to be. The nation is excited. They're stirred up. They got things right. They got the ark in place. Glory ye in his holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Then he says this: seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face continually Seeking the Lord, seeking the Lord. Now here's my question. What does it mean to seek the Lord? Well, the word itself means this, to pursue something with intensity. The word seek means to uh uh man uh I want uh I have an object An objective, and man, I want it bad. I'm going to pursue, I'm going to seek to accomplish that objective. It means to uh to strongly desire something. The idea behind seeking the Lord has is this idea. It has the idea, I am going to determine to know God, who he is, what he's like, what he loves, what he hates. What he expects of me, what his characteristics are, what uh I want to know God That's the idea of seeking the Lord. Hey, when a person gets saved, you ought to start seeking to know who this Savior is that saved you. You ought to start pursuing after God and find this God that would rescue a sinner like me, what is he like? What does he expect from me Seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. It has the idea of determining to live in the presence of God. Determining to live in unbroken fellowship. I was thinking when they were singing that song. That stirred my heart, that song, to rescue a sinner like me. I thought when they were singing that, I thought of this Just an old wretched sinner. And Jesus Christ loves me and I call on him. He comes in my life and he forgives my sin and he gives me a new life. And then the Bible says that if I live for him, if I'll seek him, if I'll try to be in fellowship with him and live as he wants me to live, if I seek him, he'll bless me. And then the Bible says, when I get to the end of my life and I enter the presence of heaven, if I stay faithful to him, then he'll reward me. What an amazing God we have. He saves me from sin. He blesses me if I live for him. And then he rewards me when I get to heaven. I tell you, that's the best deal you'll ever find anywhere in this whole world. I'll say this, the devil ain't gonna do that for you. That was one of the best things you ever gave me, Wilbur I tell ya, seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what the Bible tells us? You ought to seek the Lord. You ought to seek after him, live for him, walk in fellowship with him, get to know your Savior, who he is and what he's like. Jesus took the disciples in. And uh for three and a half years they got to know what Jesus, who and what Jesus really was. They sought him, they learned of him, and then they went out in Acts and preached the name of Jesus in power. Because they knew the Lord. They sought him. And they know what he was. Robert, Charles Tindley, Tindley, T-I-N-D-L-Y, Tindley. Uh was a black preacher about a hundred years ago, I think. And um uh and uh uh He he wrote this song. His daddy was a slave, uh died, and and uh Charles got saved early on, called the preacher. They said he was a powerful preacher, dynamic, powerful preacher He was from Dublin, Maryland. How many people know where Dublin, Maryland is? I didn't either. I forgot to look it up But this is how he put, seeking the Lord, this is how he put it. Nothing between my soul and the Savior, naught of this world's delusive dream. I have renounced all sinful pleasure. Jesus is mine. There's nothing between. You know what he's saying? I'm seeking the Lord. I don't want anything between me and my Savior. He went on and put it this way, nothing between my soul and the Savior, so that his blessed face may be seen. Nothing preventing the least of his favor. Keep the way clear. Let nothing between. Nothing between, right? Worldly pleasure. Habits of life, though harmless they seem, must not my heart from him ever sever. He is my all. There's nothing between. Nothing between, like pride or station, self or friend shall not intervene. Though it may cost me much tribulation, I am resolved there is nothing between Charles Tindley was saying this, I want to seek the Lord with all my heart. I want to know him. I don't want anything in my life to grieve my God and Savior. I don't want anything to become between us and our fellowship. I want to seek the Lord. David got the Ark of the Covenant into the city of Jerusalem, right smack, dab in the middle, and he says, all right The ark is in the center of the city. Now get the Lord in the center of your life. And just like the city life revolved around the tabernacle, So our lives should revolve around the presence of Jesus Christ in our life. Are you with me? Seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. To seek the Lord means to fall in love with my God. To love the Lord with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. It means to apply myself, to learn everything I can about the Lord. I tell you what's tragic is you have people who claim to be Christians and they know almost nothing about their Lord and Savior. Would you agree with me? That's a sad state of being. Every child of God ought to get to know their heavenly father. They ought to seek the Lord. I tell you, I had my dad You remember moved down, he's with the Lord now two years, but he came down for about sixteen months. He was able to live down here with us before he passed away. I tell you, I've That's the most time I spent with my daddy that 16 months as I did the last 35 years before, 40 years before that. And I tell you, I got to learn my daddy in ways I never knew before And I tell you, that's what the Lord wants us to do. To spend some time with him. Get to know him, what he's like. Oh, you've heard things about God, but why don't you get to know him personally? Are you with me? Spend time with him. Get in his word. Spend time in prayer. Get around God's people. He says, seek the Lord. It means to fall in love with my Lord and Savior. It means to apply myself, to learn everything about Him I possibly can. David was passionate about seeking the Lord. David was passionate about pleasing him with his life. I tell you, when David praised God, he praised him with all his heart. He pursued the Lord. He sought the Lord all through his life. And he had imperfections and he had his times of failure. But he sought the Lord. I like the way the Apostle Paul put it He doesn't use those terms, but this is what he said. Paul said, for me to live is Christ. Now I stopped and I read that. I was studying this this week, and I thought, for me to live is Christ. Let me ask you this question. If you were going to make that statement, for me to live is and then fill in the blank, what would it be? What does your life revolve around? What consumes your life For me to live is my job. Everything of my life revolves around my occupation, my job. Some people might have to say that. Well, for me to live is sports. Everything in my life is sports. Everything in my life. For me to live is having a good time. I don't know. I venture to say right now there's some folks, there's a thought coming in your mind, for me to live is, and that thought's there. Paul said for me to live is Christ. It's my whole life. He's the one I love. He's the one I serve. He's the one I know. He's the one uh he's everything in my life. It's my whole life. It' Told purpose for living is to love and honor and fellowship and and and uh uh and serve Christ. You know you know what Paul was saying Saying I'm seeking the Lord. He went on there in Philippians a couple a chapter later, he said this that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto death. And he said this, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. And he says, I'm seeking the Lord with my whole life. Above all else, he wanted to know the Lord and please him with his life. How would you answer that blank? For me to live is, what would you put? Honest. What would be in there? Paul said, for me to live is Christ. For to live is Christ. You're here in Chronicles, 1 Chronicles, if you would come over to 2 Chronicles chapter 34. Now keep your place here. I'm going to come back to this. 2 Chronicles chapter 34, and this stirred my heart. I just read this in my devotions the other morning. And we're going through these various kings of Israel and kings of Judah. And uh a bunch of them did good, some of them did good, a bunch of them did bad. The northern tribes, their Israel, they tended to have uh wicked, evil kings and led the nation to do evil The southern tribe of Judah, the kingdom of Judah, they tended to have more good kings that did right and pleased the Lord. And in 2 Chronicles 34, if you would notice with me, verse number 1, we're introduced to a new king in Judah. He's in Jerusalem here. Notice it says, Josiah was how old? Eight years old. Would you agree with me? That's pretty young to be a king. Yeah. Uh uh eight years old. I got a granddaughter's gonna turn eight, I think In uh October. Eight years old, he's king of Israel. Now look what it says about Josiah Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem one and thirty years. Look what it says, verse 2. And he did that which was what? Right in the sight of the Lord. Do you know young people can do right? You know little children can do right Teenagers, young people can do right. He did. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the right hand or the left. Look at verse 3 For in the eighth year of his reign, so he's eight years old when he begins to reign, this is the eighth year of his reign. What does that make him? Very good. Man, we got an intelligent crowd here today. Very good. He's 16 years old. Look what it says. While he was yet young, he began to what Seek after the God of David his father. Here you have a young man, a teenager. And he decides in his heart and mind, he makes a profound decision, and he decides, I am going to seek after the God of my father David. Now David wasn't his direct father. He was an ancestral father. But he said, I'm going to seek after God. I'm telling you, if we had time to go through the life of Josiah in the following verses here, the difference that a 16-year-old boy who dedicated his life to Jesus Christ who determines he's going to seek after God, the profound impact he had upon his nation is outstanding. I'm telling you, one person seeking God can change everything. Can change a household. Can change a community, can have an impact on their school, can have an impact on their community, can have an impact on their nation Somebody gets on fire for God. The Bible says he's 16 years old and he began to seek after God. And you read down through there, it's impressive. He starts cleaning things up. He purged the land, he repaired the house of God, he ran the sodomites out of there. I mean you just go down through here and uh no holds barred, brother. He planted his feet on the word of God He says we're seeking God. We're doing this the way God says it should be done. We're loving God with all our hearts. And a revival broke out in the nation of Israel. 16 years old, he sought the Lord. He sought the Lord. I say in year 2022 in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need some folks, young and old, just determined, I'm going to seek God. I'm going to fall in love with God. I'm going to live for God. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. Jesus is my life. Seeking the Lord, seeking the Lord. A young person can dedicate their life to the Lord and have a profound impact on their home. David's writing. The very day they got the ark into the city of Jerusalem, he sits down, he pens this psalm, and he gives it to the song leader, Asaph. I want Israel to sing this song. And what he's saying is this, we've got the Ark of the Covenant in the center of the city. Now we need to get Lord Jehovah in the center of our lives. Seek the Lord. You know, uh we were down in Puerto Rico a number of years ago, Jimmy Shelton was our minist uh was our missionary there, and we had assembled a bunch of Romans booklets in our fingerprints ministry, several thousand And we shipped them down there, and there was a group of us that went down and uh helped Jimmy distribute these Romans booklets that we assembled. It was a tremendous blessing. And we went to one of the cities. There was just cities all over that area, part of the, he was on the western uh part of the island back then. And uh so we went out one morning, we had van full of ro Romans booklets, Spanish booklets, and I couldn't speak Spanish and uh and uh so uh I said, Jimmy I said, teach me some Spanish words so I'm not just a total moron. You know, hand these out. Just You know, I didn't want to do that. I wanted to say something. And so uh he says, all right, one thing you can say is God bless you, a Deus la bendega. I said, all right, so I'm walking around giving out these Romans booklets and I go up, oh Deus La Bendega, and uh Deus La Bendega, and I'm giving these out Deos La Bendega. And I notice I look back and the people in the street and they're all like, huh? Now I don't know how if I said it that way, but afterward I said, Jimmy, whatever I'm saying, I'm not saying it right. He says, why? I said they're all looking at me really weird after I say it He says, well what'd you say? I said, Deos La Bendigo, whatever. I said, he goes, he laughed. He says, you're telling them God has you for sale. So I stopped saying that. And we got to this one city, uh this town, a pretty good-sized city there, town, I guess you'd say, large town. And right in the middle, and a lot of them down there were this way, and I think it's characteristic through the Caribbean, is right in the middle of the town, there'd be a big Catholic church. I mean smackdab in the middle, just like the ark was in Jerusalem, just like the ark was in the camp of Israel, this Catholic church was right in the middle of the city. Now I don't know about you, but right in the middle of the city is a good place to have a real church. Don't you think? I mean right smack dab in the middle. Have a good gospel preaching. Now this was a Catholic church. Now here's the point I'm trying to make. They had a quote-unquote church in the middle of the city, but I'm telling you, the Lord was not in the center of that city. Do you know you can have a church right in the middle of your neighborhood and yet the Lord not be in the middle of your life Well, I let you can have a Bible. You can have a big black King James Bible sitting right in the middle of your living room on that coffee table. You can have it right smack dab in the middle of your house But if Christ isn't on the center of your life, it's not going to do you much good. Just having that Bible sitting there. Are you with me? Alright? You can carry a Bible around your back pocket, but if you're uh if the Lord isn't on the throne of your life, it's not going to do you much good. So they needed, David says, all right, we got the Ark of the Covenant in the middle of the city. It's right where it ought to be. Now let's get the Lord in the middle of our life. Let's seek the Lord. Let me give you a few thoughts and I'm going to finish. To seek the Lord, number one, we've got to remember God's past goodness. Look with me there at verse number 8 and chapter 16 of 1 Chronicles. Come back to our text. David starts this psalm off. They just got the Ark of the Covenant there. He sits down. Very first thing he comes off his pen in writing this psalm. Give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name, make notice deeds among the people, sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of his wondrous works Very first thing, if I'm going to seek the Lord, get the Lord in my life where He needs to be, I need to be grateful for God's past goodness. Great motivation to live for God is remembering the good things He has done for us before. I don't know about you, but I think about God rescuing a sinner like me. I look back, God's been awfully good to me. And what a shame it would be. What a shame on me if God saves my soul from sin in hell. And God gives me a new life. God gives me eternal life. And then I just brush him off to the side, and I don't put him in the center of my life. I don't seek him. Shame on me. And David says, listen, you give thanks to God. God's been good to Israel. God's taking care of us. And I'm here to tell you, God's been good to us. Israel forsook the Lord when they forgot his goodness. And I see Christians over these 29 years here at Mountain Lake and in the years before in the ministry. I've seen folks come and get saved, and God delivers them from sin, and God gives them a new life, and God blesses them, and a little time goes by, and they forget how good God has been. And they forget all that God has done for them, and they take for granted the blessings of God, and it's not long they start wandering farther and farther and farther from God. Do you follow what I'm saying? And David is saying, listen, you come back, give thanks to God. Don't you ever, ever, ever forget What God has done for you. Don't you forget how good God has been in saving our souls from sin and hell. That's why I like these old hymns. I tell you, we sing these old hymns, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. I tell you what these old hymns do. They stir my heart and they remind me how good God has been to me. I was talking to Brother Harry here a little bit ago. He said, you pray for me. We sing these hymns. He said, it gets my heart. And I say, amen. Don't forget how good God's been. I'll tell you when we stop seeking the Lord, it's when we start forgetting how good He's been to us. And we start griping around, and we start griping about the gas prices, and we start griping about this, and we start griping about that, and we forget we could be in hell right now And God's been good to us. And David says, Thank God. Thank God. I believe if I'm going to seek the Lord, get the Lord where he ought to be, I need to remember how good he's been to me. You know what God does? I like this statement. God takes the messes of our life and makes them miracles. I'm glad that when a Christian falls, our God is so gracious, He can step down and pick us up and help us go on for Him. Don't forget how good God is. So number one, he says to them, seek the Lord. To do that, you've got to remember God's past goodness. Don't forget how good God's been for you. Do you don't forget all that God has done for you? Dedicate your life to him. Seek Him, love Him. Please Him. He's been good to us I said this, we're coming up in September, the 60th anniversary of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has been good to our church. You say, oh, uh, but we always say this, he's not good to us because we're wonderful, he's good to us because he's wonderful. And if we as a church ever forget how good God's been to us, we're on the road to destruction. We've got to remember. Number two, put this down: rely upon unfailing promises. Rely upon God's unfailing promises. Look at verse number 15. Be mindful always of his covenant. That's God's unconditional promise. The word which he commanded to a thousand generations, even of the covenant which he made with Abraham, and his oath is to Isaac. He has confirmed the same to Jacob for a law and to Israel for an everlasting covenant, saying unto thee, I will say saying, unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance, when ye were but few, even a few and strangers in it. God says I've made a covenant with you, I've given you promises, and I have kept those promises to Israel. And David says, you keep you rely upon this God that's faithful in his promises. Here this is what I want to say. On this thought. Our God is a promise-keeping God. God keeps his word. And I'm telling you, we can rely upon the word of God. God promises that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, I'm glad God keeps that promise. Whosoever can call on the name of the Lord. He promised that he would give eternal life to those that call on him and they would never perish. I'm glad God keeps his promise. Listen The assurance of my salvation is not based upon how good I am. The assurance of my salvation is based upon the integrity of God's word. He has promised he'll never perish. I give unto him eternal life. God has promised us we can rely upon our promise keeping God He has promised never to leave us nor forsake us. He has promised us that we confess our sins. He would forgive our sins and Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He has promised us that if we acknowledge him with all our heart, he'll direct our paths. Our God is a promise-keeping God I might be preaching to someone, maybe you messed up recently. Sin has come in like a flood, and you think, I've failed God. I'm here to tell you, God promises if we confess that sin, He is faithful to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He can and will restore us. I love Proverbs 24, 16. Just man falleth seven times and rises up again. God promises us. Our God is a promise-keeping God. We ought to seek Him with all our heart Relying upon God's promises eliminates any fear of seeking God with all our hearts. I like what Wilhelm Carey said. William Carey said: the future is as bright as the promises of God. Tell you what, if you're listening to social media, if you're listening to that stupid media out there, if you're obsessed with what's going on in Washington, your future is pretty bleak. But you get your eyes off of that garbage and you get your eyes on the Word of God, you get your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm telling you, our future is as bright as the promises of God. Jesus is coming back again. We ought to seek him with all our heart. He's promised us that. So, number one, if I'm going to seek the Lord, I've got to remember the goodness of God. Number two, I need to rely on the unfailing promises of God. Real quickly, I need to rest on God's continued faithfulness. Look at verse number 20 David wrote this down. And when they went from nation to nation and from one kingdom to another, people, talking about the name of Israel, he suffered no man to do them wrong. Yea, he reproved, reproved kings for their sakes. I'm glad our God stands up for us I'm glad when the devil comes in like a flood and he begins to mess with my head and mine, I'm glad Jesus Christ steps up and says, I am an advocate for this person and Jesus stands on my behalf before Almighty God and he won't let the devil touch my standing with God Faithfulness, relying upon the continued, resting on the continued faithfulness of God. Our faith is often tested, but God's faithfulness never fails. This past May, it was 43 years ago, I trusted Christ as my Savior. Can't believe time has flown by. This week I was thinking back over those 43 years. Since that night I knelt by my bed, what a profound event that was in my life. And many of you can say the same thing. I look back over those 43 years. And I see some awful, awfully great mountaintops where just everything was glory and everything was blessing. But I also look at there were some awfully deep low valleys. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And brother, there was times when it was dark And it was fearful, fear on every hand. There were some times when the sun was shining spiritually, so to speak. The sun was shining and the day was beautiful, and there was some days that sky was dark and that storm was raging. I'm here to tell you, 43 years of walking with the Lord, I'm here to testify, God is faithful. He's been faithful to me. And I can seek him with all my heart. And I can dedicate my life to him. And I can say, Lord, I'm yours. I'm seeking you. I'm giving my love and life to you to live for you. God's faithful. God's faithful. I spent 19 years with the devil I spent 43 years with the Lord. I'm telling you, I wouldn't trade one minute of the Lord with 20 years with the devil. Or vice versa. The Lord's faithful. You're here and you've got sin in your life and you're horsing around in your Christian life And you're flirting with the world, I'm here to tell you, you're flirting with someone that is unfaithful to you. This world is unfaithful. God is faithful. David said, seek the Lord. We got the ark where it's supposed to be. Now let's get the Lord in our lives where it's supposed to be. Seek the Lord. And last of all, I am with this. I seek the Lord means I need to reveal the glory of God's salvation. I like this. Look at verse 23, and I'll end Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Look at this next statement. In fact, I circled that next word in my Bible. Sing unto the Lord all the earth, show forth from day to day his what? Salvation. Declare his glory among the heathen, his marvelous works among all nations. That's missions. Taking the glory of God, showing the salvation of God into all the world. Listen, I don't think you can seek the Lord if it doesn't somehow involve spreading the gospel. Share the gospel Repeat, relay, reveal the glory of God's salvation. By the way, it's kind of interesting. He says, show his salvation. Now I do that with my lips, but I ought to do it with my life. You know, my life ought to match what my lips are saying about the Lord. Tell you what does a lot of harm, the cause of Christ, people talking about the Lord with their lips and then living it for the world with their life. That's a mixed message. He says, show salvation with your life and with your lips how you live. So David says, I got the ark where it's supposed to be. Now let's get the Lord in our lives where it's supposed to be. Bunch of us, I'm convinced, our church is convinced, this old King James Bible is God's word. I believe God has preserved his word right in that old King James Bible, right there. I believe that with all my heart. A bunch of us, we got the right Bible under our arm. But do we have the Lord in the center of our life? With me? Follow what I'm saying? When's the last time you spend a little time, just you and the Lord, in his book When's the last time you got on your knees before God and said, God, I want your will done in my life? I want you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I did wrong. This is wrong. It's sin. I confess and I forsake you. Lord, I don't want to live for this world. Lord, I want to be a, whatever your occupation is. Lord, I want to be a good Christian mechanic. I want to be a godly secretary. I want to be a Christ-honoring truck driver, whatever it may be. Lord, I want to seek you with all my heart. I read about a fella, got his name here, Rob Cutshaw from North Carolina. He lived in um, what was the town? Andrews, North Carolina. I don't know where that is. Rob Cutshaw in Andrews, North Carolina, was a rock collector Now he wasn't a professional, he wasn't an expert, but he was he would go out and dig and do you know and find different rocks and gems and different things and he'd clean them up and he'd sell them. He had a rock Store. He'd sell these rocks and these different types of stones and stuff he'd find. One day he never did tell where he got it. He was out and um He came across this large rock. And he said he never sold enough really to pay his bills much. He did it kind of as a hobby, job hobby. cut wood and mow grass do odd jobs to kind of help pay the bills, but he really enjoyed this rock collecting business and selling them. Over 20 years ago, he found a rock. He never said where it was, but he said it was pretty big. And it looked awfully nice. And he took it home. He cleaned it up and He tried selling it, put it out on display, and tried to sell it. Somebody asked him, what do you think it's worth? He says, well, I figure it's worth probably $500. I doubt I'd get that much for it, but maybe five hundred dollars. Put it out there, nobody would buy the thing. In fact, he got kind of desperate, and if someone would have given him a hundred bucks, he'd have sold it to him for a hundred bucks. Nobody bought it. He put it in his closet for a while, and then he hid it under his bed for a while. He thought it was something, but he didn't know exactly what it was. Finally, one day, he took it to an expert, and they cleaned the thing up and they chiseled away it a little bit. And they found out that he had found the largest, most valuable sapphire that had ever been found. They took that thing and they studied it and they cut it and they broke it open and uh they called it the Star of David Sapphire. And when they were done working that thing and cleaning it up, it weighed almost a pound the sapphire down inside that rock And the expert who cleaned it up and cut it and did all that, he said, you could sell this thing easily for $2. 75 million. You can look it up, it's legit. Here he was carrying this rock around that he thought maybe I'd get a hundred bucks for, and the thing was worth millions. You say, what does that have to do with seeking the Lord? This is what I think. Every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we've got something in our heart and life that is so more valuable than anything this world has. And let's take our lives and let's put them in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ, and He may cut away and He may chip And he may buff our lives a little bit, but if we'll seek him with all our hearts, I'm here to tell you he can make our lives something that will count for all eternity. We got Christians hiding their testimony under their bed, carrying around the presence of Almighty God, and treating it like it's an old rock. Let's seek the Lord with all our heart. Let him have his way. Let's confess and forsake the sin and shout out for God. And ask him to use us. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless us. I pray, dear Lord, you'd stir our hearts to seek you with every ounce of our being, just like David challenged Israel. Help us, Lord, to seek you. Lord, we've got a good church. We've got the Word of God. You've blessed us in so many ways, but now we want you to be the very center of our lives I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's any this morning would say, Preacher, I need to seek God more intensely than I have. I need to take my walk with the Lord much more seriously And you'd say, pray for me, preacher, that I'll begin to seek the Lord with intensity. Any like that? You know what it might begin? God bless you. You know what it might begin with? Just determining, spend a little bit of time every day in the Bible praying, letting the Lord reveal Himself to me, letting the Lord teach Himself, uh teach me about Himself. How many people would say, preacher, by God's grace I'm going to be more faithful in my daily Bible time And be more faithful in my daily devotions. God bless you. I'm telling you, that's a turning point. Just a little bit every day will be profound. Maybe faithfulness to church Maybe dealing with some sin that has crept in and say, I've got to get that out. I gotta get this thing right. And just getting the Lord where he should be in our life. Is there someone here this morning, say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. And I need the Lord to save me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord to save me and give me new life. Father, I ask you to bless our invitation now. Help us to take this seriously in Jesus' name.