Got Lord's Supper. I know the teens and parents have a meeting in a little bit. And we're just going to look at a couple verses here. If you'll keep your Bibles handy, I really want to go to a number of verses. I want us to look them up and look at them. But also if you have a pen and paper or something, I'll have a couple things I want to give you to jot down that I think will be helpful now and maybe in the future. So there's some things I get I like to put in the margins of my Bible. I want to go back and reference them in in uh in the future. And maybe these uh some of these thoughts might be something like that This evening. And uh Solomon, it's um it's disturbing, isn't it, how far a good man can fall How far somebody that knows God and and walks with God and has God's hand of blessing and power upon them, how quickly and how far they can fall from the presence of God. And Solomon is a is an amazing story. Solomon's story is an amazing story, but is a tragic story. To see how he fell. If you'll remember, just to recap the first six chapters of the book, he is recounting in a sermon. I think he's preaching a sermon to the in Jerusalem. And he is recounting to them his thinking and the processes in his life that led him to the point that brought him down. And if you remember, he starts out saying, Vanity of vanity, always vanity, vanity and vexation of spirit. And he pursued wealth, he pursued education, he worked hard, uh. He went into all kinds of debauchery and wickedness, trying to find fulfillment and purpose in life under the sun. with the exclusion of God and he came up empty-handed every single time. Chapter 7, now he's gone through some lessons and he's still speaking, he's given some things. that he's learned from that. And I think tonight's passage in particular, it's important to remember that Solomon is approaching this from under the sun. Now again, what do we mean by under the sun? That's a key phrase through the through the book. And again, just somebody help refresh us. What is under the sun? By that he means what? Just life on earth, as if all that you see, hear, feel, and smell, that's all there is. There's nothing beyond it. Now he acknowledges God. He he you know throughout the book he acknowledges God's presence, God's reality, God's existence. In fact, there's a couple places he says, you know, I can't escape God. I go everywhere I go, I run into God. And so God's work in his life. But he's trying to live his life as if God is not a factor. I guess the way you could say it is this He's trying to live life independent of God. And I'm telling you, a life lived independent of our Creator The one that we're designed to know and love. We try to live a life like that. It is going to be vanity and vexation of spirit on every hand. And so now he makes an interesting statement. We're here, and he's given some of these observations, and he says this, verse 23 of Ecclesiastes 7. All this have I proved by wisdom. What he said up to this point, we've already preached to him. I said, I will be wise. But look at his next statement. But it was what? It was far from me. Under the sun. He's wanting wisdom, but God's not a factor. And he says, far from me. Look at verse 24. That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out? He's saying, there's things that in life I don't understand that don't make sense. And I'm telling you, if we take God out of the equation, there's a lot of stuff that doesn't make sense. A lot of things can't be explained. You've got to come up with bizarre theories that we evolved from other animals and stuff if you remove God from it. But when you put God, when you put God in the equation, it all adds up. It all adds up. So here he is. Now look at verse 25. I applied mine heart to know and to search and to seek out wisdom. What's he looking for? Looking for wisdom. Remember back there in verse 3, I said, I'll be wise, but it was far from me. I applied my heart, verse 25, to know and search and seek out wisdom and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness. And so he's seeking wisdom, wisdom for life. Let's have a word of prayer. And I want to share a few thoughts here as quickly as I can with you. Father, I thank you for recording the book of Ecclesiastes. Lord, as some of the things here are little Little dark Lord, and we see him from a world's perspective, but I pray you give us heavenly wisdom and that you would teach us and that we would be successful in our Christian lives and not a failure. And so please fill me with your spirit. Please be our teacher tonight. I give myself anew to you, Lord, and pray that you would uh uh help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's an interesting thing about Solomon was early on. He understood the importance of wisdom. And here we are, even when he's away from God, he is about as backslidden as a person can get. Yet still he understands that wisdom is very, very important in life. He understood the danger of foolishness, even though he was acting foolish. He was thinking foolish. But nevertheless, he understood it. Now I want us to go to some verses. So if you have your Bibles handy and We'll just try and get as far as we can tonight. But come back to First Kings chapter number three. First First Kings chapter number three. If you'll excuse me for drinking a lot of water, then I always hate it when preachers drink water in front of you. It makes me thirsty when I look at them. But uh my wife made some fantastic pork chops for lunch, and I kind of overdid it. And now I'm very, very thirsty, so look at your Bibles. Don't look up your Bible. Look at verse number five with me. David has died. A little uproar there in the kingdom after David died, a little confusion, but God has his plan, and Solomon is now in place. And in verse number 5 of 1 Kings chapter 3, the Bible says, In Gibeon the Lord appeared unto Solomon in a dream by night. So Solomon's the new king. He's just moved into the White House. And God shows up in this dream and look what it says. And God said, Ask what I shall give thee. Ask what I shall give thee. Huh. If God showed up to you and said, what do you want? What would you ask for? What do you think most people would ask for? A gazillion dollars. Look what Solomon says. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy. And according as he walked before thee in truth and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart with thee, and thou hast kept him, and thou hast kept for him this great kindness. That thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king. Solomon speaking of himself, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father. And I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. That's Solomon's assessment of himself. I have no experience. I have no idea what how to go out or come in. I don't know what I'm doing. I think he's saying something like this, I'm in over my head And thy servant, verse 8, is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered or counted for multitude. Now here's his request. Now think about what most people would ask, what you and I might ask. This is what Solomon asked. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart. to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge so great a people And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. What did Solomon ask for? In one word. Wisdom. Wisdom. I tell you. You're early on in Solomon's life and he understands the thing I need in my life more than anything else is wisdom. Is wisdom. If you would turn with me to Proverbs. Again, Solomon is the human penman of Proverbs. He's, of course, God's moving on him and writing these things down, but nevertheless, it's coming from Solomon's mind. As God moves them. Proverbs chapter 4. And I'm telling you, one of the most, I think, significant verses in all of Scripture is found in Proverbs chapter 4. I want to begin reading in verse 5. It says, get wisdom. This is Solomon. Get wisdom. Get understanding. Forget it not. Neither decline from the words of my mouth. Forsake her. Now he's personifying wisdom. Forsake her, her being wisdom. Forsake her not And she shall preserve thee. Love her, and she shall keep thee. Look at verse 7. This ought to be underlined in our Bibles. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. Then he goes down, he praises wisdom. Exalt her, she shall promote thee, she shall bring thee to honor when thou dost embrace her. She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory, shall she deliver to thee. Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of thy life shall be many. Did you catch verse 7? Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. Wisdom is the principal thing. What does he mean when he says it's the principal thing? The word principal there means the highest. It's the chief, the supreme, the highest priority. And God is telling us that one of the most important characteristics we need to have, one of our greatest needs in life, is the need for wisdom. Wisdom. Only a fool minimizes wisdom. Wisdom's the principal thing. If you would turn over to chapter 8, and we could go to scores of passages along these same lines, but I want to highlight a few. Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 11. Wonder how many people in the world, maybe even in our churches, would think this way that Paul Solomon says in chapter 8, verse 11. For wisdom is better than what? rubies. And all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. Do you catch what he's saying here? Rubies, he's talking about precious, valuable jewels. And he says wisdom's far better. Anything in the world you can desire doesn't even come close to how valuable wisdom is. Wisdom. Wisdom. Chapter 16. We'll go to one more here. Chapter 16 and verse number 16. I wonder again how much how many people in the world would think this way. But look at verse 16 of chapter 16. How much better it is to get wisdom than what? Gold. And to get understanding, rather to be chosen than silver, wisdom and understanding, according to God's word, is of greater value than gold and silver. Gold and silver. So my point is this. Solomon says in chapter 7 of Ecclesiastes, down there in verse 23, he says, I sought for wisdom. I'm looking for wisdom. And from right the beginning of his of his ministry, so to speak, when he became king, he understood the value, importance, and wisdom. The value and importance of wisdom. And that tells me that I, along with all of us, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to pursue wisdom. If that's the principal thing. If that is more precious than gold and rubies is wisdom, we ought to have an all-out diligent pursuit of wisdom A lot of times when I walk out after everybody's gone, we'll know around and I really enjoy after the service standing around talking and and gossiping and stuff. And um no, I'm not gossiping. But uh talking and horsing around a little bit. But we go back there, if the guys are still back there counting money, sometimes I'll stick my head and I'll say, well how's it look? I say, oh, it's a good day today. Praise the Lord. Good offerings. Good faith promise. And I walk out, praise the Lord. I wonder if there would be a way to somehow not look how well how much money uh is in the account or well how much money depositing. I wonder be a way to measure somewhat how's the wisdom today? How wise were we today? The Bible says that's greater value than the gold and the silver, the wisdom. How wise did we act? How wise did we behave? How wise were we in our communication, our interaction with each other? What was our level of wisdom? True spiritual success requires wisdom. I cannot be a success spiritually and be a fool. Cannot be foolish and be strong, healthy, mature in in in uh spiritually. I've got to be wise. Genuine lasting happiness, and there's passages all through Proverbs that to that mention this And throughout scripture, genuine lasting happiness requires wisdom. Wisdom. Oh, fools can laugh. I think there's a passage we looked at earlier. It talked about the cackle of fools Like thorns in a fire snapping and just cackling and fools can laugh, but I tell you, it takes wisdom to have real genuine joy. And deep-seated happiness. Fools don't have that. Fools don't understand that. Um, and by the way, 99. 999% of your stuff on TV is fools laughing Is fools laughing. I put this down. Now you might have to think about this a little bit. I believe this is true. Biblical salvation begins with wisdom. Biblical salvation. Psalms 53. 1 says, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. Some Bible scholars say that that implies in that there is no God, and also includes this thought in the wording there is no God Saying no to God. You know what salvation is? Salvation is saying yes to God. Saying, yes, Lord, I'm a sinner. I'll tell you, one of the wisest decisions a person makes is to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I remember I got saved. Did I ever tell you about that? May 7, 1979 And then in the next couple of days, uh, and I don't remember how this was, but I remember thinking and s making the statement to a number of people, talking about me trusting Christ, I said, for the first time in my life I did something smart I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Wisdom. So Solomon understood the importance of wisdom. Now come back. I got a couple minutes here. Let me Let me get us started in this passage here. He says, All this I have proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise. So Solomon, my first point here I put in these verses here is Saul's desire. I will be wise. He wanted to be wise. But under the sun, it was futile Uh uh he's trying to be wise, independent of God, but he says it was far from me It was far from me. That phrase far from me has this idea. It's actually used in several places to describe someone going to another land, another continent. Is so i it's this idea, I I I uh I will be wise, but it's so far out of my reach Under the sun, without God, excluding God, I can't reach wisdom. I can't reach wisdom. I tell you, we live in a world that is grappling for wisdom. And it's like a blind man in darkness just stumbling around, and it's out of this world's reach. If we if you exclude God from your life, And you're going to try and be wise. It's out of your reach. You're not going to find it. Then he comes over there in verse 24. He says this, that which is afar off. He's kind of repeating what he said in verse 23. And exceeding deep, that word exceeding deep comes from the same word we get our word abyss. Almost like a bottomless thing. He said it is so far deep down there, I can't get down to it, I can't reach it. And so his desire is for wisdom, but it is so far out of his reach. And then I put number two, his determination, verse 25. I applied my heart to know and to search and to seek out wisdom. He's pushed God out of the picture. He wants to be wise again. He wants to have that wisdom he once had, but it's out of his reach. It's so deep he can't get down to it. And so he's working harder. He's applying himself His mind was full of questions, we read down through here, that he could not answer. You know what I found out? There's a lot of things in life that don't make a lot of sense. Anybody know I'm talking about? There's a lot of questions in life I never really find the answer to. And Solomon's trying to find these answers, and he's trying to solve these questions, but he's pushed God. So far out of the picture, he said it's like trying to reach for something that's on another continent. It's trying to get something up out of a deep abyss. I can't get it. I can't get it. Oh, Solomon knew how to get rich without God He'd get rich. He knew how to get an education. He was highly educated. He knew how to build buildings. He knew how to indulge in pleasures. Boy, he knew how to get the most out of the most base pleasures. He knew how to work hard. But he did not know how to get wisdom without God. Without God. You know, you look at this fallen world. How many people have ever seen some wicked, perverse people that have absolutely made millions? Some of the most wicked people in the world know how to make money. Some of those wicked people in the world can build incredible buildings. And do amazing things. Some of the smartest scientists in the world are absolute fools when it comes to spiritual things. This world has a lot of worldly wisdom under the sun, but Solomon says, I need answers. And I can't find them. I can't find them. His determination. He could not find wisdom. He could not get answers under the sun. Now this is what I want it to lead up to is give you how do I get wisdom? How do you and I get wisdom? If it's the principle face, Hallman says, I need that more than money than anything else. Now he's gotten away from God, he's grappling for trying to get wisdom. So how do you and I get wisdom? Let me just buzz through these very quickly. And you might want to jot these down. Number one, I put this, desire it intently. Desire it intently. I get that from Proverbs chapter 2. I just wish we had more time. Verses 1 through 7. Let's at least do this. We might not get all these. Come over to Proverbs 2. And verse number one. Proverbs two, verse one. My son If thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, look at this, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom. And apply thine heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searches for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Look at this, verse 6. For the Lord giveth what? Wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. How do you get wisdom? Number one, I think we need to desire it intently. Let me say this. If a person doesn't care about wisdom, about being wise, they're never going to be wise. You don't stumble upon wisdom. You don't just happen to find it out in a field or somewhere It's something I need to desire. Did you catch what he said coming down through here? Look at verse 2. He says, pay attention. Incline thine ear into wisdom. Pay attention. Listen. We can gain wisdom all around us. Listen very carefully. Then he says, apply yourself, apply thine heart to understanding. Then verse 3, pray for it. If thou criest after knowledge, liftest up thy voice for understanding. Pray and ask God. Then pursue it, verse 4. Indifference and laziness does not produce wisdom. If we want it, we've got to want it badly. I was reading about Socrates, the old Greek philosopher. And one of his students came to him very humbly, very respectfully, and they said, Mr. Teacher Socrates, I would like for you, I would like to make a request And Socrates, what is your request? He says, Mr. Teacher Socrates, I think they called him Master Socrates, I would like for you to teach me wisdom. I want to be wise. He said, follow me. And they walked down to the river and they walked out about waist deep, the story goes, and they stood in the wood in the water there, the two of them. And uh Socrates said to the student, now tell me again, what is it you want? He says, Sir, I want wisdom. I want to be wise in my life. I do not want to be foolish. The story goes, Socrates took them by the net, and he forced them under the water, and he held them under the water for 30 seconds. And he let him come up and the student came up, gasping, he says, now what is it exactly you want? And he says, honorable teacher, I want wisdom. He says, you want wisdom? Yes. And he took him by the neck and he held him under this time for 40 seconds. The guy struggling and scrambling. Finally let him up and the fellow gas. And he says, tell me again, what is it you want? And he says, Sir, I want wisdom. He took him by the neck. This time he held him down for 60 seconds. Finally brought him up and the student is gasping and gasping. He says, what do you want most? And he says, right now, I want air And Socrates said this. He says, when you want wisdom, as badly as you want air, you will find wisdom. And I think that's what God is saying to us here to some extent. When we understand the value of wisdom And it becomes such a high priority in my life. Did you catch there, he says, when we seek it as those that seek after silver. How many folks here are going to get up earlier than you would? than you would if you had your choice. You're going to get up early tomorrow and go to somewhere you wouldn't go if you had your choice. But because you want a paycheck, you're going to get up early and you're going to go somewhere and do something you'd rather not do. How many folks? Yeah, a few honest people here. Why do you do it? Because I want silver. I want that money. Every day there's people all around the world doing stuff that they don't like doing at places they really would rather not be at ungodly hours, but I want that money. That money is important to me. I'm willing to sacrifice, to invest time, uh uh, and to uh um uh dis uh convenient inconvenience myself so I can get that money And I think God's telling us when we get to the point where I want to be wise in life more than I even want that money, then we can find it. Am I making sense? Am I making sense? So we don't have time. I'm going to stop. There's about three other things I think the Bible tells us that we can do to get wisdom. But I think if we can get a hold of this one thing, understand how important it is to be wise. And I tell you, if a young person like these young people sitting up here, if somebody like this, how many folks older folks wish we could go back to this point here and know what we know now and go back to that point there How many people make some decisions differently? Some people told me, oh, if I go back and live my life, I wouldn't change a thing. That tells me you didn't learn nothing. Go back made the same stupid mistakes. But what I'm trying to say is this, if a young person like this can learn the value and importance of godly wisdom, how different would their life be? How different would an adult to learn wisdom and learn to understand what is right and what is wrong and what is good and what needs to be done. Wisdom is the principal thing. So here's my prayer tonight. Here's the invitation. Let's ask God to give us wisdom And let's ask God to make us so hungry for biblical wisdom, so hungry for it, we're not satisfied with anything else So I'm wise, so I have God's wisdom. And there's a lot of other things involved. One of them I really wanted to get to, and I'll just say it now. Wisdom is found in Christ. Colossians says he is he's the personification of wisdom. And so knowing Christ and being in Christ is a source of wisdom. And there's a couple other things. But let's tonight ask the Lord to make us hungry. Make us hungry us hungry. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless these thoughts and use them in our lives. I want to be wise, Lord. I look over my life, the past. I see such foolishness. And Lord, we want to be wise. I pray for our young people. You've instill in their hearts an intense desire for wisdom from above. Godly, heavenly wisdom To lead and direct through their lives and give us as a church and as individuals a desire for that wisdom. How many people say, preacher, I am going to pray with you that God would give me a hunger for wisdom. Whatever stage of life we're in, but I want God to give me wisdom. Any like that? How many, maybe the Holy Spirit stirred your heart tonight That's what I want. I don't want to be foolish. I want to be wise in my decisions, my actions. Father, bless our invitation tonight, I pray. Give us that hunger, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed up