After five is out brother Tom and I went over to uh Terra Alda this afternoon, this evening and gave out some tracks. We're going door to door. It's a girl g I was going down It's the side of a mountain hill there and man every house had fifty steps going up and I'm walking going up and Tom had the easy part and I had the hard part. And um but anyway I gone up and this girl is Screen's knocked out, so screen door, the top screen part's knocked out, and she's kinda leaning on it, talking on her phone, just half out the door. And I'm coming up these steps And uh she goes, Who are you? I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman. She goes, Are you Jehovah's? I said, No, I'm Baptist. She said, okay, come on up. I said, all right. I said, I'm full-blooded Baptist. And she says, okay, good. I thought you were she said, if you were Jehovah's Witness, I'd have run you off I said, well I'm Baptist. So it's fun. Galatians five, verse number nineteen is where I want to begin reading. I just think this portion of scripture here, if we understood this, it would help us understand a lot of our own behavior. Did you ever ask yourself this? Did you ever do something, ask yourself, why in the world did I do that? Anybody ever say anybody ever do this? Say something, and then afterward you say, why in the world did I ever say that? You know, this passage here helps us understand why we do these things. Notice verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness. Lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulation, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders drunkenness, revelings, and the such like, the which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God, but The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such There is no there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affection and lust. If we live in the spirit, let us also walk in the spirit. Let me back up here a little bit, and there's another passage verse here. Notice verse 17. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. Notice that's a capital S, talking about the Holy Spirit There is a conflict that goes on in the heart and life of every believer. That is a conflict between the old nature, what's referred to here as flesh. And the Holy Spirit indwelling us, the new nature that's a result of the indwelling Holy Spirit. And that word lusteth there, it means a desire. The flesh wants to control my life. And the Holy Spirit wants to control my life. And these two are contrary to one another. Then he gives the characteristics of if the flesh is in control, than the characteristics of the if the spirit is in control. Now at the end of verse 21, he says, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. What he's talking about there is that if that is characteristic of my entire life these works of the flesh, then that's an indicator that I've never been saved. I don't have the presence of the Holy Spirit. But you go back up to verse 17, We have this conflict going on, uh the battle between the flesh and the lo and the spirit, and uh uh that explains a lot of our behavior. Now we've been talking about this little series on sins that you and I become very comfortable with. We get all worked up about these big sins, and we should be about the sins of our society But we become very comfortable with some sins that are a result of the flesh part of us. And uh we explain them away, we become uh we justify it. And so sometimes it gets to the point we don't even recognize that sin in our life anymore. But nevertheless, it grieves the Spirit of God greatly. So one of those sins we're going to look at tonight is selfishness. Selfishness. Let's pray. Father, uh, bless our study tonight. This isn't a pleasant subject, um, and uh it's easy for us to see this in other folks. But Lord, we need you to show it in our own lives. I need you to show it in my life. And so fill me with your spirit. Speak our hearts on this important subject. Lord, we want our we want to be as individuals and a church thoroughly right with you. God, we want you to be able to work through us and bless us without any hindrance. We don't want to grieve your spirit in any way. So help us to be thoroughly right with you is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know, it's possibly possible. Did you notice there the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, patience, kindness. It is possible to Be doctrinally correct and yet not exhibit fruits of the Spirit. It's a very possible thing. In fact, the church at Corinth, uh, were they were they spiritual or carnal? Carnal, obviously. But Paul says to them, You have not fallen behind in any of the gifts of the Spirit. They had all the gifts of the Spirit. Their problem was they didn't have the fruit of the Spirit. They had their P's and Q's right as far as doctorally concerned, and they had always gifts, but they didn't have the fruit of the Spirit. It's possible even to be morally upright, but not have the fruit of the Spirit. Uh I got looking at the works of the flesh here, and I think if I was going to summarize these works of the flesh in one word, I would call it selfish. All these things here are a result of being selfish. The flesh is very, very selfish. And I can be doctrinally sound, I can be morally upright. pure and good and all that as far as my morals are concerned, honest, and yet still be very, very selfish In fact, it's possible for a person to be doctrinally sound, morally upright, an upstanding person in the ministry or whatever, and yet be very comfortable with the sin of selfishness. Not too long ago, it's been a few months, I was talking with an older preacher, is a good friend, and uh he was telling me about one of my heroes in the ministry that he had worked with And uh I said, well, tell me about what about him personally? What do you know? What was he like personally? And he told us a lot of things, and it was interesting, and he made an interesting statement. He said, this person, great preacher, has passed away now. He said he had a tendency to be very selfish. He said you could see that in his personal life. And he said he was aware of that, and he constantly battled the fact that he had a tendency to be selfish. And that surprised me at first. I thought, man, I wouldn't picture that person as being selfish. And he said a few things and gave a little several anecdotes that had happened, and uh I could see what he was saying. It's possible to be, have a tremendous influence, and yet still be a selfish person. And uh as as ironic as that seems, I want to give you just a few statements. I want to encourage you if you have a pen or pencil, pen pencil or pen and paper and jot these down. Here's the thing, and I'm going to say this probably several times through the message, and this is true for me as it is for anybody, but it is very easy sometimes to see selfishness in others. And fail to see it in ourselves. Selfishness is a unique sin that the person that is Afflicted by it very seldom is aware that they are afflicted by it So let me give you a few thoughts to jot down. I already prayed, right? Yeah, we prayed. Okay, good. Number one, jot this down. We are born with a selfish nature. We were born with a selfish nature. If you're a parent, you know that that is true. I never yet have met a parent that had to teach their children how to be selfish. What's one of the first words a child learns? We've said this often. What's one of the first words a child learns? Mine And in fact, when we had the boys, you know, and we were living in Colorado at the time, and the boys were going through their toddler years, and um we'd have friends over and whatnot, we would practice the boys sharing. And I tell you, that took hours and hours of practice to get them to share. And we'd have to go through that. You know why? Because sharing doesn't normally come natural. To a child. It would be selfish. Uh I wonder how many little babies ever laid in bed and they were a little bit hungry, but they thought, I'm not going to cry because mommy really needs rest. And uh I I don't wanna be selfish and uh I I never heard a baby say that, have you? N I never heard a baby say anything, to be honest with you. But uh Uh we have uh we are born with a selfish tendency. Now, as we get older, by the way, selfishness, I believe, is the chief characteristic of our sinful nature. Wasn't that uh somewhat Satan's sin when he said five times Isaiah 14, I will, I will, I will, I will. It's being selfish. He wanted the glory that God was getting. And so our chief characteristic of our sinful nature is selfishness. Here's the thing: as we get older A lot of times we don't get less selfish, we just get more civilized in expressing our selfishness. You can be very politely selfish. Do you know that? Some people are very good at that. And so we're born, number one, we're born with a selfish nature. Number two Even after salvation, the sinful nature and selfishness must be dealt with. Even after salvation, the sinful nature must be dealt with. How many folks here, after you got saved, you found out you still had a sinful nature? Yeah, it doesn't take long, does it? And uh I've got that old sinful nature. I'm saved, God is the Holy Spirit dwells within me. And um uh he's there and he's working and changing me into a new creature, but at the same time, I still live in this flesh. I still have this old sinful nature. And man, that battle is going on constantly. And my sinful nature wants to be selfish. Salvation does not eradicate the sinful nature. Now, praise God, someday at the rapture, we're going to get glorified bodies. That old sinful nature is going to be gone, and uh we will no longer be self- have to deal with selfishness. But until then, we have to deal with it. Number three, selfishness is often difficult to identify and deal with. Selfishness is often difficult first to identify it in my own life and then deal with it. It's easy to see selfishness in others Um in fact that's probably what 90% of is. When people gossip about others, they're gossiping about the fact that they're what? They're selfish. Oh, I can't believe how selfish he is. And uh go on like that. We can see it at others very easily. Some people are very crass and very obvious in their selfishness. Others, as I said, are very uh very civilized, very smooth, but they're selfish non the sa nonetheless. Um selfishness varies and fluctuates in its degree in different people, uh in its expression Sometimes we tend to be more selfish certain periods of of life, certain stages of life. We have a tendency to be more selfish toward no stages of life uh certain uh uh physical condition we're in. How many folks here have found out that when you're sick you tend to be a little selfish when you're sick? Yeah. Uh so man, you're laying in the hospital, and uh every now and then I'll visit a hospital and there's more the probably than what I'm acknowledging tonight, but I'll visit someone and they'll be in a hospital and say, boy, this is just so wonderful. Everybody treats me so great. And the nurses are just a wonderful and great. And I'll hear that occasionally. But you know what I usually hear at a hospital I want to get out of here. This is terrible. They had me up all night. They're poking. And uh we have a tendency to be that way. And so it fluctuates. But let me give you four under this thought here that um it's difficult to identify uh and deal with in our own lives, let me give you four areas where Christians tend to be selfish And maybe that will help us evaluate. Now, I'm not giving this tonight so that you can figure out if the person beside you is selfish or not. Alright? We're not dealing with this so you can figure out whether the person in front of you or behind you is selfish or not. This is so we can figure out am I comfortable with selfishness in my life? Alright? Is everybody on board? Everybody doing all right out there? Everybody okay? Don't be selfish. Listen to me. And um uh number here's so here's different areas, four areas that Christians struggle with selfishness. First of all, in our area of our interests Things that interest us. If we're not careful, we can be very self-absorbed. Uh boy, our whole uh all our thinking, all our talking, everything has to do with what we're interested in. And we give little attention to what maybe someone else is interested in. How many folks brought your Bibles with you tonight? You got your Bibles with you tonight? Let's use them. Go with me, if you would, to Proverbs. I read this in my devotions. um a couple days ago in the morning and it fit right in with this message. Proverbs chapter 18 By the way, a good practice is to read a chapter of Proverbs each day. That corresponds with the day's date. Proverbs 18. Look with me if you would at verse number two. Proverbs 18 and verse 2. Notice what it says. Now you pay attention to the wording here, and then I'll come back and I think you'll see what he's saying. When a fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself Now I've read that probably a hundred times or more. And I never really gave it a lot of thought. I thought, hey man, that's good. I didn't really think what it meant. I read it the other morning and I got looking at that. What is he saying here? I think this is what he's saying. I think he's dealing with selfishness, the foolishness of selfishness. A fool has no delight in understanding what another person's going through. A fool has no delight in understanding what that other person's life maybe consists of, what that other person is dealing with. The fool doesn't have uh any delight in that. He could care less what the other person is going through. He has no delight in understanding, maybe even what that person's trying to say to him. The only thing the fool wants to do is discover his heart. Now, I don't think he's saying here to go and find out what's in my heart. It's the idea of revealing what's in his heart All the fool wants to do is tell everybody what he thinks. He doesn't care what anybody else is going through. He doesn't care what they're dealing with He's not worried about understanding their struggles and their trials and their situation. He could care less about that. All he wants is them to know what's in his heart. Just what's on his mind, what he's interested in. A fool is self-absorbed. His or her world revolves around themselves And there's no interest in the interests of others. If they're not interested in what I'm interested in, then I'm not interested in them If they don't have the same type of preferences and something that I have, well then I don't I just want them to know what the way I see it So a fool, there's foolishness of being selfish in this matter of interest, not being interesting others. A foolish selfishness You know what's good for us sometimes is just stop and listen to what someone else has to say. Show some interest in what other people are interested in. My wife uh enjoys uh doing uh different I'm trying to think of something my wife is interested in that I'm not interested in. And um I can't think of anything. I'm the perfect husband. And uh but uh sometimes somebody's interested uh uh let's say she sh all right, here's something. She She likes uh going to like Goodwill's and thrift stores and stuff like that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, I love that. Not. Uh and so you know what's good for me sometimes? It's good for me just to uh sh okay, sure, that would be great. Let's do that. And we go and look at every single dress on the rack. And uh I'm I'm digging a hole here, aren't I? But it's good for us just to show some interest in what they're interested in. And she's great the other way. I like fishing. I love fishing this time of year. And uh how oh you wouldn't believe the fish I caught and she's there. Yeah, that's interesting. And um uh but you know we gotta show some interest. Open up. I I don't know why I'm saying all that stuff, but I need marriage counseling, I think. 2 Timothy chapter 3, the first five verses, we won't bother to turn there, but he says in the he gives the characteristics of the last days. And one of the characteristics of mankind, society, in the last days, is lovers of their own selves. In other words, they're self-absorbed. Hey, that's possible. If we're not careful, that's possible to take place even in a ministry. Dr. Williams travels, he talks to preachers. You know what I found every preacher wants to talk about? Their ministry. And that's true, and and I naturally do. You know what I tried to start doing this? If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out to you. This is the truth. Um that came into play yesterday, but uh I got get called for missionaries. And uh, you know, missionaries They have a whole lot of issues they're dealing with for themselves. They're trying to get that support. They're in the process of making huge changes. And I started several years ago, I started when I get a call for a missionary, I want to try and talk to them a little bit. I had called the other day. And uh I said, and I'll ask for several things. I tell them a list of things I need I want this and this and this, send that to me, regardless of what they are, send it to me, I'll look at it. And then I always ask them this, how's deputation going? How's your family holding up in deputation? I don't know them from Adam. And you know what I found out? That missionary starts pouring out. Somebody is interested in what they're interested in. Oh, it's going good, preacher. We're this and that. We've been out for I got a guy the other day Been out for five months and we're up to 20%. And say, how's your family holding up? Oh, they're doing kid good, man. The kids. And uh they're just finally somebody shows some interest in what's going on in their world. And we have to learn not to be selfish and realize that person across from us has things going on in their life. And so uh some way one way we have a tendency to be selfish isn't this matter of interest. Let me put this one down. Uh here's another area. In our investment of time. Time is a precious commodity. Some people have what we call discretionary money They have so much money that they have some that they can spend at their discretion. They can just do what they want with it. And that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. I think I've found a nickel under the sofa the other day that's discretionary spending. I can do whatever I want with it. And uh no, I'm kidding. Uh I didn't find a nickel. Um But some folks have discretionary, what you call discretionary money. They've got a good amount of money. They can, here's a thousand bucks, I can do what I want with it. But very few people have discretionary time. Time is precious. We all have the same amount. We can't ever get more, and every one, every bit that's spent never comes back. And so there's a real tendency sometimes to be very selfish with our time. I don't have time for that other person. I don't have time for that ministry. I don't have time to do this for the Lord. And if we're not careful, we can get very, very selfish. In our use of our time. This is my only day. And I understand that. And I'm I'm in the same shoe sometimes. But we need to stop, step back, and say, wait a minute, how how how generous am I with my time? Our our um interests, the investment of our time. Uh most, I would say, and this is probably true for all of us to some extent, most of our time is invested in ourselves. To be very frank. Now, understandably, some of that we don't have a choice. We've got to work. We need to provide for the family. But uh you look at how we use our time, a lot of times most of it's on us. And there's another area that's been suggested that we have a tendency, Christians might have a tendency to be selfish on, investment of our money. Um uh time and money are gifts from God. You say, preacher, my money, I earned it the old-fashioned way. No, you didn't. God made it available for you. God gave you the ability to earn it. God knew that. It's all a gift from us. And how we use our finances indicates our level of spiritual maturity. We're spending it all on ourselves and giving it all to ourselves and and all of it is me, mine, mine, and me, and none of it is for the Lord or to help others, and uh we have to be very careful. Here's another one that strikes home Is inconsiderateness. In other words, not being considerate of others. My wife and I have been talking about this a good bit the last couple weeks. Um somebody says something like this. I don't care what anybody thinks. Now, a preacher will say that, and I've said it some degrees, and I don't think I mean it, and I don't think sometimes we say it, we mean it the way it's meant. In other words, somebody says this. All he cares about is what people think Actually, to some degree, that should be true. Because I want people to think accurately about what is true. I want people to think highly of my Lord. I want people to think clearly what the gospel is. I would like for people to see my life and say, yeah, that's what God does in the life of a believer. So to some extent, yes, I do care what people think. You follow what I'm saying? In other words, what I think sometimes what people mean is this. When they say I don't care what anybody thinks, I think what they mean is I don't care how my words and actions affect others. I don't care how my words and my actions influence other people. I don't care what anybody thinks. Now that's awfully inconsiderate. Because it's possible to say things that hurt people. It's possible to do things that hinder the cause of Christ. And that's very selfish. For me not to care about what I say, how what I say and how I behave, to not care how that affects other people, that is very, very selfish. Now, what we mean I think when we say I don't care what anyone thinks in a positive sense, what we're I think what we mean by that is I'm not going to let someone else's opinion determine what I believe is right and wrong. I'm not going to do wrong just so people like me. That's what we mean sometimes. You know, I don't care what anybody thinks. Uh maybe what we mean behind that is You know, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna compromise my preaching or my living just so people like me. But if we're not careful We get the idea, hey, I don't care what I say or do. Somebody says, I just speak my mind and let the chips fall where they may. That's awfully selfish. You can hurt people deeply. You can scar the testimony of Christ very deeply by not caring. How my actions affect others. That's very selfish. So these are areas we have to be very, very careful about. You know what I found to be true, and I hate to admit this, and I found it across the board. You know where we tend to be most selfish at? At home? At home. It's where we tend to be the most inconsiderate. We'll say things to we'll say things to people we love. We'll say things to the people we say we love that we would never say to a total stranger. We'll use a tone of voice to our family members that we would never use to somebody we'll never meet again in our life Why do we do that? It's inconsiderate. And it's the root of it is selfishness. It's my flesh. And, you know, we get comfortable with that. And I believe, I'm not, I'm preaching to me as much as anybody, I believe it grieves the Holy Spirit deeply. I believe it hinders our prayers. I believe it hinders God's blessing. Selfish. You don't think about it. We don't hear much preaching on that. But it's a comfortable sin. A husband can be very inconsiderate to a wife. A wife can be very inconsiderate to her husband. A parent can be very inconsiderate of their child. Sometimes we as parents say things that hurt our kids. Do you know that? You idiot. Many stop and think about that for a minute. Be considerate. Let me talk to the kids. Kids, you can hurt your parents deeply. A child can say things to and about their parents that hurt their parents deeply. That is inconsiderate. That is selfish. And so I hate to say it, but the home is often where we're the most selfish, we're the most inconsiderate. Let me give you the last one to write this down real quick. Jesus Christ is the greatest example of unselfishness there is. Jesus Christ is the greatest example of unselfishness. Corinthians 8 tells us that though he was rich, Yet for our sakes, he became what? Poor. He is the greatest example of unselfishness. He gave up the glories of heaven. So that you and I could simply have the opportunity to be saved from sin and hell. It's amazing. It's amazing. Our flesh is so corrupt and is so sinful and so selfish. But the Holy Spirit of God, the Bible refers to him sometimes as the Spirit of Christ, dwells within us. We have the potential to be very unselfish because Christ is in us. We've got to die to self, we've got to mortify the deeds of the flesh, yield to the Spirit of Christ, and let Christ live his unselfish life through me. And I'll tell you, what a blessing. What a blessing. More selfishness has destroyed more marriages. Can I suggest to you, selfishness has destroyed more marriages than mistresses have? Selfishness has destroyed more marriages than the other person. Selfishness has destroyed more marriage more ministries than Hollywood ever will. Selfish in a ministry. Selfishness has destroyed more testimonies than any other sin, I believe. A Christian being selfish. Well, we didn't even talk about how we drive. Selfishness has divided more churches than false doctrine ever has. Somebody gets selfish And it puts a wedge. It's amazing how people can tolerate false doctrine, but they won't tolerate some sinful characteristic in someone else. In that sand and split a church wide open. I believe it's a sin of the flesh. I believe it grieves the Holy Spirit of God. And every one of us has to deal with it on a regular basis. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I pray you would help us to die to self. God, it's such a struggle. Help me as pastor. Help us all the way down to the smallest children. Help us to recognize this sin in ourselves. We see it so easily in others. We fail to see it in our own selves. And I ask that you would help us, help me, in our homes, in our church, in our community To die to self and let the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gracious, kindness, goodness, let that be characterize our lives. We ask for your help. Our heads above.