That's fascinating. Thank you, Brian. If you would take your Bibles and turn to James chapter five. This is not a Christmas message tonight either. I'm just going to uh I think I'm just going to give the introduction tonight so we we shouldn't be too long. Of course the message was three hours long, so the introduction will only be an hour or so. Um but uh no I just uh I want to give you some thoughts from James chapter five. I want to read the first six verses. And uh how many people like being in church on Sunday night? I d I I don't know about you, but I would be uncomfortable if I wasn't in church on Sunday night, regardless of what's going on where else. I just I'd be uncomfortable. So I'm glad you're here. Look at verse number one. Go to now, ye rich men. Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and ye shall eat your flesh as it were fire Ye shall heap yo ye shall ye have heaped treasures together for the last days. Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth And the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton He have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. He have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. Wow. What a what a indictment here James makes against these rich men. And so for lack of creativity on my heart, I just entitled the message Selfish Hearts and Corrupted Riches. And uh we're just gonna get the first thought tonight and then we'll uh kind of break it down maybe next Sunday night and look at it. Let's pray together. Father I'm grateful for the folks, made the effort to come out tonight, and I know it was uh a little treacherous out there. We pray for those that sincerely would be here, but uh understandably they didn't risk it and so we ask you to bless them at home. Maybe they're listening in on the internet. And but uh whoever's tuned in, we ask Lord you'd use your word and speak to our hearts God, my prayer tonight from this passage of Scripture is that we would have a biblical perspective on riches and on money and possessions. And so, Lord, I need you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask again you would, as I present my body anew, and pray you'd uh help us on this matter. You've been awfully good to us, Lord. You've you've We've been so prosperous and uh we want to understand um that correctly, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody said if money talks, all it ever says to me is goodbye. Can I get a witness? This portion of scripture here, James is addressing what we would call In our day and age, we would call it materialism. How many folks are familiar with that term, materialism? How many people in your you you feel like in your mind you understand what materialism is? Anybody here, you kind of you have a concept in your head what materialism is. Materialism, and I just want to take a few moments, I think this is all we're going to do this evening, but I just want to address this matter of what materialism is and what it is not. Materialism, when we're talking about it and as it's addressed here, it's not simply owning material things. Material possessions are not wrong in and of themselves. There is nothing sinful about owning things. In and of itself. There's nothing. Materialism is not simply having money or lots of money. There's nothing wrong or sinful in and of itself. Money in and of itself. Financial prosperity does not equal sinfulness. I think we understand that, and I've tried to emphasize that over the years. There's nothing spiritual there's no virtue spiritual virtue in being poor. Right Just because somebody's poor, it doesn't give them more grace or anything. And there's nothing inherently sinful or wrong or wicked about being wealthy. Materialism is not owning stuff. Materialism is not having materials or having money. Materialism deals with my attitude. towards money, my attitude towards things. And so my first thing I want to emphasize this evening, the first thought I want to emphasize this evening is In and of itself, having money, and even having lots of money, having personal possessions, is not simple. In Exodus chapter 20, verse 15, one of the commandments is thou shalt not steal How many people agree it's wrong to steal? Some countries, and uh I think down in Dominican, a couple places I've been over the years, the whole concept The society's concept of stealing is if you leave it out and I'm able to take it, it's not stealing. It's your fault you left it out. Well, that's missing the point of what God's saying. Stealing is stealing, whether it's left out or not. But imply, now think with me, we've got to use our brains here a little bit tonight. Think with me Implied in that command that I should not steal, it implies that it's okay for somebody to have it in the first place. Right? If it's wrong for me to steal Mark's pickup truck, that should not steal his pickup truck, then the implication is God is fine with him having that pickup truck. So the idea is this, having stuff, owning something, uh is not necessarily wrong. Possessing things is legitimate Turn with me if you would to Acts chapter 4. We're going to look at a number of verses here. I want to establish a thought here. In Acts chapter 5, I'm sorry, in Acts chapter 5. In Acts chapter 4, we find people own stuff. They have property. These are Christians. They're members of the early church. They own property. They have private property. I'm convinced the Bible teaches that it is good and right for people to own private property. I think God is for that. God encourages that, particularly through the Old Testament when Israel was settling the promised land. And notice in so chapter four you have people own property. You get to chapter five. We have these two uh this couple here and and they're a piece of work here, Ananias and Sapphira. And just to summarize what's happening, I think probably most of us are familiar, but basically what's happening here, the church is growing, and uh I mean they are just multiplying amazingly, miraculously. And of course, along with that growth comes what? Needs. They need facilities, they need resources and all that So people get stirred up and they're uh excited about what God is doing. They start selling off property, start selling possessions And they start giving it to the church, so the church has these resources to do what this growing church is doing. Well, I didn't iris and Zafire get on this and Folks are selling stuff and bringing it in and they're being recognized. So they decide to do the same thing. So they sold some property. And what they did was they came to the church and they said, We sold our property, and here is all the money we got for the property, and we're giving it to the church. The problem was, they did what? They kept some of it back. So maybe they had 25 acres and they sold the 25 acres, let's say, for $100,000. And so they brought in $75,000 and told Peter and the leadership there, here is all the money for the property we sold. And of course they were doing what? They were lying. And in fact, they're lying to the Holy Spirit here. And then you get, look at verse number four, and Peter confronts them about this. The Lord reveals to them that they're lying And Peter confronts him and he says this: whilst it remained, was it not what? Thine own. Nowhere does he say it is wrong for you to have that property It was not wrong for them to sell that property. They could have sold that property and pocketed the $100,000 and did whatever they want with it, and that would not have been sin, that would not have been materialism So he says here, while it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thy heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. And you know the story they go on, and Sapphira says the same thing, and God strikes him dead. Their sin, this is the point I'm trying to make, their sin was not in having property. Their sin was not in having lots of property It wasn't wrong for them to sell it and get money and make profit on it, perhaps. Nowhere is that condemned at all. Their problem was they lied. So this is not, Acts chapter 5 is not an indictment On materialism, it's not an indictment on having money or having possessions. What they're being uh judged for is for lying. Turn with me if you would to 1 Peter. I'm sorry, 1 Timothy And here he talks a good bit about money and riches. 1 Timothy chapter 6. And I want to begin reading in verse 6. 1 Timothy chapter 6, verse 6. Are you there? Notice what it says. But godliness with contentment is great gain. That's good advice. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry we can carry nothing out. How many people knew that? We didn't bring anybody I you know, none of our kids were born with a wallet, you know, and full of money. They they keep they were born with nothing. And um and we go out the same way. Thus, verse 8, and having food and raiment, let us uh let us be there with content. There's the same there's one word used twice in that passage. Anybody pick it up Content. I circled that here. Let us be content. Godliness with contentment. Let us therewith be content. I get the impression God wants us to be what? Content. That's good. Now look what he says here. But they that are rich doesn't say that. They that what? Will be rich. Now you have to be careful here. It's not somebody that knows they're going to become rich. This is people who what? Those that will be rich. These are folks that are not rich, but they want to be rich. That word will there means a desire to have. These are folks that probably don't have a whole lot, and I get that from verse 6, 7, and 8. Saying, be content with what you have, godliness with contentment, but these are folks, they don't have a whole lot, but they're not content. They want to be what? They want to be rich They will be rich, but they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition for the Love of money is the root of all evil. Which while some covet it after, that comes back to that statement, those that will be rich, they're coveting it. They're uh coveting uh um uh after those riches, money. Uh they have erred from the faith, piercing themselves through with many sorrows. The point he's making here is it's possible to be materialistic and not have very much materials. Right? These are folks that are not content with what they have. They probably don't have very much. Again, as I said, it's my impression reading here, and he's trying to encourage them. Listen, just be content But these people are not content. They want to be rich to the point that they start making foolish decisions. They fall into temptations and snares. And I want to say, I'll put it in my own words, what I'm reading here is they are starting to compromise what is right so that they can get what? Rich. Rich. So nowhere does he condemn having stuff. He doesn't condemn living in a nice house. He doesn't condemn driving a nice car. He doesn't condemn having lots of money. He says, listen, whatever state you're in, you be content there. You'd be satisfied when you start coveting riches, when you start thinking, I've got to have more than I have, and I've got to I want a bigger house, I want more of this, and I want to be rich, I want to be rich, I want to be rich When you get that in your head, then you're facing you're going to face temptations you would not face if you were content. You're going to face snares you would not face if you were content Now, let me back up a little bit, and I'm probably saying a lot of obvious stuff here tonight, but uh that does not mean it's not wrong to try and maybe get a little better job, a job that pays better. There's nothing wrong with that There's nothing wrong with trying to advance yourself and maybe saving money up and maybe get a little nicer car and maybe have a n uh be able to buy a house someday or whatever. So now he's not saying that's wrong. He's saying when that possesses me, when I begin coveting that and I begin compromising things, then materialism is creeping in. Materialism is the wrong, I'll put, this is my statement I wrote down. Materialism is the wrong valuation of money. It's the wrong valuation of material things. That is the root of all evil. When I put too high a value on a thing And I get too high a value on that, now I am falling into the area where evil is going to take place. That type of thinking. When I put too high a value on a dollar. And suddenly that dollar is much more important to me than it ought to be and has a much higher priority in my life than it ought to have in my heart. Now I'm entering in the realm of materialism. And that is the root of all evil. Having a wrong valuation of money or material things has destroyed a lot of testimonies. I've been around for a little while and we've seen folks come through and maybe and uh I'm not trying to address any situation at all, but sometimes folks come through and Maybe they don't have a job or they're just scratching to get by. And I've seen this sometimes and they had a r and they're just having a tough time and they're just barely hand to mouth. And they either get saved or maybe they get things right with God. You know what I found out? When somebody gets saved or somebody gets right with God, if they don't have a good work ethic, sometimes God changes that and now they've got a good work ethic. And God changes them and they work harder and they're more productive and they're more committed, they're more responsible, and they handle their finances a whole lot better than what they did before they were saved. And uh they begin to develop a little bit of character, a little bit of discipline, a little bit of integrity there. God's changing them, and suddenly they run into finances that they did not have before And you know what I've seen happen? Suddenly that money becomes more important to them than the very thing that enabled them to get it And that finances and that stuff and that car and that four-wheeler and that and that dress or that credit card or that shopping trip or whatever, suddenly that replaces their relationship with the Lord and it turns into materialism And they they have a wrong valuation, so it destroys testimonies. I've seen it destroy relationships When money or a thing or an object or something material becomes more important to me than my relationship with Tom or uh or Ken or Ed or somebody when that When that object, that money, that material thing is more important to me than my relationship with my brother or sister in Christ, then that is becoming materialism. I'm exalting, I'm placing a higher value on riches or material things than I am on my brothers and sisters in Christ, and I have a wrong valuation of that. You follow me? Then that is coming into the realm of materialism. When I see ministries destroyed, I think God has blessed our church with folks that give very generously to the work of God. And I trust that myself and the team and the trustees and whatnot try to be very, very careful and we try and use it for God's glory. I don't know if anybody's getting rich off of it or anything. And uh but I've seen ministries over the years that God blesses them and they begin to grow and the finances increase and suddenly the focus is no longer on souls, the focus is no longer on the glory of God. Now the focus becomes we gotta get money. And more money and more money. I'm thinking of a Christian college, a good one. It's no longer in existence. And uh they got in tight finances and they were struggling financially And every time I was with the pastor and and uh every time I would preach there or whatever, it was the whole uh conversation of everything was finances, finances, finances. We got to get more students so we can get finances. We need more stud And it had changed from we need students so we can train them to go out on the mission field. We need students so we can train them to be preachers and soul winners and Sunday school teachers and busworkers. It changed from that was we need students so that we can pay the bills. And suddenly paying the bills, the finances became more important than the training of the ministry. You follow what I'm saying? And that type of thinking, we have to be very, very careful. And that can become materialism when things replace my relationship with God. What is the biblical perspective on money? What is a biblical perspective on material things, on the house, the car, the whatever? How do I have a biblical perspective? I have one word that I think uh captures it and explains it Uh very very simply. Stewardship. Stewardship. Now we don't use that term a whole lot. We don't use the term stewards. uh like we uh like it once was. But a steward is somebody who is entrusted with something that is not theirs But they are entrusted with that to care for it and use it the way the owner wants it to be used Jesus spoke about stewards in the and in the gospels. He would use them often as illustrations of spiritual truths, and sometimes a steward had a farm. He didn't own the farm, somebody else somewhere else owned the farm, but he brought the steward in and he would care for that farm and take care of it and use it and plant crops and whatnot uh at uh uh the way the owner wanted it And of course he could live off of that and use some of it for his own well-being. That to me is a perfect picture of what God considers our material things and our riches and all of that to be. We are stewards of it. Some people have this idea. The money my make, the things I have, it is all mine. I can do with it what I want to. And that's obviously what? That's not biblical. Some people have this view. My possessions, my money, my finances, my riches. 10% of it is the Lord's, and the 90% is mine. 10% is the Lord's, 90% it's mine, I can do what I want with it. That's better, but that's still not a completely biblical view of riches. The biblical view of riches is this. None of it's mine, it's all God's, and I simply trust God and follow his instructions what to do with it. That's stewardship. I was trying to think something in our uh culture that we might grasp a little bit. Property manager Is there anybody here that's property manager? Ever anybody here ever do that property management? I'm not sure this exactly fits in. But the way I understand what a property manager is, somebody at the lake, a rich guy up in Pittsburgh has a place at the lake and he'll hire a property manager. And they'll come in and they'll take care of it and cut the grass, make sure the pipes don't freeze in the winter, and if there's guests in and out, they'll do that. Am I right? Is that Cindy Property Manager? And so it's not their house We have a member here that years ago was a property manager at a huge mansion on the other side of town and Bob and Glenda and would take care of the huge mansion out there and Uh they had in many ways very free access to the place. They took us over there and show us around and different things and and um he didn't own it, it wasn't his, but he could use it and whatnot, and he took care of it. That's the way it is with us with And our possessions. God says, I entrust uh Robin Bonner with X number of dollars and these material things and these possessions, and I entrust them to her, and I'll lead and direct her how to use them and whatnot. And so that's the idea behind that. So that means a person could be very, very wealthy, I mean very wealthy, and still be right with God. Right? It's not mine. God entrusted me with it. A perfect example of this is Job. Job was. . Job was. Job, if I understand my Bible correctly, Job was Donald Trump rich in his day. I mean, really, the guy had bucks, big bucks. And uh but he recognized it's all the Lord's. And when everything was taken, when he lost everything, and we you understand, everything In a day's time, you know what his statement was? The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He understood. It's the Lord's. He can do with it what he wants to. I'm simply a steward to use it for the purposes God has given to me. And so a person could be very, very wealthy. And could uh have tremendous resources and be thoroughly right with God if they're doing it the way the Lord is. Are you still there in 1 Timothy chapter 6? Come down to verse 17. I know a lot of us, this is old stuff, but I'm laying the groundwork for what James is going to address here. Verse 17, 1 Timothy 6. Look what he says this. Charge them that are rich in this world. Now we're going to watch very carefully. We come down through here. Nowhere does he condemn them for being rich. Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not what? High-minded. Nor trust in what? Uncertain riches. But in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy Here's men that are rich in this world. He says, listen, you need to be very, very careful. Don't you start trusting in those riches. You keep your trust in the Lord. You keep your faith in God. You keep your loyalty and commitment. You keep the Lord where he needs to be. Don't let these riches become materialistic to you. And then notice he says there, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things joy. He says, God's the one that gave you those riches. He's entrusted them to you. Now you use them as God instructs. Notice verse 18. That they do good, and that they be rich in what? Good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. In other words, you're saying God has given you these riches. Don't put your faith Don't fall in love with the riches. Don't you hold on to that and exalt them too high and get a wrong valuation of these riches. No, no, no. You keep your faith in God, you keep your love in the Lord, and then as necessary as God directs, you be willing to distribute. You use it for what God entrusted it to you with. Laying up, verse 19, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. You follow what he's saying That you and I are stewards. To some, God gives a different amount. To others, it's not as much But we all have the same responsibility to not fall in love with things, not fall in love with stuff. By the way, I put in the margin my Bible by side verse 17, charge them that are rich in this world. The margin of my Bible, I wrote this little statement. Most Americans. It's most Americans right there are rich in this world. That's the truth. I'm thinking of somebody I was working with in the last couple years, and um I think by anybody's standard they're extremely wealthy. And we were talking one time about something and they were kinda and they were kind of put off a little bit and they were talking about these rich people. All these rich people that uh And I'm thinking I look at my wife, I said, Yeah, these rich people, that'd be you guys. And uh I mean they're treble but they didn't see themselves as being wealthy. And so anyway, just scratch that. But um Most Americans here. And so uh um uh materialism is replacing uh having things having a wrong valuation of these things. It's not the amount of possessions I have or don't have that determines my standing with God. It's my attitude towards those possessions. Let me ask you three questions real quick I'm about done here. Let me ask you this. Let's ask ourselves this. Let me put it this way. Let's ask ourselves this. Am I content with what I have? You say, well, I'd like to have a little nicer this. I'd like to step this up. It'd be nice if I get a that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But if that never comes about Are you content with what you have? If I can't answer yes to that, then I'm on the verge of materialism. I can't say I'm content with what I have. I have to really stop and evaluate. You say, yeah, but I'd like, that's fine. There's nothing wrong with improving ourselves But underlying basis is I must be content. So my first question is this: Am I content with what I have? I have a second question for us to answer. Am I using the possessions God has given me For the purpose He gave them to me. Am I using the possessions that God has given me, the resources God has given to me, and are they being used for the purpose they have given me? And I use this illustration sometimes when preaching about faith promise. We pray, and I believe we sincerely seek the Lord about what we should give to missions. And we trust by faith that God is going to meet that and provide that force. Now here's what happens sometimes. I'm positive this happens sometimes We pray, we trust God, we make the commitment, Lord, by faith, the next 12 months I'm going to give X number of dollars a week. And lo and behold, God comes through and he provides that. And Saturday, before the time is to put the offering in on Sunday, Saturday shows up and a bunch of guys take a trip to Cabela's. I've got that money for my faith promise, and boy, there's a really nice new hunting knife. And what I do is I take that money that God gave for me That I trusted him by faith to put to missions, to get a missionary in Kazakhstan or somewhere around the world, and I take it and I use it for that hunting knife. That is materialism. That's where that hunting knife or whatever, fill in the blank, becomes more important to me, a higher value, a higher priority than what that money God intended for that money to give. Here's my question: Am I using my possessions for what God Gave them to me, entrusted me with for the purpose they were given to me. Number three, here's a good question. Here's a third one. We're talking about materialism. When God But let me put it this way when God and gold are in a conflict, who wins? When it's that ball of money in my pocket or it's God, who has priority? Who who has the final say? Who wins that conflict? I put it this way, uh, is doing right or gaining riches the winner when God and gold conflict? Who wins that conflict? So number one, am I content with what I have? Number two, what I do have, am I using it for the purpose God has given to me? Or am I just consuming it all myself? Number three, when God and gold conflict, who wins that conflict? Is it God or is it gold? Now we're going to be on we're just a small crowd. I won't tell anybody, alright? So however we respond, I won't tell anybody if you don't. How many people here ever the offering plate went by and there was a certain something you felt in your heart you probably should put in But you thought, Good night, that's my last 20 hour bill. And uh that plate goes by and you say, Man, uh And you just plas passed the plate on by and you didn't put it in. Come on. Anybody here ever some uh three of you are honest. And uh sometimes that goes by. Uh you know what, you know what? Gold won in that conflict Here's a funny thing. Put twenty bucks and I'm not trying to boost the offering. That's not what I'm saying at all. But we he this shows you how we how we can drift into materialism. 20 bucks on an offering plate seems awfully big But we'll go to Walmart and blow away twenty bucks like that and never think anything of it. Right or wrong? You know what that tells me? I've got some materialism in my thinking. Where God and gold or stuff and the Savior, stuff and the gold wins out a lot of times. So we come back to James. And I want to in the next week, Lord Willen, we'll break this down, and I want to look at this a little bit. But James is not condemning riches. When he says, go to, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. He's not saying they're weeping and how they're going to weep and howl because they're rich He's addressing the materialism of these guys who are preoccupied with their riches. I looked up the word materialism, a preoccupation with or an overt emphasis upon material aspects of life, money, possessions, comforts, or pleasure. With the neglect of or the rejection of spiritual values. In other words When money and stuff has a higher value to me than my relationship with God or my relationships with God's people, I am becoming materialistic. And we have to be very, very careful. You notice here, we'll break it down as I said, but here he's talking about you rich men, weep and how, and you come down and you find out in verse 4 and verse 5 Their love for money, their value of material things was higher than their value of their relationship with others, and they were burning others so they could get stuff. And God condemns them. That's materialism. And so he makes a very, very sharp, sharp statement here. When money and stuff has a higher value to me than my relationship with God or my relationship with others, that is materialism. Let me throw this out while we're talking about it. The abuse of credit cards can be a form of materialism. Where I am valuing the immediate gratification of some desire I have, and in so doing, I am valuing that higher than my future well-being or my ability to invest in the things of God. I am committing temporarily to something that God may have other plans for those resources down the road. You follow what I'm saying? There's a lot of people and I work with mission boards a little bit and and ever once I tell you what there's a lot of people that God has called them to the mission field and they are hindered to getting the mission field. Because they ran themselves so far in debt they cannot raise the funds to get to the mission field where God has called them. And that, my friend, is a form of materialism Where I am hindering and I am limiting my future ability to serve God because of a present gratification that I want. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. To have stuff is more important than my future ability to serve the Lord. I want to end with 1 Peter 3. We're not far, if you would come over there. And verse number sixteen and seventeen For it is better Verse 16, I'm sorry, having a good conscience, that whereof that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Now look at this. For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing. The word suffer there has the idea of doing without. That ye suffer for well-doing than for evildoing. I think he is indirectly addressing this issue of materialism It is far better for you and I to do without, be content with such things as we have, than it would be for us to tarnish our testimony or hinder our relationship with God and our walk with God. And what's happening, and we're going to see this next week, and there's no way of time to get to it, but next week we're going to notice these rich men in James, they had placed their riches far higher than the Lord or their fellow man. And he says, you're going to suffer for that. Miseries. And you're weeping how. He makes a strong, strong statement. Is it wrong to have money? No. Is it wrong to make money? No. Is it wrong to buy things? No. But I do it all in submission to the Lord, keeping Jesus Christ Lord of my life, not the dollar bill. And and he talked Jesus talked about being friends of mammon. In other words, that those finest, that material, that are my friend. They help me walk with God. They help me be the Christian ought to be, not they dominate me and control me. Follow what I'm saying? And so we'll look at what he says there. We'll break it down. Materialism is uh is brings sorrow, it is uh self-centered, and it's and uh it's uh short-lived is what we're going to notice. Father, I pray you'd bless us now and help us. I hope this maybe was a challenge to us tonight. And Lord, as we go into this new week, help us to keep you front and center, to seek first the kingdom of God and all this other material stuff. You'll take care of it. I pray you'd challenge us and help us. I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know the Lord is my Savior. And you say, Preacher, there's just so much stuff, and it's so easy to slip into this thinking And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me have a biblical perspective on riches, a biblical perspective on material things. And you say, Preacher, pray with me that God would help me. Is there anything like that? Sure. God bless you. I don't know. I just thought of this. Maybe some of us would set a goal this coming year that we're going to cut off and get out of credit card debt. We're just going to get that out. We're going to work hard this coming year. We're going to knock these out so that we are free, so that I am free to live and serve God the way I should. Now that's between you and the Lord, but I'm going to throw that challenge out. Maybe re-evaluate What's controlling us? Father, bless our invitation now I ask, and help us we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand