Turn to John chapter 8. We're going to look at verse 7. We've been looking at go starting off with this verse as we started this series. a few weeks ago. And then also, when you find that, mark that and then find second or I'm sorry, First Corinthians chapter eleven. John chapter 8 and then 1 Corinthians 11. While you're turning there, I had a blessing this morning after the service. Molly Browning came up to me and said, Pastor, uh I think he said something to the fact that the Lord's deal with her heart or whatever and said, uh I'd like to work and help out on the buses. Would there be a place for me on the buses? And I said, Absolutely. Praise the Lord for that. And so uh appreciate that. That's a blessing. And uh we'll put her to work, that's for sure. And uh I tell you another thing that's exciting as I saw the attendance numbers for our buses and our children's church. You know, January-February is traditionally that's our lowest time of the year when you have the least amount coming in on the buses and and different things. So um that stirs me up about what we're going to see later on in the year and uh maybe what the Lord's going to do there. So uh I really appreciate all that everyone does And I tell you I I uh uh agree with uh what someone said. Mark and Jackie have been a phenomenal blessing and their leadership has really helped us tremendously and and I express my appreciation. John chapter 8, we know this story. The Pharisees, self-righteous, and were very good at observing and drawing attention to other people's sins. They were tremendous at that Uh and so they find this woman who's taken in adultery and they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course they didn't care about this woman. They that was the least of it. And I and I'd suggest to you they didn't even care about whether the law was being fulfilled or not, they were out to catch the Lord Jesus Christ. They were to put him in a position where they could make him look bad, discredit him, and uh slander him somehow. But Jesus as you know, the God in the flesh can take these situations and absolutely turn 'em around uh and uh bring some good out of it. He turns the the tables on the self-righteous Pharisees, finding uh you know for pointing out another sins, and um he makes them confront themselves, as we pointed out. Notice verse number seven Um you know, he uh he was ignoring them, and and then it says, So when they continued asking uh him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that are with he that is without sin among you Let him cast a stone at her. You know the situation, the story, you know, th they all began. What he did was he made them confront themselves And as we can read into it a little bit here, as they began to think about it, their own sins, no doubt, came to their mind. In fact, it says there, being convicted, verse 9 So their own sins came to their mind, and suddenly they realized they were in no position to condemn this woman. And Jesus forced them. To confront the sins that they were able to justify, the sins that they were able to live with in their life, that they were okay with. God forced them to f confront them, and uh they no longer could justify them, and um and they walked away. Now, come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 11 with me. Now, this is Same principle, but a different application here. And we often read this passage or refer to it when we take Lord's Supper. In fact, it's part of One of the reasons we do the Lord's Supper is to confront ourselves and to examine ourselves. Notice in verse number 31 of 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Notice what it says here For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Verse 32, but when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. What's he saying here? He's saying we need to stop and confront ourselves. Because if we don't do that, if we don't stop and evaluate where I'm at spiritually and confront these uh for the sake of our our subject here, confront these sins in our lives that we've become very comfortable with. We've been able to justify, we've been able to uh somehow tolerate them in our lives and even sometimes j uh celebrate them to a degree. He says you need to judge that, confront that, because if you don't, then God will judge it, God will chasten us Hebrews chapter twelve expands on that. And so I want us talk tonight before we start getting into particulars. Um And this isn't one of those sermon series where uh you know you're just swinging from the chandeliers, hollering and and hooting and hollering all that. It's kind of one of those that stopped at least it this is the effect it's had on me is make me stop and think and make me do a little inventory and see where I'm at. And I hope that's the case. So self-confrontation after this week, next Sunday night, Lord willing. We're going to start getting into some the nitty-gritty particulars, and uh we'll see what the Lord does. So let's pray and let me share a few thoughts. Father. I ask that you would help us now. I'm anticipating our revival meeting in April, Lord, and I'm asking you to begin working in my heart and get me in a position where I can experience genuine godly revival in my life and Lord in my home and our church, our ministries. We really need you, Lord, in this day and age We need your power. We need you to have your absolute unrestricted way in our lives. And so I ask that you would begin using these thoughts here tonight and the following weeks to um bring revival to us and get us to place where we're fully yours, I pray, Lord, and fill me with your Spirit. Father, I know this is uh certainly uh uh uh has to come from you. And so I ask Holy Spirit that you would do a work. In Jesus' name. Amen. Folks familiar, are you are you familiar with the name uh John Newton John Newton, I think I referenced him recently. He wrote the Great Baptist hymnal, the Great Baptist anthem, is what I like to call it. What? Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I think I referenced this recently. I was trying to go back through my notes if I used it too recently. I apologize, but boy, it fits right in here. As he got older, he became very forgetful. And uh he became uh uh forgetful But he used to have this little statement he would make just before he died. His folks would approach him and he couldn't remember things. He would make this statement. He said, My memory is nearly gone. But I remember two things. One, I am a great sinner. And two, I have a great savior. Isn't that a great statement? But the thing that caught my attention, and we know the story behind John Newton, you know, the wickedness and the slave traffic and how ungodly his life was before he got saved Uh the one instant where he fell overboard of the ship. And the way they got him back on board, they threw a harpoon at him, harpooned him through his leg, and drug him back on board that way. You know, that was the lifestyle he was living. But he doesn't say, I was a great sinner. He said, at the end of his life, used of God, pastoring, preaching, writing hymns. He said, I am A great sinner. Isn't that interesting? It reminded me of what Apostle Paul said. Would you agree with me? The Apostle Paul was a great Christian Good night, certainly. In 1 Timothy 1, verse 15, Apostle Paul said this: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Of whom I am chief. Now, from our perspective We would not if you would say who's the worst Christian you've ever met, who's the worst, most sinful Christian you ever met, I doubt any of us would say Paul Right? Now that wouldn't come to my mind. I think of some other Bible characters, I think of some folks I met over the years, uh who the most sinful Christian is. I wouldn't think of the Apostle Paul But if you ask the Apostle Paul, if he was here and we said to him, Paul, tell us who's the most sinful Christian you know, you know what his response would be? Me. He said, I am of chief sinners. John Newton and the Apostle Paul had a way of thinking that I think is something we need. And that was this. Though they were very, very godly men, they understood the importance of self-confrontation. of seeing their own failures and weaknesses and understanding the great need they have there. I found, and I've referenced this in the last couple messages, I've found that that is uh the case uh in a lot of situations. We're some of the most godly people I've ever met. We're the s most sensitive to their own sins in their life. And often sins that you and I might say, ah, that's not that big of a deal. You know what? And they would say, oh no, no, it's very grievous. It's very grievous to me that this is true in my life. And even things that many Christians would justify and excuse and even sometimes celebrate Those that are godly and closest to the Lord are the most sensitive to those, and they say, you know, this is a terrible, terrible sin in the eyes of God. And so, confrontation. No sin was insignificant to these fellows, no matter how fashionable it might be, or how easily we could justify it They saw themselves as as with these sins as very, very grievous. So before we get in and look at specific sins that are often uh justified often we're comfortable with tolerating in our lives. I want to take one more message and deal with this. How do we confront ourselves? How do we recognize, I guess is what I'm trying to say How do we recognize these sins that we've gotten so comfortable with, and in a lot of cases, we don't even view them as sin anymore? Uh I want to give you a list of things. Some are original with me, some I picked up here and there over time. And uh I really want to encourage you to do something tonight. I think this is one of those messages where a pen and paper would be very, very helpful to jot down. I'm basically just going to give you a list. And uh jot down for our own benefit. But also, the opportunity may come up, or you may already be in a situation where you have opportunity where you can sit down with someone, we're praying, we're really wanting things to be right with the Lord, and maybe we can share these things And uh some things that God might be able to help. So I always think it's good to take notes on all messages, but especially tonight, I think that's the content is such that it would be very, very helpful uh to jot these things down and uh be able to reference them at a later date. Here's the first one in dealing with how do I how do I recognize these things in my life that are very grievous to the Lord, but I've become very comfortable with How do I recognize them? Number one, write this down if you would. And I'm I'm doing all this in the context of self-confrontation. That's the term I'm using Number one, self-confrontation must always take place within the context of the gospel. Self-confrontation must always take place in the context of the gospel, and I'll explain what I mean by that. Self-confrontation must always take place in the context of the gospel. If I'm going to tonight, and some of us perhaps have already begun this process with the previous messages, but if I say tonight I'm going to start and say, all right, you know, I just want to do a thorough inventory of my standing with the Lord. I want to refurbish my spiritual house. What we need to do is go through and look at the situation. I'm going to go through and look at the situation. How do I do that? First of all, it must take place in the context of the gospel. Turn with me. You're not far away here if you're still in Corinthians. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And I'll explain what I mean by taking place in the context of the gospel. Second Corinthians, did I say 2 Corinthians? 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at the last verse in that chapter. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse number 21. This is a great, great verse. Notice what he says. For he now I'm going to read this through because the wording you can misunderstand what he's saying here a little bit. He says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Let's break this down. Who's the he? Alright, he hath made him. He is God the Father hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us, who knew no sin. That phrase who knew no sin that obviously is referring to who? To Jesus, not to us. As it's worded there, you could misunderstand. So what he's saying this is God took our sin And Jesus became responsible for our sin. He made him to be sin for us So I'm going to look in the mirror of self confrontation. I'm going to stop, I'm going to kneel at an altar, uh, and I'm going to say, Lord, I want you to search my heart. God, I want to deal with these Sins that I've become comfortable with, they're very grievous to you, but uh maybe I've gotten calloused or whatever and uh they're not affecting me and Lord I just want everything to be clean. I want a whole house renovated And uh I need to keep in mind the fact that Jesus has already taken responsibility for all my sins. You follow what I'm saying? He's already been judged for them. And then look what it says. It goes on. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. There is a legal transfer that has taken place here. God has taken, Jesus Christ has taken responsible for my sins. So do uh in a way you could say it this way: thus my debts have been put on Jesus' ledger. And Jesus' assets have been put on my ledger. You follow what I'm saying? Jesus' righteousness has been put to my account And my sinfulness has been put on Jesus' account, and Jesus took it and nailed it to his cross and paid the price for it fully. Now I'm going to stop I'm going to say, Lord, I want you to search my heart. You know what happens? God starts bringing things to mind. And like I referenced the other day, the other night, um Anybody here ever do a remodel a room and it ends up taking five months longer than you thought it would and costing two, three times the amount you thought it would cost, and you end up replacing floors and pipes and wires you didn't even know existed. before it always ends up going being much more extensive than you anticipate. Hey, I'm here to tell you, when we decide to get thoroughly right with God, it ends up being much more extensive than we initially anticipated And God starts bringing things to mind. And we start when we start taking it seriously, we start seeing areas of my life and we say, well, you know I never really thought there was anything wrong with that. And God says, well, here's some things. And God, I never really thought that that was that important. Well, you know the electrical wires, the whole electrical thing needs to be replaced in the whole place. And you start realizing all this, and you know what happens? Anybody ever do a building uh project and you did all that and you got discouraged? And you thought, good night, I didn't I didn't expect this. I didn't anticipate it being this much, and you get discouraged, and you say, Boy, I wish I hadn't even started this. Well, tell you what, if we don't understand the gospel. And we get introspective and we start, God starts bringing things to our attention, to mind, it can become very discouraging. Do you ever hear that old saying, I look at others, I get distressed, I look at myself, and I get depressed. But we need to be sure and look at the Lord and we get blessed. And if we don't understand the fact, when God brings these sins to mind, when God brings these areas that I've become very comfortable with, when He brings them to mind, I need to understand, all right, they've already been paid for. They've already been judged. God isn't holding these over my head condemning me for these. These are areas if my life is going to be all that God intends for me, if I'm going to be able to please the Lord with my life, these are things that need to be addressed and dealt with. but I'm not condemned for them. There is now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. You follow what I'm saying? Because if we don't keep that frame of mind and the Spirit of God starts bringing things to mind we never paid attention about, it can be good night. This is too much. And you get uh it leads to tremendous discouragement. And so, and plus, if I understand that Jesus Christ took responsible for these sins I'm dealing with, he suffered hell for them. Man, that becomes a tremendous motive for me to get him out of my life. You follow what I'm saying? This cost my savior dearly. And I'm can I'm comfortable with it and I'm I'm uh justifying it and I think and as I understand come from the framework of the gospel That this has already been paid for, as a heavy price was paid for this, becomes a greater motivation to get it out of my life and to confront it and deal with it and take care of it. So my first thought is this. Self-confrontation must take place within the context or the framework of the gospel. That it's already been paid for. I have a tremendous motive to deal with it. Number two, write this one down, would you? I really think these would be helpful. Self-confrontation must take place in the power of the Holy Spirit Self-confrontation, if I'm going to deal with this, I'm going to clean house. It must take place in the power of the Holy Spirit. You know what I found out? I found out that the flesh loves sin. Anybody ever find that to be true? Y'all looking at me like uh yeah, the flesh loves sin. The Christian's flesh loves sin. And you're going to take the flesh and try and deal with sin, mortify. You're going to have the flesh mortify the sins of the flesh? That ain't going to happen. The flesh, in and of itself, our sinful nature, cannot conquer itself. And so we need the power of the Holy Spirit God begins, brings things to our attention. I'd venture to say, if what's true, if what if if if uh if what took place in my heart and mind as I prepared this is taking place in the hearts of mind of you folks as you're listening to it, I would venture to say the Spirit of God is bringing some things to mind. The Spirit of God, if we're taking this at all seriously, the Spirit of God is bringing things up. And we say, boy, you know, I don't know how I could ever lick that. I don't know how I could ever get victory over that. And the fact of the matter is, in and of our own self, we can't in our own flesh. We need the Holy Spirit to do it. Victorious Christian living. Dealing and confronting sins and conquering them is very much, I think, like an electric motor Uh um Brian Brother Brian had mentioned this table they have down at Beacon of Truth that turns as a motor. Brother Dan uh Hummel last night was explaining that to me a little bit where they got it and how it works And you know that uh I guess it's an electric motor, I assume. And uh they had that motor on the table there as I understood it. But you know, if there's no electricity getting to that motor, that motor's powerless. Nothing happens Now, the motor does the work. The motor the gears move and and uh the belts or whatever's on that thing move and they make that table spin But is the electricity getting into that thing that enables that motor to do what it needs to do? That is very much like this Christian life I want to do right, I know what it is, I have the mechanisms in place, but unless I have the power of the Holy Spirit, I cannot make this thing happen the way it's supposed to happen It's why the Bible emphasis over and over again, be filled with the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit. Yield to the Lord. Let God do that thing. I wonder how many of us, we won't do it, but I wonder how many of us could stand and testify that we had a habit or a sin or something in our life that was not pleasing the Lord. We fought that thing, fought that thing, fought that thing, fought that thing, could not get victory. Finally we gave up and say, God, you've got to give me the victory. And God steps in and victory comes. Am I right or wrong? Anybody? Anybody have that? Sure. Sure. And so self-confrontation must take place in the power of the Holy Spirit. Dear Holy Spirit of God, please fill me. Speak to my heart. Give me victory over this. And uh that. Number three, write this one down real quick. Self-confrontation must take place with the recognition of personal responsibility. Self-confrontation must take place with the recognition of personal responsibility. Now that's a bad word in this society. Personal, bad words, personal responsibility. But the fact of the matter is, uh we are responsible uh for our actions And until we accept and recognize that I am personally responsible for the sins I tolerate in my life, for the disobedience or whatever it may be, however insignificant it may seem in my mind I am responsible for that. Until that happens, there will never be victory. Until I accept responsibility for my condition, there will be no change in my condition. Let's assume, for sake of argument, that the blame game is correct. That I am and I behave and I do what I do because of other people's actions. You know what that tells me? I am a prisoner of other people's actions. I have no hope of changing my situation. I have no hope of changing my condition. If I am just I am what I am because of what somebody else does, then that always brings up in my mind, well, why are those people like that? They're like that because of what somebody else did No, no, no, no. If I'm going to be thoroughly right with God, if God, I'm going to have revival in my heart and life. I've got to stop and say, hey, I am what I am because of the decisions I've made. I am personally responsible for my condition, and until I accept personal responsibility, nothing is going to change. And so that's necessary. Where are we at? Number four, would you jot this one down? Self-confrontation requires recognizing specific, comfortable sins as sin. Self-confrontation requires recognizing specific, comfortable sins as they are sin. Now, I dwelt on that last week. The definitions, or a couple weeks ago, the definitions of sin, regardless of how offensive it may be in our mind or unoffensive it may be, if it's sin, it's sin. And I need to recognize that. As long as this is what I'm trying to say. As long as I'm whitewashing or excusing those things that God brings to my attention that need to be addressed, as long as I'm whitewashing them, I'm never going to have victory. I'll never see revival. Nobody has ever had a Holy Ghost revival in their heart, in their home, in their church who whitewashed sin. Never happened. Uh, must take it seriously. We were it's been a number of years ago, we were down at Potomac State Forest. Uh if anybody familiar with that out behind White Church, Brother Paul back in there and then uh is it Lost Land Run? Is that the name of the one thing? On the other end down there. We were down in there. I don't remember. I think my wife was mit with me. I don't remember But we were down there, it was a nice summer day, you know, that one week in June uh July where it actually warms up above freezing. And um We were down there and uh one of the uh guard one of the not guards um one of the Rangers. It was a lady Rangerette. It was a lady. And um she was walking up there. We stopped and we got talking. Were you do you remember this, Cathy? Were you I hope it was you and not another girl, but um uh no Boy, that just ruined my whole train of thought right there. So we're down there talking. We got talking about rattlesnakes. And are there rattlesnakes down there? And she's she told us this. She goes, you know, just a few weeks ago we had some folks camping down here. And uh I guess they had some young children or whatever, and they found some baby rattlesnakes And they got into these little baby ones. And she said they were convinced there was nothing wrong. They knew they were rattlesnakes. But they were convinced it was okay to have them. One of the kids got bit two or three or four times by the little baby rattlesnake. And she said, we ended up having to rush them up to Ruby Memorial Hospital and uh went on in about, you know, and she just went on about that And I think what brought it up we were talking about uh brook trout fishing, I said, you know, later in the summer I get worried to get down there in the rattlesnakes, and she brought that up But you know, until they recognize that that rattlesnake is dangerous, they're reckless with it. Uh-uh uh, you know, and they said, well, it's just a baby, it's just a little thing. It would be okay. It wasn't okay And uh here it became very seriously, as I understood, she explained it to us. And uh, you know, if we're not if we're not careful, we get that same way about some things that God condemns. God says it's sin. Uh and we're gonna get specific in the coming weeks. Let's just put it let's just put this away. What about pride? Well we are uh we can justify that and we can just think But God says, God condemns pride very, very strongly. And yet we can somehow justify it and excuse it and all these different things. And all we're doing is playing with a little rattlesnake And get hurt real bad. And so my fourth statement is this, self-confrontation, I need to recognize specific comfortable sins, add sin. It's wrong. And number five, let me give you these last couple here, real quick. I must see self-confrontation. I'm sorry, self-confrontation must utilize scripture. To deal with the sins that are being addressed. I'm trusting in the next month or so that the Holy Spirit of God is going to deal with our hearts in specific areas. About specific sins we've become very comfortable with. Now I don't have any particularly in your mind. I'm, you know, I'm asking God to deal with my heart But when God does bring them to attention, the Spirit of God does, and I decide I'm going to have victory over this, I want this out of my life, and over regardless of how insignificant it seems, I want it out, I have to use scripture Uh what's Psalms 119-11 say? Anybody have that memorized? I would venture to say Stuart Harvey has that memorized. What's that say, Stu? Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee. You know what that verse is telling us? The importance of the Word of God in getting victory over sin. And we must use that. Now, let me say this. Memorizing scripture without applying scripture is useless. Gotta apply it to my life. But nevertheless, there must be scripture involved. Number six, write this down, would you? Self-confrontation requires diligent and earnest prayer. Self-confrontation requires diligent and earnest prayer. I think you need to pray for two things. Number one, God show me. These areas in my life that need to be addressed. I think sometimes we just get so comfortable with it. We live in such a sinful society That we get comfortable with it with it and we need to we need to pray. God show me my sins. And then second of all we need to pray that God removes them. That God gives us victory. So uh I put it this way exposure, pray for exposure and removal. Expose it, remove it. Prayer. Listen to Psalm 119, verse 23 and 24. David prayed this. He said, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me. You know what David was saying there? He was saying it's very real possibility That there are some wicked things in my life that I have gotten so accustomed to that I am not even aware of their presence. And God, I want you to show them to me. And He asks for two things: know my heart. You know what I think he's asking there? God, search my motives and why I'm doing what I'm doing, why I'm not. And then uh try me and know my thoughts. This is what I think he's saying, or at least one aspect of it. I think he's saying, Lord Expose my false reasoning in justifying these sins. The word thoughts there means reasonings and thought processes. He's saying, Lord, there may be things in my life that are very wicked in your eyes. I don't see that. I've got my reasoning is messed up. And I'm seeing them as okay and fine, search me. Try that reasoning, that thinking process, and help me see it the way it really is. Does that make sense? And so that involves prayer. I think there needs to be long-term prayer for victory in general, and then very spontaneous prayer. I get in a situation and somebody cuts me off, and boy, my flesh reaction is what? Lord, stop me. And then back down and say, all right, Lord, I just put in your hands. And uh that that spontaneous prayer. We must not underestimate the significance and importance of spontaneous prayer. Boy, your spouse says something and it sets you off and it's Lord, search me and try me, God, keep my mouth. And um those things. Of course, um I never have to do that in my marriage situation. I n never have to, but it's just perfect. But um uh shut up and move on. Number seven This is the last one. Self-confrontation may require the involvement of other stronger believers. Self-confrontation may require the involvement of other stronger believers. One of the primary purposes for the church assembling together is for the preaching of the Word of God, teaching, but one of the primary purposes is to exhort one another. Talked about that in Sunday school this morning. Building up, helping each other. And I'm amazed God deals with different areas in my life, things that we never I never really gave thought about before. Suddenly I see these are very serious with the Lord And you know, I'm looking at it, I said, boy, this has been such a part of my life since I was young, and how am I going to get victory of this? I made it, you know, I pray, I trust the Holy Spirit But it may come the point where I find an older Christian, maybe somebody that's been through this and had victory, and I come and I let them tutor me. I let them help me. Now let me give you some scripture, and I'm done here. Turn over to Titus chapter 2. And this is something the Lord's really been impressing my heart in the last several months. Titus chapter 2. And uh first couple verses here. And I think this is very scriptural. And now that the Lord's been kind of dealing with my heart as I'm going through scripture, I'm seeing it more and more. We're older, mature, experienced Christians taking younger Christians who are really wanting to do right, wanting to live for God, taking them underway And tutoring them. Look at chapter 2, verse number 1. But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. Look at this. That the aged men be sober. Grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity and patience. The aged women likewise, and I think that word likewise is an important word. The aged women likewise that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. Now look at verse four That they may teach the younger women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children. To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. Now, he uses that word likewise in verse 3. I think the implication, at least, is here that the aged men and the aged women That have been walked with the Lord for an extended period of time, they've been through the issues, they've seen what God can do And they take these younger folks in, the aged men, maybe taking the young men, aged women, taking a young woman, and teach them and help them have victory in their lives in some of these areas God is dealing with. Isn't that a tremendous concept? Where you have people have known the Lord taken uh and I like this and I've talked to some of our older couples about this and they've expressed interest in this About taking some young couples, maybe that are having a struggle here and they're wanting to do right, and they're wanting their home and marriage to be what it should be, but they're struggling. And some aged couples, uh older folks have been around for a while, taking them underway And just tutoring them and helping them work through some of these things and sharing their experience and their victories and found that they learned what to do and what not to do. learned how to apply scripture and how not to apply it where it doesn't apply and be able to take these younger folks under wing and help them grow and develop and be what God intends for them to be. That stirs my heart. And uh it may be as God deals with our hearts, we got an area and say, you know, this area I never really saw it as anything real significant, very serious. But the Lord's been dealing with my heart about this, and you know it's really something that needs to be addressed. I don't know how to go about it. There may be an older Christian that could come I could go to them and say, would you pray with me about this, can you? And uh they'd be able to take and help and maybe work us through that and get victory there. And I think that is all part of exhorting one another, exhorting one another. So I jot seven things down. And I hope these would be helpful as us in the coming weeks, and I'm really praying that God uses this little series to prepare our hearts for a revival meeting in April. Now we come into that thing sensitive, tender-hearted. Ready and willing to let the Lord have his way, and maybe already being dealing with things going into that, and God could send a great revival. I'm telling you, if our country, if our community ever needed revival, it is now. If our churches have ever needed revival, I'm telling you it is now. And revival doesn't come until we start confronting The sins of our own. Listen, we can hoot and holler, and don't misunderstand, I think we need to in its place, we can hoot and holler about same sex marriage all we want. If we're tolerating sin in our own hearts, we're no better than those Pharisees that confront Jesus confronted Right? We got these little things that are just as condemned by God uh as uh uh uh abortion is, and we can holler all we want about it, and we should holler about it, but at the same time We need to be asking God to search our own hearts. And you know what happens when we take that seriously? I keep saying this over and over, but this has been my experience. When we take that seriously, and God, I'm going to be thoroughly right with you, it ends up involving a whole lot more than I ever anticipated. And God starts putting his finger on areas I never expected. See, we go in thinking, well, I know God's going to adjust this and this. I know those things need attention. And God says, Oh yeah, but also this and this and the plumbing and the electric and the floorboards are rotted out and the ceiling that the insulation's gone and this and next thing you know your whole life is transformed. And when it's said and done, I've got a beautiful Christian life that God can bless. But it has to start. By looking things over and finding out what it is. Father in heaven, help us as we uh as as we go on this little adventure here, God. And I pray that you would work in my heart, give me Victory in my life, and I pray that all of us, as church members, as a family of believers, as a body here, that you would help each of us just to come clean before you and and sincerely humble ourselves before you and say, Lord Help me to do this. Help me to look in the spiritual mirror and open my home to your Holy Spirit's work and then follow these steps. God help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.