Our grandchildren. Uh three of our grandsons uh have a singing group. They call themselves the Well of Grace Trio. And uh and they're right good. Yeah. In fact, they're better than good. And uh no Baptist home is complete without a C D Right. From the Well of Grace Trio. Now I told the Sunday school c crowd this morning we're running a r a special blue light uh sale today. They're only ten dollars apiece. I don't know why in the world they'd sell something that valuable s for uh for for so so little, but we're even gonna top that. We're we're gonna do better than that They're ten dollars apiece, but you can have two for twenty. Amen. Anyway, open your Bibles, the book of James, chapter number four. And uh I was thinking while those ladies were uh starting and stopping and starting to stop and I thought they uh They're kinda like preachers. Sometimes I I didn't say they were, I said they kinda like. I think they got me on now. I believe I could yeah, it's good. Okay. Well that's good. It's better to be on than off. But that's how preaching is a lot of times. But it's it's tough getting out of the out of the barn, you know, and you kind of stumble and stagger around a little bit, you know, before you finally get it in gear to get going But once they got it going, man, they had it. That was good stuff. Amen. So anyway, all kidding aside, it's a joy to be here. And uh am I too loud? Am I not loud enough? Okay. All right. It's for your benefit, your ears. James chapter 4, verse number 14. Thank you, preacher, for letting us have the privilege to come and be with you again. I love this, I love this last Sunday in August. For several reasons. My wife and I travel. We travel on the road. Now, when I make statements, I'm not bragging, I'm not complaining, I'm just making a statement of fact. And um uh whatever I say is is truthful, I'll let you know when I'm not telling the truth. But the last Sunday of August is especially uh meaningful to me because uh I'm headed for the house. And we're we're out on the road. We were in 77 different churches last year. 81 total, 77 different ones. Now in order to cover that much ground, I'm gonna tell you, you you have to eat a lot of the highway, I guarantee you. So when we get a chance to go at the house, we're only nine hours from my driveway So uh I look forward to that. So when I come here, I'm doubly excited because I know where I'm gonna be this time tomorrow. Amen. So anyway, that doesn't mean anything to you, but it sure means a heap to me James chapter four, one verse. Wrestling, boy. I got a message of simply entitled Eternity. And that's I really that's what I thought God wanted. But uh I learned a long time ago not to try to overrule what God wants. I've done that a time or two. Boy, that's the worst kind of preaching in the world. The preaching what you what you know is not what God wanted. And so this is what the Lord has for us here this morning. James chapter 4, verse number 14, whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is her life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. I'll speak for a while on this subject. What is your life? One of the most disturbing statistics to me Is the fact that from uh the the the the entire six week holiday series uh um uh area uh time From Thanksgiving through New Year's, that six week period of time when there's so much festivity. They're about, you know, about those holidays and all of that. Those are great times to be with the family. We love them. And uh Uh but during that that period of time, there are more suicides in America than any other six-week period of time throughout the year. A time when we ought to be thankful, we ought to be rejoicing, uh, more people taking their life than any other six-week period of time. They tell me that the number three killer among teenagers today is still suicide. Now that's tragic. Here are boys and girls barely old enough to even spell the word life, let alone have any idea what it's all about, have already come to this conclusion That whatever life is, it ain't worth living. And they're dying by the thousands due to suicide across this land. If people I'm going to give you three simple but powerful truths this morning. about your life. If people could understand these three statements, the last thing in the world you'd ever want to do would be cut your life short. Life is important. Life does have value. And your life is important. Three statements about your life. To answer the question, what is your life? Your life, first of all, is precious. Your life is precious, first of all, because of its importance to God Did you know you didn't get here without the creative power of Almighty God? Are you listening? Huh? Yes. When I was nine years old, now that's been a spell. When I was nine years old, there were still three of us boys at home. Other brothers and a sister had gone on with their life. And uh I was nine years old, had a brother a year and a half older than me, and a year and a half, uh a brother a year and a half younger than me, and we were home and One day my mother, for whatever reason, she began to uh tell us three boys how her and my dad had planned the family. See, uh uh Planned Parenthood isn't uh isn't anything new, it's just taking a different twist in recent years Somebody say amen. Chuckle, do something, nod your head. So she's telling me about my older brothers, my sister. My brother to my right, my brother to my left. Now her and my dad playing all of uh all of those uh all of those births. Then she looked at me and she said, Now Bobby You were a mistake. So you were an accident. We didn't plan you. Do you know what kind of a shock that is to a nine-year-old boy? I mean, you talk about identity crisis. I mean my mother's in what what she's really telling me is you shouldn't be here. My mother was a godly woman. In fact, I let her die. I let her die and go by and preach her funeral, sent her to heaven, uh, her believing a lie, and I knew the truth, and I could have told her the truth, but I didn't do it. She b she hey hey hey she thought I was the greatest creature in the world. I never told her the truth. I just let her die believing that. Amen. But the truth of the matter is that day my mother was wrong. Because I I wasn't a mistake. So I wasn't an accident. Why? I'm gonna tell you why. Because see if you can get a hold of this now. Way back hey hey hey way back in et way back in eternity past before God ever spoke anything into existence He knew what He's gonna do I had a friend down in Greenville, in fact I had three friends. I had a friend down in Greenville, South Carolina, uh who's in heaven. His name was uh Dr. Harold Seitler. Dr. Seitler used to say this, has it ever occurred to you that nothing's ever occurred to God He knows everything from the beginning from the beginning to the end. He knows everything. Amen. Now here's my point to that. In eternity past, God Almighty planned creation. The astronomers tell us that there may be trillions of stars out there All created by God. There are thousands of galaxies and uh and and hey and God's got every one of them named. Every one of them. That's a task in itself. He knew he was going to create this world. He knew he was going to create everything in it. And hey, hey, he knew he's going to create you. You see, you you and me, we're a part of God's plan. I'm telling you, he planned to create you. No matter what the circumstances were. See, that's why abortion is so wrong. That's right. No matter what the cause of the pregnancy But it's it's wrong because it would never happen if God Almighty uh didn't breathe into that union the breath of life. Amen. Hey, you may be dumbber in a box of rocks, ugly as mud. You may be as poor as Job's turkey, but I'm gonna tell you something. Your life is precious. Because of its importance to God. If you don't think you're important to God, take a look at Calvary. Who did Jesus die for? It's easier to say who didn't he die for? Huh? See, he didn't leave anybody out. Of his redemption plan. When Jesus died on the cross, and this is a this is a truth preacher that's getting into fundamentalism killing churches all across the country. This but it's about uh a misunderstanding of what predestination is all about. Predestination doesn't have anything to do uh with uh with your salvation. It has to do with your life after you get saved. Now if you can never get that straight, then that'll keep you from falling into that trap of of Calvinism. But anyway, uh but uh the Bi hey hey hey the Bible says this The Bible says that uh that he talked about Christ is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. Timothy says that God is not uh willing that any should perish, Peter, but that all should come to repentance. He says in Timothy, the God who would have all men to be saved. When Jesus died on the cross, I don't even know this song, but there's one there's one there's one uh part of one stanza in this song that says, When he was on the cross, I was on his mind. When were you in Indianapolis? What years? Oh okay, that was that was late then. That was Dr. Porter would already pass. Uh one of my mentors uh he started the Bible college that I attended. I let everybody know that I have been to Bible colleges so you'd know. Because you're never going to figure it out any other way. With a great old preacher, a great old prayer warrior by the name of Dr. Ford Porter wrote a gospel tract that there's been over 500 million printed since 1933 and circulated around the world many times over. Great prayer warrior. And he was just a powerful preacher. He used to say this. When Jesus died on the cross, he not only died for us, he died as us. See, that's what the substitutionary atonement's all about. He took my place. He took upon himself the penalty and the payment For all uh that that happened just to keep everybody awake. That's what that was all about. I'm sure that's what it was. See the guy's no dummy. He saw he saw somebody nodding, so don't nod Get blasted again. What was that talking about? He took our place. He took our place, yeah. See here's oh now now here's what see he bore the pen what what is what is the penalty that has to be paid? Sin. Our sin. How much of it? All of it. All of it Alright, now try to y uh you can't grasp this. You can believe it, but you can't grasp this because we have finite minds. You just think about when Jesus died on the cross, he not only knew who he was dying for, he knew what he was dying for. Because every sin from every person had to be paid. Every sin. Huh? So when he's dying on the cross. When he is on the cross, we were on his mind. And he's suffering The penalty and the payment for every single sin committed by every person in all of human history, past, present, and future. Yes. You say, why'd he do that? Well it's not because we deserve it. The truth of the matter is we deserve to go to hell. Amen. Well why did he? Only one there's only one there's only one answer to that. For God so loved the world. God commendeth his Love toward us. You say, well, I I I I don't know why God would love me like that. Well, if I got to know you a little better, I'd probably wonder the same thing. But that's not the issue. The issue is, hey, hey, hey, how about this? When he died for us, he wasn't dying for his friends. He's dying for his enemies. Because Colossians chapter 1 says that before we got saved, that we uh were at enmity with God. That means we were his enemies He wasn't our enemy, but we were his enemies. Why? Because of sin. Sin had separated us from God. So there he is, dying on the cross, paid your sin debt and mine. Why did he do that? I'm going to tell you why. Because your life, your existence, your soul is precious. Huh? Your life is precious because of its importance to God. But that's not all. Your life is precious because of its influence on others. I I don't know where some of these statistics we get a hold of come from. I don't know. With the computer age, it doesn't seem like anything's beyond reach today. I I heard a statistic a few years ago that just absolutely overwhelmed me. It said the average blue-collar worker in America, not doctors, lawyers, ministers, just the average grassroots America, what America is made of. You know. The average blue crow uh blue what do I say blue cross? Blue collar. Blue collar blue cross too expensive The average blue-collar worker in America, by the time he or she is 65 years of age, will have influenced 3,000 people in his or her lifetime. Isn't that incredible? How many people in here is more? Yes. See, I'm not preaching to 150 people. I'm preaching to thousand. Because of the power of influence. Huh? And in that circle of influence of people that you'll come in contact with throughout your life. Some of them are close contacts. Some of them are family members, neighbors, people you go to school with, people that you work with. Some in our circle of influence there are very few Christians. You know what the old time preachers used to say? You you you you are the only Bible that some people will ever read. You see, they don't they don't read our Bibles, they don't come to our church, they don't sing our song, they don't hear the kind of preaching that we hear. You are the closest thing to contact with God that some of the people in your influence will ever come in contact with. Somebody say, well, I don't care what people think. Hey, if you don't care what people think, you dumb in a box of rocks. Why do you think God left you and me here after we got saved? Amen. And your life is precious because of its influence others. Now, now I got a question for you. Just how Are you influencing others? We influence people by our appearance Don't tell me how how I dress. Don't tell me uh how to look. Don't tell me how well now why not? Well, well, the Bible says, the Bible says, man looketh on the outward appears, God looketh on the heart. That's why. Well you ding dong. You just shot your own argument out of them. Nobody can see your heart. All they can see is your outward appearance. And you know the Bible says, for Christians, be not conformed to this world. What does that mean? The word conform means to be placed in the same mold as. In other words, don't be molded after the word. Is this a shock to you? Huh? Come on, somebody ought to say amen. You you you all you do leave you do live south of the line, you know. Huh? Trying to help you out. And so if you if you hey if you look like the world You may be the nicest guy in town, but people that do not know you, how are they going to know what's in your heart? All they see is what you look like Huh? I'm preaching. I'm preaching in a place called Annapolis, Maryland. You may have heard it. Just about five years ago now, four years. And there's a girl in a church. There's a girl in the church. She's 21 years of age. She had run away from home when she's 16. She had a baby out of wedlock and uh she's now twenty-one years of age. She had moved back to the area and uh had had an apartment in was was going to be ship school and working a job and she's trying to rebuild her relationship with her parents and and she even started coming back to the church. Well I made a statement that morning. In fact I was preaching this message and talking about influence and I and I and I I said this. I said, you know, if you're a Christian and you're committing adultery with an unsaved person, that's it's impossible to try to win that person to Christ. Amen. I mean then if you're living in the world and you're you're involved in sin and you say, Hey boy you you you ought to be a Christian, they say, Well cry that wow. What's the difference between me and you? Nothing. She came forward that morning and got on her knees and rededicated her life to Christ. And by Tuesday night she had brought two of her twenty-one year old friends who were lost. Both of them got saved. And the first b uh one she bought uh was a twenty-one year old uh not a boyfriend, but just a friend who hadn't to be a man. Now this guy, I I don't I'm not sure if he was a man or not, uh, but anyway, he he had these uh They buy these britches. They're about that big around the legs, and they buy them three feet too long. And they they pile up on their shoes. Now you're not in the city, so you probably they probably don't have anybody out here that's that much of a knee jerk that would dress like that, but but you get up you get out and travel around, you'll see it. And and then on top of that Then then they wear 'em. I mean you can't believe it. They wear 'em so low that they have to walk like this to keep their pants from falling off, you know? Huh? This guy, this guy, there's no way he could ever get through the air the the a airport uh security thing. He set the belt up. This guy had stuff in his nose. He had stuff in his ears and had chains hanging round his neck. And and I'm not going to talk about his hairstyle or like thereof. But So he came. Now, here's my point. If all you did was see him, which world would you place him in? Yeah. I mean, who is he molded after? Who's he conformed to his appearance? Huh? Hey, I I'm not he might have been the nicest guy in the world. But I'm just saying, we influence people by our appearance. Now thank God he did have enough sense he did get saved. I wish I had time to tell you about the woman, the girl that she brought the next night. I mean, she had something. She was going to learn how to be a beautician. Now they're rewriting everything today. I mean they're they're rewriting what beauty is. This gal, if she had one strand of color in her hair, she had at least seven That we won't we won't talk about the the the uh the skirt or the lack thereof. Uh she another one she's another one that she had so much stuff uh in her ears and all of that, I don't even know how she could hold her head up. Now which world would you place her in? Huh? Now thank God she got said, hey, hey, hey, now this doesn't knock the stripe off your candy. I heard her say on the way out, you know what she said? She told that friend that brought her, she said, I come back next time I'm gonna wear a dress. I'll have to go buy one. Amen. See, that tells me she knew something. She understood something. So my point to this is this you have a circle of influence. Now, by the way you look, by the way you act, by the things that you say, by the places you go, you are influencing others. Now the question is, which direction are you influencing them? There's only one or two ways. You're either influencing them for good or Or for evil, for right, or for wrong, for the Lord or for Satan, for heaven or for hell Influence, God, help us To be the right kind of example, the right kind of an influence. You see, your life is important. It is precious because of its importance to God and because of its influence on others. How many people are going to show up at the great white throne judgment out of your circle of influence? And it'll be revealed that you had the opportunity to influence them. For Christ, the veil thereof. You see, your life is precious Number two, your life is passing. It is a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. Now I I I talk a lot about being old. When I was twenty, I thought thirty was old. I thought if you couldn't go out and spend eight hours running up full court basketball uh game with a bunch of teenagers, you were over the hill. You weren't worth shooting, you know. And then I got to 30 and I thought, well, 40 is old. Well, I got to 40 and I thought, well, 60's gotta be old. I'm 70. I might age 70, but I'm 70. Now I don't have the slightest idea what old is. But but we have these ideas. Three score and ten, the Bible says. And uh uh you know, uh the government says you can retire and get your Medicare at least for a few more months before Obama takes care of everything else and uh you get that in sixty-five. Hey, it's coming. Hey, hey, hey, since you brought that up, look what look what that dude's doing to those Christians in Egypt. Huh? I'm gonna tell you, you just when you think Uh that somebody's hit an all-time low, they dig another hole. You know? Anyway, yeah, we shouldn't have brought that up. I think I'm gonna have ham and beans after a while. Let's not ruin that. My wife a few years ago saw a documentary and they thought they had found the oldest living person in the world. was down in the isle islands and the woman was was it 126? They estimate she's 125 years old. Now you know what you'd me you know you know I would say? Man that's old. I mean 125. Now Methuselah wouldn't think so. Everything is relative. And uh anyway, but you know, if if you lived To be a hundred and twenty five. The Bible says your life is a vapor. Now what is the vapor? Does it ever get cold around here in the wintertime? Oh yeah. So cold that when you step out of your warm house or a warm building and you exhale That warm air from your lungs, they said it's a preacher, it's hot air, but uh uh that warm air from your lungs, Mead said cold air informs what A vapor. We used to call it back as kids in the cutter. We used to call it seeing your breath. Better to see it than smell it. How long does that vapor hang there once you exhale? Oh, a split second? That's God comparing the length In its entirety, the length of our life to eternity. You see, in this life, we have a beginning that's birth. Actually, it starts nine months before birth, but but anyway, what do we call it birth? But it has an ending, as far as time is concerned. Not our existence, but as far as time is concerned, has an end. That's that's death. And so uh our lifeline is from birth to death. Hey, you didn't even have to be a Christian to know you're going to die. Amen. Okay, now let me ask you a question. How long is your lifeline going to be? You don't know. You don't know when you're gonna die. The only thing you know is you're gonna die. Say, not me, buddy. I'm I'm not looking for the undertaker, I'm looking for the uppertaker. Well wait just a minute now. Think that thing through The truth of the matter is, even at the rapture, we're going to experience death. This corruption is going to put on incorruption. This mortal is going to put on immortality. Buddy The old flesh, the old nature is gonna die. Hallelujah. Amen So, there's a little over 7 billion people in the world today. 217,000 die every day. That's over a million and a half a week. Now, how many of the two hundred and seventeen thousand that are going to die today by midnight, how many of them got up this morning and said Well, this is it. I'm gonna croak today. Hardly any, if any. No, we don't know. Even if we've got cancer or we've got bad heart or whatever, we we don't know that today's going to be the day. God knows that. But to be sure, it is going to happen. Our life is a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then what? Vanishes. Now that doesn't mean that we don't exist anymore. It just means that death is the doorway into eternity. Now the Bible is explicitly clear for every person when you, when I, when we die We know exactly where we're going. And he gave the parable in Luke chapter 16 about two fellows that died. One was what we would call today saved, and the other was not saved. And said, uh uh when the when the beggar died, where'd he go? He was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. Well, where is that today? Well, Corinthians says for the Christian to be absent from the body is to be Present with the Lord. So when the Christian dies, he's immediately in the presence of God. But he went on to say this, and the rich man also died and was buried and in hell. He lifts up his eyes, being in torment. See, there's only one or two places you can go when you die. If you're a Christian, if you're saved, you go immediately to heaven. If you're not saved, There's no second chance for salvation after death. You know what I believe? I believe that everybody in hell has one thing in common They wish they had one more opportunity to be saved. But there's no more opportunity. Death seals The destiny of the lost. Now, for those of us who are saved, our destiny is already sealed The instant we receive Jesus Christ as personal Savior, we become a child of God. A recipient of eternal life. We become a member of the family of God. Not, is it going to happen when we die? No, it's already happened. Amen. Already have it, but not for the lost. So that simply means then that the most important decision That a person will ever make in this vapor of life is to receive Jesus Christ as personal Savior. The most important. You know what Jesus said about Judas? Said, you know what better for him had he never been born. Because what happened? After he uh uh betrayed the Lord, he went out and won. Went out committed suicide. Went out of eternity. Where did Judas go? Well let me let me let you in on something. In case you're wrestling with that, I'm gonna tell you where Judas is. He's in hell. That's where Judas is. Because if he was in heaven, the Lord would have never said, been better for him if he'd never been born. That's right. Now where are you going? You're going to die. You don't even know if you're going to be alive when the sun comes up in the morning. Where are you going to go if you die in the condition you're in right now? See, your life is precious. Your life is passing. And then let me just add this quickly. Your life is preparatory. What this life is This this is not the place for our roots. I mean I mean most people, and if you listen to the world for crying out loud, you know this is all you're gonna have. And you gotta you gotta buy this, you gotta buy that, and you gotta have this, you gotta have that. I mean, after all, this is your life The all this life is, is a place of preparation for eternity I mean I mean how long are the people that die and go to heaven how long are they going to be in heaven? Well I'm gonna tell you how long we're gonna be there. They're gonna be there as long as the people that die and go to hell are gonna be in hell. We say, well, how long is that? Till God dies. Well, when's that going to happen? Well, it's not. He's everlasting. Amen. You say, well, where did God come from? He never came from any place. He's never left. He's never been gone anywhere. He's always been. That's what it means when it says, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. So we're we're talking about can can you get a hold of this? We're we're not talking about an experience uh that's measured by time. Time ceases uh climbing on the great white throne judgment, Revelation chapter twenty No, no, no, no, no. Uh uh. No, we're not going to be in eternity just for a specific period of time like we are here in this life. No, no, no, it's forever. Well, we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are unseen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are unseen are eternal. So all this life is is a place of preparation for Where we are going to be forever. Don't talk, don't talk. And I know we sing in the songs and people that I make the same mistake. We say, Boy, we're going to be there for all of eternity. You can't say all of eternity Because all means completeness, it means total. And eternity never ends. We're going to be in eternity. One guy used to preach on the radio and said, well, we're going to do this until the ends of eternity. No such thing as the end of eternity. It's everlasting existence. So the number one priority for you and me in this life is to prepare for forever. How do I prepare? Number one, you're going to be saved. What does the prophet of man if he should gain the whole world lose his own soul? We got a lot of people. Even in our fundamental Bible preaching, Baptist churches who were as lost as a June bug flying backward in a hailstorm. They prayed the right prayer. They got baptized. They were voted into the membership of the church. But they never really and truly receive Jesus Christ as personal savior. You say you baptists, you think you're the only ones going to heaven. Oh no we're not. We don't think that. Truth of the matter is we're worried about half our crowd. The Bible says by their fruits you shall know them, buddy we got, hey, hey, hey, we have a lot of people whose names are on the church roll live like the devil for crying out loud. Huh? No, no, no, be saved. Get the thing settled. Well, I'm not sure. Well, hey, come on, use your brain. If you're not sure, you know what that means? That means there's a possibility you may not be You gonna gamble your eternal destiny on supposition? No, you better make sure you're saved. Number two, just remember that way back in eternity past, when God made the plan to uh to uh create you, he planned for you to be saved, but he also has a plan for your life. So we need to be surrendered to the will of God. You want to know you want to know you want to know why some of us old broken down guys that you know man, I I run just as hard as I did 40 years ago, I just run a lot longer in one place. Why? My whole body's wearing out. Huh? Say, well, I just can't do nothing. I don't know why God leaves me here. Well, why don't you find out? If you're still here, you know what that means? That means he's got a plan for your life. If his plan for your life was fulfilled, you know where you'd be? You'd be in glory right now. So well, I just don't understand. Well find out. God's the greatest communicator. In all of creation. It lets you know. All you gotta do is ask him. Surrender to him. Surrender to his will Now that's going to involve serving him. That's what it's all about. We're not here just to enjoy life. Amen. We're going to do that when we get to the other side. Don't you hey, hey, hey, hey, I know it'll take a long time. I know that, but only come here once a year. You get Sam Davison in here. You'll find out what long preaching is. Amen. Good. Get Jenkins. Get Jenkins in here. We have a lot of fun with him. He said, I'm not going to preach very long this morning. And he didn't. He only preached an hour and fifteen minutes. Usually it's an hour and a half. So I told him, I said, John, there are a few guys that can do that, and you're one of them. Because you don't even realize the time's gone. But anyway, now I'm not like that, so I gotta quit here pretty soon. Just quit bringing up all these side issues so I can get through this. So God has a plan for your life. Be surrendered to it. And it involves serving Him. Amen. And I'll tell you something else too. And I don't know why. Preacher, honestly, I do not know why. I don't know why this is so difficult for believers to get a hold of But part of our preparation for eternity is to be a soul winner. See, it's given to everybody. It's a mandate given to every believer. But ten percent of the church does eighty to ninety percent of the soul winning. Can you imagine? Can you imagine if you had a membership of 250 people and every one of them led somebody to Christ, even just once a month? Can you imagine what would happen? You want to know what would happen? Read about it in the book of Acts, you'd see. Huh? What in the world? Why is it? The most important thing God wants you and me to do now that we're saved is to be a witness, to be a spirit-filled witness. Don't have to do it on our own power. He said Acts 1. 8, ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, then you shall be witnesses. Why is it? People, God help us, man. We go by people, we pass up opportunities. We're nuts. Having had it right, we Baptists are many, but not much. Others are out on the raging sea, lost in the darkest eternity. We have the light for the walls to see. Why don't we ask God? Let's just suppose, now I'm I'm finished, but let's just suppose that the preacher uh sent an invitation. Let's just suppose that that you you just you said that that that short fat bald-headed person not talking about the pastor, talking about me. I'm fatter than he is. That that all that old worn out, that's now that separates me from another man. He's right. I need to be witnessing. Witnessing leads to winning. And so you get out of your place. And you walk down here, and maybe you maybe you're like me half the time I can't kneel, I got a bad leg. Maybe you just have to sit on this front pew. Maybe you can. Humble yourself, like 2 Chronicles says. And you bow. And you say, Lord, I don't want to be disobedient to you. I want to be a witness. I want you to use me to get the gospel to people. Help me to win people to cry. What do you think he's going to tell you? What do you think God Almighty is going to? You think He's going to say you shut up and go back to your seat and mind your own business? You think He's going to say something like that? Absolutely not. I'm going to tell you, he's going to help you. He's going to supply the power. He's going to open up the opportunities. And and our church can turn in to being a soul winning church. Amen. So we need to be saved, surrendered to the will of God, separated from the world, serving Him. And we need to be involved in soul winning. There's a little gospel general. This is 40 years ago, come out of Greenville, used to say this. Don't go to heaven alone. Take some money with you. Amen? God bless you, preacher. Let's back our heads, close our eyes just for a moment. We're gonna give an invitation in a moment to respond to God's word. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, Preacher, God's Holy Spirit has dealt with my heart. God has stirred me and I want to grow. I want to respond to what God has said. Now I don't know how the Lord would apply, the Holy Spirit would apply these truths to you.