Well, amen. It's been a soggy day, hasn't it? It's good and dry in here and just right for preaching. Amen. And I'm looking forward to it. Let me mention a couple of things before I preach. Number one, tomorrow night I am going to preach a message if God continues to give liberty. that I've entitled The Clocks Are Ticking. And I just want to talk about the soon-coming rapture of the church. I believe that Jesus is coming, don't you? I believe that Jesus is coming soon. And if you could bring some lost people with you, if you could make an invitation to someone. And sometimes if you'll mention prophetic preaching or preaching about the last days, there's an interest in that. But even if there isn't an interest in that, throw a shackle around their ankle and drag them over here, all right? But we'd love to see some lost folks in the service tomorrow night and give them the opportunity to have their hearts touched by the truth of the gospel and by the truth of the world that they're living in. And uh so if you think of that, do that. The other thing I want to say is this. Uh boy, do I really appreciate being here. And I appreciate this church. I I have loved being here. I love your pastor. I I heard a story about him today. I'm not going to tell the story, but I talked with another preacher. Oh, you want to hear have they heard the story? Well, someday ask him if he's ever run from dogs in in Mexico. Oh, you've heard that story? Okay. Well, I I heard it for the first time today, not from him. I was talking with a good friend of mine who was with him that day. And who could outrun him. And so Brother Mann told me, he said, yeah, he said, I'm kind of ashamed of it now, but I ran faster than he did, and I left him to the dogs. But I enjoyed that. I love your pastor. And uh I love this church. I I'll be honest with you, I love this area Uh I love the lake, I love the outdoors, I don't love the snow and the weather you get, but I love this place. And I hope you appreciate where God has put you. It is an absolutely beautiful place. It's hard to walk out your door and not understand God created this place and it is to his glory. But more than the place, I appreciate you. You're a blessing to me, and I have truly enjoyed being with you. I'm going to come back tomorrow night, so I'm not signing off. But but I it's a long message tomorrow night, so I'm not going to talk about anything but the message tomorrow night. And uh and I want to say this to you. Now you listen to me. I'm an old man and I'm allowed to talk. Not everybody has a church like this. Not everybody has a church where the pastor loves them and they love the pastor. and they love each other and they serve. Do not take for granted what you have here. The song that was just sung, don't lose the wonder of it all. Don't lose the wonder of your salvation. Hey, you may have been saved 40, 50 years. It's still amazing you're saved. It still took all the grace that it took to save you, and it still takes grace to keep you saved, and believe it or not, it takes grace to love you. But God loves us, doesn't he? And don't lose the wonder of that. That's a great thing. And don't lose the love of your church. This is a good church. And again, not everybody has one. I, since I've been traveling more and more, I've just understood that people, they need a good church, and there's just not a church like this everywhere. So appreciate what you have. Thank God for it. It's not perfect. You're here. It's not perfect like any other place or any other thing, but I want to tell you, God's hand is on it, and God's blessing is on it And you're privileged to be here. Thank him every day for the church and the pastor that God has given you. It's a good, good thing. All right, take your Bibles. Acts chapter 13. Acts chapter 13 And I want to speak to you for a few minutes. When you know when I say a few minutes, I mean a few more than a few, don't you? But uh serving our generation. serving our generation. We're going to read starting in verse 22. Acts chapter 13, verse 22. And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be their king, to whom also he gave testimony and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall fulfill all my will. Of this man's seed hath God, according to his promise, raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus When John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel, and as John, now notice this, fulfilled his course, He said, Who think ye that I am? I am not he, but behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I'm not worthy to loose. Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation sent. For they that dwell at Jerusalem and their rulers, because they knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him. And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate that he should be slain. And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him They took him down from the tree and laid him in a sepulchre. But God raised him from the dead, and he was seen many days of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses unto the people. And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the fathers, God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children. in that he hath raised up Jesus again, as it is also written in the second Psalm, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he said, on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David. Wherefore he saith also in another Psalm, Thou shalt not suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Now here's our text. For David After he had served his own generation, by the will of God, fell on sleep, was laid unto his fathers. And solve corruption. Let's pray. Then we'll talk. Father, we're grateful for the evening. Thank you, Lord, for these who have gathered here. Lord, I'm so appreciative that they've come out. I don't take it for granted. Lord, you know I'm asking you to help me by your Holy Spirit's power and ability to give them something. that they need and that will make their time here worthwhile. Lord, we need you. We need you to speak to us and we need you to change us. And Lord, I pray that we would see that truth. Holy Spirit, convict our hearts tonight. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice some things that are said here. I want you to go first, if you would, back to verse 22, and I want you to notice the last phrase. You know, very often when we talk about David, we say that he was a man after God's own heart. And that's in this verse, and I'm glad that that's there, and I've talked about it and thought about it too. But I want you to notice the phrase that follows. He's a man after God's own heart. It says this of David. God knew something about it. It says that, which shall fulfill all my will. Now, David was a man like you and I. But here's something that's true of David's life. Though he made mistakes, when David died, it could be said of David, David completed God's will for his life. David did what God gave him to do for his life. Did he make mistakes along the way? You bet he did. But he finished what God gave him to do. Now I want you to notice a second man in verse 25. That man's name is John, John the Baptist. And the Bible says of John, notice in verse 25, he fulfilled His course. God set a plan out for his life. God set a course. And he said, John, here's the course I want you to fulfill. I want you to follow. I want you to finish. And I want to remind you that the course of John's life wasn't an easy plan. John lived in the wilderness And John was a hated man among his generation. And John eventually, we know, lost his head. He was executed for the testimony that he bore for God and for the Lord Jesus Christ. But no matter how difficult that course was, no matter how difficult the path God laid out for his life, the Bible says John fulfilled his course. I want you to notice down in verse 29, there's a third man mentioned in this passage. He's identified earlier as Jesus. And the Bible says, there, and when they had fulfilled all that was written of him Now I want to tell you, I could spend the next 30 minutes, I don't have those minutes, but I could spend the next 30 minutes talking about the will of God the Father for his Son, Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you, the plan of God the Father for redemption, for his creation, meant that his son had to be obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And though that scripture says They had fulfilled all that was written of him. Would you please understand something tonight? They did not crucify Jesus. They did not kill Jesus. Jesus laid down his life And Jesus willingly fulfilled the course that took him to the cross that the Father laid out for him. Now There's David and John the Baptist and Jesus Christ and each of these men fulfilled the plan that God had for their lives. Hey. I don't think I'll ever be written down in the Who's Who book, and I don't think I'll ever be worldwide or nationwide or statewide or citywide famous. But when they plant me in the ground, if they could put on my headstone, the boy did everything he could do, and everything that God gave him to do, I'd be satisfied with my life. To have completed the will of God for my life. Now we talk about these three men tonight, and I want you to understand that we're talking about a prophet, John. A king, David. And when we come to Jesus, we're talking about a prophet, a priest, and a king. But we're not reading about them in this passage because they are a prophet, or because they are a king, or because they are the king of kings. We are reading about them in this passage because the path that they completed that was the will of the Father for their lives was that they were. Servants Servants. David was a servant John was a servant. Jesus was a servant. And I want you to know tonight that we are called to be servants. And God has a will, a plan for every life in this room, and the highest calling we can attain. is to find and know and follow the plan that God has for our lives as the servants we are. I want to give you a three-point outline tonight Number one, I want you to notice that they served. Number two, I want you to see that they served by the will of God And number three, I want you to see that they served their generation by the will of God. Look at it with me. Number one, they served. That word served is an amazing word in verse 36. I won't try to pronounce the Greek word, but Strong's tells us it is to willingly subordinate yourself. Please understand that David as king was more interested in being a servant than he was a king. Please understand that John Baptist, though he was a prophet, he was the first voice of God for over 400 years. But when he arrived, he knew that his calling was to serve Jesus Christ. Do I have to talk about him? He was willing to subordinate himself. Do you remember that time in the garden when he got on his face before his father and said, Father, if this cup could pass from me, would you let it pass? But he concluded that prayer by saying, Father, not my will, but thine be done. He subordinated himself to the plan of God. The word is actually used. If you can picture an old Roman ship, an old Roman galley, you know that they had the oars sticking out of both sides. Well, let me tell you, the lowest class of servant was the one who rode the oars down in the belly of the ship. And the word that is used for servant in this verse, when it says that David served his own generation is the word that referred to the under-oarsman in the bottom of the boat. They were as low as you could go. And David says, Hey, I'm willing to be the under-oarsman. If I can serve in the way that God wants me to serve, I fear that one of the great qualities being lost amongst Christians today Is the understanding that we are to be servants. The key word of our age is not serve. The key word of our age is self. We've even coined a phrase, we call churches, certain churches, seeker churches. And I want you to understand that seeker churches does not mean that they are seeking the lost. What it means is that anything you want and are seeking, we'll do it at our church to get you here. If you want Broadway plays, we'll put Broadway plays on. If you want this kind of activity or that activity, we just want you to seek whatever you're seeking, we'll do it here to find you here. I want you to know that's the worst reason to go to a church on the planet. We don't go to serve, to be served. We go to serve in this world of positive thinking and self-esteem and Self-affirmation and self-love and the realization of rights, we have forgotten the words of the Lord Jesus. And I want to remind us of them tonight. He says in Matthew 20, just let me read it to you, he called them unto him and said Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them, but it shall not be so among you But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and give his life a ransom for many. I often kid people And I say I'm going out, I've created a seminar, and I'm going to announce it on all the religious channels on TV, and my seminar is this, How to Make Yourself a Slave. How to get yourself the worst job on the ship. How to get yourself to be an under-oarsman. The slave down in the belly of the ship. And I'm pretty sure in our generation, oh, I just think the tickets would sell out, don't you? I don't think anybody'd come. Because it is not the nature of our generation to see ourselves as servants. We see ourselves as masters. We see ourselves as wanting to be served. And we think that the world owes us what we want when, in truth, God put us here to serve this lost world. I'll never forget, and this has been many, many, many years ago. We had just gotten our first church building. An Assembly of God church had moved out and built a bigger building. This is back in the 80s. Interest rates were 21, 22 percent. So I don't choke when I see three or four percent. Everybody else thinks the end of the world's coming. I remember 18, 19, 20, 22 percent. And this church couldn't afford to sell or couldn't sell their building. Nobody could afford to buy it. And uh back in the eighties we were the only church starting in the town and And they actually called us and said, hey, we know you're meeting in a school. Would you like to buy our church? I said, sure, I'd like to buy your church. I have no money Oh, well, would you like to rent our church? Sure, I'd like to rent your church. I have no money. And to their credit, you know what they said? Come take it anyway and pay us what you can And within a year we negotiated a lease purchase and God blessed and we were able to get it. That's not the point of it, but I love telling that story. But here's the point. When we moved in there, we had a young man who was working with us. He was called our assistant pastor, and we were training him and helping him. He was helping us. And I'll never forget, my wife and he and I were painting the building. It was an old dilapidated, horrible building. We were trying to pretty it up, and we were painting the building and The phone rang and so I went down and I was taking the phone call. I'm always taking phone calls, especially when work is going on And uh about 10, 15 minutes later, I was done with the phone call, and I'm walking back down the hall, and I hear this conversation. I hear this young man say to my wife. Now you've got to understand, my wife is little, but she's wiry and she's as mean as a snake. Alright? I hear him say to her. I didn't go to Bible college for four years to paint walls and be a slave. Oh yeah, he really picked the wrong gal. And I heard her say back to him, no, Curtis, you got saved to do this. Man, there was wisdom in that. No, Curtis, you got saved. And when you got saved, you got called to do anything and everything And you got called to view yourself not as a master, not as a professor, not as a teacher, not even as a preacher. That may be your calling but you got saved and you are to see yourself as a servant. Can I ask you a question, first of all? What are you too good to do? What is it that God could ask you to do and you're too good to do? I'm just telling you that David understood that being the king brought not only the privilege of the office, but the responsibility of service. He understood that the need to serve those in authority as he humbled himself when Saul was yet on the scene. Well, if I'd have been David, I'd have had an attitude, wouldn't you? I was anointed king. Why in the world should I be respectful of you? I'm the one that should be sitting there. David never had that attitude because he never saw himself as a king. He saw himself as a servant. Let that soak in for a minute. He knew God had anointed him, and he knew God had called him to be king, but he saw himself as a servant. And if it meant that he had to be respectful, and if it meant that he had to defer to Saul, he was willing to do that because he was serving for the glory of God, not for the glory of David. David understood the need to serve the less fortunate when he provided Lame Mephibosheth a place at his table for life. He understood the need to serve his people as he worked for them and prayed for them. He understood the need to serve his God as he prepared the materials for the temple. that his son Solomon would get to build. Sometimes we forget that before Solomon was designated to build the temple, David thought he was going to build it. And David took the plans to God. And God said, David, you're not allowed to build it. And David didn't have an attitude because David didn't see himself as a king, he saw himself as a servant. And he said, God, then please let me have the privilege of assembling the materials. Well, I'm trying to get you to see, do you see that attitude difference? It wasn't about him. It wasn't about self. It was about whatever God wanted him to do. And if he had to humble himself. If he had to put himself in the belly of the ship and be the under oarsman, as long it was serving the Lord and meeting the needs of people, he was okay with it because he was a servant John the Baptist, greatest prophet in the New Testament times, a great man and a personally powerful man You know what his philosophy of life was? He must increase. I must decrease. Where does that attitude come from? It comes from the attitude: it's not all about me. That's our generation. It's all about me. We're the selfie generation. We think it's all we think we go out to eat and take a picture of our meatballs and say, I think everybody wants to see my meatballs I've eaten Nobody cares about your meatballs. It ain't all about you. As a matter of fact, it's not at all about you. It's about God. John the Baptist said, I understand that. And though I'm an important person, and though I'm willing to give myself Here's the philosophy of my life. I do not have to increase. He does. And I'm willing to be a servant. And I'm willing to walk the path. How about the Lord Jesus? You know what I look and see when I look to Jesus? I see Jesus with a towel and a basin And I see him washing the disciples' feet. Would you go with me for just a moment on that little journey? Would you see him kneeling before Peter and washing Peter's feet? Knowing that Peter is going to deny him, forsake him. Hey, let's go down one or two more and let's meet a guy named Judas and let's wash his feet. The betrayer. The traitor. The one who for thirty pieces of silver is going to sell me Like a piece of meat. I'm going to stoop and wash his feet. I'm going to tell you, the King of glory, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords understood that the way you serve was to humble yourself. The Bible tells us that he emptied himself. And there he is, kneeling before Judas, kneeling before Peter and every disciple. We often speak of Peter and Judas, but please understand We're told in the Gospels that every disciple forsook him. I'm going to be honest with you. My flesh is struggling with getting down and washing the feet of a guy who is going to deny me and betray me. And listen I am old enough to know the truth about you, your flesh would struggle with it. I know who I'm preaching to. And yet that is what we are called to be. We are called to serve We are called to have no ego. We are called to not think about self, but to esteem others better than self. Now we're in a revival meeting where we're talking to the believers, and we're talking hard talk. We're talking about humbling ourselves, serving. Look to Jesus and you'll find him forsaking rest and sleep. How many times did he have to get up before dawn? Because it was the only time that he could find time to be with his father. Look to him, you'll find him feeding thousands Look to the Lord Jesus and you will see him being nailed to a cross and dying for you and me. I can say it again, dying for you and me, because the truth of the scripture is that he lived 33 years. faced every temptation that you and I face, and the Bible has this little phrase, was yet without sin. There was not one reason for Jesus to go to the cross and suffer s for sin. Not one reason other than he loved us and he was a servant to the will of his father. And we spat on him, we despised him. We rejected him and he didn't come down off the cross, though he could have called a legion of angels and come down off the cross, but he didn't come off the cross because he was a servant And he did not put himself first. He put others first. I'll tell you, when I preach like this, I'll tell you what's going on in my heart. I'm so ashamed. I'm so ashamed of my attitude as I hear myself say these things Because no matter how I try to shape my heart, my flesh wants to consider me My flesh wants me to be first. My flesh wants me to be served. And I see the selflessness of Jesus. And I'm ashamed. There's a story in the Bible in Luke chapter 10. We're all familiar with it. Story of the Good Samaritan. I won't take a long time on it, but you know that that man is hurt bad down in the ditch, and three men come by him. The first one is a priest. And I'm sure he is hurrying on to his duty in Jerusalem. And the Bible says from some distance he sees the man in the ditch, and he knows that if he goes over there Yeah, he's going to feel obligated to try to help the guy. And so before he gets to the man, he crosses over to the other side of the road and passes him by. I am so tired of religious people who act as if they have compassion. But the world is dying and they do nothing to try to reach him for Christ. Next down the road was a Levite. The Levite, he's a man of God. He's no doubt going to begin to teach something to the people of God or to serve in the temple somehow. And the Bible says he saw the man And and he had enough concern that he walked over and looked at him. And I'm sure in his mind was, well, I I I hope somebody helps him. I hope somebody will drive the bus because this guy needs to get picked up and taken to the hospital. I hope somebody will go soul winning. I hope that somebody will go to that foreign country. I hope that somebody will teach that class. I hope somebody will tithe and give so that this guy can be helped, but not me Does that make you sick? Finally, down the road, the most unlikely character comes. A Samaritan. Who by culture hates the Jew in the ditch. But when he sees the need, he becomes a servant. Can I tell you something? Our world has more than enough priests and Levites We've got a world full of people who are concerned about themselves, a world full of people who can point out all that's wrong but do nothing for it. God help us to get a church full of Samaritans who will get off their donkey and go down in that ditch and drive that bus, teach that class, reach down in their pockets and give that money. Go to that door. Do it because we are servants. On the Bible college that I went to in the administration building, It had a stone monument out there, and I'll never forget what was written on that monument. I walked past it a hundred times. In my time there, if not a thousand. And when you would walk past it, you would see this, and it said, Enter to learn, go forth to serve. Do you know what our churches have become today? Enter to learn. Enter to play. Enter to be entertained. And let the world take care of itself. We come here and we hear messages and we read our Bibles and study our Bibles, not just so that we can spout more Bible knowledge. If all it is is to fill ourselves with Bible knowledge, we will be the puffed-up creatures that much of our world has become. No, we enter to learn so that we can go out those doors back there and desperately try to reach a lost world. Here's number two. They served by the will of God. You know, the world is never greatly impressed with anyone doing the will of God. As a matter of fact, most of this world will count what you do as simply foolishness. But I want to remind you that the foolishness of God is wiser than men. And the wisest thing we can do is like David and like John the Baptist and like Jesus, find the will of our Father and fulfill it. The will of God, do it, regardless of what any man thinks of you, regardless of whether they think it's wise for you to do that or not. Michael, the wife of David, thought he was the biggest fool to dance before the ark. When it came into Jerusalem. Now I'll be honest with you, I'm not a dancer, are you? You better answer no. I'm not a dancer But you know what? If David is excited and the Spirit of God is moving him, and he's dancing in front of that ark and enjoying the fact that God is finally bringing the ark to Jerusalem, Michael, shut up and let him dance. And David danced, whether you get criticized for it or not. Judas thought it was silly and wasteful for Jesus to be anointed with that oil. How stupid for you to break that alabaster box there and to pour that. We could have sold that Hey, Judas, it was the will of God, and it memorialized our Savior. I don't care whether you think it was wise or not, you traitor. Peter rebuked the Lord for saying he was going to go suffer and die upon the cross, but it was the will of God. All I'm saying is let the world have its opinions. They don't understand why you come to church Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night. They don't understand why you give your time, why you give your money. They don't understand why you raise their kids the way you raise your kids. They don't understand why you do it, but do it whether they like it or not. It's the will of God. The world may howl at holy living, but it's the will of God I'm not going where they go. I'm not looking like they look, and I don't care if I look funny. The world may hate confrontational door-to-door soul-winning, but it's still the will of God. Still in the Bible. The world may sneer at parents who accept the God-given responsibility of training their children for God, but it's still the will of God. Now listen, it's easy for us to sit in a room like this and say Amen, Amen, holy living, soul winning, raise our kids right. Yes, sir, that's easy. Let me tell you, it's easy to care about and love the will of God in here. You know where it's tough? Out there trying to reach the very people that are laughing at you or caring about their souls. You ever walked up to a door and just had them hate you being there? I remember going up one door and Nancy and I and we knocked on the door, windows were open, I'm sure everybody's home. Knocked on the door, no answer, no answer, no answer, no answer. Finally we turn around and walk away, left track in the door, and as we're getting to the end of the driveway, I hear this woman say, Who was that? Oh, them church people. I'm telling you, preacher, in my flesh, I wanted to go rip that door down. You may not have flesh like that. I got flesh like that. I wanted to grab him by the next and say, You're going to get saved. I'm not allowed to have an expectation of how I'm treated. Servants don't get to decide how they're treated. And it was the will of God for me to go to that door, and it was the will of God for me to go to the next door, and it was the will of God for me to go to the next door. I'm just saying the world may not like what we do And they may despise us and reject it. I believe I remember in Isaiah 53 reading about my Savior that he was despised and rejected. Hey, here's a resume. If you're a Christian, sign up for soul winning where you can go out and be despised and rejected. Preacher, what will we experience on soul winning? Well, you're going to be despised and you'll be rejected. Yes But servants, don't worry about that. As a matter of fact, I remember in the Bible it says he came unto his own And his own received him not. And then that next verse says it so aggravated him that he didn't go to the cross. Does it say that? Somebody agreeing with God's will for his life, somebody agreeing with his service was not his motivation. His motivation was to glorify his father, and if men despised him, and men rejected him, and his own rejected him, He was still going to the cross and thank God he did. We're here tonight because he did, because he was a servant, and he wasn't worried about his reputation, he was concerned about lost souls. We've become so highfalutin. We can't take somebody disagreeing with us. We can't take somebody mocking us, making fun of us. And we're called to serve the very ones who mock us. We're called to love the very ones who despise us. And reject us. God give us the grace to be servants. Here's number three, and I'm done. We must serve our generation. The word generation is an interesting word. It can refer to a time, it can refer to a people, a nation. But I believe that it is this. That God wants us to serve the people where He puts us. God wants us to serve the people where He puts us. Now, can I be honest with you? We serve an unlovely generation. We serve a generation that cares more about whales than babies. We care about a generation, we serve a generation that is so up in arms, and I am too, that that young people are murdered at the hands of crazy people with guns. But they just voted in to refund Planned Parenthood that will murder thousands of babies before the end of this month. And have no conscience about it at all. That's the generation we serve. We serve a pierced, tattooed generation. We serve a generation that is so invested in themselves and so concerned about themselves. What I say to young people, I say to old people is I've got a news flash for you. The history of the world did not begin at your birth. It's not all about you. It's not all about me. Our generation is an ugly generation. They're God rejectors. I hear this phrase every once in a while, Christian America. It is not Christian America. In my county, in my county, did you know that on any given Sunday morning, only 25% of people will be in a church? Christian America? It used to be that I would go to a door and I would begin to speak to people. And I had a there was an affinity there. They knew the Bible names, they knew the Bible stories. I'm telling you increasingly now, I go to doors and engage people in a conversation And they don't know who Noah is, and they don't know who Moses is, and they don't know anything but evolution, and you've literally got to start at the beginning with God and creation and the garden and make them understand that they're alienated from God. It's not Christian America. It's ugly pagan America, but it's ours. It's our America. I guarantee you, if I could draw a five-mile circle around this church tonight, I could walk out in that circle and find some heartbreaking things. I could find a mom this Friday or Saturday night who's going to try to hustle the kids off to bed before he comes home. She's going to try to shut the door and get him to sleep and let him be quiet because she knows how he's going to come home. She knows he's going to come home after his paycheck and after he's stopped off and he's going to come home and he gets mean and he's going to come home. And if anything goes wrong, she knows what's going to happen. And she'd love to find somebody she could talk to. She'd love to find some help for herself and help for her kids and help for her husband, but she doesn't know where to go. She wasn't raised in church. And they weren't allowed to pray in school. And she doesn't know who to turn to. But I know who can help her. Somebody sitting in this room could help her. If they had a servant's heart, if they could take time out of their schedule. They can humble themselves and go and work with that woman. Hey, I guarantee you within a five-mile circle There's a boy or a girl, a man or a woman who is making a decision on either putting something in their arm or taking a pill. And I want to tell you, there is nobody on earth who hates that drug more than the addict. He hates that he needs it. He hates that he has to have it. He hates that he had to steal from his mother to get it. He hates what it's made him become. His health is broken. His future is gone. There's nobody that hates it more than he, but it screams in his vein And he doesn't know where to go. If he goes to the clinic, they'll turn him in, they'll take it away. If he tells the police, if he tells someone, he doesn't know where to turn. But I know where he could turn. Somebody in this room. She's scared to death. She doesn't know how she's gonna tell her parents He said he loved her. It was just that one time. She knows that the nurse at school is telling her about abortion, but she knows that's not what she wants to do She knows she doesn't feel right about that, but her mom and dad don't know anything other than that. They don't go to church. She doesn't go to church. She doesn't know where to turn. She doesn't know who to go to, but I guarantee you there is a place that could help her if they'd make contact with her. As a lonely old grandma. She sits in a room all by herself. The kids used to come. They used to be real faithful about coming, but they're busy. Oh, they think of her, but they're busy. And she'd love to have somebody just come in and talk to her. Just somebody she could share a thought or two with. Somebody that'd be kind to her. It seems nobody has time. Nobody knows she's there. She doesn't know who to talk to or tell. You say, preacher, what are you saying I'm saying that God put us in this world to serve these lonely, helpless people. And God saved us not so that we could be high and mighty and haughty, not so that we could walk around and think ourselves better than them. Goodness gracious folks, we got saved out of the same slop. I don't know about you, but I know about me. God didn't walk in into the goods section and find me. He found me in the bargain basement, man. And brought me out of that place. And never, ever should my attitude be, I'm too good for that. I can't taint my testimony. by talking to those people. Hey, without Christ, you are those people. And they need us. They need Jesus. Would you believe with me tonight that Jesus is the answer for every problem? Now can I tell you something and I'm almost done? That little old grandma's not coming to church tomorrow night. She can't get here. She doesn't even know we're here. That little teenage girl that has the issue, she won't be here tomorrow night because she doesn't know about us. She doesn't know we're here, she doesn't know any of us. That addict, he doesn't know about us. He won't be here Sunday. It's not that he couldn't get it right. He just doesn't know we're here. He doesn't know that Jesus is the answer Hey, you know that family where the he's coming home and probably drunk and she's trying to hide the kids and is fearful of him? They won't be here Sunday. You know why? They don't know we're here. You know why they don't know we're here? Because we haven't told them. Because we're so busy with ourselves I'm not accusing us of taking selfies, but I'm just telling you we're so wrapped up in our own stuff. And we're so busy with our own lives. And we're so fearful of who and what they are. That we come to church and we learn of the Lord and we do a few things, and I'm glad of that, but we don't do the most urgent thing. And that is beg God to give us an opportunity to make a difference in somebody's life I want to share one more scripture with you. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 4? 1 Peter chapter 4. Now I want you to notice this. I'll give an invitation and I'll be done. Verse 7, 1 Peter 4 and verse 7. But the end of all things is at hand. How many of you believe Jesus is coming soon? I really do. The end of all things is at hand. Now, because the end of all things is at hand, what is Jesus telling us to do? Well, he's telling us to be sober. He's telling us to watch unto prayer. But I want you to notice the next thing, and above all things. Have fervent charity among yourselves. And then hospitality help. You know what he's saying? He's saying the time is short. Stop worrying about yourself. Yes, attend to yourself. Be sober. But this world needs you to love them. This world needs you to reach out to them. This world needs us to fit them into our schedule because you and I have the answer. And the answer is Jesus Christ. Would you bow your heads? Holy Spirit, here's what I'm asking you to do. And you knew I prayed and asked you to do this today, and I'm asking you now in front of these people. Holy Spirit, I'm asking you. to come to each and every person in this room and speak a name into their heart Speak a name of a person that they don't think is saved, that they're not sure knows Jesus Christ, but they know that person has a need. They know that there is some way they could help that person in their life. And in helping that person, befriending that person, could find a way to share. with that person, the truth of Jesus Christ. That's what you've called us to do. One by one, one at a time fervently loving people who don't know you. Lord, we are separated and we need to be separated, but there's a world that is lost. And they don't know where we are, and they don't know how to get here, and they don't know Jesus. They weren't raised in a Christian home. Mom and Dad didn't take them to Sunday school. A bus didn't come by, and they're lost. God, please speak to the heart of some of these dear ladies and remind them of that one that they know who is alone Who, if they would befriend them, they could share Jesus with them. Remind these men of people they work with who they know their lives are wrecked. Most of the other fellows at work try to stay away from them. But help these men lay it on their hearts to befriend them, to help them to Jesus. I pray for these teenagers, for some of these younger folks. God lay on their heart a teenager who they know doesn't know Christ. Maybe it's a grandpa in here that could help a teenager, who could befriend a teenager, who could have brought him to the stakeout, and he'd have thought it was the greatest thing in the world. God, we just can't go through life thinking about ourselves. I know this is a good church. And I know these people care. But God, we've got to be people who care and act. Care and act. And so right now Put on the heart of every person in this room a name. And then, Lord, in this invitation, may that person, purpose in their heart that they will fulfill your will in at least witnessing, befriending helping, loving, and ultimately witnessing to that person. Well if we would just get our hearts wrapped around that, we could see 50 people saved this year. We could see hundreds saved because of what this meeting does and the decision we make to love people even when they're unlovely. And their life's a wreck because they don't know our Savior. So Lord, work in that way, I pray. Just before I conclude in prayer. I'm going to put you on the spot. And I wonder how many would say, you know, preacher, as you were preaching and as you were praying, God had already put a name on my heart. And just by my uplifted hand, I'm acknowledging God put a name on my heart. God bless you. Would you lift your hands? God put a name on my heart. And preacher, now I'm asking God, and I'm asking you, with everything you have, will you purpose to plan and find a way and ask God's Spirit to help you minister to that person? With the goal of leading them to Jesus Christ. Father, thank you. You've seen the hands, and I pray now that people would follow through in their decision. No shame in coming to this altar every night of this meeting. This is where we meet with you. This is where we publicly acknowledge to you, I heard you, Lord. And then God give us great victory. And may the testimonies be in the days and weeks and months to come. Do you remember that time? God put this name on my heart. Here she is, here he is, here they are. They've trusted Christ. God give victory through our loving these people. In Jesus' name. Amen. Would you quietly stand to your feet, heads abowed, eyes are closed, the piano is playing? Why don't you come and ask God? God, now I need your help. I got the name. I know what the need is. I need your help. I need your Holy Spirit to pour out on me. the ability to witness to this person, to love this person. Hey, it may mean that you're going to have to get over a prejudice. It may mean that you're going to have to Have contact with someone that boy you just really wouldn't choose to otherwise. But God, I heard you. And I want you to have victory in that person's life. They don't know to come here. They don't know we're here. But oh God, if I tell 'em, if I tell 'em, if I love them, they'll come. Would you come?