Song, beautiful song. You would take your Bibles, turn back to Psalms chapter number four. Psalms chapter four as we've been saying all morning, I have folks who listen. We had a tremendous week this past week in Neighborhood Bible Time. I believe we had one of the best weeks we've had uh maybe ever, at least in a long, long time Let me share some statistics with you. We had throughout the week we had 190 teenagers and kids come out the Bible time. And that is an outstanding figure. Thank God for it. Average daily attendance, 142 kids running around here average during the week. Thursday, 154 And 68 folk young people made a prof uh some sort of decision in their walk with the Lord, and uh we thank God for that. Forty-eight of those were to accept Jesus Christ their Savior. And And uh we just thank God. I tell you I had the privilege, uh, as you're finding your place there in Psalms 4, I had the privilege uh several days to sit down with some of these young people and uh be able to take the uh the My Bible and open up and show them how to be saved. These are young people that responded to the invitation. And I tell you, I don't remember, I'm sure it's happened before, but I don't remember having young people that really understood the fact that they were sinners and needed a savior and needed Jesus Christ to come in their heart and life as clearly as these kids did this past week. That one little boy, he just said to me, he says, I need Jesus, come in. Take all my sins away. And I tell you, that just blessed my heart. And to hear them bow their head and ask Jesus, come in their heart and life, be their personal Savior. What a blessing. And so we thank God for it. Had a great crowd Friday night. I think there was at least eight, maybe ten adults that indicated that they accepted Jesus Christ. as their Savior also. And so we appreciate everyone that worked so hard. Folks prayed and gave. And we just thank God for you and we give God the glory for all he's done. Now if you would notice in your Bibles here, Psalms chapter 4, I had Brother Grant read the entire chapter. It's not a long chapter, eight verses, but I want to zero in, if you would notice, in verse number three. I'll make sure I got everything turned on. Am I turned on here, Sam? Am I good? I think I'm on now. So okay, very good. Look at verse number three with me if you would. It says, but but no that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself. And he adds on, the Lord will hear when I call unto him. But he makes that statement, know that the Lord has set apart him that is godly for himself. I just want us to think a little bit this morning about that thought being set apart to the Lord. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven I thank you for the uh blessings of being a part of the body of Christ, being uh being in church this morning. What a blessing. And Lord, uh it's been a hectic week and a lot of things going on. I pray you'd help me, Lord, just to calm my heart and mind and I want to yield my will to your Lord. I present my body anew, and I ask that you would speak through me to every one of our hearts. Lord, we need to hear from you. God, some of us this morning need some encouraging words from heaven. Lord, some of us need direction. Maybe, Lord, some of us need a little rebuke to get us back where we need to be. Whatever the case, Father, I ask that you would speak to us and that our hearts and minds would be open To your word. Again, I pray, fill me with your spirit. Speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. If you wouldn't notice in your Bibles there, right above verse 1. In this chapter 4, there should be a little title or a little phrase there about this chapter. And if you notice, it says to the chief musician, Oneganoth To the chief musician. That tells us a little bit about this psalm. And what that tells us is this is that this psalm was written and given to the chief musician. Now who is the chief musician? He would be very much what we might call the music director of Israel. in the temple there. He would be the one that would organize the type of music. He would be the one that maybe would lead the great choir and the instruments, they had type of orchestra type thing, you could call it. And uh uh so that was that is who this psalm is given to. Now what in the world is a neganoth The Neganoth is a Hebrew word. It simply means stringed instruments. It's not a particular instrument, but it refers to various instruments that are stringed, like the harp. or the um uh violin, any type of stringed instrument. And so apparently, uh we know from other ports of scripture they had a great uh uh orchestra of instruments And this psalm was to be sang and to be accompanied with music by these instruments there. And so it was given. uh to the uh um to the uh choir director so to speak of Israel and to be sung. Now notice down at verse number eight. I just want to tell you a little bit about this chapter, then we'll get into our message. But look down at verse eight I will both lay me down in peace and sleep. For thou, Lord, only makest me to dwell in safety. Now that little verse there gives us a little hint as to what part of the day. The choir would sing this song, that Israel would sing this song. What would it be? Of the evening They're fixing to go to bed. They're fixing to go to sleep. And so this song, apparently this was to be sung of the evening services Maybe they would finish out that day service, and the great choir would get up and the instruments and they'd play this hymn and this is a song and and they would uh uh finish out the day's services perhaps with this song And so it tells us a little bit about it. I do want to point this out. Music is very important in the Christian life. We need to understand that. The book of Psalms is a book of music. These are hymns that Israel would sing These are songs that they would sing. And uh the all they were put to music. Some of them perhaps sang a cappello. But it's very important in the Christian life. When we come to church And we get the hymn book out, brother Mark comes up here and leads us in a hymn when the choir sings and we have a special like Cindy did a little bit. We're not just up here entertaining Amen. This is not entertainment. This is not just filling time so the preacher can get up and then we get out of here. That's not what it is at all. Music is very, very important in the Christian life. Music has tremendous influence. On me personally. And the kind of mus. Now get this. The kind of music I listen to determines the kind of influence I will get from it. If it's good, godly music, if it's according to Scripture, and it fits in with the Spirit of Christ and the fruit of the Spirit. it's going to have a profound, positive, godly influence in my life. If it's very worldly and sensual and and it's very uh sinful and it's contradict scripture and it's type of music and the wording of it, if all that, then it's going to have what kind of influence? It's going to have a very negative influence on my life. It's going to hurt me spiritually. It's going to hinder me spiritually. When I first got saved, I didn't understand all that. I didn't know any of that. And uh I got saved and uh God began changing my life And um I had my music I listened to for years, never gave it much thought. And uh but boy, as God began to change my life, and I started being exposed to these good godly hymns God began convicting me. God began working on my heart. Some of that music I'd think, well, you know, that's really not, I don't think that's really pleasing to the Lord. I don't think that's really helping me trust God and live for God And I had to make some decisions in my life. And so here we have, in chapter 4, we have a song that was written by David, we'll see here in a bit, and was given to the choir director, so to speak. And it was to be sung by the choir and by God's people on a regular basis. And that way it would influence themselves, their thinking. would remind them of some things about God and enable them to live for the Lord. So my point is this music is very important. Music is very influential in our lives and we need to be sure that the music that influences us is pleasing to the Lord and scripturally sound. Now, if you would, come back up to that title up there above verse 1, to the chief musician or Neganoth, a psalm of David. Boy, how many of these psalms as we read through, we see this was a psalm of David. This was a psalm of David. God used David in so many tremendous ways. to give us these great songs, these great passages of scripture. Many of them, as we said, were sung and put to music. This was probably written. Now I can't prove this But looking at the content of this chapter and knowing David's life, we look at his life as recorded in Scripture. We try and figure out what what part of his life was this psalm written. I've come to the conclusion, I believe, I can't prove it, I think. that David wrote this. Now those of you are familiar with David's life, you'll remember when his son Absalom rebelled against him. How many people are familiar with that? You remember you've heard story or something. Absalom rebelled against them, kind of won the people's hearts over. Absalom came in, took over the throne. David fled for his life from his own son. And as he was fleeing and crossing the river, there was a fella came out, a smart Alec little weasel, my term for him, my kind uh friendly term for him And he came out and he started throwing rocks at David while David's fleeing from his son. And he's throwing dust in the air and he's throwing rocks at David and he's And I'm not quoting on verbatim, but he's basically saying this. David, you sorry lout, you're nothing but a worm. You get a and he's throwing all these insults at David and he's mocking him and throwing rocks at him. One of David's soldiers said Listen to this little weasel. That's in the Hebrew. Listen to this guy up there. David, give me the word. I'll go up there and I'll take his head off. And David, being the humble man that he was and gracious, he goes, nah, nah nah. He is my own son turned against me. If God told him to curse me, if God told him to mock me, Just let it be. God will take care of it. Now I kind of have the feeling that David wrote this psalm in response to that event. He goes through there and he basically talks about people who were pestering him, people who were mocking him and ridiculing him. And I know this was event in David's life. Where there was people, ungodly people, ridiculing him, mocking him, and uh pestering him, without a doubt. Here's a thought When we get serious about living for God, and the young people, many young people this past week made some very significant decisions. And many young people expressed to me throughout the week and even today something to the effect that, Pastor, I want to get serious about living for God. I want to be serious about being a good Christian. I want to be serious about being the person God wants me to be. Listen, let me tell you this Whenever we get to that point in our life where we say, you know, I want to take my spiritual life seriously, I want to take my relationship to the Lord very seriously, I want things to be right. Whenever we get to that point, you mark my word, there'll be folks give you a hard time Can I get a witness? There'll be folks. The Bible says in Timothy, yea, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. When we decide, get this, when I make the decision, I'm going to live for the Lord, I'm going to please God with my life, I'm taking very seriously my faith and trust, obedience to the Lord. I want to be the person God intends for me to be. You mark my word. There's going to be folks going to give you a hard time. We're going against the grain of the world. We're swimming upstream when we're doing that. We're not going along with the crowd. And that's what David found out, and that's what he's writing about in this chapter. Folks are going to give us a hard time. There's a good chance. You take seriously say, you know, I want every area of my life to be pleased to the Lord. I would just want to live for God. Good chance you're going to be ridiculed for that. Maybe by family members. I know when I got saved and it was all new to me, and God was changing my life, as I said a moment ago. And I had a family member come up to me and they and I told them, I said, hey, I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and God saved me. I was excited. I thought they'd be glad You know what the response was I got? Oh, who do you think you are? You think you're better than us? Oh, you're calling us all sinners, and now you're Denny Saint? I said, no, that's not what I'm saying at all. I said, Jesus saved me, forgave me, changed my life. Oh yeah, so yeah, you're Mr. Goodyear Two Shoes, and we're just terrible sinners, huh? He said, no, that's not what I'm saying at all. You follow what I'm saying? When we get online with God, we get living for God. People misunderstand. People see it a different way, and they don't like it. And sometimes they give us a hard time. Um I got to work. I got saved on Monday night. Did I ever tell you about that? I got saved Monday night. And um next morning, Tuesday, I show up at work, we start work at 6, got there about 5. 30 and getting ready And uh and these guys and they didn't know anything happened to me. You know, the last they saw me was left work on Friday. I showed up I'd taken Monday off, I was uh come in Tuesday and um I said, hey guys, I accepted Jesus as my Savior last night. I was excited. I thought everybody would be happy. And they were like, What? I said, yeah, I got saved. And man alive, it started. And just giving me a hard time mocking me, making fun of me, calling me every name in the book. One guy threatened to beat me up for no other reason than I'd become a Christian. Listen, I'm not trying to discourage anybody. I'm not trying to put a cloud over a decision. But I am saying this. We get right with God. We get stirred up for God. Sometimes people misunderstand that Sometimes people have a different take on that, and they might give us a hard time. Don't be discouraged by that. Don't let that derail you. I'll tell you this. Anybody that's ever done anything for God has had to overcome opposition. Mark it down. Mark it down. And so here we have David dealing with it. I mean, man alive, he's trying to do god, he's trying to do right, he's trying to please the Lord, his son rises up against him, this guy's throwing these insults at him And David just trusts God, and he records this down here. Now, verse 3 is the verse that caught my attention, and I was reading through this a few days ago But know that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself. Now that word know in verse 3 has this idea, to be assured of. Have no doubt about it. Now he is addressing verse number two the sons of men that are mocking him, that love vanity, they're ridiculing him. These are the guys that are giving him a hard time because he's trying to do right, because he's trying to please God. And he responds to him. He says, listen, I want you guys, you guys are mocking me, you guys are giving me a hard time You're ridiculing me because of my faith in God. I'm trying to live for God. I want you to know a couple things. I want you to know for sure, don't have any doubt in your mind, these two things. One, the Lord has set apart him that's godly for himself, and two God will hear me when I pray. He wanted his ridiculers, his mockers to understand that those that were godly, God set apart for himself, and God hears their prayers And that is important for you and I to know. I want to ask you a question. Be honest, just you can answer it, but just be honest with yourself. How many folks here, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That means in God's sight, every one of us that have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, we're saved, God says that we are set apart in his eyes. We are a special people. We are set apart in his eyes. Him that is godly is set apart. So it's important for us to know that when I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior In God's sight, I am set apart. I am put aside. What we mean by that is this: that the word set apart means to be marked in a very special way. to be cut out and separated from others. The old cowboys out west years ago, they would have their herds and in the springtime they'd uh they'd let 'em loose up on the mountains and uh and uh they would go and they'd just graze all summer and they all had their own brands on them And then the end of summer, when the win winter winds began to blow and snow started falling up in the up in the mountains, the Rocky Mountains, they'd go up and they'd bring all these cattle down And all the different farmers, their cattle was all mixed up all together. And what that cowboy would do, they would go up and they would, they called it this, they would cut the herd. In other words, they would go through and they would look for the cattle that that had that had their brand on it and they would separate those out. They would cut them out and they had their own cattle over here. All the other farmers' cattle was all mixed up, they're all there But they cut theirs out. Their cattle were set apart from the rest of the cattle. Now the Bible says that those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, you have all of humanity. But in God's sight, in God's eyes, those that have accepted his Son, Jesus Christ, their Savior, they're set apart. They're cut out. They're uh separated from all the rest of humanity in the eyes of God. I tell you what, that's a precious thing Were set apart in God's eyes. In other words, those that have been saved have God's special attention. Those that have been saved have trusted Jesus Christ have some special privileges. They can have access to God in prayer. They have God giving them direction in life. The unsaved people don't have that. They're set apart. For God's special privileges, God's special attention, God's special care. How many parents do we have? How many folks here? You're a parent. Well, maybe they're grown, maybe they're still small, you're a parent Did you ever take your kids maybe off to a playground, a public park, and there's a playground? Your kids are out there playing. There's a whole slew of other kids playing on there. But of that whole crowd of kids, let's say you've got two on that playground, that whole crowd of kids, I know one thing's true, your two kids have your special attention, right or wrong. You've got to rise on those. Does that mean you don't care about the others? Oh no, you care about the others. If one of those others fall and hurt themselves, you go over and check, make sure they're all right. But if it's your kid Well you got they got your attention. Uh maybe some kids are horsing around doing something they shouldn't do. And uh the other kids, uh, you know, you may or may not deal with it, but your kid does something they ought not to do. Zing. You're over there, come here. Whenever you use their m first and middle name, they knew they're in trouble. Come here, Dennis Lee, and uh pull them aside and you discipline them, you correct them. They get some special attention. Why? Because they're your kid You know what God is saying here? Those of us that know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, we got God's special attention. We're set aside. Do you know this? An unsaved person, God will not hear their prayer. God's separated from them. They're not his child. An unsaved person, they don't get the direction of God. They don't have the special care and protection of God. But a saved person, God's ear is open to their prayers. They've got God's special attention. He'll give them direction. Hey, they need to. God will discipline them and chasten them. We raised our two boys here. We had some neighbor kids. You know what? I never went and paddled the neighbor kids. They weren't mine. But my boys, I chasten them. I want to do right. I want to try and teach them to live for God. Do right. And so they would get disciplined. They'd get chastened. And so God is saying here, when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, we're set apart in the eyes of God. We're set apart from the rest of humanity and God's dealings with us. Question, does that mean God doesn't love the unsaved people? No, it doesn't mean that. God loves all everybody. Does that mean uh God doesn't care about them and I just don't care about them. No, no, no, it doesn't mean that at all. God loves the whole world. God cares for all men and women. And by the way, if you're here this morning and you've never accepted Jesus Christ your personal Savior, you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that you've been received eternal life, that when you die you go to heaven. If you don't have that settled, I'm telling you, God wants more than anything else for you to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Am I right or wrong? God wants you to be saved. And I urge you to not leave this building without accepting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior We're sinners on our way to hell. Jesus died for our sin. He rose again. If we put our faith and trust in Him, call on Him, come in our life, forgive us and save us, we can know we're going to heaven, and then we're set apart for the Lord. Set apart. What a blessing. What a blessing. By the way, that word set apart there in verse 3, but know that the Lord has set apart. That comes from the word where we get our word saint. Comes from the exact same word, sanctified, set apart. And as far as God's concerned, every person, every little boy and girl this week that accepted Jesus Christ as Savior They've got God's special attention. They've got God's special care. They've got God's special leadership and involvement in their life. And they are, as far as God's concerned, saints. We talked about this recently. Every saved person is a saint. in the eyes of God. So we got Saint Bill down here. And Saint Brian and Saint Sandy. I think. Yes. And uh Brian's there like she's a saint? But that's the idea. And what a blessing it is to know that as a child of God I'm set apart from the whole world in God's eyes. He sees me. He cares for me individually, personally. His ear is open to my prayer. Now, because we're set apart, I have two thoughts I want to give you real quickly. Number one, notice the distinctive characteristic that is mentioned in this verse. This is what I want to get at But know that the Lord has set apart him that is what? Godly. Are you looking there? You see it? The Lord has set apart him that is godly. Godly. Now what does it mean? For a person to be godly. We throw that word around. We hear it in church a lot. God has set apart him that is godly. Well, there's two aspects. Now, this gets a little theological here, so deal with bear with me for a moment. There's two aspects to the word godly. One is what we call positional godliness. In other words, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God forgives all my sin. He gives me at that very moment eternal life. The Holy Spirit takes up residence in my body, and I am sealed, and I am God's, and I am saved for the rest of eternity. Now, in God's record book, positionally, legally, the moment I accept Christ as Savior, God records down positionally that I am Godly. As far as God looks down, he sees, he sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ. He sees the godliness of Jesus Christ. when he looks at Dennis Leatherman. Legally my position before God is godly. You follow what I'm saying? Suppose uh we had a gigantic elevator. I like to use this illustration Sometimes we had a gigantic elevator. I said, all right everybody, I want to show you something. And uh the wall comes back, huge elevator. We all pile in the elevator, and I put mash the button H for heaven We all go, I don't know how long it'd take, but it'd be a little while. And finally we get to heaven and a door opens, and uh I don't know why we always say Peter's there, but Peter's there he says, Hey Saint Dennis Told you I'm a saint. And uh he says, What do you got? I said, I got the whole church here, uh Saint Peter, uh brother Peter, and uh sometimes I call him Pete and uh I said, I got the whole church here. Hey, I want to show them the re God's record books in heaven. He goes, sure, come on in. So we go over God's library and he says, What book do you want? I said, I want the book of life and gets it out. And he says, alright, then I look up my name. So he goes down through there, L L L L L E A, L L A L E A, T H C H G R M A O N Leatherman. Uh Do you know there's three Dennis Leathermans in Maryland? Scary thought. And um he comes down through the leatherland Dennis, Dennis, Denn Dennis Lee. Here we go. I said, read to my church folk here today, Brother Pete. Read What it says in God's record book about Dennis Leatherman. He says, okay. Gets his bifocals. Dennis Leatherman. Holy, godly, pure, without sin, altogether righteous, uh uh holy He looked at me and he says, that's what God considers you. That's your legal standing before God. And you all would look and say, Good heavens, we didn't know that about Brother Dennis. He's godly without sin, pure and righteous, absolutely holy, sinless. Uh yeah Because you know what happened when I accepted Jesus as my Savior? The righteousness of Jesus Christ was put to my account. And all my sinfulness, the nasty things I've said, the stupid things I've done, the grievous things that have been part of my life, all that was put to Jesus account. It's called imputed. That little boy on Thursday, we sat back in the fellowship hall. And uh I'll tell you, he I had worked with him a little bit this week. I'll tell you something about him. He was naughty. Yeah. And he sat there and he was he almost in the verge of tears and he said I need Jesus to take away my My sins. One little boy I it was a boy he said I said, Well what kind of sins? I just want to see if he understand what I meant by sins. He goes, Well getting angry and throwing your bed over in the bedroom would be sin. I say, Well yeah, that would be sin. And he bowed his head. He asked Jesus. He said, I believe Jesus died for my sins. He asked Jesus, come in heart, take away all his sins. You know what happened at that moment? All the righteousness of Jesus Christ in God's record book was put to his account. And all his little sins that a 10-year-old boy can do was put on Jesus' account And he was declared positionally godly. Now let's come back. We're still up Y'all are right there and Pete Pete's here and I'm here and he reads all that and then uh somebody says Brother Leatherman I know somebody may be my wife says uh Brother Leatherman I know you you don't I don't you're not you don't live like that. I've seen you do something this may come a shock to you. I've seen you do some things that really aren't right Sarah is in amazement. You know why? Because there's practical godliness on the Also. You follow what I'm saying? As far as God's concerned, my position in heaven is as righteous as Jesus Christ. But down here on earth Living everyday life with a sinful nature and all that, I don't live up to that position that I hold before God. Is everybody with me? You follow what I'm saying? So that's called practical holiness. And that's where when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, as far as God's concerned, the record books in heaven, everything's good. I'm saved. I'm as righteous as Jesus Christ My place is sealed, secured in heaven. Everything's good. But I'm down here. Now God starts working in my life to change me so that I can live Up to my position. I can live like a Christian should live. So I can live like I should what God sees me there. And that's called practical godliness. And that's what he's uh he's addressing both of these here. And so what is it to be godly living the daily life? Somebody, you may have said this about something. Man, she is the most godly person I've ever met He is a godly man. What do we mean by that? We mean that they live their life in such a way that they display the characteristics of God. Now, there's some things about God I can't emulate. For instance, God is all-powerful. I'm not all-powerful. I can't be. I never will be. God is omnipresent. In other words, He's everywhere all the time. There's nowhere that God isn't. You can go to the farthest galaxy in the universe. God's there. He is immense. I can't be that. But God is also whole God is also honest. Do you know that God never lies? Never. I can be honest. Amen? You know God is pure. God never says anything that's impure. God never says anything that is contrary to his nature. I can be pure. I can't be as pure as God, but I can be pure like God. Follow what I'm saying? Um God is loving. I can be loving. God is faithful. I can be faithful. God is just. I can be just. So there's this practical godliness, and that's what God wants to do in your life and my life when we accept Jesus our Savior. As far as the records are concerned, I'm everything I could I'm just as righteous as Jesus Christ. But down here on earth, I'm not living that out. And so God begins working in my life. God begins doing things in my life so that I can be godly. So that I can be honest like God is honest, and I can be true like God is true, and I can be pure like God is pure. And he begins a process of molding us and changing us the moment we get saved. Listen to 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. In other words, this is what he's saying. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, my position before God in heaven is absolute sinless righteous. But down here, I'm not living that way. And so God begins taking those old sinful things that were true, those characteristics of my life. And he begins getting them to pass away, get them out of my life, and he begins incorporating into my life the new things, the godly things that I should be as a Christian. And that is a process that goes through my whole life. And so I can either cooperate with God I accept Jesus as my Savior, May 7, 1979, and God began changing my life. I can cooperate with him and say, yes, Lord, I want you to Lord have your way. You want this change? You want this? You want me to do this? You want me to stop doing this? Okay, and God begins changing and molding and making me. It's a lifelong process. Or I can resist him. And I can say, you know, Lord, I want to be saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to have eternal life. I want to go to heaven. I know Jesus died, suffered hell for me. I'll accept that That you'll forgive me my sin, give me eternal life. But you know, this process of living a godly life, I'm not sure I want to buy into that completely. And so God says, all right now, let's get you living like a Christian should live. Let's get you being a good representative of me on earth. And God says, all right, here's one thing, this needs to take place. This needs to be true in your life. And I say, well, Lord, you know, I don't know about that. And you know what it's called? It's called quenching the spirit. It's called grieving the Holy Spirit's work in my life. And it hinders me. And it hurts me. And if I persist on resisting the Lord, Hebrews 12 tells me that God will chasten me. God will bring hardships, difficulties into my life to get me to the point so that I'm willing to do what He wants to do in my life. See, there's some Christians who are going through tough times that they don't have to go through if they just trust and obey God. Now I'm not saying if you trust and obey God, you're not going to have tough times. Sometimes we have them regardless. But sometimes we bring it on ourselves, it's not necessary. If I would just trust the Lord and let him have his way and follow his leadership and trust him and obey him, and he begins making these changes. And along with that comes great blessing and joy of the Lord and confidence and fulfillment. So, all right, well, what are these things that God wants to change? Well, let me give a list real quick. I'll go through. One is Once we accept Jesus as Savior, he wants us to be baptized. Very simple thing. I think the most important thing, if I understand my Bible correctly, the most important thing after a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior is for them to come out and out for Christ, follow the Lord in baptism, say, I've accepted Jesus as my Savior, buried with him in baptism, raised to walk. I'm a Christian, I'm not ashamed of it. I want the world to know I've accepted Jesus as my Savior. That's what baptism is. And God says, listen, let's start things off right. I died publicly, shamefully for you Shirley, if you've accepted me as your Savior, you're willing to step out and let the world know you've accepted me my Savior by following me in baptism. First step. If I'm going to grow as a Christian, I'm going to live that, be practically godly, I've got to follow the Lord in baptism There's other things that I can do as God does. Here's another one. If I'm going to grow and develop as a saved person, a Christian person, I need to learn this book This is God's instruction manual. I had a truck, I bought my first pickup truck. It's been a number of years ago, but since I've been here, and um I'll just tell you how dumb I am. If you didn't need it to r an illustration. I got a flat tire on my first pickup truck. I didn't know where the flat ti I didn't know where the spare tire was. I was looking under the seat, under the hood. Where in the world is that? Do you know the spare tires hanging under the bed? I told you I'm pretty nine the brightest. I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer. Praise God I'm in the drawer. Amen I got that thing out there, how in the world I'm down there, I'm fiddling around with that thing trying to get that spare tire off and there's this cable coming down through it with this twist on thing. I thought, who in the world put that stupid thing on? And I can't get it off, so I just cut it. So I got finally got the spare tire on got back. I was telling Tom about it. I said I couldn't get that stupid thing on. Somebody had a cable. He goes, you're not go ahead. If you'd have looked at the manual, you just unscrew that. It falls right off. That's there to hold it on. You're kidding. So I know how to change spare tires on pickup trucks now. But here's my point. If I'd have gotten that manual out, I'd have saved a lot of headache. I was saved from messing that truck up. Can I tell you something? I know some Christians. You got a lot of headaches, and you're messing things up because you're not going by the manual. Am I right or wrong? I get saved. I need to learn this book. Because this book tells me how to live. This book tells me what I should do and what I shouldn't do. This tells me how to do what I should do. This is God's word. This is life's manual. Bible. Basic instructions before leaving earth. I'll learn this book. You say, how do I learn that book? Well, one way is to come to church. Teach and preach the Bible, come to Sunday school. Here's something else. You know this? You can read this at your house yourself. You can get your Bible and you can open it up and you can read that. You say, I don't understand all of it. I don't either, but there's enough in here I do understand keep me busy. I'll figure the rest of it out. So how do I learn? Get baptized, learn this book, go to church, read it, study it, find out what God wants me to do, what God wants me not to do. You can pray Hey, I got news for you. Once you accept Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you and I have direct access to the throne of God. I didn't have that before. Hebrews chapter 4 makes it very clear. We can come boldly through the throne of God through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I, you and I, can come directly to the Creator of the universe if we're saved. I say, God, I really need your help. God, I've got this sin that I cannot beat. And he keeps dragging me down. I struggle with it and I lose every battle in this sin. And God, I need you to help me You know what I found out? God helps me. God helps people. God wants us to have victory. God wants us to live for Him. God wants us to make right decisions. And if I pray and ask him to help me, God will help me. And as a saved person, one set apart in the eyes of God, I have access to God and I can pray. Little children can pray. Grandma and Grandpa can pray. And I do this, and that's God working in me, developing me, making me into the person God wants me to be. And so, uh, baptized, uh, learn our Bible, get in church, be faithful, get some Christian friends. Get some Christian friends. I said in Sunday school, you know it's easier for me to love the Lord when I'm around people that love the Lord. But I get around people that don't love God. I get around people that love the world and sin and wickedness Makes it hard for me to love God. Um I watched some nasty show on TV. I found when I'm done watching, I don't love the Lord as much as I did before. But I get around people that do love God and I get an influence in my life that promotes walking with God and pleasing Him with my life and all this, boy, it makes it helps me do that, makes me stronger And so the right kind of fellowship, baptism, Bible, church, prayer, all these things We had a lady who was a charter member of our church. Many of you folks who were here back in the day remember Nina McGroby. She's been with the Lord a number of years. Nina McGroby was something else. I mean, you never wondered what Nina was thinking. I mean, am I right or wrong? She just, you knew it. And I could tell you stories about Nina. When I first came, she said, Pastor Lederman, I would like for you to pray for my husband Jimmy. that he'd be saved. Some of you might have known Jimmy. Jim. I said, okay, I'll come by and visit him. She goes, be careful. He hates preachers. All right. I just happened to be a preacher. So I one day got the nerve up after I was here a little while. I went out. They lived over on K Street. I knocked on the door, Jim came, big old guy. I said, Jim, I'm Pastor Letterman. He said something to this effect. Not interested. Go away. I said, okay. That was my first witness to Jim. So we began praying. And I'd see him around. I'd say, hey, try and be nice. One day Jim found out that he had a terrible liver condition. And it deteriorated pretty quickly. He'd let me come visit him. And Jim accepted Jesus Christ as his personal Savior He was bad sick. And he would he would get all the he bought the first he bought the first wireless mic for the church for us so that we We could record the messages so we could take them down to him and he could listen to them. And he listened to every service. I'd take the old cassette tapes down there and he would listen to them. And I became his pastor. God began changing Jim's life. Dr. Don Williams, a chalk artist, knew Jim from years ago. They worked together at Carnation. I told him, I said, Jim McGruby got saved. He goes, I don't believe it. I said, well, I said, I think he did. I think it's for real. He goes, I I have to see it to believe it. So next time he was in town, I said, go visit Jim. I'm going to. You know how Doc is. He went over there, about an hour later, come back. He said, the old boy got it. I said he did. I said he got saved. I can't believe it. I said, yeah. He's reading his Bible. He's talking about God. He never did that. I know. I know What was happening? He was now, Jim was now set apart in the eyes of God. And God was working in his life, changing him. Jim was now I don't think Jim ever got baptized. I don't think he did. I don't think he was physically able. Now that I think about it. He w They took him to McCumberland. They were going to try and do a liver transplant. In the hospital, they were putting a stent or something in, and when they did, they punctured his liver. The cancer came out and made it impossible to have a liver transplant. He had deteriorated. They took him to Pittsburgh. Now this is what I wanted to get to. In Pittsburgh, he was scared to death. Saved, had that settled, there was no doubt, but he was scared. He was by himself, he was dying, he was far away from friends and family, he was alone 2. 30 in the morning, the nurse told me later of the hospital up there, she's 2. 30 in the morning, he called the nurse and he says, I need Pastor Leatherman here now. I need somebody to pray for me. And she goes, Well where so we found out she goes, he's all the way down in Oakland. That's a three hour drive away. It's two in the morning. She goes, I can't he says, I need someone to pray. And she goes, Well, Jim, you know, we'll call them first thing in the morning. And I never knew about this until later. And later on I got up there and I visited Jim, and he told me, he says, You know, I wanted you to come and pray with me so bad, but they wouldn't get you He said, you know what, Pastor Letterman? I just decided I'd go ahead and pray myself Amen. You can do that now, Jim. You're saved. You're a child of God. You have access to Him. You can pray to God just as much as I can. God hears us. We're children. If we're saved from a child of God, I can pray in a hospital bed. I don't need a preacher or a priest or somebody else come and pray for me. I can pray for myself. Isn't that a wonderful thing? You know what Jim said to me? Just shortly before he died. He said, Pastor Lederman, if getting cirrhosis of the liver And having it rupture and not being able to have a transplant is what it took for me to get saved. He said it's worth all of it. Isn't that something? It's worth liver cancer and dying prematurely if that's what brings me to Jesus Christ. What a testimony. You're here this morning and you know Jesus Christ, your personal savior. You've accepted Jesus, your personal savior. In the eyes of God, you're a very special person. You are set apart from the rest of the world. God has a plan and purpose for your life. God is involved. He's opened the doors of the throne of God in prayer for you. He's active in your life. He wants to lead you and direct you. He wants to get the garbage out and put the godliness in. I've got to cooperate with them. I've got to trust them and obey them and follow them. If you're here, you've been saved, you've not been baptized, that's the most important thing in your point in your life right now, is follow the Lord in baptism. If you're saved and baptized, but you're not learning that book and you're not living by that book, you need to decide this morning, from here on out, I'm going to start living by the Word of God. What that book tells me to do, I'm going to do. What that book tells me not to do, I'm not going to do it. I want to live by the Word of God. God will lead you and direct you and help you. You need to start praying. I'm in regularly praying, bringing your requests, your needs, your burdens, your fears, your sins, your struggles. Bring it all to Christ. God hears. God answers prayer. You get some good, godly friends. Listen, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not perfect. I tell you, there's some people in this church that love God. There's a lot of people here really trying hard to do what's right. We don't always live up to them. I tell you, there's the it's the real deal I don't want to get around, I want to get around people who are the real deal. I want to get around people that are living for the Lord, trying to live for God, do right, love the Lord, because that's what I want to be. Pray. Read my Bible. If you're here this morning, you've never accepted Jesus your personal Savior. That's what you need to do now. And we got folks that can show you from the Bible how to do it. It has nothing to do with joining the church. Nothing to do with that. It has to do with personally accepting Jesus Christ in my heart and life. And we can show you how to do it. How to do that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you bless the invitation time now. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for suffering hell for us and being buried and rising again. Thank you, Lord, for offering us so freely to forgive all our sin and take us to heaven someday. Lord, in the meantime, help us to trust you and live for you and follow you and obey you. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've got a scriptural basis for the fact that God has forgiven my sins. I'm on my way to heaven. But I've never been baptized. And this morning I want to just come out and out for Christ. I don't want to be a secret Christian. I want to be an out and out Christian, and I need to follow the Lord in baptism and let the world know I've accepted Jesus as my Savior. How many like that? Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized And that's a decision I need to make. Any like by the uplifted hand. How about it? Any at all? Young or old. I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. God bless you. A few young people there and a couple others Listen, that's an important thing. We can talk with you about going through it. It has nothing to do with whether I'm saved or not. It has everything to do with whether I let the world know I'm saved. How many folks say, Preacher, I'm saved, I've been baptized, but you know I'm not really studying that book, not really learning that book like I should I need to get and start reading that Bible. I need to get in church and start learning that book so I can be the person God intends for me to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. My relationship with God's Word isn't what it ought to be. How about it? Uplifting hand. God bless you. A bunch of hands all around. Why don't we just make the decision this morning? You know, I'm going to be a person of the book I'm going to read that thing. I'm going to learn that thing. I'm going to have God teach me. I'm going to get under the Sunday school and teach in the Word of God so I know what God expects from me in His Word. How about this matter of prayer? There's some Christians this morning who say, Preacher, I don't pray like I should. I know it. I need to. I've got situations. I need God's help. And for whatever reason, I don't pray like I should And you say this morning the Spirit of God has spoken to my heart, and I need to be a praying Christian, discipline myself on a regular basis. To bring my request to the Lord. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. I'm not a praying Christian like I should. Hands all around. Let's just decide here on out. We're going to correct that. And we could just go on down the list. Maybe there's some other areas God has spoken to your heart. And this morning there's some decisions that need to be made. One last question. You're here this morning, you say, Preacher, I hope I go to heaven when I die. I think I would, but you're not absolutely sure. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not 100% sure, and I'm concerned about that I'd like for you to pray for me that God would help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I'd like to think I'm going to heaven, but I'm not a hundred percent certain. Any at all, slip your hand up How about it? I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Pray for me that God will help me settle that. Any at all? By the uplifted hand. How about it? Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised for various things. You know our hearts. Help us, Lord, just to decide this morning. We're going to step out for Christ We're going to make those decisions, follow your direction, and do what needs to be done so that we can be the Christians you intend for us to be. Blessed, Lord, I pray. Let's stand up.