Second Thessalonians chapter 2, verse number 1, the Bible says, We beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him. You could put in the margin of your Bible, you put the word rapture there beside that gathering together. That's what that term means, rapture. By our gathering together to him, that ye be not soon shaken in mind, nor be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us As that day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means. We're going to stop there. Let's pray. I've entitled the message Shaken, Troubled, and Deceived Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless our study of these brief passages here. I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and impress upon our heart the truths that are presented here. I pray that our lives would be affected by the uh uh the teaching here. And again, fill me with your spirit, I pray. Speak through me to our hearts, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul in his writings, the epistles he wrote, prophecy is a major theme all through there. Just about every one of the books that are penned by Paul They have a huge portion on prophecy. In fact, you go all through the New Testament, the Gospels, particularly Matthew. This past week in my devotions, um finished reading up Matthew uh in the New Testament reading. You know, chapter 24, 25, all through there, prophecy, prophecy, prophecy. It is a huge, huge emphasis all through the New Testament, all through the Old Testament, and uh it it thus we know that it is very, very important. Fact of the matter is, uh, we live in a day when there's very little, I believe, any more emphasis on the second coming of Christ. Uh back in the 60s, 70s, 80s. You remember back in those days if you knew the Lord back then? Boy, big prophecy conferences the churches held and it was just um, you know, it was a big, big thing Highland Park down there. He's had big conferences. Dr. Robertson was a big uh push of preaching on prophecy and all of that. That's kind of gone by the wayside And uh nowadays you'll hear preaching in some of these big churches, boy, they'll preach on you know interpersonal relationships and all those types of things. And, you know, there's a place for all of that But if we're going to preach the Bible, you're going to have to put an emphasis on the second coming. It's going to be a huge theme in your preaching. If you're going to preach through the Bible, because it's such a huge emphasis in the scriptures. So you have a neglect, I believe, on preaching on the second coming and prophetic events. In fact I venture to say that within, and I'm speaking of Christianity just in general terms, Christian dumb, there's a gross neglect of biblical doctrine just across the board. Or at least a neglect of biblical accuracy. There's a lot of movements with this within Christianity, and I've said this off and on over the years, a lot of movements within Christianity that it is impossible to support that movement and hold to a strict interpretation of the scriptures. If you're going to be involved in that movement, if you're going to be a part of that, endorse that, then you've got to be loose on some of your interpretation of scripture. If you're going to hold strictly to what the Bible teaches and take it at face value for what it teaches, then you're going to have a problem with a lot of these movements. And so This neglect I call it or rejection perhaps of doctrine, of biblical teaching, is a major, major problem, I think, in churches today. But the fact of the matter is, I got preparing this, it's nothing new. Neglecting doctrine, distorting doctrine, has been around from before the Bible was even finished being. Recorded. I did a little research. In A. D. 135, about a hundred years after Christ was crucified and ascended to heaven. About 35 years after the Bible was fin after the book of uh Revelation was finished and the Bible was completed, within 30, 40 years of the Bible's completion, a guy named Montanus Got teaching and got a huge following within Christianity at the time that the New Jerusalem. Remember reading in Revelation, the New Jerusalem comes down out of heaven He got teaching that that was about to happen at any time in the year 135, and of all places it was the city of New the City of the New Jerusalem was going to settle down in the country of Turkey. Of course it wasn't called Turkey then, but it was going to settle down there. I have no idea where he came up with this. I have no idea how he came to that conclusion. But nevertheless, he had a huge following. Guess what? He was wrong. The New Jerusalem didn't come down and settle in Turkey. In 235, about a hundred years later, and and I say 235, give or take, five or ten years There was a preacher, he went by the term bishop, and uh he convinced his followers that the Lord was returning in this one particular year, somewhere around 235. And I never knew why They do this, but he convinced his followers that they needed to sell all their possessions, give up their businesses, because the Lord was coming back in this certain time. And so they did this. A huge number of people sold their possessions. They waited for the Lord to come back. And guess what? He was wrong. He didn't come back. And the history I was reading here, his followers, thousands of them, were left poor. A lot of them had sold their homes and different things and really destroyed their lives by this false teaching. I never could figure out why in the world would you sell your possessions because the Lord's coming back. What's the difference? You know, is my thinking, whether you so it or not. But nevertheless, that was what happened. In A. D. 99, Saint Peter's Basilica, where's that at? In Rome, it's in the Vatican. It's the big cathedral there in the Vatican. Um, thousands of people somehow had gotten convinced That uh the Lord was returning. And the place got mobbed and crowded, and all these people believed the Lord was returning. They had a set and certain date, and they were wrong. You go through the Middle Ages from the year about 1000 through the year about 1500, you had over and over and over again people, false prophets That would prophesy the Lord's coming had distortions of what the Bible teaches about the second coming all through this time. So it's nothing new. Then you hit the 1800s, you had one fella in particular, his name was William Miller. William Miller said that the rapture was going to take place, and by the way, the 1800s was kind of a resurgence of biblical teaching of the second coming. It had kind of gotten uh you know cause of all this distortion people kind of put as way put aside. But the eighteen hundreds it kind of picked up again. And people had a renewed interest. And of course with that renewed interest was a real distortion of biblical teaching. William Miller taught that the rapture was going to take place on March 21, 1842. March 31, 1842 came and went, and the rapture didn't take place. So instead of saying, hey folks, I was wrong, I you know, I was teaching something false, it's not scriptural He recalibrated his figuring and he said the Lord was coming back from April 3rd, 1843. And uh this seems to be a pattern that these people do. They set a date, it's wrong, they'll set another date. And guess what? His second date, guess what? Wrong. And uh uh three thousand five hundred people plus packed out the Boston Advent Temple Anticipating the rapture of the church, they sat there, nothing happened, and my history book I was reading here, the record of this, says he lost a few followers because of it Good night. To me it looks like you would lose all of your followers. Two times in less in a little over a year, you set the wrong date. And uh he lost a few followers of it. But I'll tell you what William Miller's false teaching on the second coming did produce. It produced two cults. You ever hear the Millerites? Miller writes two cults that came out of William Miller's teachings on these false teachings on the Second Coming. One is Jehovah's Witnesses Now the Jehovah's Witnesses taught, um Ron and I were talking about this, Jehovah's Witnesses teach that Jesus came back in 1914, that he already did come back, but he came back in spirit form. He didn't come back physically, he came back spiritually And uh the one book I was reading for this uh says that uh they believe he lives in Manhattan somewhere, spiritually s somewhere in Manhattan. So you had the Jehovah's Witnesses come out of this. You have the another group came out of a Miller that are known were known as the Millerites. Who's that? Anybody take a guess? Somebody started to say it. Sabbath day of Venice. What came out of this William Miller who taught a false teaching about the second coming of Christ. And uh there they've made various uh false prophecies, and their whole teaching, the Seventh-day Adventist whole teaching on the second coming, is distorted. Their whole teaching on a lot of things is very distorted Seventh day Adventists teach, and I'm not trying to be critical, I'm just telling you the way it is. Seventh day Adventists teach that if you worship the Lord on Sunday, that is taking the mark of the beast That you and I, by worshiping on Sunday rather than Saturday, we have taken the mark of the beast. How you come up with that, I have no idea. And so Uh even just recently, uh Hal Lindsey, anybody recognize the name Hal Lindsey? Uh Bagon Prophecy, he said Uh in one of his books he wrote that forty years from nineteen forty-eight the Lord would come back. When Israel was back as a nation, he said within forty years the Lord will return. That was nineteen eighty-eight, the Lord didn't return Uh Jack Van Empe, still on TV. I think he's 190 years old, I think, something like that. But he's on TV. Jack Van Empe said the Lord would come back between the year 2008 and the year 2013. So he's up against it. Um Harold Campy in 2011 predicted two dates for the Lord's return. Now, why am I taking the time to go through this? I'm trying to say this. What we see in our day of a distortion, a false teaching on the second coming is nothing new It's been true all through church history, even back into the church at Thessalonica here, before the Bible was even completed. People had taken the teaching on the second coming and had so distorted it that the church at Thessalonica was upset. I mean, this church was in bad shape because of this teaching. What not every detail now I'll I'll be the first to admit not every detail on the second coming is taught in Scripture. It's a whole lot of things we don't know about. There are a whole lot of details there. We speculate, we guess But the Bible gives us a good bit of information. The Bible gives us a good bit. We can know what the timeline is as far as the chronology of events that the future holds. We can know that from Scripture. We cannot know the date or the time. Absolutely. If I or anyone else ever stands behind this pulpit or stands behind the pulpits of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and starts preaching a date or a time for the second coming, you need to remove them immediately. That is false teaching. We don't know that We do know the chronology, we know a lot of the events, the Bible gives a lot of detail, but we have to be very, very careful about going overboard and teaching false doctrine. So Here you have the church at Thessalonica. Paul had written to them the first letter, we mentioned that. He goes into great detail in chapter four of the first Thessalonians about the rapture. They were upset. They didn't know about this. So he goes into great detail. Now for whatever reason They had gotten the wrong idea in their heads and they had the idea that the rapture had already taken place and the Lord either had come back and they didn't know it or the Lord was about to come back. And they were absolutely worked up over this. So he quickly writes 2 Thessalonians, and he goes down through, and now chapter 2, he's getting to the meat of the matter. First thing I want us to notice, our first point tonight in the message is the importance of correct doctrine. The importance of having correct doctrine. Look at verse 1 And try and imagine in your mind the what's the word I want? The emotion behind the Apostle Paul as he's writing this. Look what it says. Now we beseech you, brethren. Do you sense an urgency there? We beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our gathering together unto Him. There is a to me this is an urgent plea on his part. Listen to me, folks. What you and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but he says, what you've been taught has been wrong What's your thinking, your understanding is wrong? I'm beseeching you. It's obvious this is something that he is very concerned about This is something that is dangerous to the church that is hurting the church there and this is one of the model churches. This is a church he's putting out there saying, hey, other churches you can pattern yourself after the church at Thessalonica, but now they have this And he says, hey, look notice he uses the word now. Now, we beseech you, brethren. What he's saying is, I'm getting to the purpose of this letter. Verse 1 chapter 1, he addressed some things, they're persecution, God's going to take care of that. Don't you worry about it. Now listen, this is what we need to address. And so he's very, very urgent here. This is very important. It is vitally important. That our doctrine, uh, it is vitally important that our doctrine be correct Would you agree with me on that? I hope our church, that every member, all the leadership, the Sunday school teachers, deacons, trustees, everybody that holds a position, everybody that's a part of this church, understands the importance of biblical doctrine. That has to be right. It has to be a priority. What would you do? What would you think of a doctor? that didn't know or care very much about the teachings of the medical practice, but he really cared about people. Would you want to suppose you go to your doctor and you say, well what's your uh med what what what's your understanding of medical fundamentals of medical practice and doctoring and all of that? Oh, I don't think all that doctor I don't think all the uh uh medical doctrines are that important. I just care about people. I just want people to be well. I would rather go to a doctor that really didn't care about me at all but knew the fundamentals and the teachings of the medical practice than somebody who loved me dearly and had no idea what he's doing. Right or wrong? And uh true in the financial field. What if you would do if you went to a financial counselor and said, you know, I need some I want some uh advice on money, maybe inherited something I want to invest it, or I got this situation in your And you want and the guy says, Well, I I don't give a whole lot about the teachings on money and finances, you know. Oh, that's that's not important. The only thing is I just want you guys to be happy Good night, I'm not trusting that guy with my money. I'd rather a guy says I could care less whether you're rich or poor, but this is what this is how the thing works. This is the way things are, right? Somebody says, well, uh we take our kids to this doctor because he has a really great playroom were the kids in the waiting room and they got the latest toys and those kids just have a blast. Is he a good doctor? Nah, he don't know a thing about doctors doctoring, but uh uh he's got a great program for kids You see where I'm going with that? Man alive, how many folks, uh young couples have their children and they'll go to church that is not teaching doctrine, does not teach the truths of scriptures? They got a great youth program But the kids aren't learning a thing about salvation. They're not learning a thing about heaven and hell. They're not learning a thing about what's right and wrong. But man, they have a great children's program That thinking does not work in any area of life. There are some basic things, there are some basic formulas. There are some basic truths that must be in place in every area of life. Now, why is it when we come to spiritual life, spiritual things we say, oh, anything goes I'll tell you why, because there's a devil out there that wants to destroy mankind. And he will convince us that biblical teaching, that's right and wrong, truth and error is unimportant as long as you feel good, as long as everything seems wonderful. Paul is adamant here. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord and our gathering together with him, he is absolutely adamant here. Paul understood that our doctrine affects our destiny. What we believe directly affects how we behave Whether we want to admit it or not, we can say what we want, but what our core beliefs are what drive our behavior. If we were absolutely, if I could somehow, and we we see it illustrated here in these history, these incidences throughout history, if I could somehow convince every one of us that Jesus is coming back tomorrow at noon. So I mean you were just absolutely the very core of your being, you believed that was true. How many folks think you might do things differently tomorrow morning than if you uh than if you weren't convinced of that Sure, we would. You know why? Because what we believe affects how we behave. And so what we believe is vitally important. If we really believe that Jesus is coming in, if we really believe that the only way to be saved is accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, then suddenly that becomes very important to me. If we really believe there's a heaven and hell, if we really believe there's right and wrong, as Christians, if we really are convinced, the biblical teaching, that we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ to give an account of our works, of what sort they are, it's going to affect us And so Paul is very adamant here that they say, what's the big deal, what they think about the second coming? What does it matter? According to Paul, and according to the Word of God, it matters tremendously. Now take your Bibles if you would turn with me real quickly. Come over to chapter 2. We're in here in chapter 2. Come down to verse 12 And we're going to look at a few verses just here in the end part of the New Testament. Look at verse 12. That day, and he's talking about uh this is uh the Antichrist, this is going on during the tribulation, but look what he says in verse 12. That day That they all might be damned, which, what's that next word? Believed not the truth. Look at that. Their destiny was dependent upon whether they believed the truth of God's word or not Come over if you would to Hebrews chapter 3. Just a few pages here, a few books back. Hebrews chapter 3 And uh verse number eighteen, second last verse of Hebrews three Speaking of Israel here and how they responded to the Lord, look at verse 18. And to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest? But to them to but to them that what? Believe not. According to that verse, sounds like it was pretty important what the Israelites believed. Sounded pretty important what their doctrine was, what they were convinced of was true. Come over to chapter 11. And the last part of chapter 11, Hebrews. Verse number thirty one. Here's talking about Rahab the harlot in uh Jericho. It says, by faith the harlot Rahab perish not with them that believe not. From what I can tell, she was trying to convince folks, hey, Israel's coming in here. They're gonna conquer this uh this city, they're gonna destroy everyone. You gotta You come with us, you be with me when they show up. We got this red scarlet. And some of the people didn't believe it. We don't believe that teaching. You're crazy. That's not the truth And because they didn't believe the truth, they believed the lie, they perished. You could go to um uh Noah and the the Ark. And the people didn't believe him. You go to Jude chapter 1 and verse 5. They didn't believe. I thought of this statement before the service this evening. Great faith In a false doctrine is deadly. Small faith in the true doctrine Is right, is is uh will save your soul, right? I would rather have small faith in the truth than have great faith in a lie. And we live in a world where a lot of people have great faith in some untruths. And it's a dangerous thing. So the purpose here of him writing this letter is there was some false teaching. And it had to be addressed. It could not be tolerated. It was affecting them. And that leads me to my second point here as we come back to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. First of all, the importance of correct doctrine He says, now we beseech you, brethren, there's just an urgency in this. Then we notice the impact of false doctrine The importance of correct doctrine. Notice the impact of false doctrine. Look at verse 2. That ye be not soon shaken in mind. Or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand Now, we don't know exactly what it was that messed up their thinking. We don't know what it was that caused them to start believing. an untruth, a false doctrine. He says there, whether it be uh by spirit or by word or by letter, as from us I read commentaries on that. They suggested different things. I boiled it down to there's probably one of two reasons they got messed up. Either they misunderstood First Thessalonians, the teaching there, and they thought, man, this is all happening right now, because the Lord's saying it's at hand, you know, it could happen any time. They misunderstood, let me put it this way, they misunderstood the term eminent return of Christ with the idea of the soon return of Christ. And there's two very important distinctions. If something is eminent, it means what? It can happen at any time. Does it necessarily mean it's going to happen soon? No. Could be a thousand years from time, but it could be at any time, at point, any point in history. We don't know. If something's going to happen soon then we expect, well, it'll be maybe within the next few minutes or the next few hours or the next few days. You know, i i i you anticipate um uh it a little differently. And so they got messed up. So either it was uh they misunderstood first Thessalonians and came to the wrong conclusions or It's been suggested in verse 2 kind of hints at it. It's a very real possibility that somebody wrote the church at Thessalonica a letter Deliberately teaching false doctrine and signed Paul's name to it. And they mistakenly took that false teaching as coming from Paul and that messed them up. You say, Why nobody would ever do that? Ha! Go on the internet sometime and Google in whatever you're researching, and there is all kinds of nonsense out there. And that same frame of mind, that's not new for our generation. That same frame of mind of deceiving people for whatever reasons has been around since Satan showed up in the Garden of Eden. And so it's not far-fetched to think that somebody deliberately wrote to them maliciously under the guise of being from Paul to mess them up. This was a powerful church. This was a church that uh was having a tremendous influence. People were being saved, uh the false uh uh gods, Dianus and all them were being affected So there was a lot of enemies of the church at Thessalonica that wanted to take them out. And so for whatever the case was They got messed up in their second understanding of the second coming, and it profoundly affected them. Now look how it affected them, real quick. It says that ye be not soon shaken in mind. That word shaken there has the idea of like uh do you ever see did you ever go out deep sea fishing or something, or you ever see a video or whatever of a buoy out on the ocean, and that buoy is just being tossed around the waves, it's up and down. Anybody got you got that picture in your mind? That's the idea of this word here Their thinking, and the word their mind, that you be not soon shaken in mind, the word mind there has the idea of the decision-making process Of the judgments they were making. So they got some wrong bad teaching And it affected the decisions they were making, affected judgments they were making. They had the idea the Lord was back, the rapture had already taken place, somehow they missed it. And it was affecting their decisions as a church, it was affecting their decisions they were making serving the Lord, it affected their whole life. It messed up their thinking. Now listen, that is exactly what the devil does. We preached on that Sunday morning. He wants to alter the way we think. Listen. We have got to guard our minds from this world affecting the way we think. We must hold to the truth. And I'm telling you, we are entering a period in our country particularly where the truth is coming under tremendous assault. And for you and I to hold to what's been accepted by in days gone by, the majority of people, whether they lived it or not, they acknowledged the Bible was true. And we are in a day and age where you and I are becoming more and more out of Main Street because we hold to the truth. And again, it's better, uh it's I'd rather have weak faith in the truth than great faith in a lie. And it affected their decisions, how they lived their lives, the decisions they made, what they lived for, what their values were, what their priorities in life were, was affected by what they believed And they were convinced they were being shaken, they were getting their thinking altered, and it affected their judgment. Maybe did they start questioning other doctrines? Possibly. That's what happened with Eve. Uh did they start second guessing decisions they had made and giving themselves to the Lord and dedicating? Maybe uh some that were in the ministry started second guessing You know, am I really called to the ministry? It could have gotten to the point, do I can you really even know you're saved? And one thing can lead to another. Whatever the case was, it messed them up It got to their head and it started affecting their decision making. Then he comes down and says, be not shaken in mind or be troubled. The word troubled there means to be upset, frightened. I mean, they were actually at the point where they were scared. Um, false teaching can very easily lead to fear. You and I, now and you know, I mean it's a flesh struggles with this, but you and I, as believers, if we're holding to the truth of God's word, we have nothing to fear. You say, well, what about death? If I understand the Bible correctly, and I'm convinced I do, if I'm saved, death is simply a door into the presence of God. It's nothing to be feared. If I'm unsafe, it's a tremendous thing to be feared. Uh we get out visiting and talking to people And uh I'll be very honest with you, the last couple days I succumbed to the temptation to not go out and knock on doors It's five degrees out and uh this afternoon I thought I'm gonna go out and knock on doors. I went out and I thought, I think I'll go study some more and uh went back in. But um we get out knocking on doors And you wouldn't believe, I mean you probably would, but how many times people say something like that, oh you can't know you're saved? You can't have the you ca nobody can know that they're going to heaven when they die. What a way to live Think about that, not knowing when I die whether I'm going to heaven or hell. That would scare me to death. Suppose you got on an airplane And uh you were getting on the airplane and say, uh, uh is this plane going to make it safely to Chicago? Well, you can't know that. We can we nobody can know whether this plane's gonna make it to Chicago safely or not. I don't know about you. I don't think I'd get on that plane. What do you mean you can't know? Well nobody knows until the plane arrives. I mean there's always that humanly speaking, of course there's that chance. But for the most part you say, yeah, this plane's gonna make it fine, right? Man, we've got God's word on this. And we don't have to be afraid. So it caused them fear because of the false teaching, brought fear into their heart and life rather than faith and hope. Then, last of all, look at the last part of verse 3. Let no man deceive you by any means. That word let caught my attention. When he uses the term let, let no man deceive you, who is it that is responsible for not being deceived? It's me. It is the individual. Listen, you and I are responsible that we don't get deceived by false teaching. You and I are responsible that we make sure that what we believe is the truth according to the word of God. That's our responsibility. Well, you know, I just uh guy they asked the guy, what do you believe? I believe same thing my church believes. What's your church believe? Same thing I believe. That guy didn't know what he believed. It was just whatever. I'm convinced I had folks uh that when I worked with hospice, uh there was a lady there in particular I'm thinking of, a devout Catholic Sweet as lady and um uh that I am convinced she had no idea what her church taught She just whatever they said, she just swallowed it. Well, that must be true. Never checked it with the word of God. Never tr question it, see if it's the uh if it's truth or not. Just if the priest said it, then therefore it's true. That's crazy. Listen, uh I I I I'll be the first one to say as as preacher here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, every member has a responsibility to make sure that what I preach squares up with the Word of God. And anything I preach that's not lined up with the Word of God needs to be put aside and discarded. Amen? And uh I've had things I remember back early on here we had anybody was anybody here when we had Hugh Pyle come through? Anyone remember way back the first year I think I was here And I made a statement at the end of the service. I was young, fired up, first revival meeting, and I don't remember what it was, something about the second coming, I think But I had to come back the next night afterward and I say, you know, I made a statement last night that was not scripturally correct. And um there was only five does any of you all remember me saying that? Donna does. She remembers all my mistakes. But um No, and I had to come back. I don't remember what it was. It was something he had preached. I got stirred up and I made a statement at the end. And uh, you know, w it's our responsibility. The interesting thing here is He's not just addressing the pastor of the church at Thessalonica, he's addressing all the members. Don't any of you let any man deceive you? So we all have the responsibility of making sure that what we believe is the truth and not just something we swallow or not something that's untrue A lot of our worries and a lot of our fears are the result of not being grounded in the Word of God. Now this is an extreme example. But years ago we had a family they would ride the bus in. And um this family would read the magazine, the the I'm using this term loosely, newspapers at the at the grocery store. Uh the World Report or what are they called? The tabloids you built. What are those some of the names of them? National Inquiry and all of those and they would have uh they found Mother Mary on the moon, you know, and stuff like that. And I would get phone calls about every other month. This guy would say, Hey, I read that. You think that's really true And they had one about something about aliens or kidnap Jesus or something, you know, some ridiculous thing. What in the world, Brother Leatherman? And uh I said, man, number one, quit reading that stuff And number two, you need to learn what the Word of God says so you don't fall for all this nonsense. The guy'd be all worked up over the most ridiculous stuff. Now, how in the world can we guard ourselves from believing a false truth, a false statement? Read and study the Bible That's what we've been pushing, pushing, pushing. Study the Word of God. I have tried very, very hard over the years to make Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church a place where people can come and find out what the Bible teaches. Whether it's in Bible Institute or verse-by-verse studies, Bible reading schedules, it is vitally important That we read and study the Word of God and find out what the truth is and not get sucked into this all this false teaching out there. Amen. Father in heaven, please bless us, Lord, help us as Christians to study the Word of God, understand what is true and what's not true. And live our lives in light of the truth of your word. Lord, we do anticipate you coming. God, we look around and just think, Lord Uh even so come quickly, as uh John said. And so please help us be faithful, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed How many would say, Preacher, I need to be a more diligent student of the Word of God. And God uh I'm asking the Lord to help me to study the Word of God, read it on a regular basis. Any like that by the uplifted hand, sure That's our desire. Father bless our imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.