That was good. Thank you, Mark. Thank you, Austin. Excellent. Alright, uh Second Kings chapter Second Kings chapter six. I don't have a mic up here, guys. I s I don't have it up here. Uh while they're uh while you're turning there and we're getting the mic up here. I don't know where this came from. I have a sneaking suspicion who it was. But it was on the p uh pulpit here and I got up. It says, I'm getting so old that all my friends in heaven will think I didn't make it I thought that was pretty good. It reminded me of Tom Sharon. He is older than me. Yeah. Second Kings chapter six, I'm gonna begin reading in verse number eighteen. The Bible says, and when down to him, Elisha prayed unto the Lord and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. Of course that's God, smote them with blindness. And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek. But he led them to Samaria. And when it came, and it came to pass when they were come into Samaria that Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. And the king of Israel said unto Elisha when he saw them, My father, shall I smite them? Shall I smite them? And he answered, Thou shalt not smite them. Wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and go to their master. And he prepared great provision for them. And when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the bands of the Syrians came no more into the land of Israel. Somebody said the Bible's boring. Uh they've never read the Bible. These things are incredible. And so uh that phrase, shall I smite them, shall I smite them, caught my attention Let's pray and uh we'll look at this here. Father, I pray you bless our study and uh pray that you'd speak to our hearts once again. God, we need a continual uh nourishment from heaven through your word. So we're praying again this evening that you would uh uh apply these scriptures to our hearts and lives as we need I yield myself again, Lord. I have nothing to offer of myself, so I present my body anew, ask you to fill me with your spirit, and uh speak through me, I pray in Jesus' name. Jesus' name, Amen. When we get to the point in our faith, when our faith gets to the strength, I guess I'm trying to say Where we can look at the situation we find ourselves in and assess that situation In light of what God says is true, rather than the way things appear, then we're at the point where we can be very courageous in our Christian life. Now do you follow what I'm saying? I find myself in a situation, by all appearances, and this is what a lot of us do. We look at things and we evaluate them. We determine what the situation is based on our own understanding. Based on our own reasoning, say, oh this is that, that's true, this is true. Therefore, oh this is terrible. How shall I do? What uh you know That's the wrong way. What we need to do is look at the situation in light of what God says is so. I think Romans 8. 28 is a good a good case point. We look at something and say, oh, this is bad. But you read Romans 8. 28 and God says, oh no, that's good. Right? All things work together for What's it say? All things work together for good, then they're called them uh the love of the Lord are called according to his purpose And so it may appear. Remember Joseph and his brothers? Did the brothers treat Joseph good or bad? Terrible. Um uh man they sold him for slavery, they were gonna kill him, and then they lied about him and all this And then uh uh all all that goes on and they're continuing the lie later on, years later, when he's number two pharaoh, they don't know who he is. Uh they told him, Marwan brother's dead. And uh they knew he wasn't dead They didn't know that was Joseph there. But when it's all said and done, after Jacob died, they come to Joseph and said, Daddy, and they're still lying. They say, Daddy told us before he died that you're not supposed to treat us bad for what we did to you. Well, Jacob never said that. And what does Joseph do? He begins to cry. And he says, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for what? Good. Joseph had reached the point in his walk with God. His faith had matured to the point where he was able to assess the situation not by appearance But what he but what he knew God had said was so. So you may find yourself in a situation this evening, I don't know, your personal life, maybe on the job, family, whatever, I don't know, finances. And you say, I look at this, and I feel like the servant of Elisha in Dotham when they're surrounded by the Syrian army, they've got horses and chariots and It's overwhelming. How shall I go? But we need to reach the point where Edd Elisha was there where we say, all right. Humanly speaking, this looks overwhelming. But from God's perspective, it can be dealt with. And very easily. That's what we find here. In fact, I think tonight our testimonies are an example of that. Yesterday We met here at nine o'clock and I be honest with you, I didn't think very many people would show up. To be honest with you, it was pouring down rain at our house. And uh Captain and I talked about it and said, well what do we do I said, well, let me call Paul, because we talked earlier, and I said, um, maybe the thing to do would be go to Morgantown instead. It's closer if we get washed out and we come back real quick and there's apartments, blah, blah, blah And so at nine o'clock it looked, oh brother, today is gonna flub. You know? Do you ever have days that flubbed? And that's what I thought. Today's gonna flub. Oh you know, we're not it's just gonna be. But God had a whole different perspective on that thing. And and you know we went ahead with it and man the thing turned around and and God had something the way it looked, like how should we do? What are we gonna do is pouring down rain and uh God turned it around. I was thinking I was preparing this message, I was thinking about our church in Western Maryland, small church out here in Western Maryland, and we This is crazy. We've adopted a whole nation in Central Asia to reach with the gospel. What are we nuts? Who do we think we are? Think we can reach a country, Kazakhstan. You know, we think, well, we don't think we're a whole lot, but we think God is great. And so humanly you're looking at it and say, How are you gonna do that? How should you do? You're not gonna reach that country. But when we can assess our situation Not in light of what we can do. Dauphin couldn't do anything against the surrounding armies, right? They were overwhelmed. But they had a God in heaven that could do what they couldn't do. And when we get to that point where we think that way, when we get to the point where we evaluate our situations, our circumstances from God's perspective rather than our limited perspective, boy, then we're growing in our faith. And we're able to trust God for some great things. Verse 16 and 17, Elisha prays that God will open the eyes of his servant and see this unseen host. That was around them. Now I've got the idea that Elisha knew they were there the whole time. Elisha didn't have to see them. He was confident God was going to take care of them. And for his servant's sake he asked them to open his eyes. And they realized, the servant realized, that God's unseen army was far greater than Syria's visible army. And our unseen God is far greater than any visible circumstance we find ourselves in. Brother Jerry made reference to wayward children. You know, sometimes that can be a tremendous heartache. You think of children that are away from God or whatever, and you know sometimes you think, I just don't see how they'll ever come to the Lord. Now that's from our humans' perspective, but I'll tell you this, our God is far greater than a stiff hearted, stiff necked, hard hearted young person. God can turn that around. Now God's not going to make somebody do something against their will, but my experience has been God's awfully good to backing us in a corner where we're willing to do what God wants us to do. And so they see this unseen host. Wow, the situation's completely different than what it appeared to be. So, that's the situation. That's where we led up to. So next morning, the sun comes up, servant sees this unseen host, and now we have these two Israelites, Elisha and his servant. Come walking out of the city of Dothan, and as they're coming out of the city, the armies of Syria, and no doubt some representatives of theirs, are coming out to meet them. So you have this entire army. Armed to the teeth, swords, shields, bow and arrows, um, javelins, um what else did they have? Chariots and horses, what else do they use? Daggers, um, catapults, they probably had the whole shebang. I have no idea what a shebang is, but they had it. Alright And they go after this immense army. And as I read this, look at verse 18, and it's just a very Blunt statement. And when they came down to him, and they just met each other. I see no hint of fear on Elisha's part at all. Why didn't he fear? Because he knew that he could see what the army couldn't see. I want to notice a few things. First of all, number one, in verse 18, I notice Elisha's prayer. The very first thing he does when he faces this army that's after him, the very first thing he does, he prays. You know, I found that pattern through the Bible. When men of God face overwhelming opposition, usually in the Bible the first thing they do is pray. Now why is it we do that the last thing? Well, I guess there's all there's left to do is pray. Well why is that why do we wait until that's all that's left to do? Why don't we begin with that? In fact, I'm convinced if we could see God, the reality of God and his activity in the world in our lives, we would be much quicker to pray than what we are. Elisha could walk out there, shoulders back, head held high, not a hint of fear, and come out there and pray. Without fear in the face of the enemy, because he knew what God was capable of. And that's where we need to get to. When we get to the point where we understand what God is capable of, we'll be quicker to pray When we're thoroughly right with God, and when we see the resources that God has available for us, prayer becomes a powerful weapon. Now, I don't know everything about everybody. I know a lot about a few and a little about everybody here tonight, probably. I know more than I wish I knew about some. But I know this. I I I don't know where you're at, I don't know what thing, but I know human nature is such that we're constantly having bottle battles in our Christian life. Am I right or wrong? Now our individual skirmishes might not be identical with each other. Past skirmishes might not be the same skirmishes I face, all right? And uh we each have our various areas that we're at war with, so to speak. But I know this: when we get to the point where we can see what God is capable of doing When we simply believe that what God says is so, boy, our prayers become very bold, and our prayers become very powerful. weapons in this warfare against the flesh, against the devil, against the world, and we can see great victories through prayer When we understand the resources that God has available to us. Humanly speaking, Elisha was unarmed and outnumbered. Spiritually speaking, Syria was no match for Elisha's prayers. They were powerless against the prayers of Elisha. And yet humanly you look at it and you say this guy's nuts. Elijah and his servant walking out they don't have a sword, they don't have a shield, they don't have a spear, they don't have a horse, they don't have a chariot, they don't have a Egar, they don't have a catapult They don't have nothing. I'm sorry, they don't have anything. If you didn't have nothing, you would have something, right? So they didn't have anything. And they come out there, and what does Elisha do? The very first thing he does, he prays. And the Syrian armies conquered. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. Now I got studying, look here, and when they came out down to him, Elisha prayed unto the Lord I thought, this is amazing. And you know, we just read here how they were blinded and he did all that. I thought this must be an unusual type of prayer. So I looked up the word prayer. And I looked at it, how it's used throughout the Bible. And you know what I found out? The word for translated prayer here, the word prayer, is the most common used word for prayer in the Old Testament. There's nothing special about it. It's the same type of word you would use when you pray and thank God for your food. It's the same kind of word in prayer you would use when you're driving down the road and you Going past the policeman and you're going faster than you should, and you say, Oh Lord, please don't let them pull me over. There's nothing profound about this prayer. But it is incredibly powerful. Nothing spectacular about it, nothing profound, just a simple, basic request made to God. But I like this statement. A simple prayer grounded in faith is a powerful weapon in our spiritual warfare. You don't have to be a great orator in prayer. You don't have to pray profound prayers. You and I do not have to have some type of prayer language to get a hold of God. You know all we need, all we need is a believing heart and a hunger in our heart for God to do something and God can do great things He just walks out there. Give a big speech. He just prays. And man, God intervenes in a powerful, powerful way. So we have Elisha's prayer. Number two, I notice Elisha's plan And this is where it gets interesting. He prayed and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness And he, God, smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. Elisha asked, God answered Now I've got, I think Elijah had this planned out from the get-go. Now I don't know what a get-go is, but he had it planned out from that point in time. Now whether God had put this, instructed Elisha to do this, doesn't say it. Elisha's just doing it. You know, sometimes you read these prophets and you get the feeling they're winging it as they go. Jefferson. And uh I don't know if he's just kind of coming up with it. Maybe they're walking out there and the servant says, What are you gonna do? I don't know, I'm gonna pray. And uh he prays, all right, Lord smite him with blindness. Why'd you come up with that? I don't know, I just thought of it. What are we gonna do now? Hey, I know. I'll make them follow me. I don't know how he had it planned out, but the same power That opened the eyes of the servant to see the unseen host, that very same power, closed the eyes of the Syrian army. What opened the eyes of the servant of the man of God closed the eyes of the enemies of God. Now, let's look at this a little bit. I think you might find this interesting. Smite this people I pray thee with blindness. He smoked them with blindness. Verse 19. And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you ask. Question, was Elisha lying to them? Was he bringing them to the man whom they were seeking? Now be careful. Is he lying to them? Would the man of God lie to them? I don't think he was lying to them. He presented himself to them, just they ended up with Elisha, but it wasn't in the circumstances they were anticipating. They did not expect to have their eyes open and find Elisha in the middle of Samaria, surrounded by the uh Israeli army. But they found Elishees. He gave he gave himself to him. He says, Here I am. But there wasn't much they could do. I love this about God. He is able to take the world's strategies against us and completely turn them on their head. He absolutely turned him around. So here you have Elijah's plan. Now here's the other thing. What about this blindness? Elijah says, smite him with blindness. Now this is this seems strange to me. Now see if you agree with me. Elisha said to him, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, and I'll bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them, but he led them to Samaria. Now I got looking on the map And just my rough estimates using the little key they had there, the scale, uh my rough estimates is about 20 miles. Just roughly guessing. Uh From Dothan to Samaria. So you've got an army. How many men were in this army? Take a guess. Hundred thousand? I'd say at least ten thousand Probably more than that. I mean their armies were huge. They didn't have the weapons. They had to have excessive manpower. So that let's let's say for Illustration say there's ten thousand. I I'm convinced there was more than that, but let's say ten thousand. So you got one guy, Elisha. They're all blind Alright, y'all follow me. I'll take you to the man you want to see. And he starts walking off. Here I am over here. Y'all follow me. So they're in their horses and chariots and they're marching. And uh where'd he go? Where's he at? Over here! Oh, alright. And for twenty miles, this army follows Elisha and him yelling out the whole time. That's what verse 19 says. Hey, y'all are going the wrong way over this way, huh? Over here, okay. And this army's following them like little blind sheep following the shepherd. Now, how long would that take? To get from Dotham to Samaria, twenty twenty miles. Some of y'all help me here. So what can you walk? Four hours, three miles. You walk three miles an hour. So these guys are in good shape. They walk and run everywhere. So let's give them four miles an hour. So if they're making four miles an hour, ten thousand of them. Actually, it'd be 10,002, Elisha and the servant. But um uh they're going, so it'd be at least five hours. So they're following Elisha. Now they weren't dumb, I don't think They knew it wasn't a five-hour walk to the middle of Dothan. They already had the city surrounded. So it looks like to me they would figure out, hey, wait a minute, something's up. How many people would think how many people are along with lines of that? I mean if I was walking along, I mean I'm not ingenious, but I don't think I'm a dummy It's not the time to say amen. And uh but you know you're walking five hours, you're thinking, I don't I think something's up. I'm a little suspicious. But they apparently they never did that. They just followed them on. So here's what I'm getting back. What was this blindness? I read what several Bible scholars have said. Some have suggested That it wasn't literal blindness, but it was like a fog went over their eyes. And they could they they weren't just black, it was they they just couldn't tell exactly where they were. And so because of that they followed him. I don't think that's what it was. The other suggestion was it wasn't literal blindness, but they bec God made them what's the word I went delusional. In other words, they could see, but they were a little bit like Tom. They just couldn't comprehend what was happening around them, you know. Payback, brother, payback. And so they they are just confused. And so whatever Elisha told them to do, they did. Now, I thought, well, that's interesting. Because that would help explain why they'd walk for five, ten, five, six, seven, eight hours, twenty miles, following this guy and not catch on that something was up. So I looked up the word blindness. You know what the word blindness means? I mean they were blind. God took their sight away. Now I want to suggest to you that when God took their sight away, God took some of their reasoning away. And I think God just made them dumb. Now that's me reading into it. But um, you know. Uh so anyway. The word in the context suggests total blindness, but I believe there was some sort of delusion taking place that they would travel this far. So here's his plan. God make them blind. God does it in his word. Alright, don't follow me. Watch this. Watch what I'm gonna do Uh this not that way over here. Y'all follow me. Come on. Five, six hours later, hey, pshh, yo come on over here. They finally come down. Oh, careful, here's the gates. Come on in. The guy you're looking for is right up here. And uh they come herding through the uh uh gates of the city of Samaria and it gets them down in the center of the city. Now you all gather around, a little more to your left, over here, and uh he gets them all down there And now they're surrounded by the enemy. Now this is the application I want to make. One moment, everything to appear to be in the enemy's favor. Back at Dothan, they're surrounded. What are we going to do? Everything looked like it was in the enemy's favor. Everything looked like failure was inevitable. And like that, God changed everything. Turned it completely around. They all go blind, they all get dumb, and they end up exactly where they don't want to be. God can turn things around. God intervened in a situation that appeared helpless And God completely turned it around. Now I wish I I wish I didn't couldn't say this. But to be very honest with you, sixteen and a half years we've been here, to be very honest with you, there have been a number of times where I got just got discouraged Things weren't going the way I hoped. The tendences weren't having been what I would hope. The visitors, whatnot, baptisms, you know, it's just stuff we're constantly working at, constantly dealing with. And you go through periods and you know I just get, Lord, I I feel like a failure. I feel like we're not doing anything. And you know, I gotta and God used this preparing this message in my heart. God can take us wherever we're at, no matter how terrible it looks. And He can intervene and in a moment turn that thing completely around. I don't know where you're at. I don't know how down in the hole you think you are. But I'm telling you, it's very possible that next week, this time, everything could be completely different. It's very possible next year this time your whole situation be completely turned around So we must never, we must never plan on failure as long as there's a God in heaven. Because he can step in and intervene at any moment. You say, what's your plan? I'm just going to pray and uh trust God to take care of it. It's funny when I came here as pastor, some of y'all remember I've been here around church, I've been through a rough time, right? Is that an understatement or what? Been through a rough time. And I got here, I was green, ignorant You know, it's just like, hey, cool, I'm a pastor, you know. And um and uh one of the members said to me, uh we were trying he said uh he was he's told me all the problems. He said, uh, but I know you got a plan. I said, Yeah. I got home and told Kathy, I said, plan? I don't know idea what I'm gonna do And so we started praying. And God can step in and turn things around. Isn't that exciting? Now what's true here is true in our lives. The last thing I want us to notice. Oh, by the way, the enemy got what they wanted, Elijah. Elisha, but not the way they anticipated getting them So here's our last point, and uh uh uh notice Elisha's profuse kindness is the way I put it. Verse 20, let's look at it again. It came to pass when they were come into Samaria that Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw right there standing Elisha, and They're in the midst of Samaria. Ah, this king of Israel, you you gotta he has to you have to think. You know, I don't know. He cracks me up. What's his response? Look what he says. Now picture, this is the king. The king of Israel said, I I can't look can you see him this way? I mean here's the whole enemy. He thought they were going to go to war. Here's the whole enemy in his capital. He's got them all surrounded. Father, my father, shall I smite him? Shall I smite him? He's running, I can see him running around. Elijah, what should I do? Should I kill them all? What do I do with them? I'll kill them all! Elisha says, no, don't kill him, you bonehead. That's in the Hebrew. Verse 22, he says, thou shalt not smite them. Knucklehead? Wouldest thou smite those whom thou taken and captive with the sword and with the bow? He says, No, that's ridiculous. Give them bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master So he prepared a great provision for them. God didn't bring them into Samaria so they could be slaughtered in cold blood. God wasn't a murderer. I think there's several things that show Elisha and God's kindness to Elisha. First of all, he didn't leave him blind. Isn't that nice? God prayed to restore their sight. He wouldn't know how to do that. So he didn't leave them blind. Second of all, he didn't let the king of Israel, the knucklehead, kill them. Now that would be this is classic carnal Christian's response. That's my enemy, I'm gonna kill him. I gotta take care of them. We gotta wipe them out. That's the worldly response. Just merciless. Man, that's my enemy. I'm not gonna be nice to them. We're not gonna treat them kindly, give them food. No! The only thing we can do is smite them. You know the sad fact is that's the way a lot of Christians act. That guy was a, I went to give him a gospel track and he was unkind to me and said some unkind words. I ought to bust him So I smite him, Pastor? No, you idiot, give him a candy bar, you know. So he doesn't let the king kill him. And I like this. He did not even allow them to be hungry. He wasn't going to send them home hungry. Verse 20, look what it says, verse 20. He gave them great propared great provision for them. And when they had eaten and drunk, sounds like he made sure they were full. He just gave them a little brown bag, say, here are y'all going home now. Man, they had a feast. And he sent him over. The goal, now this is where I want to try and put ourselves in this situation. The goal was not to destroy the enemy. Send them off to their doom. But the goal was to conquer the enemy. Win them over to the truth. When the Mormons and Jehovah's Witness come by our door, our goal isn't to kill them. We don't stick diesel on them. That's Jamie's Rottweiler. Ah the pastor, the Mormons are here, shall I smite them? Not only bite them in, but We don't want to kill them, we want to win them over to the truth. Right? That's why we smile and we talk to them. The Jehovah's Witness comes by. Give up my property, you no hellers! Huh? You don't say that? Now you don't invite him in. The Bible says don't wish them gutspe. Hey, let's take a moment try and share the gospel with him and win him over. Huh? Kindness. I and this is this is what I think. I think, Tester, see what you think about this. Tell me later. I think that the influence of Naaman is still lingering. I think remember Naaman, leprosy, got saved, captain of the host. He got saved. He's not mentioned in any of this. Remember, we pointed that out. I wonder if Naaman isn't back home praying that God would save his comrades, his fellow soldiers. I wonder if God isn't working in the hearts of soldiers in the Syrian army. And rather than all being killed and going to hell, God's very gracious to them. And I wonder if some of those don't leave saying, Wow. That's incredible. Naaman comes home completely changed, healed of leprosy. We go to war with the same people that did that for Naaman, and uh wow, look what their God does again. Don't you think that'd be a powerful influence on the men of that s of that army? And that's just my sneaky suspicion. Matthew chapter 5, and I am with this, verse 43, and I've gone longer than I wanted to. Let me just end with this. Jesus speaks to this same Subject. And he says in Matthew 5, verse 43, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thine love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. That's The king of Israel. Smite him! Smite him! That's our enemy! Smite him! Kitum! Knock them down Verse 44, but I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh the sun to shine on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do you more than others? Do not even the publicans so Be therefore perfect, complete, mature, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Shall I smite him? No. We live by a higher standard Believers should be more concerned about being kind to others than being treated kindly. You know why people get offended in a church? Because they're more concerned about being treated nicely than they are about treating others nicely. I never had anybody come to me and say, Preacher, I'm offended with this church, somebody in this church, and I'm leaving because I was Too nice to people. Nobody's ever said that. The issue isn't whether how people are treating me, the issue is how am I treating others Be kind to our enemies. I think Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we're not the biggest congregation in town, but we certainly could be the nicest. The kindest, the friendliest in town, and be a testimony of how great our God is. You say, how do you do that when somebody's so unkind to you, somebody hurts you so badly? You do what Elisha did. You remember that unseen host. That my God is able to deal with them. If it was up to me to deal with my enemies, then I'd have to beat them up. And believe me, I could. But it's not up to me, it's up to God. Right? And so I can be kind to him. Let's pray, Father in heaven, help us, Lord, help me Help us to follow your example and to be gracious and kind to those who are unkind, just to be a testimony. Of the mercy and grace of our God in heaven. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I find myself in a situation where I really need God to help me? Humanly speaking, it looks like a mess. But I want to view this situation from heaven's perspective, and I'm going to trust God. I'm going to pray. And I'm going to let God deal with this and see how if He doesn't turn this thing around. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, Preacher? I just see a situation in my life where I really need