It's the first Wednesday of the month, and I actually got it right this month. Remember I was a week off last time. And I want to give some tips on personal soul winning. And I think what I'm going to do tonight, it's going to be for some of us, this is going to be old hat. We're very, very familiar with it And um it and uh it doesn't hurt to review stuff. It's good to hear things over and over. In fact, in this matter of soul winning, I try to read every sermon I can or illustration I can on salvation. I'm always trying to keep that fresh and uh just looking how I can be maybe a little clearer are a little better in sharing it. So some of it tonight for some of us is going to be old hat and uh I'm no doubt for m for some of us it's going to be something we know, we knew it's out there, but it just didn't gel together exactly. We weren't sure exactly how it all came together. I think it would be helpful. What we're given tonight will be helpful for those folks. Acts chapter 16. And uh I want to begin reading in verse number 25. Again, a very familiar passage of scripture, but I want us to look at it, and we're going to go to a lot of verses tonight. In fact, I don't know that we're going to have time to get through what I want to give. But uh we'll go until we'll go to about 10 or so, and then I'll just quit if I'm not done yet. And verse number 25 Acts 16. 25. How many people looking at this verse you say, oh, I know this story. Anybody? Or look what it says And at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. All right, so where is Paul and Silas at? They're in prison. The only way prisoners would hear them is if they're in prison. Why are they in prison? Preaching the gospel, they were told emphatically by the authorities they were to not They were not to preach in the name of Christ. They were stirring things up. And so they're thrown in prison for preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, going out into the streets and the neighborhoods, the marketplace, telling people how to get saved. How many people believe me when I say that could very easily happen in our country? Sure. There's no doubt about it So they're singing, they prayed, and they sang praises unto God. The prisoners heard them. Now let's read on. Verse 26: and suddenly there was an earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken And immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's bands were loosed, and the keeper of the prison, awakening awakening out of his sleep Seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm. We are all here. I want to suggest to you the miracle isn't the earthquake and the doors being busted open. The miracle is none of the prisoners ran away That's incredible. Then he called, verse 29, then he called for a light and sprang in, came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas. and besought them and brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Now that question catches my attention. What must I do to be saved? That catches my attention. And I tell you what I pay close attention to now is what does Paul answer him He just about killed himself. He just, he was right on the edge of going out in eternity. What must I do to be saved? What does Paul answer to him? Look at the next two verses. And it's Paul and Silas. And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord. And to all that were in his house. And he took them the same night and washed their stripes, and he was baptized he and all his straightway. And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. I want to try and give you something tonight, and I hope this is helpful, on sharing the gospel very clearly. Very clearly. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless. And uh Lord certainly would never claim to be an expert in any way on this, just another student trying to be a good witness for you I'm trying to bring people to Christ. So I pray that you would please teach all of us your word on this subject Through me, through this lesson, I yield my will and my body present anew to you. And please teach us and help us. Give us confidence here. And sharing with folks the message of Christ, the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think we all understand God has told us as a church we are given very direct instructions. Our church, from God, through the Lord Jesus Christ, given very direct instructions that we are to take the gospel to every single person on this planet. One way or another, we're to at least have a part in getting all the words. How many folks understand that? That is clear instructions by our Lord. There's no cloudiness about it. It's very, very clear. That's our job Now, there are a lot of different ways that we can share the gospel. There are a lot of different ways we can preach or proclaim Or advance the gospel. I want you all to be in group participation tonight. Alright? What are some different ways to share the gospel that we can share the gospel? Just I got a list here, see what you come up with Through gospel tracts. We got track month coming up. And so that's a very effective way to communicate the gospel, get that message. What other ways? Face to face, one-on-one. Sitting down in their living room or inviting them over to my house or at a restaurant or somewhere whatever. Um, but sitting down one-on-one and uh sharing and telling them how to be safe What other ways? Alright, on the internet you can uh write and uh write blogs and stuff like that and different things. I've seen people on Facebook and some of the social media put on there how to be saved. All right, what else? The radio station. It goes out. I have that on my list. We're getting the gospel out through the radio. Other ways All right, sending a letter to somebody is very effective. We did that when I was in Bible college. I wrote to my old buddies. What else? Other ways? Randy. All right, supporting missionaries, that's the way, but and then they would use these different things out there. Um the only thing I caution on that is sending a missionary is not the same as me witnessing All right, so you have to watch out for that. And I don't understand what you're saying, but I just throw the caution out there. We can't let the missionaries be our surrogate soul winners. Follow what I'm saying. And so, but that's one way. Somebody somebody else. What else? Dorothy. All right, bring them the church services. Inviting them in here, let the preacher give the preach the gospel and give a invitation and so that's another way. What else? Any others Alright, through email, sending letters, email, or letter or writing letters. Any can anybody think of other ways All right, calling them up on the phone. That would be a similar version of 101, but that would be one. I got a couple others here. I put down newspaper We've done that. My plan is on track month, I want to take one of our tracks and put a big section in the newspaper and put in there how to be saved. That's one, Vern Carve the gospel into trees. Yeah, that would work. Oh beach trees aren't the bet. I know in state game lands on shore is very We um we were in New Zealand, we had one evening free, and we went down to the beach there and they were writing the gospel in the sand and it lasted till the next wave came in and but um Uh and then I put this down um special events like the booth at the fair, you know, putting things and doing the talk drawing. I thought of the um um Renards doing the talk drawings there and getting a crowd around. So some of these are very similar. So what I'm the point I'm trying to make is this there's a there's a lot of different avenues to get this message of the gospel out to people. But whatever means we use, and uh and uh uh uh let me let me ask you this of all those we just listed What do you think would be the most effective one of all those we just mentioned? One-on-one, I'm convinced. It's one-on-one, one person, another. Now God uses all these. We've seen people say through all of it But uh I'm convinced that one-on-one sitting down with an open Bible and showing them how to be saved, regardless of what means we use, whatever means we're using to get the gospel out, here's what I'm getting at. The gospel must be given clearly. It has to be clear. It has to be understandable. We can be wrong on a lot of things, but if we're wrong on the gospel, We're messing up. And so it's very important that we are develop ourselves to be able to communicate the gospel to people clearly and understandably. Now God can use us. I've had times I've stumbled over things and you know and it was probably wasn't the clearest thing in the world, but God's able to use it. I think of the woman at the well She had no training. She had very limited understanding of who Christ was. But she believed and went and told others a lot of other people got saved. But it's important for us. It's important for us in this job that Christ has given us this responsibility of taking the gospel to people that we apply ourselves diligently to being able to communicate to other people the gospel of Jesus Christ and to be able to do it very, very clearly. That means our tracks, gospel tracts, have to communicate the gospel very clearly. We try to be very, very careful what we put up back there. uh that it has the gospel. I've seen, have you ever been out some of the places in our area, sometimes you'll see a little rack and I have some gospel tracts in. And I pick some of those up. Sometimes I read down through them and I'm done. I think I don't even know how I don't this doesn't tell me at all how to be saved. Talks about Jesus, talks about stuff, but there's not a clear presentation of how to trust Christ as my Savior, what all is involved. And so our tracts must be clear. When that the preaching from the pulpit, when the gospel is given, it must be given clearly. Personally, I would never attend a church that did not preach the gospel I would never attend a church that they did not know what the gospel was or did not know how to present it. The radio, we need to be very careful in our newspaper, these events one-on-one. The most important message in the world is the gospel of Jesus Christ. How many people agree with me on that? The most important message in the world. Now here's what I got thinking. I'm building up to what I want to give you tonight But I got thinking, why do people not see the gospel as being that important? I mean, even among Christians Why is it in so many churches and in so many Christians' lives sharing the gospel with other people is just uh uh an uh an elective type thing? It's just something on the side, whatever. Why why would that be? Why why why do people not see this is this message is the most important message in the world. Any ideas? Okay, they're caught up doing their own stuff and they know it's important and all, but they're just uh don't don't get it. Uh anyway, Ed Yeah. And that would be true particularly in America and our community, some parts of America wouldn't necessarily be that way. This is what I think. Let me tell you what I think. I think a big part of the reason it it doesn't seem important to so many people is that God has given just common folk like you and I, given us the responsibility of taking the message out If it was on CNN and Fox News and all the big news things, this is the most important thing in the world, if the government was saying this is the most important thing in the world, you know what everybody would be doing? They'd be running around saying, oh, this is the most important thing in the world Right? But God didn't give it to the government. He didn't give it to the media. It's not that he didn't give them that responsibility. He's given just common folk like you and I that responsibility. And I think sometimes we think, oh, this isn't that we don't subconsciously think, oh, this isn't that important. If it was, it would be the big shots out there would be talking about it. But Jesus said, if you remember our study on the Sermon on the Mount, he said to the folks sitting there, he says, you're the salt of the earth, not the big media conglomerates. Not the government, you are. And so he's given to us, just normal folk like you and I, this tremendous message and this uh phenomenal responsibility. Now I'm gonna ask you a question, a hypothetical question. I'm trying to get you engaged. I'm trying to get you thinking. It's cold out, it's snowing, you've been working, some of you all retired, slept all day, and you're trying to be awake. And um so I'm trying to get you engaged here. And this is this is horrific statement. Let's see I need to turn this on, I think. This is a this is a horrific Situation, but bear with me, I'm trying to get something. Suppose, God forbid, but suppose you're driving home tonight And you come across right in front of you or pulling up somewhere and right in front of you in an intersection, there's a terrible accident And the car is hit and they smash around and what sets down the one car is on fire and you look and you see there's somebody in there and they're seriously injured. You get out, you run out, and you pry the door open and the car is catching on fire and you're afraid it's going to blow up. So you grab them and you drag them over to a safe distance and you're holding them, and it's obvious that they are mortally wounded That they are going to die. And that person looks up into your eyes and says, This, what do I have to do to be saved? What do I have to do to be accepted by God, to know my sins are forgiven? Now, in your own heart and mind, would you be able to answer them correctly? Would you be able to tell them this is what you need to do to prepare to prepare to face God? That's a tough question. You know, in this situation, here they are. In the ministry all these years, I've had a number of times, not that scenario, but I've sat by bedsides. Where folks are on the brink of death when I was with hospice of course for four years. Number guys, I'm thinking of one over here it was at Dennett Road one time and I shared the gospel with him and just within hours he passed away. There's a guy down in Swanton And uh a meeting guy. And uh I mean within hours before he was died, I was able to give the gospel to him, and he prayed with me to call on the Lord to be a savior. But are we able to, are we equipped in our own heart and mind, do we feel confident enough that I could, under that circumstance, in that situation be able to clearly express to them what they need to do to escape hell and go to heaven. That's what we're looking at tonight. Now What would the answer be? Let me give you three thoughts here, and like I said, I'm going to try and get to all of this tonight. I'm giving you way more than what I would do in that situation But just so we have all this resource here, and we want to make it clear. I think you'll see where I'm going with this. This is the first thought I put down. Number one, the constraint of the gospel The constraint of the gospel. The word constraint, among other things, means this limitations or restrictions. Not everything called the gospel is the gospel. You understand that, right Paul dealt with that in the book of Corinthians in various places through the New Testament. He was dealing with false gospels. And he said to the Galatians, he says, if anyone, even an angel, shows up and preaches to you another gospel than what I've given you, they're to be accursed. Anathema, they're cut off. And so not everything that's called the gospel is the gospel. Let me emphasize this very strongly. There is only one gospel. There's only one way to be saved. There's a lot of false gospels out there. There's a lot of unscriptural gospels. I've often said this: you go to ten different churches, you'll hear ten different ways to be saved. One church says you have to be baptized, another church says you have to do this, another church says that, another church says this, another church says that, an Not everything that's called the gospel is the gospel. As a Baptist, our first, our very first distinctive of a Baptist church is the Bible is our sole authority. And so when we want to know what the gospel is, what the true gospel is, there's only one. There's only one way to be saved. There's only one message of the gospel. When we find that out, we go to the Bible. And we want to know what does the Bible say? So the constraint of the gospel, just everything out there isn't isn't necessarily the true gospel, isn't necessarily the way of salvation. There's only one way. That leads me to my second thought is this, the core of the gospel. Now I'd like for you to turn with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And I'm still laying some groundwork here. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Alright, the constraint of the gospel. There's only one gospel, and it and we must know what that is. There's a whole lot of phony stuff out there. Satan is a master at counterfeiting and clouding things. And so he will take that one vital message and he will just cloud it and distort it and pervert it till nobody knows whether they're coming or going. So we've got to come to the Word of God. And what does the Bible say the gospel is? 1 Corinthians 15, look at verse number 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the what? Gospel, which I preached unto you. I circled that word gospel there. He goes, all right, I'm declaring unto you what this gospel is that I preach to you. Here it is. And then he makes a few statements. He goes, where and also you receive and wherein you stand. by which you are also saved. So this gospel is what saved them. You keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. It says unless you just made a phony profession, you didn't really mean it For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. So here's the gospel: how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures Verse 4. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. So I circled the word gospel in verse 1. Then in verse 3 I circled Christ, died. Verse 4, I circled buried, and I circled rose again. That is the message of the gospel. This is the message that Paul received directly from the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, how that Christ died for our sins. According to Scriptures, was buried and rose again the third day according to Scriptures. So did you get that? That's what I call the core of the gospel. If I don't have that in my message, I'm holding that man, he's about to go out in eternity. If I don't communicate to him that Christ died for his sins according to scriptures, he was buried and he rose again the third day, I'm not giving the gospel because that is the gospel. Right? That's the core. Now is that all that I'm going to say to a person? Just go around, Jesus died for sins according to scriptures, buried, rose again, third day according to scripture. Is that all I'm going to say? I could, God could use that, but as we study the Bible, we understand we need to communicate a little bit more information. That's the core. That's what has to be there. That's the core of it Now there's some other things as I'm sharing with somebody clearly to help them understand that exactly what that is, then we go to several other verses and whatnot, but that is the core of the gospel. Everybody with me so far? Alright? Now here's my third one. This is what I'm wanting to get to. Communicating the gospel. Communicating the gospel. I'm going to give you four thoughts here and we'll go as far as we can. Like I said, we'll quit at ten whether I'm done or not. But um Not really. Now I'm going to give you a couple things that our responsibility is in communicating the gospel to somebody clearly, what our responsibility is, but I want to qualify it before I give these to you God has to do all of this. God does the saving. God's the one that they the Lord needs to be working through me. So if A vital part, and I wanted to spend a long time on this, so I'm just going to make this statement, a vital part of me clearly communicating the gospel is I need to know the Lord myself as Savior And I need to be at least to some extent yielded to him so that he can work through me and use me to bring these people to Christ. Can God use an unsaved person to share the gospel with other people? Sure. But it's not ideal. If you're very, very thirsty and there's a real nasty, dirty jar, but you're dying of thirst, you might use that jar to keep you alive, but that's not something you would ideal, right? And so I want to be in fellowship with the Lord. I want my heart to be yielded to the Lord. I want my heart and life to be pure and clean so that God can work through me because God has to do it. Now here's my responsibility. Number one. Now this is what I want you to write down. If I'm going to communicate the gospel clearly Number one, I must do all I can to get them to understand they are a sinner. They must understand that If the person I'm talking to does not understand that they are a sinner and what that means to be a sinner, excuse me Then what are they being saved from? Jesus said, I didn't come to call the righteous to repentance, but what? Sinners to repentance And so if a person is going to be saved, they must realize what it is they're being saved from. I wonder if any of us, uh I know I haven't a number of times had where I asked somebody, I I I asked this question, I said, are you saved? Have you ever been saved? And they get all kinds of answers. And I've had people say, oh yeah, I was in a terrible car wreck and I was dying. And the EMTs showed up, and boy, they saved me, and I was saved. Well that's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about being saved from wounds. We're talking about being saved from sin. And so I must do everything I can to get them to understand that they are sinners. And then I tack this on to that statement. And that is something to be very concerned about. That is something to be very concerned about. The fact that I am a sinner is something to be very concerned about. I'm thinking of one fellow in particular in Indianapolis and we were talking to him witnessing one of the deacons and I were witnessing to him and we got and he said, sure, you can show me how to be saved, and we were going through the Bible, and he was just kind of smart out getting and sarcastic. It wasn't really serious, but We we ran with it. We had our Bibles out and we're standing in his garage there at the edge of his garage and we're going through and uh we're explaining about sin and uh we said, Do you understand what the Bible says? That we're all sinners, that you've sinned against God. And he laughed and Belly laughed and says, Oh yeah, he says, I'm one of the worst. And it was like he was bragging about it, and yeah, this is this was something great. Yeah, I'm a sinner And we said, wait a minute, you don't understand the gravity of that condition. You don't understand how serious it is to be a sinner before a holy God. And we tried to go on, it was just a big joke to him. And so, what I need to do, if I'm going to communicate the gospel clearly to somebody, I need to do everything I can to get them to understand that they are a sinner, and that is something to be very concerned about. that they're a sinner. Now how do I do that? How do I convince somebody? How do I get somebody to understand that they're a sinner? Any ideas? Yes. Exactly This Bible, the law of God, was given for people to understand that they are sinners. The law is our schoolmaster. To bring us to Christ. And so if I've got somebody here, now in this, and and what I'm giving you is just overloads. You know, we need to boil it down a little bit. But I've got to get that person to understand that that person is a sinner, and that is very, very serious. And the way I do that is by using the Bible I use the Bible. It says, all right, preacher, how in the what in the world, how do I use the Bible? Where do I start? Let me give you some verses. There is what we call the Romans' robe, but there's a whole lot more verses than that This is what I would recommend, and I wanted to turn to all these, and maybe we will, but write this down. Romans chapter 3, verse 10 through 18. In fact, let's go ahead and turn there Here's that paper you gave me, Dorothy. I was searching high and low for that. I had it all week, and there was stuck in my Bible. Yeah, I said, call her up. I can't find that paper. Um Romans 10, or I'm sorry, Romans 3. And verse number 10. They want to use the Bible to show them that they are a sinner. Look what it says there. Romans 3. I gotta get to the right place here. Romans 3, look at verse 10. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. I want to communicate this and I can use these verses Listen, and I circled the word none, and I circled the phrase no, not one. There is none righteous. There is no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seek after God They are all going out of the way, or they together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Their throat is an open sepulcher. What does that mean? What's a sepulcher? Agree. In other words, there's just nasty stuff comes out of their mouth. They say terrible things. And when I'm when I'm talking with somebody and I'm going to show them a show them that I'm a sin that they're a sinner. I want to get them to understand that they and all of us are sinners. One of the things I can do is use that passage and and point out, listen, we've said stuff, and maybe you say things that are terrible. That are wrong and nasty, and that's sin. And go down through here. Then look what it says. Their tongues, they have used deceit, have lied The poison of asp is under their lips. Man, we said hurtful things to people. This is all sin. Uh their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. Man, just look at mankind. Look at the history of mankind. The way of peace they have not known. And if I'm using this passage, I'm trying to say, listen, sin has produced, there's an emptiness, there's peace missing in our hearts. That's all the result of sin. That's all we're a sinner. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Then you want to go break this down, verse 23. Kind of sums it all up. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So I want them to understand from the Bible that God says we're sinners Let me give you the verses and I'll come back and make a few statements. Break this one down, Romans 5. 12. Come over there, Romans 5. 12. Says, wherefore, as by one man sin entered the world into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Now, they may or may not at this point understand what sin is exactly, but one thing you can see clearly, whatever sin is, whatever being a sinner is, we all are one. Right? And that's clear. For all of sin. For all of sin. For all of sin. Psalms 51, 5, write that verse down. Here David says, In sin did my mother conceive me. Now he is not saying that the act of conception itself was sin. Right? What he's saying is, I'm born with this sinful nature. I am a sinful, I'm a sinner from birth. I have this sinful nature. Write this one down. 1 John 1:8. If we say we have no sin, we're a liar. So he says, Well, I've never sinned. God says, you're lying. You know you're a sinner. Let me give you two other references here. And you say, do I give all these verses to them when I'm sitting there with them? Not necessarily, but sometimes maybe you might have to to convince them from the Word of God. Write this one down, Jeremiah 17, 9. For the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Our hearts are sinful, sinful. And then get- let me give you one more verse. Isaiah 64, 6. For our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. We all do fa let me turn there. I have it memorized, but let me Isaiah 64, 6 We turn everyone to his own way. But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. And we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquity, like the wind, have taken our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. So we're all in the night thing thing. So I want to use the word of God. Here's a few verses. There's a lot of others. I want to show him from the Bible that he's a sinner. And it's amazing the power of the Word of God. When somebody sees that and they hear it, this is God telling me this. Sometimes that's what it takes for them to to realize and understand how serious this is. So I need to do everything I can to get them to understand that they are a sinner. That's something to be very concerned about. Here's a few verses I want to give them. Those Romans ones are the classics. But I also want to do something else. If they're not convinced of the fact that they're a sinner, I can use some illustrations. Now let me say when I'm witnessing to somebody and I'm sharing the gospel with somebody, I think illustrations can be very, very effective to help them understand. Charles Spurgeon said window illustrations are windows on the truth. Well, oh, we see it. Oh, I see now. I understand. But when you're witnessing, you have to be careful you don't use overuse illustrations I was with a preacher one time and he had all these illustrations. They were like twenty minutes long each one. They just went on and on and on. By the time he was done the story of the illustration, we forgot what he was illustrating And so they need to be pointed. They need to be to the to the point. They have to be uh uh uh s very, very simple. Um And I think the best way to convince somebody of being a sinner, and I do it here a lot, is using the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments. And there's some in there that are so obviously true in our lives. Thou shalt not bear false witness Thou shalt not lie. So if I'm witnessing to somebody, I want to communicate the gospel clearly to them. I need to get them to understand that they are a sinner. That's very, very serious. The Ten Commandments, ask them, have you ever told a lie? Have you ever stolen anything? Have you ever dishonored your parents? These are all sins. We've broken God's law. It's very, very serious. We're a sinner. So I'm going to communicate the gospel clearly. Number one, I must do everything I can to get them to understand That they are a sinner, and that is serious matter. Number two, drop this one down. I need to do all I can to get them to understand that there is judgment of God upon sin. There is judgment of God upon sin. And the same thing as that first point, I want to use my Bible to show that to them, convince them that. Number one I need to get them to understand that they are a sinner, and that's a very serious thing. Number two, there is a judgment of God upon sin. And that judgment is eternal separation from God in a place Jesus called hell. That's how I word it. The scriptures, we want to use the Bible. Write these verses down. Romans 6. 23. For the majority of us, that's a very familiar verse. But maybe not all of us. For the wages of sin is death And I think it's important if I'm witnessing to somebody, I want to explain that death being referenced there, though it includes physical death, it is referencing spiritual death. Because I'm a sinner and because God is holy, the wages, the consequence, the payment for that sin is death. Separation from God for all eternity in a place called hell. Write down Romans 5:12. We reference that here a little bit. By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin Let me give you a couple others that I don't use them in witnessing a whole lot, but it's important to have them. Ezekiel 18. Ezekiel chapter 18, verse 4, and verse number 20. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. He says it twice in that chapter. The soul that's in it shall die. You could use, and I've done this a number of times, go to Luke chapter 16. Luke 16, verse 19 through 31. This is the rich man in Lazarus. And there Jesus goes to fair detail of what it's like for this rich man in hell. And so if I'm sharing the gospel with someone, I convince them they're sinner, that yes, I'm a sinner. Sometimes I ask them this, do you understand? The Bible teaches what that we're sinners. Yeah, do you understand what sin is? Yes, I've broken God's law, I've disobeyed God And then sometimes I'll ask this question, are you concerned about that? Does that bother you at all that you've sinned against your Creator, your God? And generally, at that point, they'll say, well, yeah, that's nothing to mess around with. I agree. And the reason is because number two, because there's a judgment of God on sin. And I can show them these verses. The wages of sin is death. The wages of sin is death. Now, how do I illustrate that I read these verses too, it's pretty clear. How can I illustrate the fact that there is judgment on sin? Anybody want to take a shot? How would you illustrate to somebody that there's judgment on sin? I use logic. I mentioned it in the message recently, where God is a just God. And even in our own judicial system we understand that a crime, a crime There's consequences to breaking the law, to crime. And that is something that we've inherited from our Creator. We're created in His image, and we understand in our hearts and minds there is a sense of justice And when a wrong is done, there's consequences. And of course, God is on a divine scale, an eternal scale of justice. And when we break his law, when we violate his standards that he's established as the holy God, the consequence of that, the justice demands That there be consequences, and the consequences are separation from God, eternity in hell. Let me give you the last uh the next two here trying quickly. Number three If I'm going to communicate the gospel clearly, I must do all I can to get them to understand that Jesus paid that punishment for me. That is so vital. Now we're getting to the core of the gospel. Everything we've been doing up to this point is getting to see why the gospel is necessary, why it's important. But now I'm at the core of the gospel. I'm a sinner under the judgment of God. Now I need to get them, convince them as best I can, get them to understand that Jesus Christ was our substitute. That he was judged for. So let me give you some verses here. I got a slew of them. The best one I think is Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us in our place. You could write in a margin of your Bible there, substitute. He was our substitute. He took our place. Let me give you Isaiah 53, 4 through 6. He had laid on him the iniquities of us all. He has put them on Jesus Christ. All our sins were put on Jesus Christ. Galatians 2. 20, for I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ lived in me. Life which I now live flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself For me, in my place. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, where it made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Jesus knew no sin. He made him to be sin for us. He was our substitute. So use my Bible and get them to understand. Now, one thing I want to do is I want to try and illustrate this here so it's clear in their mind what that means to be a substitute. Most people understand But I like to use just a simple little illustration, you might could come up with your own, but it's like I get a speeding ticket. I like to use this. I get a speeding ticket and it and I'm going ridiculously fast. And uh the speeding ticket, let's say, is $700 speeding ticket. I just want to assure you I have never gotten a speeding ticket $700. $695, but never $700. No But I want to illustrate the fact that it is more than I can pay. I'm unable to pay that. And I'm going to go to jail. But I have a brother that's very, very wealthy. And he steps in and he says, wait a minute, I'll pay that fun that fee, I'll pay that Fine, I'll pay that fine for Dennis. I'll pay it hi for him. Pay I'll pay it for him, and then he's free. He doesn't have to go to jail. And that is a maybe is trying to illustrate the fact that I've sinned against God. I owe this incredible fine for my sin spend eternity in hell. But Jesus came and he paid that for me so I don't have to go to hell. I'm free from hell. And I want them to understand that Jesus did that for us. Uh so illustrate. Let me give you the last one real quick. I went through these quicker than I thought I would. Number four, if I'm going to communicate the gospel clearly. I must do all I can to get them to understand that they must personally place their faith in Jesus Christ and what he did for us on the cross. I must do all I can to get them to understand that they must personally place their faith in Jesus Christ and what he did for us on the cross. For salvation to be applied to me. This is the way I always lead into that. And maybe next time I'll just go through the steps, maybe act it out a little bit. It's what I did down in New Zealand with them. And um But uh I want them to understand that just because Jesus died on that cross for our sins very rose again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven God leaves that choice up to us. We can accept what He's done for us or we can reject it or we can try and earn it ourselves somehow. And so there has to be a conscious decision on the part of the sinner, of the person, to say, you know, I believe he did that for me. I'm trusting him, I'm putting my faith and confidence in him. And that he will forgive me and save me if I will just trust him, receive that. Let me give you some verses on this. And we can't turn to them. Romans 10, 9 through 10 That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And then verse 13, he sums it up, Romans 10. 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Our memory verse, Acts 2. 21. Same thing. Let me give you a couple other verses. John 3, 16 Very familiar for all of us. So I want them to understand, number one, that you and I, all of us, have sinned against God We've broken his law. We are guilty of sin. We are sinners. The consequence of my sin is I'm under the judgment of God. And if I die in that condition, I must spend eternity in hell separated from God But Jesus died for me. He paid that price for me. He was buried. He rose again. And number four, if I will consciously make the decision, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I receive that gift of salvation that you did for me. I receive it to be myself. To be my own. And then God says we'll be saved. I'm rushing here more than what I really wanted to. There's several ways to illustrate that. One is by giving a gift I mean a lot of times I'll use a gospel tract. When I started the conversation, I said, I gave you that gospel tract. You didn't pay for it, you didn't do anything to earn it, I just offered it to you, and you of your own free will received it from me and took it to be yourself. Now it's yours. And I said, that's what salvation is. God offers to us this forgiveness. He's paid for it all. He's provided all. And if we will just acknowledge that we're sinners recognize that, understand the gravity of it, and turn to Him for forgiveness and salvation. It's simply a gift I'm receiving by faith, and I can take it to be mine. Yes, Lord, I believe you did that for me. I'm receiving that for myself. Or you can say, no, thanks, I don't want that track. Or you can say, no, thanks, God, I'm good. I'll try and do it on my own. You can illustrate it with receiving a gift. The other way I like to illustrate sometimes is getting on an airplane. You know, you stand there and you can believe with all your heart that that plane can take you to Dallas or wherever you're going and you can be fully confident of it. But you ain't getting to Dallas until you what? Get on the plane. I need to make a conscious decision. I am trusting that pilot and this big machine to get me from point A to point B And I can flap my arms up there and hold on tight and do whatever I want. It's simply me trusting that machine and that pilot to get me where I'm going. That's exactly what salvation is. It's simply me trusting Jesus Christ to get me from point A to point B, from earth to heaven and not to hell. And he's the one I put my faith in, my confidence in, my trust in him. And so I came across this just before I came over. I quick dotted down at the end. Number one, we got to tell it, we've got to tell him like it is. And then, but don't stop there, but tell them how it can be. This is how it is. I'm a sinner. We're all sinners. But we can be forgiven. We can be saved. We can have eternal life. If we acknowledge the Godword sinner, understand it. Did I did I help clarify it a little bit? I'm I was worried that I'd make it even more confusing But if I can communicate to them that they're a sinner, two, that there's a consequence of sin, three, that Jesus paid that consequence for me, and four. If I will personally make that decision, accept what He's done for me to be mine, God will save me. That's the message we've got to give to others. So In this next few days and you come across someone and in conversation they become up how does a person get saved You take these verses, and this is what we gave tonight. You'll be able to clearly tell them how they can be saved. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help use these thoughts here tonight. And Lord, these four truths are so important in sharing the gospel with people. And so I pray you'd bless us and help us, Lord, to grasp this clearly in our minds. so that we can transfer it and pass it on to others. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, in the next seven days I'm going to ask God to give me an opportunity to share the gospel with somebody. One way or another, one form or another, I'm going to ask God, God, give me an opportunity in the next seven days. that I could share this with somebody. Is there anybody like that? Say, yeah, I'd be willing to pray that, that I could share this got message. God bless you. And if we do that and just keep doing that, keep doing that, uh, God can do great things. A lot of people come to the Savior. So Father, you saw our hands. You know our hearts, and I pray that you would fill us with your Spirit, give us the boldness, that you would work through us as we communicate these truths to people that desperately need the Savior. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.