First Peter two verse twenty five just one verse tonight for ye were as sheep going astray But are now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. What a great verse. Here is sheep gone astray, but are now returned Unto the shepherd and bishop of our souls. I just called the mess uh title of the message is Sheep Gone Astray. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to teach us from this tonight. Father in heaven I'm so grateful for a good day, and just the Lord's day is always a blessing. And my heart's full tonight. It's been a joy to serve you and to be with your people. And Lord, just uh we thank you And now, Lord, as we finish out the Lord's Day and we prepare for a new week, I ask that you'd speak to us once again. Pray you'd use your word and challenge our hearts and challenge our faith. Lord, encourage, instruct, and provoke us to good works, I pray. And I yield my will to you and present my body again this hour and ask with all my heart Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit for the task at hand here of preaching this message. I pray you'd speak through me to each of our lives. And that we would go into this week strong in our faith and bold in our witness and confident in our walk with you. So help us, I pray now in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, Peter, and I keep re restating this, but uh, Peter is writing to fairly new believers. That is the the immediate recipients of this letter that Peter wrote under the inspiration of God. But he's writing to these fairly new Christians, and the environment at the time, the spiritual environment at the time that these people were saved and that he's addressing them was very hostile to Christianity. They have they had been intensely persecuted, as we've been referencing over and over. They have been driven from their homes, many of them For no other reason than the fact that they were believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they were seeking to live for the Lord, they were disciples of Christ. And of course, many of them coming from Jewish homes, they would rejected Jesus as Messiah, and thus rejected those who trusted him and followed him as Messiah. And so they were driven from their homes, they were driven out of their communities. Many of them were physically beaten very severely. No doubt many of them had lost their lives, family members, and had died for their faith in Christ. Intensely persecuted. It wasn't that they were harassed for their faith. It wasn't just that they were ridiculed for their faith. Some of us have been harassed because we're believers in Christ. Some of us have been ridiculed because of our commitment to Christ But this was much more than that. This was flat out open violent persecution. So Peter's writing to them and first part of the Chapter one there, most of chapter one, he's writing them. He's trying to encourage them. Say, listen, you know, it looks dark and things are very, very difficult. But God's with you, God's for you. You're secure in your standing with God. And he so he tried to encourage them. Then you get to the end of chapter 1, end of chapter 2, and really through the rest of the book. And he's instructing them How to live for God in that type of environment. How to be faithful to the Lord and how to be a bold witness. Even when the whole world's coming down on you. Um and so he's giving them these instructions. And Beginning in verse number 18, the context of verse 25, and it's important when you get a passage of scripture that you look at the context. And if you go back to verse number 18, all the way through the end of the chapter, the context of that is Peter is writing to them about being submissive in verse 18 to their masters. In spite of mistreatment by those masters. And then he elaborates on that. And um He says, in regardless of what the mistreatment is, we ought to be gracious. We ought to be submissive in spite of unjust suffering. That's I guess Would be how you describe the context here. And then he illustrates, he refers to the Lord Jesus Christ as an example and as an illustration on how you and I, when we're mistreated, when we're treated unjustly, Maybe by the authority, some authorities got his foot over us. In their case, it was persecution. And he's used as the Lord Jesus Christ as an example or a pattern for us. To follow when you and I suffer unjust persecution. He goes on. And then if you would, notice we get to verse number 24. And he says, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sins, Now we already uh looked at that and preached on that, but what he's saying is this. Listen, Jesus willingly submitted To unjust suffering, unjust treatment. He willingly submitted to that. When he was reviled, he reviled not again. He didn't strike back. And by the way, isn't that kind of the way of the world? If somebody treats me wrong, brother, you're getting it right back at you. And that's isn't that our own flesh? You revile me, I'm reviling you. You mistreat me, I'm going to mistreat you straight back And he's saying, no, no, no, Lord Jesus didn't do that. In fact, our salvation, verse 24, our salvation is the result of Jesus submitting To this unjust treatment and this unjust crucifixion produced for you and I salvation. So he's setting Jesus Christ up as the example. He's setting Jesus Christ up as the pattern And then we come to verse number 25. And I think in verse 25, he's actually elaborating on what the Lord's suffering for me, bringing me salvation. He's kind of elaborating on that. Look at verse 25 with me again. He says, for, now go back to 24, and he says he bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to righteousness, should live dead to sin should live unto righteousness. So he's talking about Christ Suffering and dying for us and what it produced in our lives. And then he extends that in verse 25, for ye were as sheep gone astray, but are now returned. To the shepherd and bishop of your souls. And so he's elaborating on what he said in verse 24. I'm going to teach you something. If you're ever going to speak and preach, don't eat salty chicken right before you start speaking. Looks like I would know better than that by now. But how do you not eat chicken when it's right there, huh? So nevertheless, that's what he's doing. Now, verse 24, notice there, he refers to these believers as sheep. As sheep. Ye were as sheep gone astray. Um I'm not a shepherd. I don't know very little about sheep. Um I butchered some when I worked in the meatpacking plant, but I They weren't much left of them by the time I got to them. But he refers to these believers as sheep. And actually the Bible does that quite often throughout Scripture, refers to people as sheep. Both lost and saved, the Bible will sometimes refer to as sheep. Now, verse 24 and 25, he's quoting from Isaiah 53. We looked at that last week. He's quoting and verse twenty five is still a continuation of the quote from Isaiah fifty three. And if we study Isaiah fifty three, carefully and we're not going to go there, but if we would stop and study Isaiah fifty-three very carefully, we would find out that there he's addressing unsaved people. The sheep that he is referring to are not the disciples of Christ, like Jesus used the term sometimes. They're the sheep or the lost. All we like sheep have gone astray, and he hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. That's the unsaved. Everybody understand that? The unsaved. So I think the immediate context here is he's referring to them before they got saved. I think he's referring to them, listen, you were these sheep, these unsaved out there. But now you've come to the sh the bishop and the shepherd of your soul. I think he's elaborating on verse number 25. So he refers to them as sheep. Now I want us to notice three things here, real quick. I'm trying to get right to my outline. First thing I notice here, he refers to them as wandering sheep in the past. Previously they had wandering. Look at verse 25. For ye were as sheep uh going astray. So if they were sheep going astray, that means what are they now They're not sheep going astray, right? They were going astray, and they're not going and they were, but they're not now. So I think, like I said, I think the context is because he's quoting Isaiah 53, and because he says you were as she went straight, I think he's referring to their previous lives as unsaved people Referring back to that. However, now this is what I want to get to. I think there's a principle here that you and I as believers can apply to our lives. And I get that from that word going astray. Now that caught my attention studying this And I got looking that up. And the word going astray there has this idea to wander off You were as sheep going astray. Now Stuart could probably tell you a whole lot more about sheep than I do, but what my understanding is sheep have a tendency to wander off. Disagree with me, Stu. All right. Thanks Sheep have a tendency to wander off. You know what I notice about human beings? You know what I notice about Christians? We're prone to wander. The song says, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Now, there's a real caution here for you and I as believers, and that is to be very, very careful that we do not allow ourselves to wander off from the Lord. Now, that idea to go astray or to wander, I was looking how it's used various places, and I came to this conclusion: this is not something that is done deliberately This is not something that was pre-planned, or uh it's not something that uh uh they had uh premeditated, all right, we're gonna wander away from the Lord I'm sure that's probably happened, but my experience in working Christians and my experience in my own Christian life has pretty much been this. I didn't mean to get this far away from the Lord. I didn't mean to wander off like this. It just sort of happened. I just sort of uh I don't know how many times I've talked to people over the years that were so far from God, and I talked to them, they come And they make statement like this, preacher, I don't know how in the world I ever got myself into this condition. How in the w it just sort of happened. And he's saying, You were a sheep that had gone astray, that had wandered off. Now how how does that happen? What does it mean if I'm wandering? I think it simply means this: I'm not being careful. I'm not paying attention. I'm not being diligent in my Christian life. And I want to suggest to you one of the day one of the greatest dangers in our Christian life is not outward blantant rebellion. Now that happens. But I'm going to suggest to you, one of the dangers is just not being diligent. Just not being careful. Just not paying attention. And something little slips here and letting something slip there. Just carelessness in your Christian life is a great, great danger. Come with me over to chapter 5. Of 1 Peter here, chapter 5. And boy, there is a verse in chapter 5 that we ought to be familiar with, that ought to be highlighted at least in our hearts and minds, if not in our Bibles. 1 Peter chapter 5. Anybody want to guess what verse I'm going to? Chapter 5, verse 8. Look at it there with me, would you? Be what? Sober. That means you pay attention. You've been controlled with your mind, your focus. Be sober. Be what? Vigilant, that would be the opposite of careless. Don't you let yourself wander. Don't you let yourself get careless. Don't you let yourself be negligent You be sober, you be vigilant. Why? Because there's a grave, grave danger and a great, great price to pay if I'm not. Look what it says. Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I tell you, one of the greatest dangers in the Christian life is just getting careless. Just getting lazy in my walk with God. Just just a wandering off away from the Lord. I noticed something, if you would. Now keep your place here in Peter. Come back to the book of Psalms. And chapter number 19, I noticed something David says here, again, under the inspiration of God, and it came to mind as I was thinking about this matter of just wandering off, getting a little careless. Getting a little negligent, not being vigilant. I want to remind you, we are in enemy territory. This is not, this world is not our friend. Not spiritually, it isn't. And notice in Psalms chapter 19, go to verse number 12. And I noticed this some time ago, it's been a long time, and I noted, I highlighted it in my Bible, and I see here in Psalm 19, verse 12 and 13, a progression of sin Notice, uh, let me let me show you what I'm talking about. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from what's that next phrase? Secret faults. Take note of that. Secret faults. Look at verse 13. Keep back thy servant also from what? Presumptuous sins. So he says, Cleanse me from secret faults. And then he says, keep me away from presumptuous sins. Now read on. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright. I shall be innocent from the what? Great transgression. Do you see a progression here? Secret fault. That's just a little something I'm not careful about. Nobody sees it. Nobody's aware of it. It's just something in my walk with God. I'm really not giving attention to. I'm letting it slip. I'm negligent. Maybe in some little area. It's not big open blanton. Not everybody sees it. Maybe nobody else knows about it But brother, there's just something small there I'm not being careful about. There's something small there I'm not being diligent about. There's just a beginning of a wandering, a beginning of a going astray. It's a secret fall. And then if that's not by the way, in the margin of my Bible I put this when to deal with sin, when it's that s small secret thing before it comes out. Then he says, keep me back from presumptuous sins. That is something where I know it's wrong. Now I've been wondering. I got these these secret faults. I know I'm not reading my body. I know I got these things. And I And then here's an opportunity, and I know it's wrong, and I know it's sin, and I act presumptuously, I step right into it. And I deliberately do wrong. See that wandering? See that going astray? Little presumptuous sins, little secrets. Or a little secret sin, secret false, I know, and maybe it's not even necessarily a sin, but it's just not being careful, it's just not being diligent, it's just being a little negligent there Then that leads and grows and grows until next thing I know, man, I'm involved in presumptuous sins. I'm doing something I know is wrong. I know I ought not to be involved in this. And then that's not dealt with, and then it leads to the great transgression. And then it becomes disaster. And the whole house collapses and Satan devours. So I was studying this, and I think he's referring back to before they were saved. You were a sheep wandering away. But I got thinking that that principle of going astray, of wandering off, boy, that's dangerous in the Christian life. Of just not being careful. And I don't get let me ask you this. Anybody here ever, you said or did something, you think, how in the world did I ever get to this point? How do I allow myself to get to this point? Wasn't deliberate. I didn't plan it. Wasn't premeditated sin. It's just a secret fault, a little area, I wasn't careful, a little area, I didn't watch out, a little area, I let my guard down. Man, then it led to presumptuous sin and then the great transgression. Sin progresses when we're not careful. And I say again, I say again, one of the greatest dangers in your relation, your and I fellowship with God, our walk with God, one of the greatest dangers It's just wandering. Just not being careful. Just not being sober and vigilant. Boy, the devil gets a hold of that. Um little areas, I'm tempted to ask, but little areas like neglecting my Bible reading. You'd be amazed how many times somebody sit in my office over the years, somebody would come in and say, Preacher, I've got to get things right. I got to get things right. And I'll ask them almost without fault, I'll uh almost without fail, I'll ask them this, are you reading your Bible? This is what happens. A little carelessness, a little neglect. Bible reading, prayer, we emphasize this. Hey, how about this? Missing church. I've seen it so many times. Just a little bit here, a little bit there. I tell you, we're in dangerous times, not just with catching virus, we're in dangerous times of wandering from the Lord There has there is so much effort has to be made now. There's so much inconvenience that needs to be uh uh done. For us to be faithful to the Lord, it's very, very easy, especially in times like this, I think, where we can just wander, just wander Oh, just stay home tonight. Ah, there's something on I'll watch that. I'll watch the uh service later on. Let him record it, and I'll watch it later in the week. And there's one here, and then miss that, and then miss that and miss that. Next thing you know, I have no doubt there's folks going weeks, maybe months. Haven't even been part of a church service. Now I'm not looking to condemn people. I'm not looking for false. I'm simply saying this is a very real danger in the Christian life. A wander. Not deliberately. We never deliberately do that. But just not careful. Just not careful. We can talk about the area of finances. Man, how many people have just gotten themselves in such a mess financially? Christians! I can't even do what God's called me to do. If God would call uh there are some young people who have gotten themselves in such a mess If God would call them to the mission field, they couldn't go for 50 years. Because of what a hole they dug themselves in, not deliberately, just not careful. Just being negligent, not watching, and being careful. The Bible talks a lot about money, about not letting it be your master. So not being careful, not being careful. We could go on. Keeping our mind in check. Letting my mind wander. Paul said, I bring into captivity every thought and intent of the heart. Proverbs chapter 4, Solomon told his son, Keep thy heart with all diligence. That heart will lead you astray. Well, just follow your heart. You follow your heart, you're a knucklehead. That heart is wicked and deceitful. It's wicked and the si and uh desperate We've got to be diligent. Keep your heart with all that. Don't let that mind wander. Some of y'all are thinking about stuff you're going to do this week. I can see it in your eyes right now. You're thinking about sledding down a hill this afternoon. And uh I'm joking. But you see, can you see where that mind can wander and get us in trouble? Um so uh there's a whole list we could go down. Our Christian duties becoming negligent there. So he refers to them as wandering. Come back to Peter here. Let me quickly uh try and wrap this up. First thing he refers to them as wandering sheep. Now again, I think the immediate context is He's referring to before they were saved. They were out there lost in the world. But I think there's a principle there that you and I can learn from this wandering business. Then he refers to them as returning sheep. Oh, I like this one. For ye were as sheep going astray, but are what? Now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls That return, I got looking up the word return, and um it simply means this to reverse direction. I'm out here wandering, out in the wilderness, I'm getting farther and farther away from the Lord. I'm wondering. All of a sudden I say, what in the world am I doing? How did I get out here? What in the world? I never intended for this. By the way, did you ever hear that little quote? Sin will take you farther than you want to go Keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you a heap more than you want to pay. That is a true statement. So, how in the world did I get out here? But they've returned. They've reversed directions. Going away from the Lord, going away from the Lord, going away from the Lord. Finally, I need to get back. And they turn and they return to the chief, to the shepherd, and bishop of their souls. Wandering away, now returning. I am glad. I am so glad. Our God receives returning sheep. Aren't you? I've had people say to me over the years, Preacher, I can't go to church. I'm backslidden. I said, brother If if nobody backslidden came to our church, we'd have like three people there. Guys are not have a sense of humor, don't I? I see that. But the fact of the matter is, when a per if a person's backslidden, if a person has wandered off out of fellowship with the Lord, best thing in the world for them to do is come back. Best thing in the world for them to do is return. You know what the church is? Church is a bunch of messed up sinners that desperately need our Lord. We got we get out of here and we we mess up. We're not even we don't even get home sometimes He says, you were wandering, you were careless, you let it drift off. Praise God, now you've come back Come back. I am so glad that our God welcomes back returning sheep. I saw a statement on the computer this week somebody had put on it said that said something to this effect. I'm not quoting it correctly But said something to this effect. If you're unsaved, you better stay out of church. I don't know about you, but that don't set well with me. That don't sound right. You know what? I I want unsaved people to come to church. Now they're not going to be on the platform. They're not going to have a role in the church, right? You've got to be saved and baptized, be a member But mercy. Want you to come on out. Want you to come on out. We were talking about Max Pagano this week. Anybody here remember Max? Three people. Oh Max, started coming to church. Some of y'all do. Some of y'all aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I do, is it? Old Max, Mark and Jackie were working on him. I guess Austin was his friend. And um they said, we need to come to church. He had never been to church before, I think, if I remember correctly. Never been to church before. And uh something to the effect, now you gotta, you know. Clean yourself up a little bit and coming to church. And so Max uh blessed his heart and uh he got it dyed his hair and got his earrings, came out the church, and uh he was dressing up for church Old God got a hold of Max's heart. He might be watching now. I don't know. He's been tuning in. Old Max trusted Jesus, Savior. I'm telling you, God did a work in Max, turned his life around. He's up in New Jersey now. I tell you, I'm so proud of that kid. What God did in his heart and life, what he became. I tell you, God, we want folks to come. We want folks to come. Somebody comes through that back door and they're not dressed the way we we dress and they're not their hair isn't the way we do. I tell you what, let's just welcome them on in and say, you come on in here. You never know what God might do. Amen. Amen. Yeah. You're unsaved, you better stay out of church. No, I don't want to approach that way. Oh, Lord our Lord welcomes sinners back to them. Uh huh. There was a I've been, here's a little confession. I've been watching some game shows lately. I know. Embarrassing And um just a little bit watching game shows. My dad loved game shows and uh watching some game shows and they had this commercial in there caught my attention And it was an insurance company. And uh the point of the commercial was, listen, if you let your insurance slip and you let it and you and you uh it was um what happens when you let your It got canceled, your insurance got canceled on you, and you come back, our insurance company will welcome you back. You got negligent on it, you let it slip And we'll just walk him back. And it has this guy sitting in a chair, he's looking out the window, and these people come back and say, Can I come back? And they say, Yup, come on in. And then one after another, uh, they come in and they come in. And you know when I saw that, I thought, That's just like our Lord. Lord, I messed up and I wandered away. Lord, will you take me back? Lord says, you come on back. You come on back. You say, you got Bible for that? Yeah, prodigal son. Prodigal son. He come back. So he refers to them as sheep. They were wandering sheep. Then he refers to them as returning sheep, and I end with this. He refers to them as cared-for sheep, sheep that are deeply cared about. That are taken care of. Look here. Ye were let are now returned unto the bishop, uh unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. The shepherd and bishop of your souls. What's a shepherd? Somebody talk to me now. Y'all are a little lethargic tonight. What's a shepherd? What does a shepherd do? Guides the sheep, he watches over the sheep, he takes care of them, he protects them Would would you agree all that would fit under this statement? He oversees the well-being of the sheep. That would encompass all of that. He oversees the well-being of his sheep. That's the shepherd's responsibility. Make sure the wolves don't get them, or the bears, or the rattlesnakes, or the lions, or the tigers, or the bears. And he oversees, makes sure the sheep are okay. And um he's uh overseer. And anybody here know what the word bishop means? Overseer. That's what the word means. It is actually a term used in reference to the pastor of the church I don't see it. Now, this is my take on studying it. I don't see it as a title for the pastor. Some people, I'm Bishop Leatherman I don't think it's a title necessarily. I think it's a description of the responsibility of the pastor. He's a bishop. He's an overseer. He's responsible to oversee for the well-being of the church. And he says here, you're now returned to the shepherd and the bishop of your souls. Who's that? Who's the shepherd and bishop of our souls? Jesus Christ, not Pastor Leatherman. Not Pastor Leatherman. Both terms are used for the pastor of the church, but he's not talking about the pastor here. The pastor is the under-shepherd with delegated authority and responsibility. Jesus! Is the shepherd and bishop of our souls, of our souls. And he says, You've come back, you've come back to the very one who will take care of you. And oversee your life and make sure you're protected, your needs are met, you're nourished, coming back to Jesus. Now, as much as we love the church, as important as the church is in our lives, ultimately we need to come to the Lord Jesus. The Lord Jesus. If we're unsaved, we need to come to Christ for salvation. If we're saved and we've wandered off, we need to return and come back, and He'll take us back in. He'll take us back in. I was down this afternoon to visit Brother Charlie Ross. What a blessing. He doesn't have long to live, I mentioned this morning. Sent him home and just waiting on just waiting on the Lord to say, all right, Charlie, come on. I went down there and invited me in and He was he was in and out sleeping. You know he lost both his legs. Some of y'all don't know Charlie, but he lost both his legs a number of years ago. Of course, uh, he's very limited in what he can do. He's one of the he's one of the biggest blessings in my life. He would come and sit in the wheelchair and He'd sit here even before he was in the wheelchair, but he'd sit around and uh no matter what I'd say, no matter no matter the he'd be the most boring message I've ever preached in my life Don't say amen there. Um could be the worst message ever preached in my life. I'd say something, he'd go, Praise the Lord. Anybody ever hear old Charlie? Praise the Lord. I went down to see him when uh he having his one leg removed At that point, they just thought they were just taking one. I paused outside his uh hospital door. He was down in Martinsburg at the VA. And I thought, Lord, this is going to be tough for them. I'm going to lose a leg. So I just paused and I prayed, Lord, help me be a blessing. Fill me with your spirit. I walked in there and I said, Hey, preacher! And uh he said, Oh, I'm so glad to see you. I said, Well, Charlie, I just want to come down and read some verse. I'm trying to be upbeat and and uh I want to read some verses and pray with you, and you know God's gonna see you. And uh he has, oh, it'll be all right. I'll get to heaven, I'll get a new one. I walked out of there saying, What a blessing. Praise the Lord. And he came out of that surgery and they said, Charlie, we're gonna have to take your other leg off. This is down in Bethesda now. I thought, oh no. So I did the same thing. I tell you, I came out of there walking on Cloud9. That guy stirred my heart. He was just praying. You'd think he was in there to uh uh get a facelift or something. I mean he was just as excited as could be So I went down this afternoon and I stopped in the car before I got out and walked in their little trailer, and Lord, please help me to help them. I got a verse I wanted to read. I found it ahead of time I walked up there, walked in, he was asleep and Ms. Ross said, come on in, preacher. So we're sure glad you came. And she rubbed his sh she shook his shoulder and said, Charlie, the preacher's here. Praise the Lord. He woke up. He goes, Preacher. I said, Charlie, I just want to come down and see you and pray and read some scripture with you. Praise the Lord. And he faded out. So I said, well, I'm going to read some birds. She shook them and she says, oh, she said, the preacher's here. He said, hey preacher. And so I read about Change our vile body like unto his glorious body from Philippians. And I put and I read um 320 where it says, for our conversation is in heaven from whence also we look for the Savior. I said, Charlie, one of these days, you're gonna have whole eggs. And gets glorified bodies. And uh he was there. He never opened his eyes and he smiled big. He said, Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. I said, and she said, Charlie, we'll be walking those streets of gold. And he says, that'll be wonderful. Praise the Lord. I said, let me pray with you. And he faded out, and I shook him a little and great. And I said, Charlie, let's pray. I'm telling you, I walked out of there. Won't be long, old Charlie. Pastor Leatherman's not going to be his pastor, his bishop. He's going to be with the shepherd and bishop of his soul. Right with the Lord. I tell you, I want that attitude Charlie had. You'd think he's waiting to go on vacation to Disney World. I mean, to him, it's so real. He's so excited about it. He's ready to roll. I want that. I want to be that way. You were a sheep going astray, but now you return to the shepherd and bishop of your soul. Let's stay close to Jesus. Amen? Let's be careful. Let's not be negligent. Let's be diligent. Be careful. Things are in place and right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. So be careful. Help us to watch out for wandering off Help us to be diligent daily to stay close to you, stay close to you, guard our thinking, guard our actions, our habits And Lord, if some in the sound of my voice have wandered off, I pray you'd stir them to return. Turn around and come back. Reverse direction Come on back to the Lord. God, we long for that day when we'll be with you. We'll see you and we'll be like you. What amazing thing that will be. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many of us say, Preacher, I gotta be more careful in my Christian life I gotta be more diligent. There's areas I have just got to be careful. Any like that? Any like that? Sure. Probably if the truth was told, it would be all of us ought to raise our hand. We've got to be careful. Now this between you and the Lord, and I'm not going to ask you to respond with the raised hand. But I wonder if there's some who are away. Wandered off, you're away from the Lord. You know you are in your heart and soul. It might just be a secret fault at this point. But you know it's not not where you're you're wandering. Maybe tonight you make a decision, I'm coming back. I'm not going down this road. I don't want to go where this ends up. I'm coming back. I'm coming back. Father in heaven, bless our imitation, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen