With me at Ephesians chapter six and I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number sixteen. That's going to be our text uh Ephesians chapter six And verse number 16. Would you read that with me together in unison all together? Ready? Here we go. Above all, taking the shield of faith. Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. I want to speak this morning on the shield of faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for these little babies that were with us. What a blessing. And we do pray that you're uh Your hand of blessing and protection be upon these little children. And we pray that you would shield them from the fiery darts of the wicked. I pray that you would help all of us to live by faith and take up this shield that we're going to look at. And I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, this is your word and not my word And so I present my body to you anew, I yield my will, and I pray that you, the author of this book, would speak through me the truths that are in this passage. Help us to receive it, Lord. Help us to have victory in our lives and apply this truth to our everyday living. So that you can be glorified and souls can be won. Again, fill me, Lord, I pray, with your spirit. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm afraid a lot of Christians in uh our day and age, maybe some even here in our church, have this idea about the Christian light. They kind of view it as something where I just gotta hang in there Uh that uh you know life is tough, it's terrible, we just gotta struggle through. And one of these days, one of these days, Jesus is gonna come back And oh, all these burdens and all this difficulty will be over behind. It's going to be great. There's a song, and I joke about this a little bit sometimes, but uh there's a song, and it's a good song. I'm not criticizing it But uh it goes like this It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Life's trials will seem so small. And sometimes I sing that and I think, it sounds like this. Oh, it will be worth it. Oh Ooh, Miss Fire and Agony on me. Oh, yeah. And sometimes Christians get that perspective of the Christian life. Now I'm not trying to minimize, there is heartache. And look and life can be tough. Can I get a witness? Anyone? It can be tough. And I'm probably talking to some folks that shed some pretty hot tears this past week. Your heart's been broken, you've gone through difficulty, disappointment We're going to speak tonight from Ecclesiastes chapter 12 on this old house and these old bodies start to decay and weaken and fall apart. So I'm not trying to minimize the f trials and difficulties that are a very real part of life. But what I'm saying is When that's all we see, when our whole entire view of what Christian life is here on earth is just woe and misery and hanging in there till the Lord comes back, I don't think that's a real accurate perspective of what the Christian life is. Now some folks have a complete opposite view of that. That the Christian life is nothing but a big party. It's like a carnival cruise line. You know, we're just gonna live it up and we're just gonna have as much fun as I can while I'm down here on earth and You know, I'm just gonna uh it's uh it's just gonna be a riot, it's one big party that's all the Christian life is. Uh anybody recognize there's this thing going around the last several years, and I think it comes from a movie, but there's a thing going around a bucket list. Does anybody recognize that phrase, a bucket list? And the idea, as I understand it, is this is that I have a list of things I want to do before I kick the bucket. And I wanna do this and boy I wanna skydive and I wanna do these ridiculous not me personally, I don't wanna I have all these exciting things I want to do before I die. And the idea is almost like this: I better have fun down here on earth while I can, because when I go to heaven, I'm not going to have a chance to do any of this stuff Now that is just as mistaken view of what the Christian life is as the previous one I mentioned Um, the there is joy in the Christian life, and you know me well enough. I'm I'm all for having fun. I want to enjoy myself, and I like laughing and having a good time But as you study the scripture, and the fact of the matter is this: that the Christian life is a spiritual warfare. There's times of joy, there's times of fun, we can relax, but there are some times where it is an absolute battle. It is an absolute warfare. We are. How many folks here this morning you're saved to know it? Say amen. You and I that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and really all folks, but us uh maybe more pointedly. We are in the midst of an unseen spiritual conflict. There is a spiritual war going on around us for the souls of men. And for the lives of believers. It is a warfare between heaven and hell. It is a warfare between God and the devil. And it is as real as any physical military war takes place between nations here on this earth. We can't see it, we can't hear it, we can't feel it, but I'm telling you, there is a spiritual reality To every one of us, and there is a spiritual conflict going on. Mark it down. The devil himself would want nothing more than to destroy the lives of these little babies that we just had up here. The devil wants nothing more than destroy and ruin the lives of these young teenagers here. Young couples, raising families, middle-aged, senior citizens. He is the wicked one. He is a liar. He is a murderer. He kills, he destroys, he steals. I tell you, and this isn't my message, but uh if you want to get an idea of what Satan does to a person, When he can have his way, when he can do whatever he wants, when God removes the hedge, when God takes away his protection and says, All right, Satan, you can do whatever you want. Read the book of Job. And what Satan did to that tremendous man of God, of course, under the guiding hand of the Lord, the Lord We had restrictions, but God took his hands off and said, Satan, you can do whatever you want. Can't kill him though. Now, to Job's credit, he remained faithful to the Lord. Praise the Lord. But that gives me a little insight into the spiritual warfare that you and I are a part of, whether we realize it or not, whether we see it or not, is raging all around us. It's raging within us. A war between heaven and hell, war between God and the devil. How many people believe that God is a personal being? An intelligent personal being. Sure he is. God. So is the devil. The devil is not just a force for evil. There's these stupid movies out there, all the force. Don't even try and compare that to scripture. Satan is not a force. He is a personal being. A real, living, personal being. That is, hates God and hates the people of God. He is subtle He is dumb he is he is devilish. I like what uh I like what Lester Raw said. He said, if there isn't any devil, then who's doing all this devilry in the world? Good point. So you and I are in the midst, as believers, we are in the midst of a s unseen spiritual conflict. That is about us. It is an intense conflict and it has eternal consequences. If you would, if you're there in Ephesians chapter 6, look with me if you would at verse number 10. Uh the Bible brings this conflict, this warfare, spiritual warfare out, brings it out very, very clearly in verse number ten of Ephesians chapter 6, look what he says. He says, finally, my brethren. Now when he uses that phrase, my brethren, he's talking to saved people. Alright, so he's saying, listen, my brethren, believers, finally be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole what? Armor of God. What does armor imply? That something's going on. What does it imply? There's a conflict going on, there's a battle going on, there's warfare going on. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Now look at verse 12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. This is not a physical conflict. This is not a physical battle. But against principalities. Principalities against what? Powers. This is not a little skirmish. This is a powerful, powerful force against the rulers of darkness of this world, against Spiritual wickedness in high places. Look at verse 13. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. That you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand Conflict, spiritual warfare. We are in it. Verse 12, he mentions we wrestle not against flesh and blood. That wrestling, we think of uh you know the sport of wrestling. He's this what he talks about when he says we wrestle not, what he's saying there is we are not in a conflict with flesh and blood The word Rassel means to con means this, a conflict to gain dominion or control over another. Um coming back to the sport of wrestling, I wrestled a little bit when I was in junior high school and um man I would love to be able to tell you I was champion and I beat everybody. I don't think I won one match. I got beat everything. But the idea of a wrestling match is to gain control over my opponent to the point where they cannot function, they cannot move, they cannot uh have any maneuvers or success against me to have d uh absolute dominion over them And I'm here to tell you, Satan does not want God controlling your life or my life. Satan wants to be the one controlling my life. He is absolute warfare against us. He absolutely wants to destroy us. And I'll tell you what's heart-wrenching as a pastor and as a youth pastor to you work with people and you see people make decisions That are so contrary to the Word of God. And you know exactly where that decision is leading. You know we know the warfare is there. We know what the devil is capable of. We've seen what he's done to so many lives. We read about him in the Bible. And yet so many just disregard that. And ha and put on no armor and make no precaution and they just let the devil have his way and when it's all said and done, the lives are ruined. It's tragic. And it doesn't have to be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. Um the devil's out to dominate us. Spiritually. Make no mistake about it. The devil is out to destroy us. I mentioned at the beginning of the message that this text here is addressed to believers, it's addressed to save people If by chance I'm speaking to somebody this morning and you're not saved, you know it. You're lost, you're still in your sins, you've never trusted Jesus Christ to save you. You have no assurance of your salvation, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. One, you can have that settled, but this is what I'm getting at. Listen, and listen very, very carefully. Satan will do everything he possibly can to keep you in an unsaved state Satan's goal and purpose and design for an unbeliever is to get them to die in their sins unsaved. And thus separated from God for all eternity, and thus foiling the will and plan and purpose of God for every single life to be saved. So if you're not saved, I'm telling you, you've got a powerful, powerful force working to keep you unsaved. Now, the other side of that, there's a powerful, powerful God that is working to save your soul. But it's up to you. Trust Christ. Or just go on. Now, Satan's goal and purpose for the unsaved is to keep them unsaved. What is Satan's goal and purpose? What is he trying to dominate in the believers' life? He is trying to get our lives to be so ineffective, to have little or no influence on the gospel, so that we cannot and do not have any influence in others coming to Christ. Satan's ultimate Satan's ultimate goal is to get as many people into hell with him as possible. And if he and if someone does get saved, he can't get that soul in hell, but he'll so dominate their life, so So uh um uh diminish their influence so that they have little or no influence on others coming to Christ, so that more people die and go to hell. So, what I'm trying to say is this: you and I are in a spiritual warfare. The Christian life is a life, there's great joy, there's great happiness, there's peace, there's fulfillment, but there is tremendous conflict. And there's very, very real spiritual warfare going on. And you and I are in the midst of it. And in Ephesians chapter 6, what Brother Matt read here a few moments ago, he is giving to us the essentials for living a good, strong, victorious Christian life. So that I can have influence on my children for the Lord. So that I can have influence on my community, that folks would come to Christ, so I can be a testimony and a witness to this old world, to the grace and goodness of our God And I must have these things in place. These uh this armor must be in place if I'm going to have any kind of spiritual uh influence or uh my my own spiritual well-being. Now he gives a list of them here, verses 14 down through verse 17. Now I want to summarize this list just by a list of very short statements what this armor is, and we're going to look particularly at the shield of faith. But you might want to jot these down. I put these in the margin of my Bible What exactly is this armor? Very simple. It's not complicated at all. First of all, he says that we are to be honest. Write that down. Be honest. Look at verse number 14. Stand therefore having your loins girded about with what? Truth. You know what we say? One of the armor, one of the pieces of armor we put on is just being honest. One of the most devilish things a person can do is lie. God is true. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. God is truth. Satan is a liar. The father of lies. So w one of the pieces of Arbory says, if I'm going to be a good Christian, my spiritual well-being is going to be in place, I'm going to have any kind of influence. I must be honest. Number two, write this one down. I put, do right. He says, then have your law and having on the breastplate of what? Righteousness. What that simply means is, and I'm maybe oversimplifying here a little bit, what that basically means is just do right, live right, be honest, tell the truth. Have the breastplate of righteousness, do right, live what's right, do what is righteous. Number three, I put this one down, uh win souls, share the gospel. And he says, verse 15, and have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. So if I will be honest, tell the truth, do not lie. I'm going to live right and do right as God instructs me in his word And then I'm going to share the gospel, the gospel of peace. I want to share that with others. I want to influence others for Christ. I want to give the message of Christ to others. This is all part of our armor. And then he says there, do right, share the gospel, and then verse number 16, trust God, the shield of faith. Trust God. And then verse number 17, have the assurance of salvation. Take the helmet of salvation. Saved, and I know it. And then last of all, use and know God's Word and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. So if I will be honest, if I'll do right. I'll share Jesus with others. I'll trust God. I'll have assurance of my salvation. I know the Bible and I use the Bible. And then he tax on there at the end, pray I've got everything in place. I have everything I need to be victorious in this spiritual warfare against Satan. Now, what I want to do this morning, in a little bit of time we have left, is I want to look particularly at that shield of faith. Shield of faith. I think there's two categories in this list. I think he kind of divides them up. And this applies to the shield of faith. If you would look with me, and we'll just do a little Bible study here a little bit. Look at verse 14 He says, stand therefore, what's that next word? Having your loins gloat about with truth, the breastplate of righteousness, feet shod with the gospel. So he says, you have these things. Have these. These are things that are attached to the body. Breastplate of righteousness, the loins girded about with truth, feet shod with the gospel. These are what I have. They're attached to me. Then look at verse number sixteen. Above all, what's the next word? Taking. A little change. The next ones that he lists are not stuff necessarily that are attached to my body. But things that I pick up. In fact, the word taking there means to grasp or to pick up. So the first three, the breastplate of righteousness, loins girt with truth, the feet shod with the gospel, these are things that I tackle on. They're put on. They're not something I'm taking on and off a whole lot. They're not something I'm laying aside. I put them on. They're pretty much there. Honesty is in place. Doing right is what I am, what I do. Being a witness, sharing gospel, that's in place. That's there. That's attached. I have these things in place. Then I need to take, I need to grasp these shield of faith, helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit These are things that I I pick up, I take, I I use them. There's action involved here. Now the shield of faith, I want us to notice first of all the placement. Of this shield, the placement of the shield. Look again at verse 16. The first two words, he makes an interesting statement. He says, above all. Now he's listed a few things already. The belt, blowing the girt with truth, alright. Breastplate of righteousness, okay. Got that? Feet shod with the preparation of the gospel. Alright. I got them on. Above all. Now, above all, I just gave you a list of a few items of armor. Now, above all. Take the shield of faith. Now the question is, what does he mean by above all? The first response would be: well, the highest priority. The most important item of armor, the most important armor is that shield of faith. Boy, more important than all else is the shield of faith. That's not what he's saying. He's not saying the shield of faith is more important than other pieces of armor. What he's saying is this, when you have the your loins girded about with truth and the breastplate of righteousness, your feet shy with the preparation of the gospel, then over top of all of that, above all of that, on the outside of all of that, you have this shield of faith This shield of faith over top of everything else. When everything else is in place, this shield of faith is to cover me. Now you think about that a little bit and suggest this. It is possible to be honest It is possible to do what's right, and it is possible to even share the gospel, share Jesus with others, and yet do all of that without faith. To do that in my own strength, to do that in my own ability. Um it is do you know it's possible for an unsaved person to die and go to hell and be an honest man? It's possible for a person to have integrity. They pay their bills, they do what's right, they treat others the way they want to be treated, they help the needy. Responsible integrity, yet they have no faith in God and die and go to hell. It is possible for a person to share Jesus Christ with other people. Stand behind a pulpit and preach the word of God. Go out and give out gospel tracts, yet never be saved themselves. No faith. Trusting in what I'm doing. Trusting in my honesty. Trusting in my integrity. Trusting in my righteousness. Trusting in my service. Now that it's possible for an unsaved person to do all that. Can I say this? It's possible for a saved person to live their life and have be self-righteous. And think, well, I'm an honest person, therefore I can defeat the devil. Oh, I'm I'm living right, I've got integrity, therefore I'm okay. Well, I give out gospel tracts. I'm okay. No, above all of those things, I need to have this faith in God. I need to live by faith. Because faith in God is the shield that covers all of this. That covers all of this. So the placement of the shield, hey, be honest. Do right. Share Christ with others. But above all of that, make sure you're doing all of that by faith, trusting God. Not myself. No confidence in myself. No confidence in my flesh. My faith is in God. I believe we ought to teach these little ones, these little children, we ought to teach them to be honest. Amen. We ought to teach, Pastor Matt does, we ought to teach juniors and primaries and teenagers. We ought to teach them to be honest in every area of life. Tell the truth. Lying is of the devil. Lying is temporary. You need to teach them to tell the truth. Hey, we ought to teach. Hey, moms and dads, teach your children to do what's right Try and instill in their character integrity to live righteous Teach them to care about others and talk about Jesus and share Jesus. Teach them these things. But above all of that, above all of that, cover all of those characteristics, cover them with faith in God. They must learn to have faith in God above all. Above all. You got all these things in place. Not over that. Put that shield of faith up. Put that shield of faith up. A proud, self-righteous Christian with little or no faith in God, distrusting in their own righteousness, is going to be defeated by the devil is a sitting duck. is a sitting dump. So the placement of this shield is I want to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I want to live righteous. I'm going to be a witness to the Lord. I'm going to serve God But all that, I'm gonna have, I'm gonna do all this by faith in God. I'm gonna have this shield of faith over top of all that, trusting God, having faith in God, relying on Him to give me the victory. Second of all I want us to notice is the particulars about this shield. And there's a lot that could be said. I d I can't Can't go deal with all of it, but I thought one thing was the design of the shield that he's referencing here And uh there's various types of shields over the ages, and the Greeks had a certain kind of shield, and the Romans had a particular kind of shield, and And no doubt you go in the Far East back then, they had shields, shields were vital in conflict, shields were vital in battle I got studying and seeing what people smarter than I am said about what they thought this shield was, and the terms that Paul uses here indicate that he was referencing a Roman shield They were occupying Israel at the time. They were occupying the the land there, and Israel was under their their government, under their authority, and there was Roman soldiers everywhere. You read through the book of Acts, they were dealing with them Jesus dealt with them. And so no doubt he is referencing the Roman soldier's shield. Now the Roman soldier's shield was, I'm told, was very large. In fact, it comes from a word that means door And so the Roman shield, as I understand it, was a very large shield. It would uh uh cover the entire body, rounded edges. Uh for the most part, as I understood, as I studied this, it was made of wood. And some said they would have a metal, they would overlay it with metal. Others said they would overlay it with various types of skin, and they'd treat those skins, those animal skins, with types of oils And uh it was uh it was very large, it was made of wood, but it had some sort of covering, whether metal or the skin. And the design of the metal and the design of the skin was to quench Fiery arrows and javelins that would be thrown at them. We're going to look at this here in a little bit, but One of the tactics they used in warfare was not just shooting arrows at the enemies and not just throwing javelins at them and uh at the enemies, but they would attach flammable substance to the arrows But attach flammable substance to the javelins and they'd light it on fire and then fire it at them. And so one of the purposes, if you had a wood, uh how many people agree with me, you had a wood shield and they're shooting fire at you, not a good idea. Right? You don't fight fire with wood. And so they would put this covering on it. And as I said, shields were vitally important. Even Goliath had a shield. In fact, it was so large he needed somebody to carry it out in front of him, and he would walk up, and this guy would be carrying that shield, and Goliath would be behind it. Shields were incredibly important in the defense and in bat in conflict. In fact, I was reading one historian said the Romans When they would have a uh I think they call it uh when they had uh the army would go up in the front they had uh uh had these guys with these large door-sized shields and they would go side by side And it made almost an impenetrable wall as they advanced towards the enemy. And behind them would be the guys shooting their arrows and launching their javelins and stuff. So the particulars about this shield that Paul is referencing here is something that is vitally important and something that would cover the entire body that was necessary. And I guess what I'm trying to get at, and I think he's emphasizing here, is listen, without faith in God, you and I are dead meat. As Christians, we have got to learn to trust God. We have got to learn to take God at His word and act upon Him So the particulars about this shield, its design was a very large door. It was sufficient to cover the entire body. But there's also another aspect to the shield, and this is ridiculously obvious, but he mentions it. He says, above all, what's the next word? We just said it here a little bit ago. And above all, taking the shield of faith. Hmm. You know what that sounds like to me? A decision. I've got to decide. Am I going to exercise faith or not? Am I going to reach out and grasp that shield and put it up before me? Or am I just going to go out there trusting in my honesty, my right my integrity, my Christian service trust? Or am I going to put that, take up that shield of faith? And exercising faith in God is a decision that I must make. Faith in God does not come naturally. Faith in God is something I must decide to do. I must decide I'm going to trust the Lord for my salvation. Nobody ever gets saved against their will. Now nobody ever gets saved any other way than by grace through faith. But I must, of my own volition, of my own free will, I must make a decision. I'm going to trust, accept Jesus Christ as my Savior. I must take up that faith. And put it in Christ for my salvation. And as a believer, we uh the same way we were saved is how we live by trusting God. And I must learn in every situation in my Christian life, I can do one of two things. I can either lean on my own understanding, I can trust in my own abilities as a Christian And I say, I can do this, grit my teeth, I'm gonna make it, I'm gonna be honest, I'm gonna live, I'm gonna beat the devil. Or I can say, you know, even with honesty and and righteousness and serving God, even with all that I'm no match for the devil. I need to trust God. Am I making sense? Take up the shield. Decide. I'm going to trust the Lord. I'm going to trust the Lord. I'm going to trust God in his word. What does it mean to have faith in God? Well, if I'm going to have faith in God, there's several things that have to be in place. And this kind of goes along with our scripture memory verse, Romans 10, 13 through 14. First of all, if I'm gonna have if I'm gonna take up this shield of faith, if I'm gonna learn to trust God, first thing I need to know is I need to know what God has said. If I'm going to trust his word, I need to know what his word says. Hey Christian, you and I cannot defend ourselves, we cannot defend our families, we cannot defend our children, we cannot defend ourselves. Without knowing the Word of God. So I've got to know what God has said. In every each and every situation, I've got to know what God has said. Then, second of all, I need to believe that what God said is true. Alright, God said this? Alright, I'm aware of that. You know what? I believe that's true. God said that. There's no doubt about it. That is absolutely true. But that's not where faith ends. Then faith, I have to act on that. I have to act on that. The old, old illustration, I've used it too many times. You could say it as well, maybe better than I can. But the old guy Doing the uh tight walk across Niagara Falls, remember that? I'm going to start numbering my illustrations, and I'll just say number five, and then you all know what it is. Save time we'll get out earlier But he has the tightrope and he's walking back and forth and everybody and this true story. Yay, it's wonderful. I can't remember his name. Oh, it's amazing. He walked across that Niagara Falls. It's incredible. Then he gets a wheelbarrow out, walks it back and forth. Yay, it's amazing. He says, how many people uh believe that uh I could put someone in this wheelbarrow and walk them back and forth? Yeah, you could do it, you're incredible, yeah Who wants to get in the wheelbarrow? They saw what he could do. They believed he could do it, but they weren't willing to trust him. And if I'm going to have victory in my Christian life, and if I'm going to have victory over sin and the devil, if I'm going to have any kind of influence in this world, and if our kids have any chance of being the people God saved them to be God created them to be and live with our kids, of our church, if our families, of our individual, if we have any chance at all again in this conflict with the devil, we have got to learn, first of all, what God has said. We've got to believe it's true, and then we've got to trust it. And get in and say, God, I'm trusting you. I'm going to act upon what you said. That is faith. The shield of faith, I must make a decision. This God said it, that settles it I'm gonna act upon it. I'm gonna act upon it. When I was young growing up, we always had swimming pools. My mom was loved swimming. Uh I was an avid swimmer as a kid. And um We always had swim pools. And when you learn to swim, you always you put the kid you put the child uh on the edge of the swim pool, you get down in there, and then you say what? Dump to me, come on. And a child's air, and you say what? Trust me. Trust me. My mom was naughty. She'd step aside. I learned to swim though, you know. It's why I am the way I am, all right, just trying to explain things. But it's a decision I have to make. God has said this. I know it's true. I'm going to trust him. Trust them. I'm going to do it because it makes listen, I can lean on my own understanding. I just don't see how this oh I don't I think I need a whiff. I don't know. God said this. I'm going to trust God. I have to make a decision whether leaning on my own understanding or in all my ways acknowledging Him. Doing it the way I think it should be done or doing it the way God said it should be done. Well, this is how I think you should raise kids. That's wonderful. But what does God say? Let's try it God's way. Listen, we've been about four or five generations now raising kids man's way. Spock. Remember that guy who wrote that book, Spock? We've been doing it man's way. How's that working? May we get back to God's way. That's the shield of faith, saying, God said this is the way it is. I believe that's true. I'm going to act on that. I'm going to do it the way he said. And that shield is there. Satan is quenched. That is the particulars. That is the particulars about this shield of faith. It is trusting God. Trusting God. You go through the Bible, and I don't have time. I want it so much. I want to go to Hebrews chapter 11. And we don't have time. But read that. What a powerful testimony to the effectiveness of the shield of faith. By faith, by faith, by faith, by faith. I like the one of the first statements there. By faith, Noah. Being warned of God prepared an ark for the saving of his soul. You know what Noah's faith was? It was a shield against the judgment of God on earth. Faith. Abraham. By faith. Abraham. All down through there. These men had great victories over the devil. These men are a testimony. To what God can and will do in the life of a man or a woman who will simply trust God. How ineffective Satan was when they acted by faith. When they acted by faith. Moses' parents, by faith. Hid him in a little ark in the Nile River. And it shielded him from devil's attempts to wipe out the people of God. It was a shield of faith when they believed God, entrusted him with their child, and did something that made no sense. Put him in a little ark and push him out in the Nile River, trusting God. Shield of faith. That's how the fiery darts of the wicked are quenched. By faith in God. By faith in God. And last of all, the purpose of the shield, and I've already touched on it. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith, when I have faith in God, trusting him, doing the way he says, ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. The word quench there means to put down, to extinguish. I like this definition, to render ineffective. To remove the influence of Satan is firing stuff at us, firing temptations, discouragement. He'll mess with our mind. We could have a whole series on how what Satan's fiery darts are. How many people here have been saved long enough? You know a little bit about Satan's fiery darts. Everybody know what I'm talking about? Did you ever get discouraged? Do you ever get to the point where it's just like, I just I just don't see how anything can ever be. It's overwhelming. This is disaster. There's no way anything good come out of this. You know what that is? You know what that thinking is That's a fiery dart of the devil. Boom. Listen, as long as God is alive, there is hope. That's a good statement. Satan wants to convince you and I. There's no hope. There's nothing I can do. I'm a miserable failure. Hey, join the club. But there's a God in heaven, and if I don't put my faith in God, doesn't matter what my failures were, God can take that and turn that around and make something out of it. That's the faith, the protection of this shield, the purpose of this shield is to quench those devils. The fiery darts, these arrows, javelins set on fire. And I think, what's the purpose? Why would they set that arrow on fire? What's the purpose of a fiery dart? A fiery javelin? You know, if the arrow hits me and goes through my chest, I'm dead whether it's on fire or not. Right? Because I believe the fire was not designed just to take out an individual. The fire was designed to take out that individual and And spread and take out as many others as it possibly can. I don't want to just put an arrow on the into the heart of the guy standing on that roof. I want to set that whole building on fire and kill everybody in it. And I'm here to tell you, listen young people, I'm here to tell you, Mom, Dad. When Satan gets one, when Satan gets daddy, listen to me. When Satan can take out and defeat a Christian daddy, he is affecting the whole family. That whole fire spreads. Mother. Satan gets a mother and ruins her and gets her out of uh out of the will of God and that fire spreads and affects the whole family And Satan gets a Sunday school teacher and a bus lurker and a preacher and a any individual Christian. You and I have a world of influence. And when we allow Satan to destroy us by not trusting God, it is not just us who are affected by that, it is people all around us. Satan takes out a church. That church's influence in a community is extinguished. Telling you. Shield of faith. Shield of faith. I think of these young people I think of these young people. And every time I think of the devil and his devilry, my mind goes to young people. Little babies. I think that's who he's after. And the potential that sits on these two pews here, the millions and millions of people that can be reached with Christ through the influence that sits right here in the coming years, over here and back here and all around. And if he can extinguish that and get them out of the will of God and destroy their life, they have no influence. Think of the millions and millions of people. I don't know, maybe God's will for one of these is to go to a country and spread the gospel and thousands get saved. Satan can take that out, then that place is empty. Am I you follow what I'm my thinking? You follow my train of thinking It's fiery darts. And so the shield is that those darts can be quenched, and not only does he destroy, not only uh does is is his attempt to destroy me quenched, But the influence on others is quenched. Fiery darts, the fiery darts. When Satan gets one, others are affected. Satan gets dad, the family, wife, and kids. Satan gets mom. Satan gets the teacher, the preacher. There's more at stake than just the individual, all the people that are influenced. If it is, if if a situation comes down to the way my will is and what God's will is, take up the shield of faith and do God's will. If the situation is the way I reason things or the way God says things are, take up the shield of faith and say, I'm going to go the way God says it is. The shield of faith. The shield of faith. Hebrews 11:6 says, without faith it's impossible to please God. 1 John 5:4 says, faith is the victory that overcomes the world. It is by faith that Satan is defeated, by trusting God, taking him at his word, and acting upon it. Acting upon it. John Payton, anybody recognize that name? I end with these two illustrations. John Payton was a great missionary to the South Pacific, the New Hebrides Islands. He was translating the Word of God into the language of a tribe of people there on this one island. And they had no written language. They spoke in language, but they had no written language, no alphabet, no nothing, nothing in writing. In fact, there's a humorous story how he introduced what writing does and how it scared them to death This guy could write something down, take it over there, this person read it, and know what he said. It was like, ah. And so he's translating the Word of God into this unwritten language, so he had to come up with an alphabet. And he had to come up with words. And he got to them in the scriptures, he got to the eye concept of faith. And he found that they had no word for the word faith in their language. They had no concept of what it was to have faith or trust, and they had no way to express that. And he was working and struggling this, if I remember correctly, over a period of time, trying to come up with the right word to translate faith into that language. And one day one of the men in the village came into his hut and he had a chair there. The guy had been working, he came in and he says, I'm just going to throw my whole weight down on this seat. And the guy went, Woo And he said, What did you just say? He said, I'm going to throw my whole weight down on that chair. That's the word for faith. Putting my whole weight on God, just putting all my trust, just confidence in Him. And he got his word. Got his word. Anybody recognize the name Adonairam Judson? Great missionary. He was in prison. He didn't have any converts. And he was discouraged. Or or uh they thought he was discouraged. He said, Praise the enemy converts, people were all over him. One of the unbelievers there Adon Iram judge said, what do you think about your future now? You're in prison. Nobody believes what you're saying. And he responded back: my future is as bright as the promises of God. You know what Adams and Judson was doing? He's picking up the shield of faith. Satan, you're not going to discourage me. You're not going to get me off track. My confidence is in God's promises. My confidence is in God's word. The shield of faith. Hey, let's be honest. Amen. If anybody in Mount if anybody in Oakland areas should be honest, it ought to be the folks Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, right or wrong. We ought to be honest. Stop lying. Stop it. We're Christians. We don't do that. Hey, let's live right. Amen? Let's get on that breastplate of righteousness. Let's live right. Hey, let's shod our feet with the preparation of the gospel. Let's tell others about Jesus. Just everywhere. Tracks everywhere. Tell folks about Christ. Tell them how to be saved. Let's just do that. But above all. Let's have faith in God. Trust Him. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this thought this morning. To help us be victorious in our Christian lives, from the youngest to the oldest. And we live by faith and allow you to lead us and direct us and follow your instructions and trust you and just throw ourselves on your word. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know what these fiery darts are, I know it. Maybe you've been struggling with discouragement, maybe there's some sinful temptation going on, and just feel like Satan's been getting the upper hand. You've just been struggling. You say, preacher, I'm going to take up the shield of faith. I'm going to decide to trust God and do it his way. Trust him for the results. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I just need to decide. I'm going to trust God. Take that shield of faith. God bless you. Hands all around. I'm going to do it his way. I'm going to do it as he instructs. Trusting him fully. of this Christian life. Maybe there's some here say, preacher, I know someone that's really discouraged. I mean Satan has turned them upside down. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I could maybe encourage them to help them to trust God. By my own testimony, my example, but maybe by kind, compassionate Encouraging them. Hey, trust God, but I know someone's heavy on my heart. I know they're struggling. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me that I could be a help. I could be an encouragement. I could be a testimony. What it means to trust God. Is there someone here this morning saying, preacher, I'm not I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I'm not sure I've been saved. I need to settle that. You say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled, my heart. Father, bless our invitation. Stir our hearts and help us to take up that shield of faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.