Are you there? 2 Samuel chapter 16. David is fleeing from his son Absalom. Absalom's invaded city of Jerusalem, the capital of Israel. Rather than stand and fight, David uh pulled up stuff, threw uh travel bags together, got the family together, loaded up the uh carriage and the wagons and and headed out of town and uh to uh get out there and we talked about why he did that. There's a number of people who have remained loyal to David, though the majority of the nation has followed Absalom. He won their hearts over. Nevertheless, there's a significant number of folks that are very loyal to David, some even to the extent where they are packing up their belongings And they say, we're going with David. We're not staying here. And you have to agree with me, that's a pretty significant level of commitment. to leave your job, your home, your possessions, whatever you know you can't haul with you, and to follow a man and out of loyalty to the man I was thinking this the other week. I wonder if uh if uh if I announced, uh, we're gonna move uh Tex uh the church to Texas And uh anybody want to join and we're doing it tomorrow. And uh anybody want to leave your homes and quit your jobs and come down to Texas? I don't think we'd have the majority of the people would do that, but uh uh Derek will go with me But um but uh nevertheless David had this significant following very very loyal we looked at all of that now as he's leaving The steady, and he's headed out into the wilderness. A couple of interesting things happen. Look with me, if you would, at verse number one of 2 Samuel 16. And when David was a little past the top of the hill, Mount Arret, or not Mount Arret, Mount Olivet, He's a little past the top of the hill. Behold Ziba. How many people remember Zibah? We talked about him before. Ziba was Mathibeshes. uh servant. Who's Mephibosheth? The son of Jonathan, who's the son of King Saul, so it's King Saul's grandson. And uh David, you know, remember, David said, is there anybody of the household of Saul that I can show kindness to? And he found Mephibosheth and moved him into Jerusalem. Adam lived right there on the palace campus with him. Ziba was the servant of Saul, brought him in, you take care of Mephibosheth, I'll provide everything. And so that's who's here. It says, and when David was a little past the top of the hill, he's leaving. Behold, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him. I met them with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, a hundred bunches of raisins, and a hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine The king said unto Ziba, what meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, the ass is before the king's household to ride on. And the bread and the summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine that such as be faint in the wilderness and may drink. And the king said, Where is thy master's son? Mephibosheth. Now look what Ziba says. Now we're not going to deal with this now. We're going to come back at a later point and look at Ziba and this whole thing. And Ziba said unto the king, he says, Where's thy master's son? Where's Mephibosheth? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem, for he said Today shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. Now, just a little teaser here later on when we get Later on in this whole event, after the the Absalom's put down, Mephiboshef gives a completely different story. Mephibosh says, no, I tried to go and he wouldn't bring me. So we have two stories. Ziba says, oh no, he wanted, he thought he'd be the next king. Mephibosh says, I didn't do that at all. He abandoned me. So would you agree with me? Somebody's not telling the truth. Those are two contradictory stories. How many people want to know what the who was telling the truth? Who was lying? Come back in about a month, and we'll look at that. Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. In other words, everything I gave to Mephibosheth is yours also. And Ziba said, I humbly beseech thee that I may found grace in thy sight, O my Lord, O King. And so Zyba goes back. Then the king, uh then I might find grace in the sight of my Lord, O King. Now verse 5. This is where I want to look at tonight. And when King David came to Bahurim, behold, thence came out of man of the family of the house of Saul. Uh-oh. Whose name was Shimei, the son of Gerah. And he came forth and cursed still as he came. And he cast stones at David and at all the servants of the King David, and all the people, and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. In other words, they gathered around David. These mighty men got around David. They didn't know what was going to happen. And thus said Shemei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, thou and thou man of Belial The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, and whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into thy hand into the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in thine mischief, because thou art a bloody man. Then said Abishai Then said Abishai Abishiah, the son of Zeruiah, unto the king, why should this dead dog curse my Lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. I like what one preacher said about that. He said, I'll go over there and cut his neck so fast he won't know it till he sneezes. Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? Let him curse. Because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David, who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? David said, Maybe God told him to do this. And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjaminite do it? Let him alone. Let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be the Lord will look on my affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good this requite me good for his cursing this day. I don't know about you, but it sounds to me that David's pretty down He's pretty down. It's a dark day. I've entitled the message tonight, and we're only going to get the first part of it, but I've entitled it, Shimei, a very small man. And when I say small man, I don't mean a wee little man like Zacharias. I mean a small man, not in stature, not in physically, but a small man in character. And in conviction and in morals. Let's pray together and let's look at this fellow. Father in heaven, we ask now your blessing as we study this portion of David's life and experience. Pray you would bring out some principles and maybe some truths that would help us in our Christian life. That our lives would please you, Lord, and that we could our witness in this world maybe be more effective as you deal with us. And so I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray it would not be me speaking tonight, but I pray it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me, your word, and then applying it to our lives, as you know we have need. So have your way, Lord, and help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Like I said, the first four verses, we're gonna of this chapter. We're going to come back and look at it later on. I want to tie these two mentions of Ziba and this this issue with Mephibosheth. I want to tie them together at some point. But I do just outline this little, these four verses here a little bit. I think in the first part of verse one, you have the surprise of Ziba. David's not expecting him. And uh it says that he's a little past the hill, behold Ziba the servant of uh Mephibosheth met him, the whole the whole uh spirit there, the implication there is the surprise. What in the world are you doing here? And then uh the second part of verse one through verse two, we have these supplies that Ziba put together These grapes and bread, and he's got these asses and a little some wine to help the people. So he's put these supplies together. He's made quite an effort to do that And then the last part, and this will spill the beans a little bit on my thinking of between Ziba and Mephibosheth, but I notice here the subdulty of Ziba. And I think he's being a little subtle, a little tricky here. So we'll look at that at another time. Now we're in verse number five. Go all the way down, really, verse number 18. And oh, I didn't read all the way down to there, but all through 18. I think it's one of the most humiliating experiences in the life of David He is at the bottom of the barrel. I read uh uh verse 10 it says um What have I to do with ye, ye sons of Zariah? Let him curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, Curse David. He's down. This is one, he's being humiliated by this fellow named Ziba. Now King Saul, anybody know, remember what tribe King Saul was from? Benjamin, the tribe of Benjamin. He was a Benjamite. Jerusalem is located in the region of the promised land that was given to the Benjamites, to the tribe of Benjamin. Jerusalem's right kind of central and south in that section that was given to Benjamin and his tribe. And so David is traveling, he's leaving Jerusalem, he's going east. Out of Jerusalem, and he's heading to Jericho and the Jordan River, and he's heading over that way into the wilderness. He is traveling through the land of Benjamin. That means he is traveling through a part of Israel where King Saul's family is. His kin are here. And so as he's going through this, he's traveling through there, there's a lot of King Saul's family populates this area And uh as I said, I think I think David, as he's going through here, we're building up to uh uh Shimei here in a minute, but it's probably maybe the lowest point in David's life. I think his conscience is still stinging about what happened a couple years before. I wonder how many of us have something in our past that when it comes to mind, it stings us. Maybe something we said or did or something in their years gone by and Man, we tw you know we've confessed it, we've forsaken it, it's dealt with, but every now and then it comes back to mind, and boy, it just it stinks. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Probably about all of us probably have something like that. And David's conscience, I think, is still stinging as he's coming out here. He has conflict in the family now, as we've noted. Absalom's risen up against him. And I don't know about you, but I think one of the most discouraging things in life is when there's conflict in the family. There's fussing going on in the family, and that is so discouraging. We can handle, sometimes we don't like it, but we can handle fussing on the job. And we can handle fussing out in the community or whatever. But brother, when that fuss and that division comes in the four walls of our home, Brother, it brings you down. It brings you down. So David's dealing with a conscience here, no doubt. He's dealing with a conflict in the family, and he is at one of his lowest points. Now praise the Lord. He's got a group of folks, as we pointed out before, that have remained loyal to him. Some outstanding men and outstanding families have said, David, we're standing with you. We'll support you to the end. But here, out of nowhere, shows up, out of nowhere, this little pip sweet shows up. And David's making his way out of the city there, and uh if you study it carefully, there you get the impression there's some sort of uh he's ha traveling on the highway, no doubt, or is uh uh some uh an area to travel And there's apparently some sort of ravine or something between, and there's this ridge line going across And as they're making way out, this guy shows up, maybe this silhouette up on the top of the ridge, and he starts screaming at David and throwing stuff. And He's just a pit squeak. I look it up, I got looking up Shimei Shimei, I found out, you probably didn't know this, there's 18 Shimeiis mentioned in the Bible. How many people didn't know that? See that you got Bible trivia tonight. 18 of them. Vast majority of them is just a name mentioned in a list of names. There is another one that's mentioned a little bit more, not much, a couple times, and he was involved in the priesthood and different things. Then we have this Shemiah here, this kin of King Saul. Well, we're not told a lot about him. He's the most well-known of the 18 Shemies mentioned in the Bible. But we don't know a whole lot about him. He's not, what I've gathered and studied him, he's not a nice guy, this Shemia. I looked up his name. It doesn't tell me a whole lot about him. His name simply means this to be famous or to be renowned. I don't know what that tells us about him. I've tempted to think maybe that name might imply the fact that within his circle he was a big shot. With his peers. Maybe he was quite the guy. Maybe he was the leader of the pack of his peers. I don't know. But his name means renown. He's part of King Saul's family. If you would look at verse number five. And when King David came to Bahurem. Behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul. Now, God very specifically points this out, that this is one of Saul's kin And we'll pick that up as we go through. And he's got an attitude. I've broken this section down into three thoughts. First one is the conduct of Shimei. That's what we'll look at tonight. And that's all we're going to look at tonight. And then we're going to look at the conclusion of Abishiah in verse number 9. He says, There's only one thing to do with this guy is go cut his head off. Do you ever meet people like that? There's only one solution: burn it down. There's only one solution. Destroy it. Chop his head off. Now I w uh I'll just leave that there right there. And then we see in verse 10 and down through here the constraint of David. And David restrains himself in his response. But I want to look at the conduct of Shemiah. I got two thoughts here about the conduct of Shemiah. Number one, he was corrupt in his conduct If you would notice in verse number five, and then again in verse number seven, and then again over in verse 13, it has one word used in each of these verses. Anyone pick it up? Verse 5, verse 7, and verse 13. That's not the one I'm looking for. Cursed Look at the end of verse 5, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gerah, came forth and cursed still as he came. Verse 7. And thus said Shimei, when he cursed, Verse 13, and as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along the hill side over against them, that's that ridge line I was talking about, and cursed as he went, curse, curse, curse He's a corrupt. I've said he's corrupt in his conduct, and one of the ways we see his corruption is that he had a filthy mouth He had a filthy mouth. I put this statement down. Small people have filthy mouths. And by small, I mean small in character. Just little in their morals. Would you agree with me? We live in a world of filthy language. Like never before, in our music, filthy, cursing, bad words, in movies Um you can't you can't even hardly watch anything even now in commercials anymore. I just I haven't turned that television on for so long I just can't stand it. I just can't stand it. Filthy. Movies. Bringing that language into our homes. You know, I I've often thought this. If somebody would come by our house and want to visit and sit in our living room And they would use some of this language. We would say, hey, stop it. We don't talk like that in our house. Right or wrong? And if they didn't quit, we'd ask them to leave. Right or wrong They don't talk that way here. Then why do we turn the TV on and tolerate and let those people talk like that? They're right in the same living room where we would kick someone else out, but we won't turn it off. Huh Filthy, filthy language. In the music people listen to, in the movies Just the general population, you can't hardly go up and get groceries anymore without hearing some. And I don't mean to be griping and complaining tonight. I'm just trying to say this language is filthy. It's filthy I like to get away and go fishing when I can. And you know, do you ever notice when you're on the water, noise carries Somebody can be 500 yards down the lake and talking and you can almost hear everything they're saying. I get down, I like to go in a savage reservoir somewhere, get away, and it's just beautiful And almost every time somebody down there, next thing you know, you hear some filthy language coming across that water. Shimmii had a filthy mouth. He had a filthy mouth. The Bible says a lot about our words. The Bible says a lot about how what words we use and how we use them. If you would, I want us to do a little Bible study now, as I notice Shimei is cursing and cursing and cursing. If you would, go with me and take your Bibles because I want to look at these Go with me to Psalms chapter 12 and verse number 6. We're going to look at, I've got a little bit of a list here. I want to work our way through. Psalm chapter 12 and verse 6. Just keep working your way through your Bible, you'll run into Psalms Psalms 12 and verse 6. I'm going to contrast Shimei's words with the words of the Lord. Notice verse 6 of Psalm chapter 12. The words of the Lord are what? Pure words. Not filthy, not cursing, not bad words, as silver tried in the furnace of earth purified seven times. If we're going to be like our Heavenly Father, our words should be pure. Amen or not? We would have pure words, not filthy words. Come over to Psalm chapter 19, just a few pages over. And I tell you, I pray this prayer a lot. Psalm 19, all the way to the end of the chapter. And Psalm 19 is a great chapter. You get to verse number 14, Psalms 19. This is a good verse to underline your Bible. David says here, he says, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart, notice the connection mouth and heart. We're going to highlight that here in a few minutes. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. You agree with me? I think some Christians would talk differently if they were right in the presence, the physical presence of Jesus Christ than they do any other time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And um he says, let the words in my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight And I notice the connection David makes here is what he's thinking about in his heart and mind, he's concerned that it comes out where? Comes out his mouth. But the words of my mouth, meditation the heart. I run into this sometimes. Now I'm certainly, uh, you know me, I'm uh I'm certainly not uh everything I ought to be, but sometimes when you have that title pastor, it affects the way people talk and behave around you. There'll be a group of people talking and I'll walk up and also go quiet. You know. Oh, preachers. Hey preacher And uh or they'll uh I'll be out somewhere and um and th somebody'll say something say, Oh, you're a reverend, aren't you? Oh, sorry about that, Reverend. Well, you know, it's between you and God, really. But can you imagine in the presence of the Lord? How our language should be and our talk should be. There's a couple of these big shot preachers on television, and um and man, I was listening to one fellow one night, and I'm telling you, the language he used. From that pulpit, I would be ashamed to use anywhere that the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight If you would, turn over to Psalm 39, just a few pages over. Psalm 39. I tell you, I caught this fact that Shimei cursed, cursed, cursed. Three times it says that he said bad words. He used filthy language towards David, cursing him. Look there at chapter 39, verse number one. He says, I said, I will take heed to my ways. That I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. David here again is saying, listen, I made a decision. I just made a decision. I was going to be very, very careful in the language I use. I'm going to be very, very careful in the words I say. And it was a conscious decision he makes here. He said, I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my mouth. It was a deliberate decision. It was a conscious decision he made. I will keep my mouth with a bridle. That reminds me of James, where he says the tongue is a world of fire, set on fire of hell. Who can tame it? Who can who can uh restrain that thing? Anybody here ever say something before you even realize you thought it? My wife gets on me sometimes. She goes, words come out of your mouth, just there's no filter between your brain and your tongue. Because you think of something, you just say it. And uh that's not a good thing. We have to watch out there. If you would turn with me to Proverbs chapter 15 and verse 26. Proverbs fifteen and verse twenty-six Proverbs uh fifteen verse twenty six. Notice what he says. The thoughts Of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord. But the words of the pure are what? Pleasant words. Pleasant words. I tell you, I get around, and again, I'm just-I sound like I'm complaining, I don't mean to, but sometimes you get around and uh bumper stickers Nowadays are absolutely filthy. And it's just so angry. People are so angry. That's Shimia type talking That's small in character. And we can't talk without using bad words. We have to use something that's just shady or just something that's off-collar. If you would turn with me to Ephesians, all the way back to the New Testament now. I know I'm belaboring the point on this, but we I'm telling you, the tongue is such a hard thing to control. And our words are so important. Ephesians chapter 4. And if you would look with me at verse number 29. Ephesians 4 and verse 29. Give you a chance to find Ephesians 4. 29. Notice what it says: let no what? Corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. How much corrupt communication should we let out? None, zero, no exceptions. Well, just a little bit, no. But that which is good to the use of edifying, building up That it may minister grace unto the hearers. My communications coming out of my mouth should be good and help people and build them up and strengthen them in their faith and minister to them. And notice verse 30, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. Do you notice that grieving the Holy Spirit and the communication coming in my mouth, notice how they're tied together? Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed unto the day of redemption. Look at this. Let all bilterness and wrath and anger and clamor and what? Evil speaking be put away from you with all mouse. I don't want to be like Shinei. Cursing, filthy language coming out of his mouth. Look over at chapter 5. And notice with me, if you would, verse number three. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetous, let it not once be named among you as become a saint Neither filthiness nor foolish talking or jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. Again, talking about our words. A couple more I'd like for you to go with me. Colossians chapter number three, just a couple pages over there. Colossians chapter three And notice with me verse number eight. But now ye also, he's talking to Christians, put off all of these: anger, wrath. Malice, blasphemy. What's the next statement? Filthy communication out of your mouth. Now, last one, come back to James. I mentioned this a little bit ago. James chapter number three. Then we'll get back to 2 Samuel again. It's James chapter number 3. Go back to Hebrews, James. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 8. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Now look at this. Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Now look what he says here, verse 10. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and what? Cursing. My brethren, look look at his summary. My brethren, these things ought not so to be We have to be very, very careful that uh and I tell you, it's it's not sometimes it just becomes a habit. Follow what I'm saying? Sometimes it just becomes a habit. I remember when I back when I got saved, it was a Monday, I'd taken a day off from work. It was my birthday, it was Sunday And then I took Monday off and Denny Denny, my friend Danny and I j we just went out and we just got wasted all day long. It was awful. I'm telling you, I was using just part of my life was the most filthy language you can think. Never even thought, it just came out. Anybody here before you saved? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, it's just Never even thought about whether it was bad or not. But that night at 10. 30 I bowed by my bed and I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. That next morning I got up and went to work, and I tell you, some words came off my lips, and I felt so bad. And I was so convicted I can't believe I said that. Those words. You know what that was? That was the Holy Spirit of God inside me dealing with me. And I wish, you know, I wish I could tell you it was just the instant cleanup, but it took me a little while. The Holy Spirit helped me work that out of my vocabulary And work that out of my thinking, of my head, and uh and get that straightened up. And and I'll be honest with you, I'm maybe being too transparent here, I don't know, but even to this day, something happens I catch myself, but a but a word comes to mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I said, man, I haven't said that in 45 years. 43 years, but it's there. It's in the in the program. It's in the files. Brother, that old sinful nature brings it out. Jesus told his disciples, he said this, and I'm putting it in my own words, he said, we will have to give an account for every idle word that we say. Now that It's scary. I'm gonna have to get an account for every idle word. The word just comes out. Ugh. Thank God for the blood of Jesus. Amen. Thank God and confess that and the Lord will forgive me and cleanse me. Thank God for that. Shimei was a small man. And he was so corrupt, and he was one of the areas of his corruption was his filthy language, his filthy mouth Luke chapter 6, verse 45, Jesus said this. Listen to this. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. You know why Shemiah had a filthy mouth? Because he had a filthy heart. That's where it comes from. That's where it comes from. That's where it comes from. If somebody all they can do is talk about themselves, talk about themselves, talk about themselves, talk about themselves, well guess what's in their heart? himself. All about me, all about me, all about me. So the conduct of Shimei, I put down one, he was corrupt in his conduct, first of all, because he had a filthy mouth. Now come back here. Let's look at something else. We're not done with Shemiah yet Back to 2 Samuel 16, verse uh 5, the last part, he cursed as he came. Verse 7, and thus said Shemiah, when he cursed. Verse number 13 and cursed as he went. So he had that. But then he made some false accusations. He had a filthy mouth, but he made false accusations. Come back to verse 7 And he makes what I see three false accusations about David. Now, when I say a false accusation, what am I saying? What's he doing? He's lying. He's lying about David. He's throwing these accusations out David. And we need to be very, very careful about making accusations against other people. That's another subject. But notice here, look at verse number 7. It says, and thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of Belial, dishonest man is what he's saying there. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul Now when he's calling David a bloody man, a bloody man, and God has turned on you the blood of the house of Saul by Absalom rebelling against them, what's he accusing David of having done? Killing Saul. He's saying you killed Saul. Now that is a flat-out lie. That is a flat-out lie. It is well documented. Saul was killed by the Philistines, Jonathan's son. In fact, there's plenty of documentation, and Shemiah would have known this: that David at least two occasions had opportunity to kill Saul, and he refused to do it. And so this is just a flat-out lie. This is just a false accusation from the lips of a very small, angry, bitter man That is not concerned about the truth, is not concerned about what's right. He's just angry and bitter. So his first accusation, his false accusation, he accused David for the death of King Saul. Now let's keep looking here. He says, the Lord had turned upon thee thou blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, thy son. When he says, in whose stead thou hast reigned, he's accusing David of usurping the throne of King Saul. He's saying you don't have any right to that throne. You've sat in there Saul was supposed to be there and you usurped it. You're in his position. Hey, guess what? That's a flat-out lie David was anointed by God. All of Israel knew that. It wasn't a secret. Samuel declared it very clearly. And then later, after Saul was dead, David waited on Judah to bring him back, and then they anointed him, recognizing God's anointing of David Seven years later, the other eleven tribes of Israel come to David, and the whole nation anoints him, recognizing the anointing of God years before. So Shemmi is a very small man. He's just throwing lies out. He's just making false accusations on no basis whatsoever. And then the third false accusation he makes, notice what he says here. And the Lord, verse 8, and the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, my son. Question, did God put uh the kingdom in Absalom's hand? No. Absalom won the hearts of the people over. If anybody's usurping the throne, it's Absalom And Shemiah just turns that whole thing around and lies about David and throws these lies out at him. I don't know about you. The more I study this, the less I like Shimei. Now I never did like Ahab. Every time I read about Ahab, I get mad at him. I don't like Ahab. The more I study Shimiae, the less I like Shimei. And I read and I get mad at him. I have to confess getting mad and get right. So the conduct of Shemi, first of all, he was corrupt in his conduct. And second thing I notice here quickly is he was a coward in his conduct. Shemiah was, I put this down. Shimei was big with his mouth, but he was small with his courage. Look here, verse 6. And he cast stones at David. Come up to verse 13. And cursed as he went, and threw stones at him and cast dust. I don't know about you, but I've never seen anybody killed by somebody throwing dust at him You know, David's a warrior. David's, I mean, he's he's experienced. He's a veteran at dealing with swords and spears and arrows. He's fought hand-to-hand combat with thousands, probably tens of thousands of Philistines. I'm telling you, throwing a stone at David is meaningless. It has no effect whatsoever on him. And the interesting thing here is, Shimei never actually comes down and faces David face to face. He's throwing stuff from a distance at him. He's making a big scene. But he never actually comes down where David is. And uh I just think it's he's elfly cowardly in his response to this. And it made me think sometimes as pastor, and I I I'm I feel like preaching, I feel like I'm complaining a little bit tonight, and I really don't mean to be But sometimes as pastor you get letters, I haven't for a long time, but I have over the years. I get letters from somebody telling me all the things I'm doing wrong And um how stupid I am and how we have a cult here and and um you know I don't know the Bible and all this stuff and you know whatever. But the thing that gets me is when I get to the end of the letter, guess what's there Nothing. It's unsigned. And there's no return address on the envelope. You know what that is? That's cowardice. That's just being a coward, throwing stuff at a distance. I'm telling you, social media has given cowards a platform. They can put anything on there. They can say the most hateful stuff. They can do all of this stuff and never be held accountable for it. I had a fellow preacher, uh, and he he lived uh about an hour away from here and I knew him. I thought he was a fine guy. And I had posted something on, something about going on or whatever, uh trying to put stuff that's happening at church or Maybe something I, you know, I did or met the family or got together with the boys. Just simple little stuff there that thought people might be interested in. And man, he took offense at something I put on there And he got on and started writing all this stuff about me and how awful about me and all of this. And I thought, why is he doing that? So I went and I got me a gift card to Dairy Queen, a $25 gift card to Dairy Queen, and I drove an hour up to where his church was. I was going to go down and just sit down with them and say, hey, listen, you know, I'm sorry. You know, what's got under your crawl? Let's make this right. And nobody was there, and so I left a long note on the door and put the gift card there. So I'm sorry if I offended you, you know, please call me and we'll get together. And about 10 months later, I got an email from him and he said, thank you for the grift card. He goes, I was wrong. Please forgive me. I shouldn't have dealt that way. Isn't that something? Soft answer turns away wrath, a little gift. Help turn that thing around. But the point I'm trying to illustrate is here Because, you know, we can send stuff out, send letters out, and attack people and criticize people and find fault with people, and it's nothing but cowardice. What would have been the right thing for that fellow to do That was offended by something I said or did. Yeah, come give me a call. Sit down with me. Hey, say, listen, let's talk about it. That's what I tried to do. And so let's be very, very careful about this. And I'll tell you another area, and I'm just maybe getting stuff off my chest. Let me tell you another area is this texting. That is not the way to deal with issues and sending a text. Go talk to the person. Sit down with them I appreciate there's people in our church. I appreciate, now I'm not telling everybody to do this, but I appreciate if they have an issue with something I'm doing, the people in our church, they'll come and sit down with me and say, preacher, I want to talk to you about this I'll take that over a text any day. You know? That's the way you do it. That's the way you do it. So Shemiah is a coward here. Don't throw stuff out at people. Don't send letters. Don't Send texts to people or social media, get on there and uh talk to them. So he was a coward. If you feel the need to confront someone or deal with an issue, do it in person Now, I thought another thing is interesting here. He waits until David is at his lowest point to condemn him. David had been in Jerusalem for going on 40 years now. He could have went to the palace. He could have talked to him. He could have done whatever he did. But he didn't do it when David was there. He waited till David was on his back. So to speak, figuratively speaking, he's at his lowest point. Then he comes in and tears into them. What do they call that? Kicking them while they're down. That's exactly what he's doing. That's exactly what he's doing. The most oh if you would, come over to 2 Samuel 19 and I'm finishing here. This was more of a rant than I wanted it to be. David is, we're jumping ahead here. Absalom's been put down, the rebellion's been put down. David comes back to Jerusalem, and Shimei shows up again. Look at verse 16 of chapter 19. And Shimei, the son of Gerah, a Benjamite, here's this guy, which was a Bahuram Hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. He's coming back in victory. He's coming back. And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him. So he brought a whole slew of guys with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul and his fifteen sons, twenty servants with him, and they went over Jordan before the king. And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king's household and to do what he thought good. Now look at this. And Shimei, the son of Gerah, fell down before the king as he was come over Jordan. And said unto the king, Let not my Lord impute iniquity unto me. Neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely. Oh, just forget about what I Oh, never mind. Forget about that. It gets worse. Look what he says there. And neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my Lord King went out of Jerusalem That the king should take it to his heart. What's he mean when he says that the king should take it to his heart? What's he telling him? Don't take it personally Oh I d oh forget about all that. Don't take it personally. I'm telling ya, Jimmy I was a coward. The most unkind people are often cowards. Try to hide their cowardice with insecurities and with arrogance and with hatred I got thinking about Peter. Remember Peter when he was scared? Jesus was being crucified. They hauled Jesus off. And he sees them beating Jesus and pulling the beard from his face and falsely accused. Peter's scared, but he wants to see what happens. And he's approached by someone and they say, you're one of his disciples, aren't you? Peter says, no, I don't know him. Not me. And then again, someone says, you're you were one of those twelve that were with him. And Peter says, I don't even know the man. What are you talking about? A little maid says, yeah, your speech, you've got that accent. You are one of his disciples. And what did Peter do? He cursed and swore. You know why? Because he was scared. Scared. He heard this big filthy talk and this big language and people use the most awful words. I want to suggest to you that it's almost always from a coward's heart. They're scared. They put this bravado up. Now you say, preacher, how do you apply this to us? Well, here's my application, and we'll look at the rest of this here in a little bit. Here's my application. Number one, let's be careful of what comes off our lips. Let's work on that. Let's pray to that. Let's get victory in that area. Let's be pure in our words. Let's be pure in our statements. Let's not be like Shimei and curse and swear and use filthy language Can I take it another step farther? Let's even be careful that we don't use crude language. Sometimes that can be just as bad. So let's be careful on our words. And let's be kind. If someone's down, whether I agree with what they're doing or not. I still can be kind to people. I still can be helpful. I still believe with all my heart one of the greatest needs in our churches is just old-fashioned compassion and kindness. Exact opposite of what we see happening here. So Shemiai, a very small man, very small man. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I didn't mean to come across just complaining and ranting tonight, but Lord, we need you. And I pray you'd help us to live above this world. And the values and the practice and the lifestyles of this world. Help us to follow scriptural principles. Help us to be gracious and kind. Help us, Lord, to be pure in our words and even what we allow in our homes. I just pray you'd be pleased. That every idle word would even be pleasing to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, man, I gotta work on that old tongue that's in my mouth. I gotta work on that thing. Any like that, I don't want my hands raised. James says, No man can tame that thing. How many would say, Preacher, I need a work of a little more kindness And not just railing on people if they do me wrong or whatever. Anybody like that? Oh I need more kindness. Sure. We need that. We need that Father, bless our invitation tonight. Help us, Lord, send revival. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.