I don't think I am on yet. Yeah. I got too many things in my pocket. Now we are. Alright, I think we're on there now. Good to be here tonight. Pastor Ludman said this could be a record for low attendance for him, but it doesn't bother me at all because this is two or three times more people than I normally preach to, so this is great. Yeah, for me this is like A huge crowd out there, so don't let that it's not gonna bother me, don't let it bother you. All right. Tonight please turn to 2 Samuel chapter 16. Last year I was with you uh about I guess a year ago tonight roughly and dealt with the emergent church. Not going to do that tonight, we're gonna do something quite differently. And I hope it'll be a blessing to you and a challenge to you as well. 2 Samuel chapter 16, we're going to be in verse number 5 here in just a moment. And before we begin, by way of introduction, I'll read to you a quote by uh Dave Ramsey. Some of you are familiar with Dave Ramsey, a financial guru. This is not a financial message tonight, but I'll read to you some. And he says financial failure is rarely one catastrophic event in a person's life. It is simply usually one little bad decision that is made on a regular basis until it becomes a mountain instead of a molehill. Ramsey goes on to say, but the reverse is also true. Financial success is typically achieved by one little good decision made over and over and over again. Until it turns into a mountain of success. Tonight I want to preach a message entitled Shemiah Sin. Shemia Sin from 2 Samuel 16. And the theme we're going to deal with tonight is consistency. Consistency in the Christian life. And that's one thing that goes hand in hand with consistency is discipline. I'll just say it from the beginning. If you have difficulty with self-discipline, you're going to have a real hard time walking with the Lord consistently and living a victorious life for him. You're going to struggle a lot. And we're going to see this sin in Shimei's life. But it's good. You're here tonight. I think you've made the right decision. Not because I'm here. But because the church is gathered together. And you're gathered together with your church, and I know people are sick and ill and away on vacation, and you know that's fine, but you're in a good place And our text tonight might be a little bit of an obscure one, but I think it teaches a great lesson for all of us to know. So you're there in 2 Corinthians, or 2 Samuel chapter 16. I'm going to read to you a verse In 1 Corinthians 10, 11, and then we'll go into our text. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians, now all these things happened unto them for examples. And they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. So Shemi and his life tonight are written for yours and mine, our admonition. And I hope that we'll take heed unto it. Alright, verse 5. Chapter 16. And when King David came to Behuram, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shemei the son of Gerah, he came forth and cursed still as he came. And he cast stones at David and at all the servants of King David and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left hand. And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of Belial. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom unto the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in thy mischief because thou art a bloody man. And then said Abishe, the son of Zariah, unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Jeriawah? So let him curse. Because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David, who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son which came forth out of my bowels, Seeketh my life, how much more now may this Benjamite do it? Let him alone. Let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be That the Lord will look on mine affliction, and that the Lord will requit me good for his cursing this day. And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hillside over against him and cursed, as he went and threw stones at him And cast dust. Let's pray together tonight. Our Heavenly Father, as we are gathered here, I thank you for these faithful church members who've came out tonight. I pray that you would help them and challenge them about this area of consistency. And self-discipline in their life. And you'd use it for your glory and for the strengthening of your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Consistency, what an easy concept to understand, but a discipline that's just found too greatly lacking in my experience. It's that time of year again when we're getting ready to make resolutions, right? And uh how many of us will see them through? Bible reading is definitely one I hope that I hope that you'll make It doesn't take a whole lot of brains, it doesn't take much money, and it surely doesn't take much else, but it just takes some consistency in finishing it. I challenge all of our people every year to read their Bible through in one year. We get the Bible reading schedules out there and uh and I'm thankful for those who make it through. And had a couple in our church that did that this year. And it was very nice. So typically messages on consistency will focus on prayer, they'll focus on Bible reading, they'll focus on church attendance, they'll focus on the But instead tonight, what I'm going to do with Simei is we're going to look at three marks of an inconsistent person. And you're going to see it in his life, and you're going to see how it ends up. So, number one, of three major important lessons from the life of Shimei tonight, number one is found in the passage we just read. This might sting a little sometimes, I don't know. But number one, learn to be objective about your family. Learn to be objective about your family. It's like, Pastor, where are you digging that out of? Notice here in verse 5 that who Shemiai's household is. Shimei is a descendant of the household of Saul. Okay. So Saul, of course, is the king here before David. And of course, Saul had a lot of strife with David. David didn't have a whole lot of strife with Saul. That was the problem. And so David becomes the next king, and Shemiah comes out and one is obviously not very happy about this. He's a member of the household of Saul. He's very bitter against David for, in his mind, usurping the throne, which of course he didn't do at all. And so he's bitter. And this bitterness is rooted against ultimately the Lord. Because God's the one who promoted David. God is the one who anointed David. David's simply just being obedient to God's leading. It is evident as you read the scripture that David never was ambitious to get the throne at all. Don't let your emotions lead to false charges. Shimei is emotional. Shimei charges David with the responsibility for the blood of the house of Saul. Is that true? Everything is but the reverse of that is true. The truth is that David was exceedingly gracious to the house. of Saul over and over and over again. Even after Saul dies, he takes in Mahibish and takes care of him to his dying day. He didn't need to do that. at all. But Shimei let his family bias get in the way and let him into all kinds of trouble. I remember my dad as a principal Uh he purposed in his heart there very early that as kids in the school we would not be able to call him dad during school hours. We always had to refer to him and mom as Mr. and Mrs. Heinball And that was something he wanted to instill. He wanted to do his best to not allow any kind of family bias to creep into the situation there as he was a principal and we had Six kids. But a family bias can cause all kinds of strife. I think David did a good job with this with Absalom. In 2 Samuel, what's happening here is David is is having to flee Jerusalem. Most of you hope know why is because Absalom has gained enough of a crowd to start Absalom's coup. And they're coming, and David said, I better get out of here, I might die. I'm in trouble. So they're leaving, they're going to cross the Jordan to get away, and that's when Shemiah comes up. So Absalom has done something very evil and wicked against his father. And as most of you know, once they get out there, they get over on the other side of Jordan and they start this battle, David is very, very specific. Do not hurt the young man Absalom. Please. He's not making excuses for him. He's not saying what Absalom is doing is right, but he's trying to deal with it in an objective manner. He sought reconciliation. He sought restoration even though it didn't work When we were in Philadelphia for a few years, the pastor there at the church got up one night and he gave a challenge to all the family or all the parents about basically doodling on prayer cards. What do you mean? Well, they had prayer cards that were scattered throughout the auditorium and their kids were starting to doodle and just just roll on them and deface them and make them not usable anymore. So the pastor got and said, we're not sure really who's doing this, but uh we want to uh challenge the parents, if it's your kids, to nip this in the butt and take care of this. And we didn't have any children at that time. But I hope that the response in the congregation was this. I wonder if that was maybe my kid who did that. I better check that out. It could have been mine. But I wonder how often the response would be, oh no, no, that can't be my children. They never do anything like that. Why wouldn't they? You'd be objective about it, and that's what he was trying to get people to do. Check and see. Don't just assume that your kids aren't doing When the family wall of defense comes up, and it surely will, make sure that your searching eyes are not clouded with bias. Maybe God is trying to expose a problem. Don't be like Shimeon. Be consistent with how you judge family and other believers. Totally biased here against David completely because he's got a wrong bias towards the household of Saul, which he was of. So many times we'll rail and we'll criticize on others and then tolerate and make the exact same excuses in our own family's life. Be careful about that. Number two, tonight, Shimmi Sin. He had a wrong family bias, but number two, and this comes from the life of David, learn to let God take care of your adversaries. Learn to let God take care of your adversaries. I'm going to read again here verses 12 and 13. Look at David's response here after Abishai wants to go take his head off. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction. And that the Lord will requit me good for his cursing this day. As David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hillside over against him and cursed, as he went and threw stones at him and cast Now turn with me please to 2 Samuel and chapter 19. As we continue now to look at the life of Shemiah. David does something very honorable and very godly here, and he lets God take care of his adversaries. Chapter nineteen and verse sixteen we're gonna catch up here again with Shimei. And Shemei the son of Gerah, Benjamite, which was of Behuram, hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Zibah, the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons, and his twenty servants with him, and they went over Jordan before the king. And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king's household, and to do what he thought good, and Shimai, the son of Gerah, fell down before the king as he was come over Jordan, and said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me. Neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely, the day that my Lord the King went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart. For thy servant doth know that I have sinned. And therefore, behold, I am come, the first this day of all the house of Joseph, to go down to meet my Lord the King. So here God is giving us a little bit more insight into an inconsistent man. What has happened since chapter 16 to chapter 19 is that Absalom and his armies have been defeated. And if you remember, of course, Absalom is riding on his mule, his hair gets caught in the thick boughs of an oak tree, and And good old Joab comes by and shoots three darts through his heart, uh, even though he wasn't supposed to do that. So Absalom of course dies, and now the kingdom is back in David's hands. So David is coming back. He's coming back from the east He's crossing the Jordan westward and he's going to come into Jerusalem. Well, not surprisingly, Shimei is like, okay, now what am I going to do? You know, I was pretty hard on this man as he was leaving town. Uh and he's coming back now. I'm in trouble. My big mouth has got me in trouble. My family bias has got me in trouble. My inconsistent life has got me in trouble, so now I'm just going to try to turn myself into this some other person and hopefully it will work. By the way, this would have worked almost on nobody else, except David. Abishai was ready to take his head off again. You'll see that in a moment. And so that's what he's uh doing. So when David was down and weak, Shemi had courage, but when David was strong, now Shemiah is Very penitent. And he says here I have sinned. It's a good study of the Bible, by the way, to find all the people Who have said that very phrase, I have sinned, and figure out what happened to him after that. Two different people who do this in the Old Testament clearly never repented. Saul being the most notable one. After the situation with Agag and the Amalekites, he goes, I have sinned. And of course, nothing else in his life after that seemed to register that he really meant that. And Balaam is the other one. From Numbers 22. Remember, hopefully with Balaam and the incident with the donkey. And the Lord God tells him, speaking through the donkey, he says, Thy way is perverse before me, and below I have sinned. The next thing you know, you have Balaam over there counseling Balak how to get the Israelites to fall into sin through immorality. And the next thing you know, you come to Numbers chapter 31. And Balaam dies with the Moabites. So it's just saying you've sinned Not the end of the game. There better be some action, some repentance, some evidence after that that you're serious. Verse 21. But Abisheh, this is a good old Abishhe here. I like this guy. The son of Zariah answered and said, Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord's anointing? And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Jeruh, that you should this day be adversaries unto me? Shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? For do not I know that I am this day king in Israel. We have a summer camp at the end of the year, every July July. About July, you know, it's whatever the last full week in July is. And like a lot of camps, maybe you have one of you on your property, we have uh seesaws or teeter-totters, whichever you like to prefer to call them. And the kids get out there and they play on them and one goes up and one goes down and so forth and so forth. Shemy I was a seesaw Christian. If he was saved at all, because I don't think he was. But he gives a good picture of one. He lived in the misery of the up and down, up and down, up and down, inconsistent life of the believer. And it's going to end up destroying him. And then verse 21 through 23 you have David making this statement, verse 23, therefore the king said unto Shimei, thou shalt not die, and the king swear unto him. David had every right to take Shimei's head off. And Abishai was right there, ready to do it. But David had learned a very important principle in his life, and it's a principle that every single one of us in here has And that's what's stated in Romans 12, 19, vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay. Well what's interesting is David had learned it long before he got to Shimei Remember Absalom? He doesn't try to kill Absalom. He tries to be patient with him. He didn't want to see Absalom die. He wanted to see Absalom repent. He wanted to give him time to repent, even though he never did. Saul chased David all over the wilderness, trying to kill this man that Saul was convinced was trying to usurp the throne from him. David wasn't interested in that at all. Saul comes to the cave of Adulum down around in Geti and he's coming in there basically to relieve himself. David happens to be in the cave with many of his men could have killed him right there instantly and nobody would have said anything about it. And he did not Abish and he another time go all the way down into Saul's camp, steal this fear and the cruise of uh of water. And didn't kill him there. Even when Abish wanted to kill him there. Said, please let me let me kill Saul here. We got him. We got him. David said, No, that's not God's way here. So here, David had learned with the lesson of Saul that it was better to let God take care of your enemies than to do it yourself. And we're going to see how that will come to a fulfillment in our third point for the night. So number one, learn to To not have a bad family bias. Number two, learn to let God take care of your enemies. Number three, and this is the most important, and I hope you can focus in on this tonight. Learn what the price of inconsistency is. Learn the price of inconsistency in your life. And for this, we're going to have to go to 1 Kings chapter number 2. We're basically looking tonight at every single passage in the Old Testament except one that deals with Shemia. We didn't have time for the other one. 1 Kings chapter 2 and verse 36 as we come now to the end of this man. Learn the price of inconsistency. It's a defeated So what has happened now as as uh David has dying? Solomon's son, of course, has taken over the kingdom. And that is the man who is the king in verse 36. Alright, so this is Solomon then. And the king sent and called for Shimei and said unto him, Build thee in house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and go not forth thence any whither. For it shall be that on the day thou goest down and passest over the Burk Kidron, thou shalt know for certain that thou shalt surely die. Thy blood shall be upon thine own head. And Shimei said unto the king, The saying is good. As my lord the king has said, so will thy servant do. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days. And it came to pass at the end of three years, so the many days here is three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away from Akish, son of Mekaphah, king of Gath, and they told Shimei, saying, Behold, thy servants be in Gath. And Shimei rose and saddled his ass and went to Gath to Akish to seek his servants, and Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath. And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and was come again. And the king sent and called for Shimei and said unto him, Did I not make thee to swear by the Lord and protest it unto thee, saying, Now For a certain and on the day thou goest out and walkest abroad any wither that thou shalt surely die. And thou said unto me, the word that I have heard is good. Why then hast thou not kept the oath of the Lord and the commandments that I have charged thee with? The king said, Moreover to Simeai, thou knowest all the wickedness which thine heart is privy to. That thou didst of David my father, therefore the king shall return thy wickedness upon thine own head, and King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord forever. So the king commanded Baniah the son of Jehoiada, which went out and fell upon him, that he died. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon. Shimei lived a spiritually inconsistent life, and as typical with those kind of people, he found defeat because of it. David and Solomon are doing everything they can possibly do to give this guy a chance to live. When he doesn't deserve it at all. I want to tell you tonight, and I hope you don't miss this, because it's one of my most important principles, one of the great traps of inconsistent people. They assume everyone else is inconsistent too. So Shimia puts up with it for three years. Okay, it's been three years. Surely you've forgotten about this. Surely it really doesn't mean that much. Surely if I leave town now, you know, come on, it's been three years, it's been many days. No, they're not gonna do anything to me I'll get away with it. Surely they're not going to be consistent and the rules and laws that they've set down. Oh, come on. Now no one would do that. I wouldn't do that. He gets in trouble. And that might work when we're dealing with inconsistent people, but every now and then, finally, you're going to run into somebody who's consistent. And I want to tell you tonight that the Lord's very consistent. This is one of the things that's recently popped up in our Current events here with our country. A couple weeks back, the president finally declared that the capital of Israel is Jerusalem. as it clearly is, and finally said we're going to recognize it as being Jerusalem as United States of America. Do you know he didn't make that rule up? That had been on the the books for years. And years. And every six months, every president before him had signed a waiver to keep the Capitol on Tel Aviv. For whatever reason they did. And so all he did was finally go, look, this is what our law says. Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. Our law says we're supposed to be recognizing them as the capital of Israel, and that's what we're going to do. And you probably saw all the flat that you got for it. You're going to be consistent today, you're going to establish good and solid rules and laws and standards, and you're actually going to go ahead and enforce those They get ready for some black. But what's the right thing to do? We live in an ever-increasing society of tardiness and lateness It's becoming more and more difficult all the time to find anyone who will show up when they're supposed to be there. I want to tell you, and it's an inconsistency, it's a lack of discipline in the life Do you know what you're doing when you're late habitually? You're habitually being inconsiderate of other people. Would you go up and rob people's money out of their wallet, especially friends? acquaintances and colleagues. Just come take money out of their wall. Then why do you take their time? When you're here bitchally late, you're taking their time I sell a little bit of uh for firewood up in Connecticut. I've been doing this two or three years. There's one particular Saturday morning I got a call from somebody who said I'm you know I'm interested in in firewood. And he said, uh you know, I really want to get this, you know, I I've already got this truck that I've rented for a certain number of hours, and you know, once what's the earliest you can meet me today on Saturday. He calls me Saturday morning. And I said, well I've I've got visitation today and I won't be back from that. I said I I can get I can be there at twelve o'clock, I'll be there. I guarantee I'll be there at twelve. Good, okay. Okay, I'll be there. So I got the impression from this guy that, you know, he's on you know limited of time and everything's rush rush, and so I I do everything I can to make sure I'm back there at twelve o'clock. I've got other things to do on a Saturday. I bet you do too. But okay, this guy's got to come. So I can't go do this. I got this to do. I can't do this. And because he's going to be here. I got to so I'm sitting here twiddling my thumbs Five minutes after, ten minutes after, fifteen minutes after, twenty minutes after, twenty-five minutes after, I get a text. I'll be uh I'm just leaving Hartford, I'll be there in half an hour You just wasted 50 minutes of my time. I hope you don't do that to people. It's just like taking money out of their wallet It's inconsistent, it's undisciplined. And something that a lot of people grow up in households where that's the case. But you gotta change that. And that's just one is area. It was just an example of an area. And so as we start to see, well everyone else is late, I'm just going to go ahead and do that. And it's a snowball. Inconsistency dominates. And I think that's what happened here with Shimeon. He doesn't live a consistent life. He's as wishy-washy as can be. Solomon's going to be wishy-washy. It'll be all right. He dies But he's got two servants that run away from him. Send somebody else after him. Go down and ask Solomon. Can I go after these guys? Can you help me out here? Remember, you said I can't leave. Oh no, I'll just up and go. It'll be all right. Chelsea. I have someone in our member of our church I don't know if you have this problem here. You don't have to tell me. I have uh I've have or had three different couples in our church where they drive two vehicles to serve every week. Because one of the spouses is on time and the other one's never on time. So they have to burn twice as much gas to come to the house of the Lord every week, which I just I just I think I'd commit suicide. But uh I just uh these habitually this this one particular person is is five minutes late. I mean you can mark it down. It can be five to ten minutes late. Ever since this incident with down in Texas a couple weeks back, um, or however long it was. Um we just met together, a guy in our church who kind of heads up our ushering and our security, so to speak, and we just decided we're just gonna lock the doors. And so at a certain time, every single service, all our doors are locked. Fortunately in our building, there's two doors that you can get out without, you just go out, but you can't get in. So it's it works for us. We don't have a fire problem with that. But we started locking the doors. And this person comes out. Had usher goes out and lets them in. They won't face him But I will tell you that this undiscipline with this five to ten minutes popped up in many other areas of this individual They're constantly coming with prayer requests, they're constantly coming with this, Pastor, I've got this knee, Pastor, can you help me with this? Almost every problem in their life is their lack of discipline, their lack of consistency. And they won't do anything about it. You try to be gentle, you try to be merciful, you try to be loving and kind, but it's a very simple thing. And they won't address it. If you're if you're always habitually the same amount, just get up five minutes early, but you know what happened? You'll still be five minutes late. The problem's not how worry we get up It's undisciplined life. I can almost hear Simeon saying, well, it's been three years. And yes, I promised I wouldn't leave Jerusalem, but I can get away with it. Nobody will know. Except for me. I'd let myself get away with it. Surely he would. But he finally ran into somebody who wasn't like that Let's say most of us are gonna run into people finally, thankfully who aren't like that. I was a roommate in college. And uh we we shared an apartment, we shared the rental, but uh I don't think yeah, he didn't have a car, and I did have a car. And so we worked out our schedule that when I left pretty early in the morning he would always ride with me. And he had somebody else who would take him to work after, so it was always just in the mornings. And this was another one of these guys. So I'm down there in the car and waiting and waiting and waiting. It's habitually late. And uh I finally just I told him one day, I said as nicely as I could, I said, Dave, tomorrow we're leaving at such and such a time. If you're not in this car, I'm leaving. Because it's about half an hour to the college. And he doesn't have a vehicle. So okay, okay, okay, yeah, I'll be there. I know, I know. There's always just lit new excuses. Oh, this is what a problem was this morning, you know, yeah, yeah. I got down here at 7 o'clock. There Dave got in the car, turned it on, drove to school. You wouldn't believe the amount of uh angst that I got from other students when they heard about that I could just world we live in. What are you going to do? You're going to capitulate and go along with the inconsistency of everybody else to fit in? Are you going to do what you want to do? Every time I read this story of Shimei, I automatically think of Uzzah and the Ark of the Covenant. God gave specific orders on how to carry the ark. Don't you dare touch that thing. And we don't know all the details of us, whether his motives were bad or not. It really doesn't matter. Motives might have been really good. But he reached out and touched the ark. And he died. We ought not to play games with the mercy of God. Don't presume upon the Lord's mercy for sin. You never know when the Lord's mercy Mercy for sin is finally going to stop and turn into a judgment, even for the believer. Example after example of places in the Bible where even believers finally God had to say, Hey, this mercy is not working on them anymore. They're not thankful for it. They're starting to abuse it. It's starting to become uh enabling unto them And it fell here for Shemiah. I think Deuteronomy 29 has a wonderful reminder for us. There's three verses. It's quite lengthy. Deuteronomy 29. Lest there should be among you a man or woman or family or tribe whose heart turneth away this day from the Lord our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations. Lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood. And it come to pass, when he heareth the words of this curse, that he blessed himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace. Though I walk after the imagination of my own heart. To add drunkenness to thirst, the Lord will not spare him But then the anger of the Lord and his jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him. Notice the statement. Oh, I'll have peace. It'll all be fine. Although I'm walking my own way, and it's not the Lord's way. The Lord will be merciful unto me, it'll be okay. And the Lord says, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him. The one who uses God's mercy is an excuse for I don't think it's very wise for us to risk and play around. An evangelist told me this is when I was in Bible college, I was struggling with whether or not I was going to be able to come up with the funds for my last year of college there, and I wanted to do the right thing. I didn't want to just uh say I was going to be able to pay the bills if I couldn't. And so I went in and talked to the vice president one day and I explained to him my financial situation and I said I I said, uh Brother Dwight, what what would you have for me to do? What do you think I should do in this situation? I said, uh you know, I want to be here, but I don't want to uh I don't want to have debts and I don't want to have this kind of thing. So What would you do? And he said, well, he said, I was in the exact same situation when I was here years ago, he said. And somebody told me to just do this, and this is what I did. And Dwight said to me, I just said I was going to wake up every morning and go to that college and walk through the front doors of the building until they told me to not come in anymore. He said, as soon as they tell me not to come in anymore, then I'll know. And he said, they never told me that And so that's what I did. And they never stopped me either. And I ended up paying it off. Sometimes you just have to consistently do it the right thing over and over and over again until something stops you from being able to do that anymore. What you and I do most of the time, or at least what I do, is I project ahead what God is going to do. A week, two weeks, whatever And then I assume the Lord is going to then do that. And so I make a decision now to either not do it or do it and never give the Lord time. And whether or not I should do it or not. And that's what we do. What's your personal time with God like? How consistent is it? Oh well, Pastor, that's easy for you. I like what Pastor Bowman said years ago, and I've never forgotten this. I thought it was very good. He said, I don't have a personal time with God's Word because I'm a pastor. I'm a pastor partly because I've always had a personal time with God's Word. And I thought it was very good. What's the management of your home like? You have inconsistent implementation of rules and standards Do you allow negotiating with your children? I call this Wilbur Heinball's rule of parenting. We did not negotiate ever. Unquote. That wasn't perfect. He didn't do everything right, but he had that one right. The more you tried to negotiate with him, the worse it got for you. And we've quickly learned out pretty quick. Waste of time trying to negotiate. We don't go there, we don't do that, we don't watch that, we don't listen to that. Kids ask why. Sometimes the answer is simple, because it's evil and wicked. They don't agree, that's all right. Good parents, good mom and dads want their kids to be safe. They want them to be pure. They want their young people to turn outright They want them to learn patience. I'm going to tell every single young person who's here tonight, I know there's not a lot of them. Be patient. You'll get to make the rule someday You'll have plenty of years to do it. Be patient. Let mom and dad do it for now. Wait till it's your turn. Tonight, Christian, learn the price of inconsistency. It's defeat. For similar, it was death. I can't get up here and tell you tonight that your life of inconsistency or your life of undiscipline is going to lead to you dying physically. But you're going to have a very haphazard, very mediocre, very lukewarm, up and down Christian life. It's not going to be very joyful. You're going to carry around guilt all the time. Simei sins of inconsistency does not typically rank on the list of bad sins like foreign fornication and adultery and murder and lasciviousness, but it's just as destructive, I believe. Inconsistent, undisciplined life. That's the the the biggest problem that I deal with in people in our church, under our membership, is in areas of undisciplined. I don't want to spend a whole lot of time on this. I do want to close up here. All throughout the New Testament, the Lord compares the Christian life with being that of A soldier. I've never been in the military. I think there's probably people in here who have, most likely. I like to read a lot of books. I just finished reading a book called Death D Day by Stephen Ambrose on um D Day, uh June sixth, nineteen forty four. It's fantastic. You read enough of these books and you find out that the number one characteristic of a soldier was that he was disciplined. And when the commanding officer, whoever it was, said go, they went. They didn't sit around and have a conference about it, whether they were going to go or not. They didn't sit around and think, well, do I want to do that, or is that right or not They were disciplined to the point where they obeyed when the command was given. And they had to do this consistently And over and over again, Paul and the Lord compare the Christian life to being a soldier. And I wonder if you're not sure. We look at it as we ought to, as being a Christian, as being a soldier in the army of the Lord. What kind of soldier would you make? If you're undisciplined, you're inconsistent, you'll be a horrible soldier, I don't care what army you're in, whether it be the Lord's or anyone else's. So Shemia needed to learn to be objective about his family, and that's going to take some discipline, that's going to take some consistency. He needed to learn to let God take care of his enemies. David learned that lesson, and we all know. need to do that. And he needed to learn the life the price of inconsistency was defeat. And he didn't learn that one. He had to learn that the hard way. I want to close tonight with a very simple illustration. From my dad. And uh I I I give a lot of good illustrations about my father many times. I don't really see any reason to get up in the pulpit and run him down or my mom. So I'm not saying that he was perfect, uh definitely not the case. But uh in sixth grade I always I always wanted to play Little League. And uh nobody in our family played Little League when I was the youngest boy Uh but we were when when we w made the transition from the Christian school into the public school, it was sixth grade for me. So sixth grade was my first And all my friends were played Little League and so forth, and so we played recess and that kind of thing. I I love liked to play baseball and they of course were playing and I wanted to play. So uh I came home and asked my dad or somehow I asked my dad and and he told me in this or I can't remember when it was, but of course must have been in the fall of that sixth grade year that I could play Little League when the spring rolled around. I was all excited about that. All my buddies, all my friends played. I can't remember when it happened, but sometime before spring came, he changed his mind. And he said no. And uh I was, you know, only sixth grade at the time. I don't remember getting much of an explanation other than He thought that it was not going to be a good thing for me to do that. He thought the right thing to do is for me not to play. I was furious. angry. Uh bitter for a long time. Long time. But not long after I got saved. I got I was saved at the age of twenty four And I started to learn and recognize a little bit about what was going on in our country and in the world. regarding athletics, regarding sports. I spent my 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th grade year playing three sports every single year. And I won't preach on sports tonight. I ought to And I I came to the conclusion without dad's help at all. The decision he had made was the right and wise decision for me and our family at the time. And you know what? I was able to tell him that one day. We've had that conversation. before and I was able to tell him looking back on it that what he did was right. As far as I could see it now. You know that decision temporarily costs My dad, some frustration, I'm sure, some separation really of relationship with me. for some years. He had said I could do something that he shouldn't have probably said yes to and he had to go back and say no on it, which is never a good thing to do. Even if it's right though, you have to do that. However, I wonder how rewarding it was. I wonder what it felt like to have his now twenty-some-year-old son come to him later on and say, hey dad, I'm not bitter about that anymore. And in fact, today I see that you did the right thing. Wonder what that felt like. We're not willing a lot of times to endure any kind of temporary hardship or persecution or pressure so that we can reap the rewards down the road and we need to. And you need to and I need to. Spiritual consistency leads to long-term victory. If you want to live victoriously, you must learn to be consistent. Every head bowed, every eye closed. I pray that if the Lord has touched your heart tonight about this area of consistency, that you would recognize It's time for me to do something. Do you have any secret sins that you're holding on to? And maybe you've had some form of victory over them, but it's not lasted. Your discipline has fallen away. You're up and down in it. Don't think that it's just not a big deal. Eventually you're going to get victory over it. Shimei's life is very revealing about the end result of it. We start assuming everyone else thinks the same way. And we're going to get caught. The Lord doesn't want you to get caught. Don't despise his mercy. Don't take light of it. And deal with it. Our Heavenly Father tonight, I pray that Take this lesson, take this man, and help the believer here tonight to learn from it. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.