Samuel chapter 16 verse five the Bible says And when King David came to Bahurim, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei. That's who we've been looking at now, this fellow Shimei, the son of Gera, he came forth and cursed as he came And he cast stones at David and all the servants of King David and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left And thus said Shemiah when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of Belial. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in thy mischief because thou art a bloody man. Then said Abishai, the son of Zariah, unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? So let him curse, because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more may the may this Benjaminite do it? Let him alone and let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be that the Lord will look on my affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day. And as David and his men went by the way, Shemi went along on the hillside over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust, and all the king of the people were with him. Came weary and refreshed themselves there. Can you picture this in your mind? David making his way out along a dusty road and up on the hill, on the ridge there is this fella hollering down to 'em and kicking up dust and throwing rocks or landing down among the people and just carrying on. I've entitled the lesson, we began it a couple weeks ago, but I entitled the lesson, Shimia, a small man. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the life of David as we've been studying now for quite a time. I pray that you would help us to continue to draw principles and lessons from David's life and the events of his life that we can learn to grow in our faith and be stronger in our faith. I pray you would help us to be cautious in our actions and careful. And I pray, Lord, that we would be more effective in our witness. So we need your Holy Spirit to teach us from this passage here tonight I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask, Lord, you fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. We have some of our Master Clubs workers and kids up here. We're continuing our study in the life of David. And uh David is now fleeing the city of Jerusalem. Get uh some that weren't in on the study get you up to speed here a little bit David is fleeing from the city of Jerusalem. He of course he's been king now for an extended period of time. He's later in his life, uh probably late fifties, I'm guessing at this point, mid-50s at least And uh his son Absalom has usurped his, uh is attempting to usurp his throne. He has won the hearts of the people over subtlety and dishonesty He's won the people of Israel over to him, their loyalty. And at the at the opportune moment, Absalom rise up in rebellion and David's fleeing the city. As he's fleeing the city There are a number of people who are loyal to David, quite a few actually, that actually pack their bags on a moment's notice, I mean literally overnight They pack their bags, leave their work, leave their extended family, perhaps, abandon their homes, and they're following David as he's fleeing out of the city. They're loyal to him. Some of them are significant people. If you remember David without getting too detailed review, but he did leave a few people behind. He sent a few fellows back in key positions that could be his ears in the palace. They could uh mingle in there with Absalom the son, maybe find out what's going on, what his strategy is. Then he has a way, uh designed a way where they can get the message out in the wilderness to David So as he's fleeing the city, as he's going out of the city with his entourage, this fellow Shimei shows up on top of the hill. He's a kin of King Saul It's one of Saul's family. Of course, King Saul rebelled against the Lord. God removed him from the kingdom and put David in his place, but Shemi is obviously very bitter about that. And he begins to unleash on David as he is in his lowest point in his life. And uh we pointed out a few things. Just quickly I want to review these. We point out a few things about Shimei, this what I'm calling a small man. Um we looked at his conduct here as He's up on this ridge yelling things at David. And I first thing I pointed out, if you remember, his conduct was corrupt. He was corrupt. Several ways he was corrupt. One, he had a filthy mouth. And I just reiterate here, anybody that uses filthy language and curses is a small person. There we go. I like it. He cursed, he cursed, he cursed. And so we talked about that. He talked about that. He had a filthy mouth. He used bad words and filthy language And then we pointed out, second of all, he made sa he made uh he was corrupt in that he made false accusations. He accused David of usurping the throne from King Saul. And we know that's not true. God chose David. God anointed David. King Saul forfeited his right to the throne by his behavior. And David simply was following the leadership of God. David was simply doing what God had called him to do. But Shimei and his bitterness and his hatred and He can see that, and so he makes these false accusations about David. In fact, even suggesting that David killed Saul, he didn't. The Philistines did. Everybody knew that And uh so he's he's filthy mouth, he has false accusations. And then I put I put down, if you remember, we said he was a coward in his conduct He never actually comes down and confronts David. He's hiding behind this ridge. He's hiding behind this distance from David and himself. He never puts himself in any harm's way. He never actually goes and sits down with David and talks about his concerns and his issues. He just calls names and uh and throws stuff at him from a distance And he hides behind the ridge, and cowards uh a small uh uh cowards are small people They don't actually deal with the issue. They just want to run their mouth and say things and hurt people. And so we looked at Shemiah here. And uh he never, like we said, he never actually confronted anybody. I put this as kind of a summary of Shemiah's uh our our exposure as Shemiah here is uh small people are corrupt in their conduct and cowards in their conduct. They're nasty and they're Freddy cats. Now, I want to look tonight, and I was going to try and finish this section, but um I never had anybody complain that we got out too soon Which it never happens when I'm preaching, but uh I just want to look at Abishai. I want to look at Abishai, this guy here in verse number nine As David is making his way out, Shimi is screaming his insults and his filthy language down at David, throwing rocks and dust down on him. And Abishai steps up, if you would, notice in verse number nine, then said Abishai the son of Jeriah unto the king. Why should this dead dog curse my Lord the King? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. I don't know about you, but I like Abishiah. I did a little research on him, and I found out that Abishai is actually Jesse's grandson. Who is Jesse? David's daddy. And Abishai is Jesse's grandson. He is the son of David's sister, Zariah. And making him what to David? It would be David's nephew. And so Abishai not only is he kin, close kin to David, He is also one of his leaders, military leaders. This guy is significant in his relationship with David, family-wise and military-wise And brother, he steps up without hesitation. He is, boom, up there at David's side, and he is responding to this fella Abishot. And basically, to summarize Abishai's approach here, there's only one way to deal with this guy. Off with his head. I like, I think I mentioned this in the previous message, but I like what the one preacher said I was reading about this He says, uh, he said, this is what Abishai was saying. Let me go up there and slice his neck so fast he won't know it happened until he sneezes. There's only one way to deal with this. Anybody here ever get in a situation and you think there's only one way to deal with it? Exterminate it. We have uh we're a we're fighting ants in our house. Those little ones, I think they're Yeah, that's my solution. That's what Uh there's uh I think they're called butter ants, the little tiny ones. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm telling you, I am on the verge of burning the house down. And there's only one way to deal with these is to burn the place down. That was kind of Abishai's approach to Shemia. Jesse's grandson, David's nephew, his sister's son. I noticed two things here about Abishai's response to Shimei. First of all, the first thing he does is he expresses his concern to David. He says there verse 9, why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? He's got to say something He's not going to sit back and listen to this. He's speaking up. So he gets himself up to wherever David was. I don't know what his position was, where he was, unless on this train of folks leaving the city where he was stationed. I'm no doubt they had guards around and they had security set up for David, I'm sure. Wherever he is, as soon as he sees what happens, he's at David's side. He wants David to know what he thinks about this and how it needs to be dealt with. And so he expresses his concern, and notice how he refers to Shemiah. He uses a very picturesque words here, interesting words to describe Shemiah. Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? A dead dog. Now you understand the Jews, he's using that term deliberately. Actually, David refers to use that same term referring to himself. Remember when Saul was chasing David? And he says, You've come out here, I'm just a dead dog. Why are you chasing me? That was a derogatory term. The Jews hated dogs. And uh in to in the Jews' mind, a dog was something very nasty They were disgusting animals. They were despised and and uh they just uh everything about them they they despised these dogs And then when he would refer to Shemias, not just calling him a dog, this guy's nasty, this guy's dirty, he's disgusting. He calls him a what kind of dog? A dead dog. Now, what does he mean by calling him a dead dog? This is what he's saying. He guys, this guy is worthless trash. A dead dog is worthless. It's of no good. It has no value. It does me no good. And he's basically saying, this guy doesn't even work this guy isn't even worth living. He's a nasty, nasty mind. So we have no doubt about his attitude about Shemiah. And so I put this down. He's obviously very upset about Shemiah's words and actions. Nobody is going to talk to my king that way. Especially a dead dog like this Nobody's going to say these types of things. Nobody's going to use that language around my king. Nobody's going to make these lies about my king. This is going to be dealt with. And so he's very upset about what's taking place. Now I don't know about you, but it's kind of nice for a king, I would imagine, to have people around him that get upset when people talk bad about the king. I would imagine that would be encouraging to King David to an extent. Well, actually, when I was studying Abishai and his response here to this and I couldn't help but think of a fellow that was a member here years ago, and he's actually a deacon for me for a brief period of time, and some of y'all are around there, Victor Slobaugh How many people remember Victor Slawball, Ruby's husband, and um Denise's daddy? Of course, Denise just went to be with the Lord and see her daddy. Victor came out and I remember I'll never forget I was in my office. He called one day. I'd been here just a few years, I guess, and I got this phone call and Vic had this old rough West Virginia voice Uh is this independent Baptist Church? I said, yeah. He goes, you but uh you guys believe the King James Bible? I said, yeah we sure do. Do you support missionaries? I said, yeah we do. I'll be out Sunday, I'll visit. That was my introduction to Vic. And uh he showed up. And I'll tell ya we hit it off like that. And um Ruby's coming, the girls there were in the house. I I think Denise was married by then But uh and he'd come out and he'd amen me. I didn't have to use no sign I'd say, amen. And one time we were shaking hands afterward, he came back, he shook my hand, pulled me up close to him, and he said, Brother Leatherman, you're an Amen preacher I said, what do you mean by that? He goes, when you preach, I want to say amen. Preachers like that kind of stuff, you know. And uh but this is what made me think, well Abishai's reaction, this is what made me think about Vic. He told me one time, he he'd been here a while, he's the deacon, then his diabetes took over and he just got so sick And um but he said this to me, he said, Preacher, he says if anybody ever says anything bad about you I'm gonna punch him right in the nose. Now inside me I said, yes, amen. Do it But outwardly I said, now Vic, there's probably a better way to deal with that than punching them in the nose. That's Abishot. Ain't nobody talking about my king that way. He's very upset about that. So he was upset about Shemiai's words and actions, but he was also very impulsive With his words. He says there, let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. Now let's suppose that he actually did that. Let's suppose that Abishai went up on that ridge, and he probably could have caught Shemia pretty easily. The guy's a sorry dog. And he got him and pulls his hair back and slices his head off and comes down with Shemei's head to David and said, There you go, that's what happened to those that'll curse my king. You know what he would have been doing? He would have been doing exactly what Shimei accused David of being, a bloody man. He would have fulfilled Shemiah's words. He would have verified Shemiah's false accusations. Here's what I'm trying to get at. Our instinctive reaction to something isn't always the best. Response. He's being very impulsive. Anybody here ever somebody said something to you and boom, you responded right back? And afterwards you thought, I wish I'd have thought that through a little bit. I wish I'd have been a little more careful. Shemiah is very impulsive. I mean he just he just reacts. I put this down. The best way to avoid criticism, Shimei is not handling criticism very good. Now I appreciate his zeal. And I appreciate his respect and devotion for his king. But he's not handling criticism very good. And I want to talk about responding to criticism just for a moment. First of all, how do you avoid criticism? Say, preacher, how can I avoid criticism? I got three things you need to do. Three things you need to do if you want to avoid criticism. Number one, don't say anything. Number two, don't do anything. And number three, don't be anything. Just find your hole, crawl in it, and set there, and you'll probably still get criticized, even down there. But the fact of the matter is, anybody who ever attempted anything for God or for good has faced criticism. I mean it is part of it. And so we have to either accept the fact that I'm not going to do or be anything or anybody, just be a wallflower. Or I'm going to make a difference in this world. And if I'm going to make a difference, if I'm going to have an influence, if I'm going to have an impact, I have got to accept the fact that people are going to criticize it. Amen or not? It's going to happen. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He says, a preacher, and it's true for a preacher, but it's true for any Christian that's trying to trying to be a light in a dark world He says you've got to have the one blind eye, one deaf ear, and the hide of a rhinoceros. That's pretty true. That's a pretty good assessment. I wish in Bible college they had a class on dealing with criticism in the ministry. Because just about every preacher I know, myself included, we had to learn that on the job. How to deal with it. So uh uh Abishai is not doing real good in dealing with criticism department. Let me give you seven things. If you want to jot these down, I think they're very helpful. Seven things not to do when someone criticizes you Seven day anybody here ever been criticized? I mean, besides today? Now I'm not going to ask how many of us have ever been critics Huh? Goes both ways, doesn't it? But seven things not to do whenever someone criticizes you, you're trying to do right, you're trying to serve the Lord, you're trying to be a witness, you're trying to help and contribute. Seven things not to do when you're criticized. Number one, write this down, do not become defensive Do not become defensive. What's the first thing when somebody comes and tells me something I'm doing wrong or something I'm not doing right or something they criticize me in some way, what's our natural instinctive reaction is to what? justify ourselves or defend our actions. And if we're not careful, if we're not careful, that devolves very quickly into a fuss. And you end up throwing names around and making accusations back, oh yeah, well you're uh you're even dumber than I am, you know, or whatever. So don't become defensive. It's a natural reaction. Our old flesh wants to defend itself. Even when we're justified, even when it's the right thing to do, be careful about defending yourself. It's a natural reaction, but most, when we get defensive, usually we end up acting very immature. Stop and think about the last time you're criticized and you've got reacted, you got very defensive, it deteriorates into children fussing. And so, number one, put this down, do not become defensive. Number two, I put this one down, do not over-apologize. You did something, you're trying to do something and somebody, you know, took offense or whatever and they criticized what you did. You really that that wasn't this, or you shouldn't have that. You should have done this Now, some people, their personality tends to be this way, and we'll say, well, listen, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, listen, I'm really sorry, I'm really sorry, and they just over-apologize I don't know anybody in the world that likes it when somebody just is constantly apologizing to them over and over and over and over for something they did. Am I right? You ever been in that where they said, alright already, alright If their apology is required, if you said or did something that maybe it was offensive or whatever, they were offended. I can't control. By the way, I like this statement. Just because you're offended doesn't mean I'm wrong. I like that statement. But sometimes, maybe just a short, sincere apology. Listen, I'm sorry you took it that way. Listen, I'm sorry that, you know, it affected you the way it did. I apologize. And then just leave it. And get up and go on. Don't keep groveling and trying to win back something. You know, you just have to I put down just be short and sincere in your apology. Number three, and this is what Abishai did: do not react to what they do. I heard a preacher years ago preached a whole sermon, and this was the title of his sermon: Act, Don't React. In other words, operate on principle, deliberately respond deliberately on scriptural principle, not just a reaction. to what they do. Impulsive reactions are off are usually what? They're based on what? Emotion. Man, my ego got just took a shot. My pride just got slammed, and I want to react. It's very similar to first one. I want to defend myself. But don't react to things. It's easy to do. What I suggest is don't when someone criticizes, don't react And by the way, we're going to see David does this. David is very wise in his response, and I don't want to want to save a whole message for that. Abishai does it. He just reacts. And what I need to do is rather than react, somebody makes a criticism, somebody's whatever criticizes something, just uh just give it a little time to think it through. Let your initial emotions, initial reaction, your initial defensive mechanisms kicking in, let them calm down, think it through and uh uh get a biblical basis to approach this and address it. Um how many people here you can think of situations where if you just thought things through a little bit first It may have worked out better. Yeah. Abishai didn't think things through. He just reacted. So don't react. So we said do not become defensive. Don't overapologize either. Do not react. Put this down. Number four, do not ignore it. Usually, and some of the things Ab uh Shimia says here, often criticism, there's an element of truth in criticism, often. And if you and I can not ignore it, say, all right, they said that, and stop and look at it and think it through a little bit. And I many times have thought this after I've been criticized for something. After I thought it through and looked at it, I thought, you know, I probably could have done that a little better way than what I did And maybe I can learn from this and you know and develop myself a little bit. Not always. Some criticism is just stupid. But don't ignore it. Is there anything here I can learn from? Is there any truth in this criticism that can help me? Number five, now this one's important. Do not risk a misunderstanding. Do not risk a misunderstanding. This is what I mean by this. Maybe your spouse says something, and you take it, they're criticizing me. They're finding fault, they're knocking me down. Or maybe church member or somebody. Be very, very careful before you before you get worked up Now this is not the case with Shimei, but before you get worked up, maybe they didn't really mean it as criticism, but just the way they approached it, it came across as being critical You see what I'm saying? And I've had people over the years try to help me, say something try to help me, and I'm so so proud. My old fallen nature is so proud it was like, huh After I thought about it, you know, maybe they I don't think they were trying to criticize me. I think maybe that was a sincere concern to help me And so you have to be very, very careful. There's a lot of fights and a lot of friendships have dissolved simply because people misunderstood what was being said and why it was being said. And so stop a little bit and think that thing through and say, wait a minute. And don't be afraid to go back to the person and say, listen, I want to make sure I understand what you're saying. Uh you know, I'm not sure I uh I understand where you're coming from or what you what you mean by this. I found that 99% of the time, if you just talk to people respectfully, you can work things out. And so don't risk a misunderstanding. They may have not meant it the way you took it. And so don't be afraid to give it a little time, think it through, and then come back and say, listen, what exactly did you mean? What were you talking about? What what what what was it? I'm gonna make sure I understand And so be real careful there. And by the way, let me throw this out. This is a pet peeve of mine. That's a nice thing about preaching. You can deal with pet peeves. Dealing with issues by texting. That is the worst thing in the world you can possibly do. Do you know how easy it is to misunderstand what is meant by a text? And people are trying to deal with issues and that's why social media is so stupid. People write stuff on there and then people react and then ne and you can put on there flowers are pretty. It'll end up being a fight among some people somehow. If there's an issue, if there's a misunderstanding, if somebody texts you a criticism, or they write you a letter of criticism, or they send you an email, it's criticism. Call them up or go sit and talk to them in person and find out exactly what they mean. You know what I noticed? When I sit down with somebody and I want to talk to somebody, maybe there's a misunderstanding. I can tell by their body language, I can tell by their voice inflections, I can tell by their countenance A whole lot more what they're trying to say than by some black and white letters on a screen. That is so easy to misunderstand what's being said or why it's being said in person And so avoid, be careful, do not risk misunderstanding. I got two more here, real quick. Number six, and this is one that I have a hard time with: do not dwell on the criticism. Do not dwell on it. So I don't know how you are. People are different. Some people can just something and they just put it on a shelf and go on and never think about it again. I'm the kind of person I tend to dwell on things. Anybody, can I get anybody here know what I'm talking about? I tend to think, and a man late at night, I'll wake up and say, Man, he said this to me. You know, two o'clock in the morning and it gets bigger and bigger. Whoa no. You know the whole we're gonna have civil war in America now, you know, it just grows And uh don't dwell on it. Don't dwell on it. Some criticism comes along. You're trying to serve God, you're trying to have a ministry, you're trying to build a ministry, you're trying to reach some people with the gospel. Uh you know, maybe a missionary called to the mission field and some people run their mouth. All right Deal with it correctly, biblically, but don't dwell on it. Stay focused. Stay the course. Keep going after it. I like what Winston Churchill said. He said, if I stopped and dealt with every dog that barked, I'd never get to my destination And sometimes you just need a that's the way it is. That's part of life. People criticize. Let's go forward. Stay focused, get the job done, build that ministry, reach that people's people with the gospel. And stay after it. Stay after it. I put under there, stay focused and stay the course. Do not become defensive. Do not Overapologize. Do not react. Do not ignore it. Do not risk misunderstanding. Do not dwell on it. And seven, number seven, the last one, don't quit You know how many preachers have quit the ministry because someone criticized them? I'm thinking of a preacher friend of mine years ago over in Virginia. And um we'd get together when I came here, I got to know him through some other preachers, and good God. Just a country fellow, had a little country church and My impression was the you know the church was just a typical church. It wasn't that bad. But brother, every time somebody said something, that just absolutely ate him up. And it wasn't long, guess what? He turned in his resignation, went back to farmin, went down south somewhere, and went back to farmin. Now maybe that was best for him, I don't know. But I'm telling you, if every Sunday school teacher, if every bus worker, if every song leader, if every uh what else, nursery worker, if every preacher Would quit when someone criticizes we wouldn't have any Sunday school teachers or preachers or bus workers Because it's going to happen. Don't quit. It's part of the ministry. It's part of, by the way, people outside of the ministry face criticism I've often thought my heart goes out to some of these preachers in liberal churches. Now think think I thought this through. Just think this through with me. Here's a guy pastoring a liberal church. In a liberal church, most likely very few, if any, of the people are saved. Right? If it's liberal, they don't believe the Bible. They're not preaching a gospel. They're probably not saved. So you've got a congregation of unsaved people. Now, what happens when a person gets saved? Somebody moves inside to their body when they get saved. Who's that? Holy Spirit of God. So you have a church that's preaching the gospel, the majority of the people are saved. They're all filled with the Holy Spirit. And so, does the Holy Spirit help us get along with others? Sure. So anybody any Christians here? There's somebody, if it wasn't for the Lord, you won't get along with them. Some of you say, yeah, everybody, I know. But the Lord helps us get along. The Lord helps us die to self. The Lord helps us to accept people. The Lord helps us to love the unlovely. The Lord helps us to do good to people even if they don't treat us good. The Holy Spirit enables us to do that. So think with me, here you've got a preacher of a unsaved church. They don't have the Holy Spirit helping them get along with people. I tell you, I'll take a saved church membership any day over an unsaved church membership The Holy Spirit helps us. And so do not dwell on it. Do not dwell on it. Someone said if praise puffs you up, criticism will crush you. If praise puffs you up, criticism will crush you. Let me give you my last thought here. Come back to verse 9. Abishai makes two statements. Why should this dead dog curse my Lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. Good reaction or bad reaction? Bad reaction. That's not how you respond to criticism. But notice something else he does here. I noticed in the last sentence, that second statement, he uses two words that stood out to me. He says, Let me go over. I pray thee. What's he doing to David when he's saying that? What is he getting? What's he getting at? He's wanting permission Before he does anything, get this. Before he does anything, he wants to make sure it's okay with the king. Now what he wants to do probably isn't the best approach. I tend to agree with him and myself, but that's not the best approach. And so he goes to the king, he says, King, let me do this. I pray thee. I'm asking your permission. Let me go up there. This is what I put. Number one, I said he expressed his concern. Number two, he cleared it with David. And I like that. His respect for David's authority governed his reaction to Shimei's words. He didn't just go and do it He went to David and got permission. Abishai was zealous for David, but he was also submissive to David. He was submissive to David. What is submission? What's submission? When we talk about being submissive to David, what are we talking about? Obedient, but even more than that, this is what I put down. Submission is accepting and yielding to the authority and will of one placed over me. David was Abishai's authority, and he would not act outside of the will of that authority. He was submissive to David. David is the authority. It is his will. It is his authority that I must submit to. And I put this down, nothing is more important in success in the Christian life than submission to God and his ordained authorities. You'll study your Bible carefully. Every relationship that God has established, every relationship in the Bible requires submission. Every single one Our relationship with God requires submission. Right or wrong? What happens if I'm not submissive to God? What am I? I'm rebellious against the Lord. Do you see the importance of submission? A children are to be submissive to their parents. Amen or not. In a marriage relationship, there's submission. Wife to the husband. And then he even says, be submit one to another. Now respective roles. An employer, read Colossians and Ephesians, the employee and employer. The employees that are submissive to the authority of the employer, the master. In government, we're told repeatedly, and Peter and Romans, we're told to be submissive to the authorities that God has established. And in the church, we talked about the elders on Sunday night. In Peter in Hebrews 13, every single human relationship requires submission. Who is the most submissive person that has ever walked this planet? Jesus Christ. King of kings and Lord of Lords. And yet he said, Not my will, but thy will be done. The one authority over Jesus Christ, the one authority, and he was totally submissive to it. Who is the most rebellious being that has ever existed? Satan. Satan oozes rebellion. Everything about him. So that leads me to ask myself this question. If I'm being submissive, who am I emulating? Jesus Christ. It's a Christ-like thing to be submissive to the authorities God's placed in my life. And we all have them. The roles I have in this world. But if I'm rebellious against that, who am I like? Satan. I'm telling you, there's a whole lot of satanic activity that goes on that has nothing to do with pentagrams and sacrificing cats to the devil or goats or whatever. The whole lot of satanic activity goes on has nothing to do with witchcraft. What did God, what did Samuel tell King Saul? Rebellion is as the sin of Witchcraft. Do you see where I say submission is vitally important in the Christian life? Vitally important in the Christian life. Submission to God's will is Christ-like. Rebellion against God's will is satanic. Now you can take things in your own hands and you can do what you want. You can submit to God and follow his instructions in this book here. Or you can say, no, I'm going to do it my way. It's up to you. But if I want to be Christ-like, I'm going to be submissive. Abishai submitted to David. That is what he wanted to do and what David said to do were two different things, he submitted to David. He said, not my will. This is what I want. I want to slice his neck. I want to cut his head off. I want to carry it around a stick in front of us. Let everybody know this is what happens. People talk to my king like that. David said, no. He said, all right. All right. Submission to God's will is Christ-like. Rebellion against God's will is satanic. I read about, let's see if I got it here. 1750, the British and French were fighting in Canada. There was a fellow, Admiral Fitz, was a commander of the British fleet. He was outside Quebec and anchored. He was given orders to wait for the British land forces to arrive, and then they were going to Attack the city. So Admiral Phipps is setting outside of Quebec. He anchors down. You stay there, wait until the rest of the fleet gets here. Then we're going to attack the city. So he got there way earlier than he anticipated. So he po he parked outside there outside the ba uh the harbor wherever And as he was waiting, he saw all these Catholic statues around on buildings on the city. The history book says he got annoyed by all these Catholic statues here of these different saints. There was a cathedral there and they had these big saints, Catholics, Catholic saints. So he got irritated. So he told his men to shoot at these statues of saints with the canons. And so they started shooting. They picked off all these statues around there in the city while he's waiting for the rest of the fleet shows up. He didn't keep track of how many rounds he was firing or how many statues were knocked out. But when the rest of the fleet arrived and they were given the signal attack, he was of no help. He used all his ammunition shooting at the saints. He burned up everything, shooting these statues. He had nothing to fight with. Now here's kind of what I want to wrap this thing up with. Let's be careful, we're not Shemi. We looked at how not to respond and we looked at submission, but let's be careful we're not the one throwing the criticism. This old boy shot all his ammo at Saints and he had nothing to fight the enemy with. And I'm telling you, we got churches all around our country where they're shooting at one another. They're criticizing and fighting and attacking one another, and we don't have anything left to get the gospel out to lost people Shemiah had nothing to offer of any positive or advance the mission of Israel, be a witness to all the world. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help us to deal with criticism correctly, and Lord help us to make sure we're not the ones criticizing. And Lord, we just live in a world full of it. It's all around us. So we need your grace and we need your help. I wonder how many this evening, Wednesday night Before we give the invitation, how many would say, Preacher, you know I really need the Lord to help me not to react when someone criticizes me Not to just be impulsive, but to think that through. Anybody like that? Any like that, I really need. Yeah. Are my hands raised We need the Lord to help us back off and go down this list of things not to do. Wonder how many would say, Preacher, I struggle with this matter of submission. Old simple nature doesn't like that. Old Abishai, he he understood it. He got it. He had it. He nailed it. I wonder how many of you say, preacher, pray with me. This matters submission. Let's just kind of struggle with that. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. Sure. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask the Lord, help us get self out of the way and just be filled with the Holy Spirit. And stay the course, stay focused And bring glory to God. Father, bless our imitation. Now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God stands