I think I'm set here now. Ready? Second Samuel chapter number sixteen. We're going to begin reading in verse number five. And the Bible says, When King David came to Bahurim It's about four miles northeast of Jerusalem, so he's a little ways out of the city. Behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei. He lived there in Baruram. The son of Gerah, he came forth and cursed still as he came. And he cast stones at David, and all his servants of King David, and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. So David's making his way out of the city. He comes to this little community, this town here, Bahurim. Shimei lives there, kin of King Saul. He's passed away a long time ago now. And um David is all his people around him, so that's the setting. And uh Shimei is cursing and and yelling at David. Verse seven And thus said Shimei, when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, thou man of Belial. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. And the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in thy mischief, because thou art a bloody man. Then Abishai the son of Zerui then said Abishai the son of Zariah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? Let him curse, because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjaminite do it? Let him alone, let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. Now notice verse 12. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day. And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along the hillside over against him and cursed as he went and threw stones at him and cast dust. We're looking at Shimei. I called him a small man And uh we'll pick up, we'll just quickly review what we touched on, and then I want to look at David's reaction, how David reacted to this these uh uh horrific things that Shimei is saying and and doing. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of David's life tonight and this this uh smart very small short event but yet very significant as you record in your word. So please speak our hearts. Instruct us, Lord, in living this Christian life here in a fallen world. And I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And dear Lord, I pray that you would speak through me tonight and help us, Lord, and stir us and use us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So here we have Shimei. Just to quickly review, and I know a lot of you have already in on this, but the first thing I noted here was the conduct of Shimei. When you come out there in verse number five, it's cursing, he's throwing rocks, he's saying these awful things about David. There was two things about Shimei's conduct, if you remember that we uh that we took note of. The first one was that he was corrupt in his conduct. And I noted two ways that he was corrupt. One was he was he had a filthy mouth He had a filthy mouth. It says several times he was cursing. He was cursing. He was cursing David. And um we talked about what the Bible says about cursing. And let me just throw this out there. God's people ought to be above potty mouth. We ought to be above talking like that God's people. Now here's a kin to King Saul, anointed by David. Of course he uh anointed by God, I should say, and of course he abandoned the Lord, and God judged him, took his light But nevertheless, this is one of God's people talking like this. And so let's give ourselves and let's really be very, very careful on uh what we say and how we say it and let's just keep our mouths pure. Alright? That's our challenge here with that And so he's cursing. He's got a filthy mouth. And then he made I I I said that he was corrupt in his conduct, not just because he had a filthy mouth, but he had uh false accusations. He's make he's making lies about David And he knows their lies, obviously, and everybody knows their lies, but nevertheless, he's throwing these lies out, David. Let me just throw this out. God's people ought to be honest. We ought to be true. We shouldn't lie, speak mistruths, and be false witnesses. What comes off our lips ought to be true We ought to be people of integrity. And so he had a filthy mouth, he made false accusations, he was corrupt in his conduct. Then we noted also he was a coward in his conduct. He never actually came down and confronted David, man to man. He never actually engaged David in any way that there may be any repercussion on him. He's up on this ridge throwing dust and throwing rock and throwing lies and throwing filthy words down at David And he's a coward. He's an absolute coward. Now, we may look at this later on. We probably will a little bit. But when David eventually, and this is a kind of a spoiler here, but David I'll tell you, don't tell anybody, but David actually gets the throne back. So I'm spoiling it here a little bit, but he does. And Absalom is defeated in battle. And so, nevertheless, when David's coming back to the city of Jerusalem, coming back to the palace, coming back to his throne as God anointed king Lo and behold, Shimiai shows up when he's coming back victor. And uh it's interesting, and like I said, we'll probably look at it later. But he says something like this, oh David, don't take personally all those lies and that filthy uh stuff I said about. Don't take it personally. You know what he is? He's a coward He's a coward. So we looked at Shimei, the conduct of Shimei. Then last week, we looked at the conclusion of Abisha. We looked at his conclusion, verse number nine, then he said Abish uh Abishai, I should say, Abishai the son of Zariah, the king Why should it this dead uh unto the king, why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and do what? Take off his head. And um that was his initial reaction. And we talked about that. He expressed his concern. He came out, there's only one thing to do with Shemiais, that chop their heads off. That's all you can do with them And then he uh expressed his concern. He was very impulsive. Um he was uh very upset, he was very impulsive. We looked at how not to address, how not to respond to criticism Abishai did not respond. Listen, when somebody criticizes you, the right response is not chopping their head off. And then we want to. Our first reaction is, uh and uh but we can't do that, and Abishai did that. And to his credit, Abishai uh cleared it with David before he went over. That would have been bad. If he would have just gone up there and uh beheaded Shemiah and not talked to David first. And so to his credit, he cleared it with David. He was submissive to David as the authority. He says, all right, this is what I think we should do And David says, oh no, no, no, no. He says, all right. And he cooperated with David. Now, uh, said all that, now we come to David. David's response And this is interesting. Somebody said this. David was a man after God's own heart, and Abishai was a man after Shimei's head. And you see a very, very distinct contrast here between Abishai, who's a good man, very sincere, no doubt about it. He loved his king. He was loyal to his king, intensely loyal to his king. So we can't fault Shemiah for his motives. His motives were good. He wanted to honor the king. He wanted to take care of his king. That was good. His response, not so much. Now we look at David, the king, the man after God's own heart And his response, I believe, biblically, is spot on. You see, I think we see here the spiritual maturity of David And how he responds to Shemiah. Now, let's look at this. Let's break this down a little bit. Verse number 10. Verse 9, Abishai said, Oh, we'll take off his head. Then here's David's response. What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? Now, I got that, caught my attention there, the sons of Zariah. Who in the world are the sons of Zariah? Well, we know Abishai is one. He's mentioned here. Zariah, and I think we mentioned this last week, but Zariah is actually David's sister. Her daddy is Jesse. And um uh so this is David's sister. She has three boys. Now we're gonna look at a bunch of verses tonight if we have time. Would you come back to 2 Samuel chapter number 2? Zariah has three sons that she bore, and of course that would make them all David's nephews. 2 Samuel chapter 2, come down to verse number 18. They're listed here for us. See if you recognize any of these names. The sons of Zariah. Verse 18, 2 Samuel chapter 2, and there were three sons of Zariah. All right, here they are. Who are they? Joab. Anybody recognize that name? Yeah, that's David's that's David's chief uh chief of staff here on the military. Uh what's the head guy in the military called over all branches? James Who what's the what are they what's that title Uh not chief of staff, uh the commander in chief. No, that's the president That's the president. Well, let me put it this way. This is the guy in charge of the military, whatever title that is So that's Joab. Well, we'll look at it a little bit. But we've met Joab before. We know a few things about Joab. And then notice he says, the three sons of Zariah, there was Joab and Abisha. Abishai, I keep getting my tongue twisted there. Abishai, which we're looking at now. And then there's a third one, Asael. And notice we're given a little information. We're not told a lot about Asiel, but it says here he was as light of foot as a wild roe. Wild roe is simply would be a deer, a gazelle. So what's that telling us about this third son? Apparently he can run fast. Now this today that may not be a big deal in our military, but I tell you, uh in that day, being able to run and run fast was pretty significant. So these are what I'm trying to say is this. These are seven, these are three very, very significant fellas. And they're all David's nephew, his sister's son. And so, but then what about this gal, come back here, what about this gal, Zariah? What do we know about her? There's some interesting things here. We're given very little information about her But we do notice this. It is extremely unusual in scripture, particularly, for boys' sons to be identified with their mother. Almost exclusively, this is an exception, I think there might be a couple others, but almost exclusively throughout Scripture, when they identify someone, they will say the son of, and they'll mention their father. The son of Jacob, the son of Abraham, the son of whoever you go through. And it's always the son of the father, son of the father. son of the father. But every time these boys are mentioned, they're always referred to as the son of Zariah, their mother. Now we're not told why. And so we speculate a little bit. One speculation would be what? Why do you think maybe they'd always be identified as the son of their mother? Maybe daddy's dead. His father passed away. We don't know. We're not told. That's probably usually the simplest, most obvious explanation is usually the right one. So we would say maybe daddy died. There's other suggestions. Another suggestion has been maybe Zariah was an outspoken woman. Maybe she was a bit of a leader in the community. And people would have identified her, known her, she would have been more well known, perhaps, as a leader of some sort than the husband would be. So they're identifying the boys with her. Now we don't know that. One Bible scholar I read, he suggested this. Now what he did is he looked at the characteristics of the boys. And he kind of came to a conclusion about the mother. Did you ever see characteristics of a child, characteristics of a parent in a child? Anybody ever see that? Oh, he's just like his daddy Oh, she's just like her mother. Well, this guy studied the boys, and this is what he suggested about Zariah, David's sister. He said that he thinks she was a very strong-minded Suspicious with a hot-headed temper. Now that's quite a conclusion to come to when we're told almost nothing about her. But if you look at the boys' characteristics, Joab, very suspicious, remember he killed Abner. Just he didn't trust them. Very, very untrusting, very suspicious, very strong-willed. Joab would cooperate with David. He was loyal to David, but boy, he pushed his will. He won it his way hard. Um a hot-headed temper, yeah. That was the boys. And so we don't know a whole lot about Zariah, but we know something about her boys, and um we see these characteristics in her boys. Something else I notice about the sons of Zariah, they were all leaders, every one of them. I mean high level in the government, in the military. These men knew how to lead other men. These men knew how to make hard decisions and to do what needed to be done, and that there was an element of courage. and and uh uh um uh leadership to them. Every one of those three boys. So I don't know anything about Zariah and what we know there. We speculate some things, but whatever she did, she did pretty good at raising leaders. at raising leaders. Uh they were all leaders. They were all very loyal to their Uncle David, King David. And uh so um Most likely a lot like their mother. So anyway, I wanted to do a little uh research on Zariah. I want to know a little bit who these sons of Zariah are that David says, What do I have to do to you? Now let's look at David's response here. Everybody with me? Everybody doing okay? Alright, let's look at his response here. First thing he says is uh Remember, um Abish uh uh Abishai says, Off with his head! Here's David's immediate response. What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? The first thing David responds with, he distances himself from Abishai's thinking. He goes, oh, no, no, I have nothing to do with this. I have nothing. What in the world do I have to do with you? I don't want nothing to do with taking off Shimei's head. David did not want anybody to think for one minute. That he had anything to do with murdering this fellow that's cursing him and throwing stones at him and lying about him. David said, What have I to do with you guys? I don't want nothing to do with this We need to be very, very careful. Now get this. We need to be very, very careful that we don't allow the attitudes of people around us to control our attitudes. Anybody follow what I'm saying? Anybody here ever you're you're fine, you know, your attitude's good, you're just a good day or whatever. You get around a bunch of people with bad attitude, before you know it, you got a bad attitude. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And we need to be very, very careful that. And the first thing David said was, this guy isn't thinking right. This guy isn't thinking scripturally, spiritually. Well he's a good man, he's very loyal, he loves David, no doubt about it, but he says, whoa, no, no, no, I don't have nothing to do with that And he made a very clear distinction. That is not what I'm about. This is not what we're going to do. And sometimes we need to just stop and say, wait a minute. Listen, I am not part of this. You know how many people have gotten themselves in big trouble because they just went along with folks that are doing stupid stuff? Anybody know what I'm saying? And we know we preach to the teens about that, but we've got to be careful. You know, I didn't have this in my notes, but this is very, very true. It's a lot of people sitting under false teaching In churches that are liberal teaching wrong stuff, and they won't take a stand, they won't stand up and say, hey, I don't want nothing to do with that false teaching. You follow what I'm saying? Abishai is a good man. I loved David, but what he was saying was wrong, and David had to distance himself from that and say, nope, I don't want anybody to think I'm a part of that Sometimes we need to step away from folks with bad thinking and bad advice And so he first thing he does, he distances himself from Abishai and his attitude and his his conclusion, what needs to be done. Something like this, very similar, happened to the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, what? Yeah, it's true. Take your Bible, if you would, and go to Luke chapter 9. Something very similar. Jesus Christ dealt with something right along these same lines. Luke chapter number 9. And notice with me, if you would, when you get there, get to verse number 52. Luke chapter 9, and verse 52. And down through verse 56. Luke chapter 9. Now we're going to start looking at a lot of verses here in a little bit, so keep your Bibles handy. Luke chapter 9, verse 52. Let's start in verse 51, actually. And it came to pass when the time was come that he, Jesus, should be received up. In other words, he's going to be crucified and eventually ascend to heaven. So it's come winding down. Things are winding down. It came to pass time that he should be received up. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And sent messengers before his face, and they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for him. And verse 53, and they did not receive him because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. Question, Samaritans and the Jews. Good blood, bad blood. Terrible blood. And so they say he's going to Jerusalem and say, we don't want uh Now look how the disciples responded. See if you see something similar to Abishai's response And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, that they wouldn't receive Jesus, they said, look at this. Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elias did? Anybody here ever wish you could pray down fire on somebody, Lord, just one time. Let me do it Their solution, their immediate solution to somebody that was disrespectful to Jesus, that was rejecting Jesus, their first solution that came to their mind was, we're going to call down fire and burn them up. Question, Christ-like or not? No. But can you see the similarity in James and John thinking and Abishai's thinking? We gotta destroy them. We gotta cut off their head. We gotta get them struck by lightning. We gotta eliminate these guys. Now look what Jesus said. Look how Jesus responds Verse number 55. But he, Jesus, turned and what? Rebuked him. I think that's what David is doing to Abishai when he says, What have I to do with you guys? Jesus rebuked them and said, Ye know not what spirit ye are of. Listen, the Holy Spirit is not It does not have the same characteristics as our sinful nature has. And they were reacting in the flesh. They were reacting in the sinful nature. We've got to destroy somebody that isn't what we that what they should be And Jesus says, that's not the spirit. That's not the way we operate. That's not what this is about. And he rebukes him very sharply. Now look what he says in verse number 56. For the Son of Man has not come to what? Destroy men's lives, but to what? Save them. Save them. And they went to another village. So David distances himself. Coming back to 2 Samuel, David distances himself From Abishai and his attitude of wanting to destroy Shemiah, he says, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? The second thing I notice Is this he displays spiritual maturity? The heart for God that rests in David, that heart for God, a man after God's own heart That becomes visible here, I think. It shows itself that David is different. Now, he's not perfect. We see that, we'll see it again. He still has that sinful nature, but there is something about David that the love and the compassion and the heart of God comes through. Look what he does here. First of all, he displays spiritual maturity, is my thought. And I reworded it this way, actually, in my notes. He displays self-control Self-control. Anybody here ever have an issue with self-control? Yeah. Uh man, that's just tough. We like to control other people. I think what we need to do is learn to control ourselves And David does tremendously. I was talking to a couple of fellas uh after last week when we were talking about Abishai going up and slicing off his head and uh a couple people came up to me after and says, Yeah, that's what I if I was David, I'd have said, go get him. That's that's the way we are. But David's different. David's a man after God's own heart And maybe that's one of the reasons he's mentioned more in the Bible than any other man in all scripture apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe that's why God Calls the throne, names the throne that Jesus will reign from in the millennial is called the throne of David. What an amazing man. So let's look at his response here. Let's look how he responds. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? So let him curse, because the Lord has said to him, Curse David, who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? I think the first thing I notice here is David resists vengeance. He resists vengeance. What is vengeance? Somebody talk to me. We're not packed out here tonight. Somebody help me. What is vengeance? Payback, what else? Revenge? Vengeance? Avenge yourself? Vengeance? Revenge? Want to get payback? Want to get even Did you ever hear somebody say this? They're gonna pay for that. It has the idea of punishment behind it. In fact, the Hebrew, the biblical term for vengeance in the Bible, has the idea of punishing them for what they've done. We're going to punish them for that. But David resists vengeance. The Bible teaches us as God's people, the Bible teaches us repeatedly That vengeance is God's prerogative. It is not our prerogative. If you would. Now here we're going to look at some verses. Keep your place here. Come with me back to Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Bible. Deuteronomy, just go backwards here a little bit. Deuteronomy, and find towards the end of Deuteronomy, chapter 32. The whole book of Deuteronomy, I'm reading this in my devotions now, the whole book of Deuteronomy is Moses is rehearsing The laws that God had given to Israel at Mount Sinai, he's rehearsing their experiences in the 40 years in the wilderness. Moses is just about, he's going to die here just briefly. They're going to Joshua's going to take over. They're going to go in the promised land. So they're at the end of their 40-year journey after coming out of Egypt And Moses, again, as I said, is rehearsing God's instructions to them. Some of them were very uh were very uh specific to Israel at that time. But notice in chapter 32, notice verse 35. He makes a important points something out to Israel. It's very important that they needed to understand. Look here what he says. He's speaking for God in God's place. He says, to me, God speaking To me belongeth vengeance and recompense. Their foot, the ones that you're wanting vengeance on, the uh the the uh the uh the offending party That you want to get vengeance on. God says, don't do it. That vengeance belongs to me. Notice what he says, their foot shall slide in due time. For the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste. What is God saying here? God, through Moses, is telling Israel, listen, you've been mistreated, they've done you wrong. Don't you take vengeance into your own hand. I'll take care of that. That's my prerogative. Vengeance is mine. In due time, things are going to play out. In due time, things are going to happen. Anyone here ever, somebody did you wrong, you just said, you know, I'm just going to give this to the Lord. And lo and behold, over a period of time, you saw God took care of it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And I'm telling you, the Bible teaches us vengeance belongs to God, not us. Not us. If you would turn with me to Romans chapter number 12. Again, we see the spiritual maturity of David in his response. We see this heart for God in his response. Romans chapter number 12, back in the New Testament, and look with me if you would at verse 19. Are you there? Everybody find it? Romans 12, verse 19. Verse 18 is interesting. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Now look what he says in verse 19. Dearly beloved, and he's talking very compassionately with him. Dearly beloved, look what it says, avenge not yourself. Don't take that into your hands. Avenge not yourself, but rather give place unto wrath. In other words, put that in its place, put wrath aside. For it is written, Vengeance is mine. God says, that's my prerogative. I will repay. I'll deal with it Come down to verse 19. I like or I'm sorry, verse 21. I like verse 21. Be not overcome evil, but overcome evil with what? Good. What is our natural response want to be? Somebody treats us evil, we want to do what? Give it right back to them. That's vengeance. That's vengeance. And God says, no, don't do that. Somebody's treating you evil, you do it good. Jesus put it this way in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, bless those that curse you Do good to them that despitefully you. Pray for them that curse you. Revile you. Vengeance is not ours, it's God's Now what's the difference between us wanting to do vengeance and God doing vengeance? What would be the difference between the two? Our vengeance is stained with a fallen nature. God's vengeance is pure. God's vengeance is based on his holiness and his wisdom. Did you ever have your boys, uh do you ever have when you had kids Those that had kids, and one of them tries to rebuke and straighten the other one out and deal with it, and you say to them, no, no, no, let dad deal with that. I'll take care of them. Dad knows a little bit better how to deal with that offending party than one that's on their same thing. You follow what I'm saying? God knows a whole lot better how to deal with these folks than we do. And we want to go and chop their heads off. And God says, no, if if that's the best thing, then I'll take care of that. But you just trust me. You just trust me. So David does resist vengeance. He doesn't go and seek vengeance. We must, I put this down, we must not give in to the temptation to take God's role in seeking vengeance. That's God's response. That's God's prerogative. So he displays spirit maturi, first of all, by resisting vengeance. Then if you would, come on back here. Don't lose your place there in Samuel, 2 Samuel. Then he removes all anger. Abishai was angry. Got him angry when Shimei saying this stuff. But you don't see that on David's part. Anger has been removed. Look at verse 10. The king said, What I do with ye, ye sons of Zariah, shall let him curse. Because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David, who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son which came forth in my bowels seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjaminite do it? Let him alone. Let him curse. For the Lord hath bidden him. Do you hear any any hint of anger in any of that? I don't. That does not sound like the voice, the tone of an angry man there. He resists anger. I think you'll agree with me on this. It is very difficult to be criticized without getting angry And it's a hard thing to do. And like we said at the beginning of this little message we've been preaching here the last couple weeks, if you're going to do anything for God, you just mark it down, you're going to be criticized. You try and do anything. You try and try to have any kind of influence at all. Just mark it down. It's coming. Now the hard part is not getting angry. When people criticize us. Maybe you're sincere, just trying to serve God, I just want to do what's best, trying to help people. And man, they just they just stab you in the back, they criticize you, find fault with everything you're trying to do to help them And it's like, uh, I'm gonna take their head off. You gotta put that anger away. It's very difficult. It's not an easy thing. It takes spiritual maturity. It takes real uh self-control I found that most critical people are the ones who get angry when they're criticized. And they'll go off. I wish we had time and we don't. I got a ton of verses. Let me give them to you. Anger, first of all, hurts my testimony. It hurts my testimony. Proverbs chapter 12 and verse 16. The Bible says something. It says this, a fool's wrath, which is anger, a fool's wrath is presently known. But a prudent man covereth shame. I put in the margin of my Bible beside Proverbs 12, 16, everyone knows when a fool gets angry. A fool's wrath is presently known. Oh boy, I tell you, I can blow, I can blow in one instance a testimony took me years to establish I lose my cool and say some stuff. And it's like, oh. So anger I put down hurts my testimony. Second of all, I put it down, it's a work of the flesh. Anger doesn't come from the Holy Spirit. Galatians chapter 5, verse 19 through 21 lists the works of the flesh, and right smack dab in the middle of the works of the flesh is anger, wrath. That is not from the Spirit of God. That's my old sinful nature reacting that way. I put this down: anger needs to be dealt with immediately. Ephesians 4, verse 26 says, Be ye angry and sin not, and let not the sun go down upon your what? Wrath. He's saying deal with it. When you get angry, don't sin by holding on to it and reacting to it and expressing it. You get rid of it. And right away, don't let the sun go down on it. You deal with it immediately Now we can't help getting angry sometimes, but we can help how we respond to my anger. That anger flares up. Alright, don't let it become sin. Don't start expressing and reacting and let it take over me. That would be sin. But don't let the sun go down with it. Deal with it immediately. And then anger is not to be tolerated Let me give you some verses. Ephesians 4. 31, Colossians 3. 8. Both of them say this: put off all anger, all A-L-L, anger, wrath, malice. Put it off. Put it off. Put it off. I know what I'm saying isn't easy. Soul's sinful nature can be awfully angry. And we need to keep give that to the Lord. We need to, like I preached Sunday morning, die to self and not let that control us So first he resisted vengeance. Number two, he removed anger. He didn't let anger take over when he's here in Shemiah. Let me quickly give you the last couple here. He remembered his own sinfulness. This is important. Come back here to Samuel again, 2 Samuel 16. Did you notice what he said in verse 11? He says, to Abishai and his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my bowels, seeketh my life. How much more so this Benjamin might do it? You know, when he referenced Absalom seeking his life, you know what I think David had in mind? This is all the consequences of a decision I made some years ago to disobey God. And here's Shemi up there, and it's tempting to look how sinful he is. and how filthy his mouth is, and how deceitful and lying, what a liar he is. But David looked in and said, you know, I've got no room to condemn. I've got no right to stand in judgment of him because I'm a sinner myself. And I tell you, it'll help us in our relationship with other people. If we'll remember that we are just as sinners as they are. We are just as fallen as they are. Now by the grace of God and by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, we can be cleansed. God can give us a new life, but in no way Does that make us any better than anyone else? And in no way does that give us the right to stand in judgment of anyone else. Remember our own sinfulness. It's a clear reference to the consequences of his own actions. I put this down. When I'm criticized, remember I'm far worse than what they realize I am. David was more than just what Shemi was lying about him. David was an adulterer. David was a liar. David was a murderer. He knew that. And so it was hard to respond. It's hard to respond. I'm no better than my critic is Uh years ago there was some folks and I had been here a few years and there's a few folks that started got got out of sorts with me. I know that's hard to believe, but um uh there's some things they didn't like. And uh Or they would say, well, you're this. And I had uh one in particular would say, you're this and you're that, and they'd say these things about me. And uh finally I just said to them this, I said, listen I'm far worse than you realize I am. If you knew how bad I really was, it would really set you off. And the fact of the matter is when people criticize us, we know in our hearts we're far worse sinners than they even realize we are. And that will help us a lot. Say, oh, listen, if you only knew. Now here's the thing. Here's the thing. God knows us perfectly. He knows all our sin. And he still loves me. And he still uses me and he'll still work with me. So don't let the critic that says this stuff, that's not true, that's not true. Well, if the truth was known about me Anybody here? I wonder how many if we announce this Sunday night, we're going to put up on the screens and we've developed a device that reads your mind, all your memories, and everything you thought, and we recorded it And we're showing it this Sunday night on the screen. And uh I wonder how many of us would show up if it was us. I think I'd take a trip to New Mexico again or something So David, he remembers, he remembers his own sinfulness. And then last of all, he refuses to be discouraged. Now, this is tough. Discouragement. He makes a decision. I'm not going to let this discourage me. Look there in verse 12. It may be that the Lord will look on my affliction. And that the Lord will requite me good this day for his cursing this day. You know what he's saying? He said, I'm just going to trust God with this. I'm just going to put this in God's hand. I'm not going to let this drag me down. I'm going through the lowest point in my life. I'm not going to let this drag me down. I'm going to turn this whole thing over to God. I'm going to put this whole thing in God's hands And I'm going to trust his mercy. I'm going to trust God's pity. I'm going to trust God's grace. And he just put it in the hands of God. I tell you, the most encouraging thing to know is this. Whatever situation I'm in, the most encouraging thing to know is this. It's in God's hands. God's got my back. God will take care of me. God is merciful, and I'm just going to trust him with it. I put it this way: have faith in God. Just trust him. Just trust him. That's what David did. That's what David did. I read about a preacher. Someone in his congregation started pointing out his faults to him. And uh they took it upon uh I knew a pre I'll just vote of this. I knew a preacher years ago, he used to say, he told me this one time, he says, I think God's given me the gift of criticism I said, well, I no doubt you have the gift, but I'm not sure God gave it to you. This preacher, somebody in this church, took upon themselves to be his critic And uh they felt obligated to point out every little flaw and fault and everything they disagreed with and every little thing about his preaching and his leadership But he said this, he said in uh I read this, he said, instead of retaliating against that person or trying to defend themselves He looked at the person and said, if what you're saying is true, will you pray for me? I thought, boy, what a way to deal with it. You just pray for me. You just pray for me. I read about another preacher, Joseph Parker. He was a very popular preacher in England years ago, hundred plus years ago. And uh he had a big uh church in London. One of his serv one of his church members came up to him afterward, one of the listeners in the service said, Dr. Parker, you made a grammatical error in your sermon Grammatical error in your sermon. And then they proceeded to point out the error to Pastor Dr. Parker. And finally he looked at the man and said, This, and what else did you get out of the message? What a great response. What a great response. I've kind of done this and I had a preacher years ago felt obligated to write me a letter every couple months and tell me everything I was doing wrong here as a young preacher. Now we weren't this and I wasn't doing that and I wasn't preaching this right and he'd give me this little list of stuff. And the Lord gave me, I think, wisdom to deal with it. And I would write back to him. I said, thank you for your concern. For me in our church. And I ask that you pray that God will give me wisdom and that I'll do the right thing. God bless you. And that was my pattern. I bet I sent him five of them. Just like then. Just like that. And I think that's a good way to respond. When somebody starts criticizing, don't get angry, don't go for vengeance. Just remember how sinful we are. Put it in God's hands. And just go on for God. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us in a fallen world, in a critical world. Help us, Lord, keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and press on. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I tend to want to get vengeance. I'm like Abishai I don't want to go around and chop people's heads off. Anybody like that? Tend to be that way. Yeah, if we're honest. Come on. I wonder if there's any of us here who would say, you know, preacher, sometimes I just want to take things in my own hand. I have a hard time giving it over to the Lord. Just putting in God's hands. You say, preacher, pray with me. That'll teach me. Just put that in God's hands. Anybody like that? Sure. My hands are raised. And maybe this matter of just remembering our own sinfulness. We get so proud, so self-righteous. We do. We just need to remember that we're all in the same boat. We're all sinners. And we need the Lord to help us, Father bless now invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen.