Let me make sure I'm on here. I want to look at um verse number eighteen for our text this morning. We're gonna look at verse nineteen a little bit also. And I gotta tell you, I didn't even think about it till this morning. This has been a wild week. We spent Monday and Tuesday in Nashville, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday in Philly and Wednesday in Oakland. And so I didn't even think about it. I've been preparing and working all week on the Methodist. It's never entered my mind that this is Autumn Glory weekend. Today is Autumn Glory and I want to speak on the glory of God. And I didn't plan that. This verse was on my heart early in the week, and so I developed this. And so, verse 18 of Exodus chapter 13, I'd like for us to read that verse together. Just a short little statement But I'd like for us to read it together in unison. Exodus 13, verse 18. All together, here we go. Ready? And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. I want to speak this morning. I've entitled the message, Show Me Your Glory. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. We come to you this morning, and uh we're very grateful for your goodness to us, Lord. I know I, and no doubt many others, maybe all of us, take your goodness for granted. And we see the things around us and we experience our freedoms and our prosperity and all this, and we take it for granted, Lord, we don't want to do that. And so we are grateful. And I ask God that this morning, with our Bibles opened in front of us, that your Holy Spirit would take some of these passages and these thoughts from these passages. And challenge us, speak to our hearts concerning our spiritual well-being, and whether there's someone here that does not have assurance of sins forgiven, never been born again into the family of God. Maybe there's others that have been, but Lord, we haven't taken our spiritual well-being very seriously. I ask that your Holy Spirit would convict us of that and prompt us. To consider these things. Lord, I can't do that. It has to be your spirit. So I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew this hour. And again, with all my heart, Lord, as always, I ask you fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I know we have to be very careful about comparing people with others and saying this one's greater than that one. But as I look through the Bible and I see some great men and women of God, great people of God throughout the Bible, I like to uh study their lives and give them consideration. And I got thinking, who is the greatest man of God? In Scripture, of course, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And by that I mean this. Who exemplifies what a man of faith should be? Who best exemplifies the presence of God in their life and the purpose of God being lived out in their life? Who best represents that? And so I got thinking down through the list, and a lot of them many times come to all of our minds. We think of great men of God, great men of faith. We think of Abraham In my mind, Abraham is a tremendous man of faith, a tremendous example of what it means to trust God completely. And I think that is displayed in his the issue with offering up Isaac as a sacrifice. How many fathers here agree with me? That seems like God asking too much to give up my son in a sacrifice to God. Yet Abraham didn't question God. Abraham, as far as we can tell in Scripture, never hesitated. He was absolutely convinced that even if he did Kill his son and offer him up as a sacrifice, God was able and God would raise him up again because that is who the promised seed was through. What an example of faith To trust God to that extent. And so when I think of great men of God and great examples of what it means to have faith in God and to trust God and obey Him I think of Abraham. But I also think of, as I go through scripture, I think of Joseph. What a great man of integrity Joseph was And tried and tested over and over and over, from a young man all the way through to the end of his life. He went through trial after trial after trial. Yet the Bible says that God was with him. And he stayed true to his integrity, and he stayed true to his God, and God honored that And at the end of Genesis in chapter fifty and t at the end of Joseph's life, he makes that great statement to his brothers who had betrayed him and sold him. were intended to murder him. And he says to them, Ye meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Mercy, what a testimony of faith. Oh, what an example for you and I to simply trust God, even when things are said or done against us that are unfair or untrue. Even when we're forgotten, even when we are in our minds mistreated, yet to trust God completely and maintain our integrity and see God's hand in all of it What a tremendous testimony of faith Joseph is. So I thought about Abraham as being a great man of God, of Joseph being a great man of God. We're studying David on Wednesday nights. And I am falling in love with David. What a man of faith. What a man of integrity. What a man of courage. What a man of passion. Was he perfect? No. Did he mess up? Yes. But I'm telling you, in so many ways, David displayed for you and I what it means to love the Lord with all your heart. And so I think of Abraham as a great man of God. Joseph, a great man of God, David. Think of Elijah. And the power of God that rested upon Elijah. And he would pray, and God would hold back the rain. And he could pray down fire from heaven. Imagine that, having such power in prayer, I could pray down fire from heaven. Boy, that would have helped me on camping trips many, many times over the years. And to stand true to God in the face of 400 false prophets. And so I think of Abraham, I think of Joseph, David, Elijah, I think of the Apostle Paul. What a testimony of zeal for the gospel. Fearless in preaching the gospel to every creature. Undaunted. He says, I am willing to die for the gospel's sake. And so I look at these great men through Scripture and I see their examples. of having faith in God and being completely dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel. And I'm challenged. And I think they have, they display But I believe ought to be true to s at least to some extent in my life and all of our lives. But having said and listed as just a handful, and you can no doubt think of many others In my mind, far head and shoulders above all of these, and this is my opinion, is the great man Moses. What a man of God Moses was. In so many aspects, we think of Moses' great faith. And trusting God and coming back down into Egypt after he had been raised in the household of Pharaoh and after he had uh messed up and murdered an Egyptian and no doubt a wanted man living in the backside of a desert. Yet God says, I'm going to send you down there and I'm going to use you to lead my people out of bondage. And he trusted God. We read this morning in Sunday school a prayer letter. Brother Charlie read the prayer letter of a young couple out of Ohio, church uh Milford, Ohio, and they're now in China, the DePew family Little babies. And they pack up everything they own. And they leave the only land they've ever known. And they go literally to the other side of the world. To a language that is so different from the language they know, a culture that is so different from the culture they've only, the only culture they've ever known. Into a somewhat hostile environment, hostile to Christianity. And they devote themselves to reach those peoples with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is that is a tremendous act of faith. And I see that in Moses, as he is willing to leave the life he's lived for forty years and come down and confront Pharaoh. I see great faith in Moses' part. I see great boldness on the part of Moses as he stands before Pharaoh, no doubt one of, if not the, most powerful man in the world at that time, humanly speaking. And he confronts Pharaoh to his face and he says, Let my people go! What audacity! What boldness! But he's speaking on behalf of God, and he is relentless. And of course, you know the events that took place there, and how Pharaoh would uh refuse, refuse, refuse, and then he would relent a little bit, then he changed his mind. And yet yet Moses was unchanging, it was steadfast, let my people go Until God brings the plagues and finally Pharaoh gives in and lets the people go. I see the boldness of Moses, and I think, man, God, if I could have just some of that boldness In this world we live in today, in this ungodly world we live in today, to stand for God, steadfast, true. I see the faith of Moses. I see the boldness of Moses. But then on the other hand, I see the meekness of Moses. Now, what does it mean to be meek? The best definition I know of what it means to be meek is simply strength with restraint. Strength with restraint. I saw I've used this illustration a number of times over the years, but the idea of meekness By the way, meekness is not weakness. Somebody can be very, very meek, but be very, very strong. The best word picture, the best visualization I ever saw in my mind anyway, of what meekness is, I saw a picture one time, this little video, of a lioness A mother, and she had little cubs there, and with that lioness, with that powerful jaws of that lion, which she could shred an animal, uh, uh, a um uh what do they kill? They um Everything. Uh gazelles. And she could take that with her jaws and just pull that muscles apart and break those bones with her jaws, the power in the jaw of that lioness. And yet she took those very same jaws and would pick up that little cub, uh, little, are they cubs? Cub lion, and pick that thing up, and she would carry it with the most tender care. And gracious and kind. She could crush that thing without even thinking. But she's very, very, I thought that is a picture of meekness Moses had God's power on his life. Yet he's meek. In fact, in uh I believe it's Numbers chapter 12 and verse 3, God says this that Moses was very meek above all the men upon the face of the earth. You know what this world could use? This world could use a little meekness. I could hurt you, but I'm not going to. I want to be gracious. I want to be kind. And so I look at Moses and I analyze his life and I see tremendous faith. I see tremendous boldness. I see this man that God says is very meek above all the men of the earth. And I see in Moses tremendous compassion. Tremendous compassion. You know, it's one thing to be right. It's one thing to be bold and courageous and strong. But it's another thing to be all those things, and yet at the same time be compassionate. Be compassionate. If you would, take your Bibles and turn over to chapter, well, chapter 33. Come back. 32, I'm sorry. Chapter 32, just back a page. And look with me, if you would, at verse 31 and 32. Israel had sinned grievously. Moses got very, very angry, and he smashed the tablets. We know the story, the Ten Commandments, one of the stone tablets. He smashes them. And God begins to express that he is going to destroy these children of Israel that he brought out of Egypt. And Moses makes one of the most compassionate statements you're going to find in all the world. Verse number 31 of Exodus chapter 32. Look what he says. And Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Now listen, pay attention to what he says here. Oh, this people have sinned a great sin and have made them gods of gold. Wow, that sounds like America, doesn't it? We worship our prosperity. They've sinned a great sin, God. They've made them gods of gold. Look what he says, verse 32. Yet now If thou wilt forgive their sin. Now, question: look at your Bible there. What follows that statement? There's something unusual there. What is it? Talk to me, what is it? There's a little hyphen there, there's a little dash there. What does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. It means this. He's praying to God. He says, God. Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin and Moses pauses before the presence of God And it's like in my mind, as I study this, this is what I see, it's kind of like he's debating whether he wants to make this next statement or not. But he has to And he says this. And if not, if you won't forgive them, God, if you're going to destroy them, if you will not forgive them, look what he says: blot me I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written. What is Moses saying here? He's saying, God, I'm pleading with you. Please forgive your people. They've sinned grievously. Please forgive them. God If you won't forgive them, God judge me in their place. Let me take the consequences of their sin. God, I will forfeit my relationship, my eternal destiny. Block me out. But just be pa be gracious to them. What compassion is that? That reminds me of the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 10, where he says If I could, I would be cut off. I'm not quoting this exactly right, but I would be willing to forfeit my salvation if my people could just be saved. I read that and I think and I examine myself and I wonder how great is my concern for others? How shallow is my own burden for the loss? How many times are we unwilling to give up an hour or give up a little bit of time to invest in getting some other people saved? How often are we unwilling to invest uh to give up or invest a little bit of money or s or or effort into getting others to Christ because it's inconvenient or it's not I'm not that interested. And here we have a man who is willing to sacrifice his own salvation. For the well-being of others. How many of us? It's hard to believe that any of us would be willing to go to hell for someone else's salvation when we're not even willing to give 15 minutes to talk to someone about Christ. I look at Moses and I see his faith. I see his boldness and I see this meekness and this compassion for others, his concern for the loss, and I thank God I need some of that in my life. What a man of God this Moses is. He is the only person in all of Scripture. Now, this is in my mind is mind-boggling He's the only man that God compares Jesus to. Now, Jesus is a sinless, perfect, eternal Son of God. And in Hebrews, God says Jesus is like Moses. And I think, my word, what kind of man is this? That the Son of God is compared to. Now, it would be how how many would agree? It would be a great honor for God to say, there's Dennis, or for any of us, but say, There's Dennis, and he's a lot like my son Jesus. It's what Christians are, little Christ. We're to represent him, we're to be conformed to his image. But here you have God saying Jesus is like Moses in some regards. Wow. So I look at these men in the Bible, and there's some tremendously great men and great examples, and I see from them, and of course, like I said, we don't want to compare this one's better than that. Each had their role to play, each had their place, but Moses. And I look at Moses and I think, there is something. There is a man that I would like to have a little bit of what he was. I would like to be a little bit. His intimacy with God. Look at verse, we're in chapter 33. Look up at verse 11. 33 verse 11. Notice what the Bible says. And the Lord spake unto Moses, look at this, face to face as a man speaketh unto his what? Friend. Friend. Wow. Moses had such intimacy with God is like two friends. Speaking together. How many folks, when you get around with your friends, you got a real good close friend, and it's just the two of you? How many folks you talk a little bit different with them than you do with maybe folks out in general and think. Anyone here? Yeah, you talk about stuff and you joke about things. You might say things between the two of them that you wouldn't say to others. I mean you're comfortable. You have that intimacy there. We're close friends. That's the way Moses was with God I tell you what gets on my nerves sometimes, and I'm not trying to be critical totally, but um sometimes people pray, now God Which are in heaven. And they go with these elaborate words and they're talking listen, I believe there ought to be reverence to God, but there comes a point when we get to know the Lord and we walk with God, we become so intimate, it's kind of like Abba Father. Oh God. I can pour my heart out to him. I can talk to him like I'm talking to a friend. That's the way Moses was. His intimacy with God, his boldness, his prayer life was amazing. And that brings us to our text. Chapter 33 and verse number 18, Moses says to God, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. I can't find an equivalent prayer anywhere else in Scripture. I cannot find an A mag. I can't find a prayer of this magnitude anywhere else in Scripture where somebody says to God, God, I beseech you. Show me thy glory. I think this may be one of the greatest prayer requests. That a man has ever made to God. Show me thy glory. Now, here's my thoughts. My first thought is this I see, first of all, Moses' supplication for God's glory. Moses' supplication for God's glory. Now, what do we mean by supplication? Somebody talk to me. If we're talking about somebody's making supplication to God, what are they doing? Talk to me now. Are you awake? Everybody alright? They're asking for something. Now that's a big $24 word, supplication. You don't walk into Walmart and find an associate and say, I'd like to make supplication from you. Right? They'd they'd have you arrested, probably, I don't know. He'd walk up and say, Hey, I have a question. I have a request. But Moses uses an interesting term here. He says, look at the verse here again. He says He doesn't say, God, I ask thee of this. He says, I what? I beseech thee. That beseech is in along the lines with supplicate. It has this idea to request something very, very intently. It has this idea to plead earnestly When Moses approaches God and he opens his prayer with, I beseech thee. That tells me that this is not just a little curiosity on the part of Moses. Moses isn't curious. Well, I wonder what God looks like. I'm kind of curious. You hear about the little kid in Sunday school, they told him to draw pictures of different things they're drawing, and the teacher goes, What are you drawing? I'm drawing my daddy on a tractor. Nice. I'm drawing a horse riding down the walking across a river. What are you drawing? I'm drawing an airplane flying through the air. What are you drawing? I'm drawing a picture of God. The teacher said, God? Nobody knows what God looks like. He says, when I'm done they will When Moses says to God, he says, I beseech thee. He's not just asking this out of curiosity. I wonder what God looks like. He really, really wanted to know God. And he says, God, I I want to know what you are. I know I want to know what you're like. He was intense in this desire. And that request, that statement, I beseech thee, tells me something. Moses took his relationship with God very, very seriously. God was not just a little subject to talk about to Moses. God was not just a curiosity. He wasn't just a theory. He wasn't just a theological debate to make with other people. God was a very real being That Moses was intensely serious about knowing God and who he was and what he's like and what that meant to Moses. And I'll tell you what we need in our homes, in our churches, in our nation, our Christians who get serious about their relationship with God. Because I am very much afraid that Christianity, at least in America, has become a little hobby A little something we do on the side. Our relationship with God is something we put in a box and we simply pull it out when it's convenient. And Moses said, I will not be that way. God is very important to me. I am serious about my relationship with my Creator. I tell you what, our homes need. Our homes need some daddies and some mothers who take their relationship with God very, very seriously. And it is not just a little when I have time for, and it's not just a little convenience thing, and it's not Christianity is not just a little title I tag on to myself. No, it is what I am, it is who I am, it is the most important thing in my life. My relationship with my God and my creator. Moses was very, very serious about his spiritual well-being. He was very, very earnest about his standing before God He wanted to know God, who he is, what he's like, what he means, what is expected of me. Tell you, we do our homes a heap of good when moms and dads start taking their Christianity seriously. Do our churches a heap of good. If church folk and hey, if preachers started taking the relationship with God seriously. We have a uh an atmosphere in Christianity in America today where Christianity is nothing but good times, rock and roll, have fun, get your own way. It's all about me, what I want, how I feel And our relationship with God has been so watered down that it's killing us. I'll tell you what revival is. I've been praying for revival in my heart and in our church. I'll tell you what revival is. Revival is when Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church gets serious about our relationship with our God We get serious about living for the Lord, of knowing God. Enough of this arguing about what God is like, but knowing God, seeing His glory, understanding Him And what that means to us. I'll tell you what would do our country good is churches getting serious about a relationship with God, Christians getting serious about God This playing Christianity in America is killing our country. Oh those thinking liberals, oh those progressives, those Democrats, oh this, that, that. I'll tell you where the problem is, Christians playing games with Christianity. Revival comes when my people humble themselves and confess their sins and seek my faith Turn from their wicked ways. That's what Moses is doing. He's seeking God's face. He wants to know God. He's serious about it. Do our families a heap of good. Do our children or I tell you what help our children a lot. Moms and dad take seriously their relationship with God. Tell you what kills our children is mom and dad are just play Christianity and the kids see nothing real about it and it means nothing to them. Do our country, our tr our our nation, our children, our families, a heap of good. I read about a fellow, true story And he, as a young man, as a very young man, he established a goal for his life, and his goal was to be a millionaire by the time he was 45 years old The record said that he reached that goal two years early. By the time he was 43, he became a millionaire, had a million dollars up in savings. But it did not satisfy. His business had crowded out his time for God, left his heart and life empty, and left his soul unfulfilled. And eventually his oldest son, at one point after he reached his million, his oldest son was killed in an automobile accident. And it turned his world upside down. He became despondent and dishearted. Finally, in his despair and in the darkness of grief, He decided that he was going to let bring God back into his life again. He had pushed the Lord out of his life And as he drove to church one Sunday morning after his son was killed, he said this later, he testified this later, he says, as I was driving to church, I admitted to myself I really did not want to go to church. That was not what I was after. I did not want to stay home either. He said there was one thing and one thing only that consumed my heart and mind, and that was to know God. I had to know God. Now listen, church is important, but you can go to church and not know God. You can memorize verses. You can know all about God. You can tell me all the moral attributes of God. You can tell me all the natural attributes of God. And yet not know God. And Moses said, I am not satisfied with just knowing about God. I am not satisfied with just playing with this God relationship I want to see his glory. I beseech you, God. I want to suggest to you the most important relationship in my life and in your life is our relationship with our Creator. Our relationship with our Savior. But the tragic thing is, in your average Christian heart and mind, God and our relationship with my God and my Savior. is pushed aside. It's a little thing I play with, maybe a little couple hours a week. Moses said, none of that for me. God, show me your glory. Show me your glory. Moses was not satisfied with what he thought God was like. What he thought God was like. Here's what we do. I'm guilty of this. I imagine in my mind what God is like. How he would operate, what he will do, what he won't do, what he thinks of me, and what he thinks of my actions, what he thinks of others. And I build up this image in my mind In my imagination as to what God is like and all of that. But then God doesn't act, and God doesn't operate the way I imagine him to. And what becomes the result of that? We begin to doubt God. And I think one of the reasons so many people doubt God and question God and and have so many doubts and over even unbelief is because they built this imaginary God in their mind and then God is not what they imagined him to be and when he doesn't operate and he doesn't uh behave and respond the way they imagine he will. Then they say, well I don't believe in him He didn't operate the way I thought he would. He didn't function the way I thought he would. And Moses is saying to God, God, I don't want to just be what I think you are. I want you to reveal yourself what you really are. That's how people can justify their sin. That's how you have whole society out there. And there's sins that the Bible clearly teaches are wrong, are clearly abominable to God. And yet they build up this God in their imagination where God is fine and God is happy with something that His Word says is an abomination to them. And they build this imaginary God. And Moses says, Lord, I don't want my imagination of who and what you are to dominate me. I want all that pushed aside. I'm beseeching you, show me who you really are. I tell you what, there's going to be a lot of shocked people when they die and stand before God and find out that he was not what they thought he was. So he pleased with God. God, I don't want to be what I think you are. I want to know what you really are. There's uh there's several examples of this in Scripture. Does anybody recognize the name Naaman? in scripture. Who was naming? Somebody talk to me. You guys are a little lethargic this morning. It was what? I'm going to walk back here to wake you up. All right? I know you were out partying at parades all day yesterday. But what I'm preaching is important. Who was what was I talking about? It's important. Remind me, it's important. Name it Who was Naaman? He was a captain of the Assyrian army, pagan, wicked. Some have suggested, some Jewish historians have suggested that Naaman was the guy that pulled an arrow at venture. That shot and killed Ahab. And uh Naaman has what? Leprosy. And as powerful he is, and as influential as he is, and the control he has over thousands, tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of soldiers, he can do nothing about his leprosy. He's doomed. He's helpless. There's no difference between Naaman with leprosy and a little five-year-old kid with leprosy. He can do nothing more about it than that little child. He is hopelessly doomed to death. But I love this story. There's a little maid And she believed in the true and living God. Thirteen, fourteen years old, we don't know. And she's taken captive from Israel, and Naaman's wife, I guess, hires her, and she's the maid there in the house, helping out, little old slave girl, so to speak. And Naaman is obviously he's sick, he's got leprosy, it's not good, he no doubt doesn't have long to live, and the little maid says, Oh, that my master, we're back in Israel. And again, I'm not quoting correctly, but God could make him well. Prophet Sarah could make him well. And that little girl had such an impeccable testimony that the most powerful man in the Syrian army believed her. And he responds, and they go. And through a series of events, he finally ends up with Elijah, and Elijah says, Go wash in the river seven times. And then he makes a statement. This is what I was getting to. I'll put it in my words, okay? I ain't washing in no river. I ain't doing it. I thought he would come out here and do this, that, and the other. He had imagined in his mind How God would respond, what God would do. And when God didn't act according to his imagination, he got angry, he didn't believe any of it, and he stormed off. And if it had not been with some of his servants that said, hey, if they told you to do some great thing, you'd have done it, hey, what's it hurt? Try it. Lo and behold, God comes through. And Moses is saying here, I think, so to speak, I don't want to be like Naaman I don't want to just imagine what God is like. I don't want to just imagine what his standards are. I don't want to just imagine what God says is right and wrong. I don't want to just imagine how God acts. I want to know him I want to know what he really is and how he really responds. I want to see his glory And he's earnest about that. He's not interested in what he thinks God is like. And by the way, he's not interested in what other people say God is like. How many people ever witnessed to somebody and they something, well, I think God You ever hear that? Well I I just don't think I just don't believe God would ever send anyone to hell Well, I think God is this. God is too good to do that, and I think this about God, and I think that about God. Everybody thinks something about God. But God is what God is, regardless of what anybody says he is, or what we think he might be. He is what he is. He is what he is. Down in his heart and soul, he wanted God to show him his glory. He beseeched God. Now Moses had seen God's wrath He saw God in one night kill the firstborn of every Egyptian in that entire huge nation. He saw God turn water into blood. He saw God turn dust into lice. He saw the wrath of God. He saw the power of God when he held out his rod. And the Red Sea parted, he knew God was angry against sin. He knew God was powerful in this world. He saw the holiness of God on Mount Sinai when God, with his own finger, gave the Ten Commandments, the standard that God requires of His people, of mankind that He created. He saw God's wrath, he saw God's power, he saw God's holiness. But now he says, I want to see your glory. That brings me to my second point. The first is Moses' supplication for God's glory. And then we have the substance of God's glory. Now I'll be honest with you, this point's difficult. What is God's glory? What is that? Well, I looked the word up and it has a Slew of meanings, different used many different ways. The one word and the most basic meaning of it is simply brightness. We turn the lights on, they get bright. That's one of the meanings of the word glory. Did Moses say, God, I want to see how bright you are? I think there's more to it than that. The word is used to refer to someone's honor. Somebody came out in all their glory. All their honor, their splendors, in other words, one of the terms of the word glory is to be weighty, heavy, have a lot of influence. And so I'm looking how the word is used in reference to God throughout Scripture, and how Moses uses the term, Lord, I beseech thee, I want show me thy glory. I thought what does he mean? I think the word glory is just about impossible to define, particularly as it's used here. Let me ask you this. How would you define the word beauty? How would you define that? Beauty, what does it mean? Well, it means pretty What does that mean? Well, it's attractive. Well, there are some concepts that are just difficult to define. Would you agree with me? How do you define color, what color is to a blind person? How would you define that? How would you define what music is to a deaf person? How do you define God's glory to men and women who are blinded in sin? What is God's glory? I know what the word means, but how does it apply to God? Well, Psalms 19:1 says, the heavens declare God's glory. In John chapter 1, we are told that God's glory was revealed in the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's my attempted definition. When Moses said, Show me thy glory, here is my attempted definition of that. The manifestation. Now I'm going to use some terms here just to show you that I'm really educated. Here's my definition: the manifestation of all of God's characteristics combined. God is holy, God is omnipotent God is eternal. And I think when Moses says, Show me thy glory, he wanted to see God in all of his fullness. He wanted to understand God, every attribute displayed in one manifestation, God's glory In Revelation, you find people before the throne of God. You know how they respond? Humility. Thou art worthy. Unto thee the honor and glory, power, the glory of God. I'm telling you, we have established in our minds such a small little minuscule pips of squeenie God God in his glory is incomprehensible And Moses makes this audacious request: show me yourself in every manifestation. I want to see you for who and what you are. A powerful request. So what is the substance of God? Then I struggle with this. What is God's glory? How do I comprehend that? And how is this displayed? How would God manifest Himself with all his attributes in their fullness at once. And God answers it in verse 19. He tells us. Look at verse 19 with me. And he, God said, now get it, 18, he says, show me thy glory. Verse 19, God responds, I will make all my what? Goodness pass before thee. I'll make my goodness pass before thee. I think God is telling Moses here, you want to see my glory? I'll show you my goodness. And I think this one statement perhaps sums up God's glory as well as any other statement. God is good. In the purest form of the word, God is good Somebody says, what is God like? God is good. He's good in his holiness, in his power, and his wisdom. He said, I'll make my goodness pass before thee. Now, the question comes up. We read down through there, Brother Matt did. And he says that um uh the Lord said, verse twenty one, There's a place by me thou shalt stand upon a rock, and it come to pass that my gl uh while my glory passeth by I'll put thee in a cleft of rock. I will cover thee with my hand while I pass by, I will take away mine hand. Thou shalt see my back parts, but not my face shalt not be seen. Now here's the question that comes up in my mind. What did Moses see? Well we know this. The Bible is very, very clear. I'll give you a little Doctrine here on God. The Bible is very, very clear: God is not physical. Are you with me? God is not physical. He is not a material being, he is a spiritual being. When God passed, when God's goodness and God's glory passed by Moses as he was in that cleft of the rock, Moses did not see a physical form of God. Do you know why he didn't see a physical form of God? Because God does not have a physical form. He told the woman of the well that uh Jesus told the woman of the well that God has not flesh and blood. He is a spirit. God is an immaterial being, personal being, uh uh an actual being, but he is not physical, he is material. He has no physical form. Moses was in the presence of God, and I believe he saw the attributes of God. It was the glory of all that God is, of all the sum of God is who passed by him, and he saw the manifestation of God's attributes. Now that's God's greatest glory is that he's good. That he's good. Three times the Bible says in the Gospels, there is none good but God. And all mankind falls short. What does Romans 3:23 tell us? For all sin and come short of the glory of God. None of us live up to that goodness because there's none good but God only. I wish I had time. He references, he says, I'll show mercy to whom I will show mercy, and wrath to whom I show math. That's the sovereignty of God's glory. And by the way, that does not mean God chooses some people to be saved and some people to go to hell. It simply means God calls the shots. God is in charge. God is in control. And in his sovereignty, he declared that those who turn from their sin put their faith in Jesus Christ. He will show mercy to those, and those that reject him and go on in their unbelief, he will not show mercy to. That's all that means Let me ask you a question. Are you serious about your relationship with God? With the one that created you, with the one we're going to have to answer to Have you built up some imaginary God with imaginary rights and wrongs and imaginary requirements of us? Or do you know the true and living God? You say, how do I know what God really is? How do I know? You say, I want to see God's glory. Open your Bible. And here God has revealed himself to us. Who he is, who we are, and where we stand before him. Are you serious about it? These kids. Down in children's church, the teenagers, whether they're church kids or bus kids, they're no different in God's sight. And they need moms and dads that are serious about their relationship with God. They need Sunday school teachers that are serious about their relationship with God. They need youth pastor and pastor and deacons and trustees and choir members that are serious. About our relationship with God. And stop playing. Say, you know, I'm going to be what God saved me to be. I'm going to be that person God created me. I'm going to make my relationship with Him the most important relationship in my life. And you'll find everything falls into place. Let's pray. Father in heaven, there's so much more. But I ask you to stir our hearts. Help us, dear Lord. To know you. Help us, dear Lord, to be serious in studying and finding you out. Who you are and what you are, what we what you expect of us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I trusted Christ. I have turned from my sin. I've accepted Him as my personal Savior. Or you say, you know, I've really not done much since then. And I need to develop this relationship with God, and I need to get to know who this Savior is that I've trusted. What he's like and what he expects of me and what he wants to do for me and through me and with me. You would say, preacher, my prayer this morning is earnestly, I want God to show me his glory that I can know him. And live for him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I know I'm safe. Oh, I want to develop my relationship with my God, at least to some extent that Moses desired. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe we ought to do what Moses did. Ask God. God, reveal yourself to me. Show me. Show me your glory, Lord, this week, in your word, in life. And there's some here this morning say, Preacher, there's some areas in my life that I know, and we do this. We're such a sinful being, but you say, I know. I build up these imaginary things about God that I even know they're not right. But I hold on to them. And you say, I want to push all that aside. I'm going to take seriously what God really is. Is there any like that? Which are some areas in my life I know they're not right. I know they're not what they ought to be. But I need that made right. Any at all. So there's someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I tell you the awful thing to stand before this God unforgiven. You can say, preacher, I need to know I'm forgiven. I need to know I'm saved. Is there any like that? At all? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Father, bless us now. I pray you'd use these thoughts and challenge us. Reveal yourself. Revive us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the invitation. Now's a good time.