Chapter number seven, if you would, turn to your Bibles. I'll tell you a little song that's been going through my head. I don't know where it came from all week long. And um uh we used to sing it with the kids on the sunny school buses back years ago when I was in Bible college in different places But um it goes like this. I thought it was pretty good for a new year. It goes like this. Oh you're gonna love this. This is gonna be great. Um here we go Read your Bible, pray every day, pray every day, pray every day. Read your Bible, pray every day, and you'll grow, grow, grow. Sing it with me. And you'll grow, grow, grow. And you'll grow, grow, grow. Read your Bible, pray every day, and you'll grow. Grow, grow. Now there's a second verse goes like this. Neglect your Bible. Neglect to pray. Neglect to pray. Neglect to pray. Neglect your Bible. Forget to pray. Angel shrink, shrink, shrink. And you'll shrink, shrink, shrink, and you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. Read your Bible, forget to pray, and you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. Read your Bible, pray every day, and you'll grow, grow, grow. Wasn't that great? I'm gonna have CDs available for that. That is such a simple little song and just a simple little concept, but there is tremendous truth To that. And I want to challenge all of us before we get into our method. I want to challenge all of us this coming year. Let's not just sing that Let's implement that into our lives. Let's practice that. And just make a vow or a commitment or a resolution, whatever you want to call it. But just determine, I'm going to spend a little bit of time every day reading my Bible, and I want to forget to pray. I'm going to pray every day. And you'll be amazed. Did you notice when I neglected my Bible, I forgot to pray, I disappeared? Tell you it, whatever happened to so-and-so, I'll never see them. Generally, it began because they neglected their Bible, forgot to pray So keep that in place. Amen? And so if you don't get anything out of this morning service, if you walk out of here singing that little song and it has an impact on your life and you read your Bible and pray every day, I think it'd be worth the service. But all right, 1 Corinthians, Genesis chapter number 7. I want us to notice, verse number 16, and I would like for us to read this together in unison. Genesis chapter 7. And verse number 16. Y'all got it there? Let's read it together. Ready? And they went in, went, wait a minute. Let's start over. Hold it. We're going to read this King James version, not Dennis Leatherman version here. Ready? Here we go. And they that went in Went in male and female of all flesh as God had commanded him. Now notice this, and the Lord shut him in. I want to speak this morning on that little phrase, the Lord shut him in, shut into the ark. So let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the service this morning. My heart has been blessed in the Sunday school hour, the fellowship with your people. Lord, the singing has stirred my heart, the specials, and now even reading your word. Now, God, we want to take a few moments, and we're asking you to speak to us from your word I'm asking you, Lord, to take my body and fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. I present my body for that purpose. I yield my will to you. And I pray that you would challenge each of us wherever we're at. Lord, by chance there's someone in the service or listening in that does not know for sure that you have forgiven them of all their sin. Lord, if there's any doubt there as to whether they have eternal life or not, I pray that this morning that all-important decision would be made and they would come to the assurance of sins forgiven, eternal life. And secure in Christ. Those of us that know you, I pray you challenge us in our walk with you, our faith in you, our service for you, that you would stir us this new start of a new year. And this would be a year of victory of spiritual growth. And so I ask that you would please bless now and help us in Jesus' name I pray Amen. I think we would agree that Noah's Ark, the story of Noah's Ark, is probably one of the most well-known stories in all scripture. It's one of the most to be loved. Kids love Noah's Ark. We like to talk about it and there's all kinds of books and different things. But I want to emphasize, and I know the majority of, but not all of us, are fully aware of this But Noah's Ark is not just a Bible story, is an actual historical event that took place And we have no reason to doubt, we have no reason to think that it did not happen any other way than how the Bible presents it. We are absolutely convinced and certain that the Bible is true, that the Bible is God's Word. I just finished reading the Bible through for the 37th time. And I'm telling you, I have found no reason to not believe what the Bible says, to think it anything other happened than what the Bible says And so w I guess what I'm trying to say is uh this uh flood and Noah's Ark and all this is an actual historical account that really did happen. In fact I got studying this a little bit and reading about it And uh we are told by those who invested time and effort in this that there are 270 Different accounts of the worldwide flood in societies and throughout history, different groups. I mean outside of Judaism and Christianity Uh even the even the Quran, the sacred writings of Islam, even the Quran has a historical event, a record of the flood uh in a lot of Chinese history There is records of a universal flood and a man that uh uh built an ark and survived the flood. And so there's evidence of the historicity of this outside of Scripture. I believe if you look at our world with an unbiased uh preconceived conclusion, we see evidence of a worldwide flood all around us. Um and so uh The flood is a it's more than just a Bible story. It's an actual historical event. We can be certain of that. I have no doubt about it. I'm absolutely convinced. Now we get to chapter 7, the portion of scripture we read here and surrounding verses. Noah has been working on this ark for about a hundred years. Give or take a few. He's been building this thing. God had come to Noah, and God had told Noah that he was going to flood the world. And by the way, I don't want to get off on this, but it was not just a local flood, it was a universal flood. The whole world flooded. Some liberals try to compromise, well, it was just a little area It's kind of hard to cover the highest mountains in the world and not be universal. So God approached Noah and he informed him very clearly that God was going to destroy all flesh. Through this flood, this universal flood. And God gave him very clear instructions on concerning the ark The size of it, how it was to be built, the materials. And God made these things very, very clear. Now, Noah faithfully obeyed God. One, he believed what God said And number two, he faithfully obeyed God's instructions. Now I find there Two principles, you might want to call it, all through Scripture, that are vital to our spiritual well-being. Two things Noah did that are absolutely vital to our spiritual well-being. Number one is believing what God says. What do we call that? That's called what? Faith. Have faith in God When God says something, we can go to the bank with it. We can be sure. We can be confident that is so. Noah, uh, God told Noah, I'm gonna flood the earth, I am I'm gonna uh I'm gonna judge all flesh, I'm gonna flood the world. Noah believed God. So as God says that's gonna happen. No doubt the rest of the world did not believe. They rejected it Noah believed God. By the way, God's word is true, whether the majority believe it or not. In fact, God's people have pretty much always been in the minority. This is a fallen world. This is a world in rebellion against its creator. And you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I as God's people, those of us that know Christ of our Savior, we are outnumbered. We are outgunned as far as this world is concerned, but I want to remind you, a minority with God is really in the majority. It's really in the majority. So Noah believed God. So that's one principle that is vital to my spiritual well-being. I need to have faith in God. I need to believe what God said. By the way, nobody's ever saved any other way than by believing God. The second principle that's absolutely vital to Christian life is having faith in God, believing what God says, and then number two is this, following God's instructions. Following God's instructions. And Noah did exactly that. He believed what God said, and then he followed God's instructions. He did what God said. And that's sometimes where Christians struggle. Sometimes folks like the idea of being saved by grace, and there's no other way to be saved. We're going to see this here in a minute, saved by grace. But once we're saved, then God wants us to follow his instructions. God wants us to live for him, do what he says. And that's sometimes where it breaks down. How many folks here, since you've been saved, you've ever struggled maybe with something God instructed us to do? Anybody at all? Some of y'all are lying right now. You're struggling right now. That's that's a fact of the matter. And so uh uh we had a gal, I just thought of this. Uh there was a gal This was years ago I preached Sunday morning a salvation message on being saved. And I gave it as clear as I could. I was earnest as I could in pleading with uh people to be saved. And this uh young lady, she's probably 20 somewhere, she walked the aisle and trusted Christ's favor. One of our ladies took her back, counseled her And uh she trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. She claimed to. She came out here. She was so excited. She was so happy. She goes, this is wonderful. I'm saved and I thought this is the greatest thing in the world. I'm gonna do everything. I'm gonna get involved. This is my church. And I mean she was just ecstatic. And I thought, praise the Lord. You're always excited for something like that. And lo and behold, she came back Sunday night And uh if I remember she came and was going to get in the choir and uh she was all excited and uh and I preached and on Sunday night it was The message was something that God told us to do. I don't remember what the message was, but it was very clear, as a Christian, if I'm saved, there's some things I ought to do. As soon as I said amen, I mean she stormed out. I thought, what in the world? And so being the brave, fearless pastor I am, I sent my wife to go visit her. You never know. And she she made this statement. She says, he has no right to tell me how to live my life. And at its root, that's a true statement. I have no authority over her, I have no right to tell her. But my point is this: God has every right to tell us how to live our life And what I'm trying to illustrate is this. Sometimes we're glad for God to save our soul. Yeah, I don't want to go to hell. Yeah, I want to go to heaven. I want to be forgiven. And we'll by faith claim to trust God and by his grace God will save us. But then we get to the point say, well, I'm not so sure I want to do what God says. And that's where the breakdown is. That's where the struggle is on a daily basis, trusting God and following his instructions. And so Noah got that down. He did good. He had faith in God. He believed what God said about the ark and about the flood, and then he followed God's instructions. And uh and so uh Noah is a great man. Now here I just want to give you three thoughts. I made a New Year's, I shouldn't even say this. Don't even say it. Just it's between God and I, right? I'll just say this. I made a New Year's resolution, so see how far that goes. Number one, here's my first thought. I want us to consider the identification of this man Noah. The identification of this man Noah. I never did this before, at least I don't remember, but I got looking up the meaning of his name. Sometimes Bible characters, you can learn a lot about the person by finding out what their name means. Uh names in the Old Testament particularly were much more significant than maybe what we have today. Uh they would be given a name, sometimes that name would uh identify a lot of their characteristics, a lot of the things about them or their family. My parents made me dentists I got looking it up years ago. Dennis comes from a Greek fellow by the name of Dionysius. It's an English version of Dionysius. Dionysius, I got looking up, was the god of wine. So I'm not sure uh w w the significance of that name. But Noah's name is significant. I got looking it up and I found out that Noah's name means this. It means the most basic definition is rest. To just rest. But it's a lot more than that. It has this idea to rest in a fixed, permanent position. to be settled in. Now, I'm a little ahead of myself on this, but Noah wasn't perfect, but I'll tell you, he trusted God and did what God said for an extended period of time. For over 120 years, Noah trusted God and did what God said. I would suggest to you that this man, Noah, was pretty committed to his Lord. Pretty committed to his God. And I'll tell you, one of the things we desperately need in 2018 are Christians who are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. That are fixed and settled in. We have so much of this hot and cold on and off in and out. And what we need is some people say, you know, I'm just going to fix myself. I'm going to rest in Christ I'm going to commit myself to him. I'm going to be what God saved me to be. And so Noah, the identification of this man, to rest or to be settled into a particular place. One thing, I got thinking about Noah and reading about him here, I noticed one thing that really stands out about him, he was unique from the rest of the world He was different than all the rest of the world. He was he was he didn't fit in To the world. For instance, I believe that, uh, by the way, um God's people have always been different from the world. You read through the book of Acts, the New Testament Christians. You read through in Sunday school, we're studying the nation of Israel from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, the nation of Israel, and lessons from then. And uh Israel was to be distinct from the world. And when Israel got in trouble is when they started adopting the world's philosophies. They started worshiping the world's gods. They started following the world's morals. They started adopting the world's priorities. And Noah was very, very distinct from the world. I want to suggest to you he was distinct from the world in his perspective on life. The little bit we are told about what society was like before the flood is not a pretty picture. And what we can glean from that is that the world's philosophy before the flood was basically this. I can do whatever I want to do. I will decide what is right and wrong. I will decide what is true and false. I am going to be my own God. And every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And that was the world's philosophy How many folks would say with me, that sounds awfully familiar? Sounds awfully familiar. We live in a world that has a very different philosophy than what the Bible presents And God's people have always been fundamentally different, distinct than the world. In Peter, I think it's 2 Peter, God says that we are a peculiar people. Now, there are many people in our church that are very peculiar. We won't name any names. But when the Bible talks about God's people being a peculiar people, he's not suggesting that we are weird. Although sometimes that's true. But what he is saying is we are distinct from the world We see things differently than the world does. In fact, that word peculiar has this idea to be encircled about. And the whole concept of that is God's people, Noah being one of them, is distinct from the world. There is a clear separation, there is a clear distinction between Noah's philosophy of life and the world and the rest of society. He is circled about, he is set apart, he is encompassed by uh from the world. Noah was different than the world in his perspective on life. As far as the world was concerned, from what we can glean from Scripture, is that it was lived up here and now. It feels good to do it. There's no tomorrow. Just live live like uh uh live like uh today is all you got. Just go after it The truth of the matter is, there's a whole lot beyond this life. The Bible says it is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the what? Judgment. And so there is a whole lot more to life. And by the way, there's a whole lot more to us than just flesh and blood Um uh Pat Browning and I a number of years ago were out visiting out on Glendale Bridge Road. We were just knocking on doors, going through there, and got back in this house way back in there And um uh I was actually at the house, he was next door, and the guy invite me says, I'm an atheist. And I said, Really? How'd you become an atheist? He goes, I used my head and started thinking And I said, well that's interesting. And so I said, what convinces you that there's no God? And he started talking evolution and all this stuff. And uh we went back and forth and Pat showed up and we're going back and forth And finally I said to him, I said, you know, I don't think that you believe for one minute that all you are made up of is just muscle and bone and fluids. You have to know that there is more to you than just physical, biological life, that you are a spiritual being. And he kind of he-hauled there around a little bit and finally says, well, he says, I'll agree there's more to us than just this physical body. And I believe every single person in the world, regardless of how hard of an atheist they claim to be, they know down in the depths of their soul that there's more to them than just temporal physical life. We are spiritual beings. We do not have a soul, we are a soul, and we have a body But the world saw that differently. Everything was about this, everything was about pleasure, everything was about me, everything was about what I want, and they completely missed the fact that they were created, eternal, spiritual beings, created in the image of God. And had a whole, there was a whole lot more to life than all their small little worldly minds conceived of. And Noah was distinct from that. He saw beyond just the temporal. He saw beyond just the physical. He understood that there is a God and that there is life beyond the grave and there is more to life than just the here and now. So this man Noah was a very distinct From the rest of the world in his perspective on life. He was distinct, I want to suggest to you, uh, then the world, different from the world in his priorities in life. The world says you gotta look out for number one. And by number one, they mean me. Everything in life revolves around me. Priorities, what is the best to me? And Noah saw things differently. And God's people have always had different priorities than what the world has. The world's priorities and God's priorities. Noah was distinct from the world in his perspective on life and his priorities in life and his purpose in life I'll tell you one of the things, one of the profound impacts that my salvation had on my thinking when I got saved. And you know my story, what a mess. God changed my life and I thank him for that and he just gave me a whole new direction. But one thing, after I got saved, just almost immediately after my salvation, That gripped my heart and mind, that impacted my thinking so much was this. God has created me for a purpose. My life has meaning. God is God I was designed and created by God for a very specific purpose. There's a reason I'm here. There's a reason I'm alive. There's a purpose for which God has saved me. And that had a profound impact on my life. It wasn't just whatever. It wasn't just, ah, you know, just kind of live it and go with the flow. It wasn't that anymore at all. Now there was divine purpose, divine plan. And as I sought the Lord and trusted him, God led me and directed me. As I tried to lean on my own understanding and go my own way, then there would be troubles. But as long as I trusted and sought the Lord, he'd lead me in my purpose. Now for me personally, I believe it's true for all of us, but for me personally, I'm convinced the major purpose of my life was to be pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That is in my heart and mind. This is why I'm alive. This is why I exist. And so Noah saw that No was Saul that his life had meaning and purpose. The world out there, it was just whatever. They did the evil imaginations of their mind. They were just making stuff up and going on. So this man Noah is an amazing man. His identification. I put a couple thoughts down here. One, I put down he was saved by God's grace. Would you look at chapter 6 and verse number 8 with me? Chapter 6 and verse 8. But Noah found what? Grace in the eyes of the Lord. I underlined that verse and I circled that word grace. That's an important word. Noah was not saved because he built the ark. You say, wait a minute, if he wouldn't have built the ark, he would drown with everybody else. If he wanted to obey God, that's true, but that's not what saved him. It was God's grace. Noah by faith trusted what God said was true, and God's grace saved him. And that leads me to my second observation of Jonah. He was submitted by grace. Not only was he just saved by grace. He believed that God's judgment was coming. When God said, I'm going to judge the world, I'm going to destroy it, he believed that was true. God said, if you will trust me and put your faith in me, you can escape that judgment. He believed that was true. And then he submitted to God, and he did what God said. Notice with me if you would, chapters, look at verse 22 of chapter 6. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he. I put in the margin of my Bible, Noah obeyed God. Some people are glad Noah obeyed God. We wouldn't be here if he did. So his faith in God, but being saved by grace, produced a submitted life Produce submission to God's instructions. I tell you, one of the good, one of the clear evidences of that a person is genuinely saved is when they'll then submit themselves to God's word, God's instructions, and let the Lord lead them. I struggle sometimes with someone that says, oh yeah, I'm saved by grace, I trust in Christ, and then there is no evidence of any faith or submission or trust in God whatsoever. I sometimes struggle with that profession of faith. You follow what I'm saying? It isn't their works, it isn't what we do that saves us. What I'm saying is when we get saved, it produces that And so Noah was saved by grace, the same way all people are saved, for by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves is a gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. God saves us freely. I simply by faith accept the gift of God, which is eternal life. But once I do that, once God saves me Then it's alright, I want to submit to the Lord. I want to live for God. I want to follow His instructions. I believe one of the first things a saved person should do after they're saved, after they've trusted Christ, They ought to submit to the Lord in believers' baptism. I believe that is so important. Book of Acts makes that very clear. Once a person's saved, I'm saved. God's forgiven me. He's given me eternal life. I've settled that by faith. Now, I want to identify as a follower of Jesus Christ. I believe they ought to be faithful to church, ought to read their Bible, ought to let the Lord lead and direct them. And so he was saved by God's grace, but he submitted to God's grace. God's grace produced a submitted life. Then I put this down. He sought to reach the lost by grace. 2 Peter 2. 5 says that he was a preacher of righteousness. When Noah was spending a hundred some years building that ark, it wasn't just hammering nails or whatever you do to build an ark Putting lumber together. It was a whole lot more than that. He was out there trying to win souls, I believe. I believe when he was talking about a preacher of righteousness, I believe he was preaching, listen, y'all have sinned. We've sinned against God. We're under his judgment. We need to turn to the Lord. We need to believe what he says. We need to trust his remedy. We need to trust his provision of salvation. And he was a preacher of righteousness. I found that when a person gets saved, a good indication that that person is saved, they immediately have a burden to see other people saved. They immediately have a concern for other people. I got saved Monday night, May 7, 1979. I'll tell you about it sometime. But within days, I immediately, something down inside my heart and soul, I immediately need to tell other people what Christ has done for me. I got up that Tuesday morning, went to work, and um I mean everything within minutes my life was changed. I went into work and I said, Let them what's going on? I said, I've accepted Christ as Savior And I wanted other people to know. I wanted other people to know Christ. And I see that in Noah's identification. He was saved by grace. He was submitted to God by grace. He was a soul winner by God's grace. He sought to reach others. But I put this one, I kind of added at the last minute. Noah was not sinless Oh, it was not sinless. Sometimes we get this idea that these great men that God used in the Bible were something so much bigger than us. so far beyond where we're at that I could never be anything that they are. Wait a minute. He was a sinner just like you and I. He was deserving of God's judgment just as much as those outside the ark were. We see that when he got off the ark, he made a terrible mistake. Made a terrible mistake. And I'll be honest with you, in studying Noah, every time I get to that point, I am so disappointed. I just think, no, Noah, not you. We were talking, I think it was yesterday maybe or this morning, sometime recently. We were talking, and uh uh my greatest disappointment in life, my greatest disappointment in life has been my own behavior. Is my own failure to live up to what I believe God would have me to do. Anybody, y'all are looking at me, so pious right now. But the fact of the matter is we are sinful beings. And even the best of us, even the best of us mess up. And Noah got off the ark, and the Bible says he began to drink somewhat wine. No. He got drunk. He got drunk. He got naked. By the way, immorality and drunkenness go hand in hand. Hand in hand. I've seen it so many times. A person that will live decent, they'll go out and get drunk and they'll say and do things they would never do when they're sober. I'm telling you this, liquor is of the devil. It is absolutely of the devil. And if you ask me, I'll tell you, it has no place in the life of a Christian. So Noah was not sinless. He was a great man. He was saved by God's grace. He was submitted to the Lord did this, followed God's instructions, building this ark, no evidence of rain or flood, but he trusted God And it all played out. He was burdened for others. But he had a sinful nature, just like you and I do. I'm so grateful for Proverbs twenty-four, sixteen. I think I have the reference right. I'm so grateful for that passage. It says, A just man falleth seven times and rises up again. Rises up. Listen, maybe 2018, maybe you messed up. Maybe you're saved. Maybe you say, you know, I'm trying to live for God, but man, I messed up bad. I messed up bad. I'm here to tell you, you don't have to stay down, confess your sin, forsake it, turn from it, and rise up again and go on for God. Going for God. So I see the identification of this man, Noah. Second thing I notice is the invitation of God. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 6 and verse number 18. He says here, but with thee, God speaking to Noah, with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark. Thou and thy sons and thy wife and thy sons' wives with thee. Verse 19, and of every living thing of flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark. Look at chapter 7, verse 1. And the Lord said to Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark. And so here we have the first, I believe the first invitation in the Bible. Come on in the ark. Come on in the ark. This is where salvation is. This is where hope is. Jesus tells us that Noah lived in a day much like the day you and I live in. He said, as it was in the day of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. How many people believe that we're closer to the Lord's coming this year than we were last year? Obviously we are. We don't know when the Lord's coming back, but I do say this, we look around us and we see a society that is exactly as described of the Lord in the days leading up to the Lord's coming. And is exactly the same mentality, exact same philosophy, exact same priorities as they had in the days of Noah. Marrying and giving in marriage. I put it this way, it was a day where there was a breakdown of morals. A breakdown of morals. Um we live in an ungodly world. We live in an immoral world. Some of the things that our leaders and the popular people in our society, some of the things they say and do. are absolutely immoral. Um apparently I was reading this been some time ago, but they were saying that the FCC wants to loosen up restrictions on profanity on TV and on the air. I thought, good night, how much worse can it get? I said apparently somebody thinks we don't have enough cussing in the world. Apparently somebody thinks we don't have enough filthy language in the world. We live in a day of absolute immorality, a breakdown of morals. Anything goes. And I know us older folks, we tend to say this and the young people say, oh you old fogies, but the fact of the matter is. We see stuff happening in our world that 40 years ago would have never dreamed would be tolerated. Breakdown of morals. Breakdown of morals. Then, and the Lord brings this out specifically. He says they're marrying and given in marriage. I think it's a reference to the breakdown of marriage. Breakdown of the home. I tell you, I believe there's two things, two organizations, I guess if you want to call it, two institutions on earth that Satan absolutely hates That he is devoted to destroying. One of them, I believe, is the church. But even before that, I believe it's the home. The marriage. He will distort. Anybody find it interesting that the focus of the anti-God atheist, one of the focuses is the assault on what marriage is? Trying to alter it, trying to distort it, perverting it, what God clearly teaches marriages. And in the days leading up, To the flood. One of the breakdowns was the marriage. I believe our class that Brother James is teaching on couples is so vital. It's so vital. And helping establish a good, godly, biblically based, foundation marriage and home and children as a breakdown, horrific breakdown. And so God is looks at this world that he created. God sees this man that he loves, mankind that he loves so dearly. And he's designed in his image. And he has a plan and purpose for them. And he sees them taking what he has done and what he has established and just perverting it and destroying it and twisting it. The Bible says it grieved the Lord that he even made them. I think we have to be careful about that. That's not suggesting that God hated mankind. I believe it grieved the Lord. I think what grieved the Lord was this. He knew what that lifestyle produced. He knew that the wages of sin was what? Death. You know, the wages of sin being death, separation from God for all eternity in hell. And lake of fire. That was not something God just arbitrarily came up with. It wasn't like, all right, what if man doesn't do what I say? What should we do? Oh, let's make a hell and we'll throw him in there. No, no, no, that's not it at all. God is at his very core of his being, is holy. God's holiness cannot tolerate, cannot endure sin and immorality and unbelief and rejection. And God, by his very nature Cannot tolerate that. And hell and the judgment of sin, death, is a result of the holiness of God and man sinning against that holiness. God doesn't delight in the death of the wicked, Ezekiel tells us. God does everything he can to keep us from having to experience that. He does everything he can to save us. from a life of sin and separation for all eternity in hell. And so God is grieved when he looks at mankind and what they've done. And the decisions they've made and the lives they're living. And it so violates his holiness. And he knows that as a result of that, there must be judgment. God's heart is grieved. God's heart. If you're here this morning and you've not been saved, you've not trusted Christ to save your life, you're living in sin, unforgiven, I'm telling you, God is so grieved. Not because they're doing, they're not doing what I said. That's not it at all. Because of what sin produces. Because of where sin leads to. God loves us dearly. So I don't want them to sin. I write these things unto you that you sin not. He says, but I have an advocate. I have a propitiation. There's a way to be saved from that And that's what the ark was. And God gives this invitation. Come in the ark. Come away from that. Come away from that lifestyle. Come away from that unbelief. Come away from that rebellion, that disobedience. Come and trust me by my grace. I'll forgive you and save you from judgment, from a life of emptiness and sin. What a great imitation. And that imitation is all through scripture, all through scripture. In fact, one of the last statements in the Bible is this: come. The bride says, come, and the Spirit says, come. Come and be saved. Come and be saved. God will forgive us and save us. And so there's a tremendous invitation here. These people outside the ark. They were already under the judgment of God. It was already determined. That flood was coming. They were going to die. They were going to die. That was already established. But by all appearances, what we understand, they didn't believe it and completely rejected it. I tell you, I could stand here for a long time and give illustrations of folks that set in pews on one Sunday, and the next Sunday, they were in a casket six feet under the ground. I'm here to tell you, every person without Christ, every person that's not been saved, you're not going to be judged. We are already, you're already judged. Already condemned, already under God's judgment. Our sin has already produced that sentence. We are going to die. You're not going to live forever. I uh you know I've been doing this a while now. I've I've stood by the graves of little babies. I've stood by the graves of teenagers who one Sunday, hey, I've got forever, never even entered their mind. The next week, they're out in eternity, bodies in the ground. Middle-aged, young couples, senior citizens. These people outside the ark, they're under God's judgment. They're gonna die here before they know it. They don't see it coming, but it's coming. Noah tried to warn him, and the invitation is coming. Trust Christ, trust God, believe what he says. The invitation is still today. Jesus Christ is that ark, so to speak He is the way to escape the judgment of God. He is the way to escape eternal death, separation from God. It's coming into Christ, getting into Christ. By faith, accepting those my personal savior. By the way, the church is not the art. Church can't save anybody from God's judgment The baptism is not the art. A baptism can't save anybody from sin in hell. That doesn't wash away sins. If that water up there washed away sins after we baptized, I'd Do something with the water, because I don't want to get back in sinful water. That was a lame attempt at humor. But it can't. Jesus Christ is salvation. So we have the identification of Noah, a great man, saved by grace, submitted to God by grace, did what he said, tried to uh win others to Christ by grace. He wasn't sinless, he had his issues, but He's a great man as a vampiration. Two is the invitation. God wanted people to be saved. God wants people to be saved today. And the last thought is this, very quickly, I want us to notice the insulation of the saved And that gets us to our title, insulation. Look with me again at chapter 7, verse 16. Last part. They went in as God commanded him, and I circled that last phrase. And the Lord what? Shut him in. The Lord shut him in. Did you notice here this was a supernatural event? Oh, by the way, let me back up, just throw this out real quick. It's interesting. The Lord doesn't say go into the ark. He says, come into the ark. It was coming to the Lord. The Lord was there. But it says the Lord shut him in. That's a supernatural thing. This is God putting him in there. I wondered if Noah shut that thing. That was a pretty big door By all of as far as I can tell, that thing was massive. I wonder if Noah was able to close that door, maybe Noah would have been able to what? Open it. And notice the people outside know it and say, hey y'all, when we get in here, you push that thing up there. If the outside world could have shut that arc, the outside world could have opened that arc store. But it's the Lord that shut it. And I'm here to tell you, when God shuts something, no man can open it. And when God opens something, no man can close it. Only God can shut that thing, and only God can close it And I'm here to tell you, when we come and trust Jesus Christ as Savior, this is so important. When we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God shuts us in. We are in Christ. Only God can do that. And you say, well, you know, what if you get out? What if I get out of there and I want to go back to the world? You ain't getting out until the Lord opens that door. And my Bible says he ain't open it till we're in eternity, safe and secure in eternity. Some people are glad the Lord didn't that thing didn't fall open halfway through the flood. That'd have been a mess. But God shut him in. God shut him in. I'm here to tell you, I know for sure, there is no doubt in my mind, absolutely positive, that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Not because I'm better than anybody else. If anything, I'm worse than probably anyone else. But I know I'm going to heaven because God saved me. And because God keeps me saved. I give unto them eternal life. They shall never perish. I'm glad God shuts that door. What I'm trying to say is this. If you're not saved and you come to Christ and you trust Christ as Savior, God will keep you. Secure in Christ. Isn't it good to know I can lay my head at night and say praise? How many people let me put it this way? I wonder how many people would agree with me. I bet Noah was glad he could lay his head at night in that ark knowing that door ain't gonna fall open. Maybe Noah got frustrated with one of the pigs. He was thinking thing. And maybe he said something he shouldn't have said. Now this is total speculation. And maybe he called that pig a name he shouldn't have called it. You swine. I wonder if he looked over at the ark door. Oh no, I door, don't open the door. That door ain't coming open. Why? Because God shut him in. Am I making sense? He's secure in there. He's secure in there. And so it's um it's supernaturally closed. And I put this down, uh, it's securely closed. I uh that door didn't leak. Man, when God closed that thing, it was sealed up and secure. And he was as safe as could be. There was no question as to the safety of Noah and his family in that ark. And when God saves us, there is no question as to our safety in Christ. Our security in Christ. You say, well, does that mean that Noah could have gone in there and just lived how he won and cussed and partied and carried on? No, no, no. One, I don't believe Phoebe would want to have done that because he saw what it produced in the lives of others. And number two, my Bible says that when we sin as a believer, as a saved person God deals with that sin just like a father deals with a disobedient child. This may come as a shock, but my boys didn't always obey me. Believe it or not, preachers, kids. Say, what'd you do? Kill him? I wanted to sometimes, but no father in the world, if his son disobeys him, if his son sins against him. He doesn't go out and put a bullet in his head. No, it's his son. He doesn't let him get away with it Hebrews chapter 12 tells us he'll chasten him, he'll correct him, he'll deal with it, right? Sometimes pretty firmly. But he doesn't kill his son. My Bible teaches me that when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, when we're in Christ, we're born into the family of God. John chapter 3, Peter tells us, we're born into the family of God. And we're God's children. We're God's sons. And when we sin and mess up as a Christian, He doesn't kill us. He doesn't send us to hell. But he does chasten us, he does discipline us. Salvation, security in the ark, and security in Christ is not a license to sin for peace's sake. But it is secure. I am safe. And God will deal with the issues of my sinful nature as a believer. He'll deal with them chastening them. But we're safe. We're safe. I read in about a fire in New York City. This was apparently years ago. A blind girl was up in one of the upper stories and the house the the building was on fire was in the city there, New York City, and the building was on fire. There was no escape. All the stairwells and everything were engulfed in flames. And this little blind girl was sitting on a windowsill, apparently a true event, as I understand it. She was sitting on a windowsill and the firemen were down there, and this was years ago, and they had those They had that big net. You ever see that? They all stand around big round and they're holding and they're yelling to the little the girl. They got a bullhorn. Joe! We're down here! We will catch you! There's no other way And a little blind girl just held on to the thing and just sat there and wouldn't move, wouldn't move. And they kept saying, You've got to jump, you're going to burn, jump, jump. And she wouldn't jump. She wouldn't jump Finally they found her father. He said, you need to talk to her. That thing's about to go down and she's going to be killed. She has to jump into this net. And the father got the bullhorn. He said, sweetheart, this is Daddy. She immediately responded, Daddy! Sweetheart, to have a net down here. The only way is you gotta jump. Sweetheart, jump now. Okay, Daddy. And she jumped. Boom. It caught her and saved her life They said, why didn't you jump before? Why did you wait until your daddy came? She says, I didn't know the voices of other people. I didn't know if you were telling me the truth or not. But I knew I could trust my dad. And I knew if he said I needed to jump, I would jump. Her faith was in her daddy And I'm telling you, if you're here this morning, you've never trusted Christ as Savior. God, the Father in heaven, is saying, trust the Son. There's judgment coming. There is consequences of sin. There are wages to sin. You need to trust Jesus Christ. If you will trust him, you'll be forgiven and saved and have eternal life. You've got to trust him. I'm glad May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, I jumped. I heard God's voice. I knew I needed to be saved. And I accepted what he said and I believed it. And God saved me. God saved me. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us to learn from this some lessons from the life of Noah and his experience this flood. Lord, maybe there's somebody under the sound of my voice this morning that Does not have assurance of sins forgiven. They're out living in sin, lost, without God, no assurance. I pray that today they'd hear your voice. They'd believe your word. And by faith they would accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, find full and free forgiveness of sins, eternal life, security in Christ. Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, I pray you'd help us to by your faith by faith and your grace submit to you. Follow your instructions and live for you for the purpose for which He created and saved us. Or some of us need adjustments. Some of us need areas of our life that need attention. Help us to buy faith, to trust you and obey you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say this morning, preacher, I know I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior? I have a biblical basis for that. I know have that settled. However, I know there's areas of my life that God has been working and leading that I need to trust the Lord in that matter. I need to follow God's instructions as a Christian. God's been dealing with my heart, and I don't know what the specifics may be. That's between you and the Lord. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me I know God's dealing in my heart. I know there's areas as a Christian I need to yield and submit to the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, God's Holy Spirit deals in my heart. God bless you, hands all around What I'm saying is trust the Lord. Let him have his way. The Bible says Noah did as God commanded. What a great testimony. How about we do the same? Is there some here say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I'm trying to live for God. I'm not perfect. Neither was Noah. But you say, I have some folks that I'm concerned for. I'd like to be a better soul winner. I'd like to be a more effective witness. I don't want to see people die in sin. I don't want to see people go out in eternity without Christ. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be more effective, a more wise, and more diligent. In my soul winning, in my witnessing. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm concerned for that. My hands raised. God bless you, hands all around. God will help us if we just step out. Let me ask this. Are you here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not 100% certain that I'm going to heaven when I die? I know I'm sinned. I know I'm not all that God intends for me to be. I need that settled in my heart. I need that made right. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me settle in my heart the assurance. That God has forgiven me and saved me and I have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. How about it? Any at all? Maybe you've been trusting church or works or baptism None of that'll do. It has to be Christ and Christ alone. Any at all? Now Father, a lot of hands raised. You know where we're at. You know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to respond in faith and trust you and obey you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. This morning God spoke to your heart. You raised your hand. As Jennifer plays the invitation, how about this first Sunday of two thousand