Kiss Miller and uh Was it Mountain Grove or some some place? Uh up on the mountain somewhere. Uh where was it? Besides Kitsman, Tira Alda. We I don't know, there was all several of 'em there. I know uh Connie and Jerry were uh worked hard on those things. They traveled with us quite a bit. And uh, you know, you never know about what happens. It's just like giving these tracks out Uh just like the guy that uh I think it was Oliver Green was talking about about his track ministry uh years ago when I was listening to him and he was talking about how a guy was up on a roof cleaned out the gutters in his uh in his roof and uh found a track up there and he sat down on the on the roof up there and read the track and got saved up there. You just never know. I mean people throw them down the ground, but uh that doesn't mean it's uh dead because uh it can end up in somebody's hand Uh I I I I tell you, I listened to this thing about Kazakhstan here and that that is so exciting to me and it should be to you folks. Uh to have a uh To have a historical input of the gospel into a nation that could uh literally turn that thing around. Uh it's just uh that's exciting. And Uh getting the Word of God out, just like this fingerprint ministry. Uh that that to me is another one of those things that I just I think it's just super And uh I know uh Nan and I now we've been supporting uh uh a couple of different missions on on our own, on our personal levels, plus what we give in faith promise in our home church And one of them is uh Bibles to Russia, because I think the answer is getting the Word of God into these countries. The Word of God is what's quick and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword And uh sometimes the the gospel through these uh word of God can get into a country where they won't even let a missionary in. And so uh if you can get the Bible uh the word of God into the hands of Christians within those countries if they're already there. So uh and then we give to uh another ministry of uh Bibles to it's not Bibles to uh but it's to the Muslims. What was the name of that, honey? Do you know what say again? Four. Oh, okay. So anyhow, that's why I keep bringing her around so she could. But anyway, it's just uh it's exciting. Anything it anything that has to do with the Word of God is exciting to me. There's just something about the the preaching of the word of God, uh giving out the tracts, you know, just anything that has to do with that. Because I know that it's it's a living. It's not just a uh reader's digest. This is the word of God. It makes a difference in people's lives when it gets into their heart It makes a difference, and that's the important thing. So I thank the Lord. I thank the Lord for this church and what it's meant to us for uh so many years, uh such a blessing. And uh I don't want to start talking about that or I'll get all blubbery here. So anyhow. Okay. I'm done. All right, take your Bible if you will, turn to me to the book of uh Luke. Luke chapter twenty-two, Luke chapter twenty-two. We're just going to read a few verses. I'm going to ask you to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God. This is right at the at the uh Passover. And uh they have eaten the the Passover and the Lord has already revealed that there's going to be one who will betray him and And the disciples are all sitting around, and Jesus says this. It says, Ye, verse 28 of Luke chapter 22, the word of God says, Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations And I have appointed unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Let's pray. Our Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you, Lord, for the good reports we've heard and uh the tremendous uh track month that you've uh the churches around have uh uh been involved with and uh the number that was giving out, Lord that's always such a blessing. But one thing for sure, there's always opposition where the word is preached and and uh Lord it It's nothing new. This is a the spiritual warfare that we're involved with constantly is is uh something very real So I pray that you'd help us tonight as we preach, you'd give us what we need to say and just let loose of uh anything that's not necessary. But bless our time around your word that speak to our hearts and encourage us tonight and bless us in a special way. Meet with us, we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. I'm gonna do two things here. I've got two pair of glasses. I lost my other pair. I have three pair, but I've lost a pair. And these glasses are Kmart specials. And these are supposed to magnify twice. So I really see you much bigger than what you are. But it also helps me read. Jesus was entering in and probably also distorts everything when I look out. Jesus was entering into probably the most stressful period of his of his public ministry. His preaching and teaching had uh ha you know, had drawn uh a lot of criticism for the religious leaders and they were uh many of them were were getting together now and beginning to plan ways of getting rid of him and And then they come to this Passover meal here and and Jesus begins to reveal a few things in it that that uh the disciples had no idea about. One of them was the fact that there was going to be someone who was within their ranks that was going to betray him. And that must have shook them all up, but then he talked about the about the kingdom that he was to uh to uh uh inherit from his father and they were going to inherit through him and And then they begin to fuss within themselves about who's going to sit on his right hand. Isn't that like like a bunch of uh uh it's like a bunch of Baptists really, you know But these weren't Baptists, these were Jews at this point. And so what I'm saying is that this was a this was a stressful time. It was stressful for for the Lord uh going into this thing But it was also stressful for the for the disciples. And then finally, Jesus, he looks at his uh disciples and and he he focuses on Simon Peter. And he says, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan desires to sift you, to have you. Well, I I don't know about you, but when I think about that, you know, Peter is sitting there listening to what the Lord is talking about. And he is totally unaware of what's taking place in the air around him. There's a warfare going on. There's angels and demons battling all around him at this point. And Satan is just chopping it to bits. And what he wants to do is he's, listen, there's one thing about Peter That he wherever he was, he was like the center of attention. That is, he was one of the the go-getters. He was the one that would have passed out more tracks than Connie. I mean he was the kind that that I mean this was his way. He was bold and and many times he he kind of stuck his foot in his mouth. Sorry, Peter, but uh Uh but but he had a good heart and but he was enthusiastic about serving God, he was enthusiastic about what he was doing, he was enthusiastic about the ministry that that God had placed him. And because of that, he draws direct fire from Satan himself. Satan doth desire to sift you, to have you. I don't know, but that that sends chills up my back as I think that to hear this this uh uh angelic being Who is more powerful than than uh uh any of us would desire to pinpoint and and desire to have you or or to test you or to try you and as the scripture says to sift you It's not mentioned often in the scriptures, this thing of sifting. I think most of us are aware of what sifting is. Uh it requires a sieve and and then a material that's going to be sifted out. But back in the Bible times when when they did the grain and they separated the chaff from the wheat Or the corn from the yoke. If when they did that, they had huge uh uh s uh SIDS is what it were. Uh a round big round th uh frame with uh with you know a mesh, real fine mesh across it And they would uh dump this uh the wheat in there with the you know uh all the leaves, everything that was involved, and they'd take it and they'd shake it back in for it this way and then they'd throw it up in the air and the wind would blow the the shaft away and all the dust would go, you know, with the wind, and then he'd bring it, shake it some more and toss it in the air and let the wind blow the shaft away and catch the grain again and and each time it was through that process it would become more and more pure. The the grain that was left would be would be more uh a hundred percent closer to a hundred percent grain rather than to have the dust and the and the leaves and stuff. So that the that's the reason why you why the of the sifting Only when Satan sifts, it's a little bit different because he's not trying to keep the good, he's trying to keep the bad. With with Satan, we've we've seen him in his sifting back in the Old Testament. When we look at the at the book of Job, we can see that there. That that was the sifting that he that uh Job went through. back in the Old Testament. I noticed that God did some sifting as far as Israel is concerned. See I believe that was back in, let me see if I can run that down, back in the book of Amos He says, and behold, the eyes of the Lord. There we go. Well, I gotta get it just right. The eyes of the Lord God are upon the uh the sinful uh kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth, saying that well I'm telling you, this is terrible. My wife is sh she didn't know what to make of this whole thing. I've been looking for my other glasses all day. It says, I will destroy from off the face of the earth, saving that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith the Lord. For lo, I have I will command and And I will sift the house of Israel among all nations, like as corn is sifted in the set sieve. Yet shall not the the least grain fall upon the earth And then down in in uh later verses here, I read this. And I will plant them, speaking of the nation of Israel. You see, he's speaking of the of the kingdom. He's speaking of Israel future. He's speaking of a time when Israel, he's going to have to put them through the sieve of testing. But that which comes out is going to be a nation that's going to be founded in a day, as it was in 1948. And it's going to be a nation that he's going to build up and once again it's going to be a power just like it it was at uh in in olden days. So the sifting has a purpose for it. It's not just something that takes place that God says, okay, well, we'll just test them today and see how they make out. That's not the idea of sifting There's usually two purposes in sifting, and we'll get into that perhaps uh by the end of the message here, if I can keep going with this thing. But the point is that that here God is dealing with an individual. He's dealing with Peter. And Peter has some rough things going to happen to him just over the hill. And he doesn't even realize it. Simon, behold, Simon, Satan desires to sit you, to have you. I thought about that word, have you, and I thought, wow. If God would have allowed Satan to have Peter. That is to have him a full force where he could do whatever he wanted to with him. That would have been such a scary thing. But then the Lord says this. He doesn't just stop with the sifting part, but he says, But Peter, I've prayed for you. Isn't that something? Peter, I've prayed for you. Listen to it. I'm in verse uh I'm still on Luke chapter 22 and verse uh 30 32. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. The first of all is this as Christ's admonishment to the saints. You see, we're all in the same boat And there's every one of us, there comes this testing time, this time of sifting that uh God is going to allow in our life. It's just it's it's a natural thing, and there's a reason for it. It's the same same thing as uh as the the digging and dunging of a of a uh of a bush or a tree The idea is to is to uh put enough strength and and and move the tree around or the bush around and and to dug around it to to put some uh uh uh food into it and and to strengthen that so that it grows up to be something that's fruitful. And this thing of sifting is the same thing. The sifting process is that which makes us stronger It's the trees on the side of the hill that the wind is constantly beating against that has the deepest roots and the and and the uh the wood itself becomes more firm and and and tighter mixed. It's a harder wood. And so this sifting process is that which tests the Christian and builds them so that they're able to carry on whatever it is that God has for. What's what Satan wanted to do with Peter was he wanted to take Peter and if he could just make him feel worthless. If he could make him feel like that he was insignificant in the plan of God, if he could make him feel like he was not worthy of even being one of the disciples, if he could keep putting him down and cause doubt in his mind, he knew he could defeat him. I think of the the people in the Old Testament when the spies came back from the from the promised land and they they gave the evil report. Do you remember what they said? They caused the the people's uh the people heart to faint because they said that they were in their own eyes as grasshoppers. The s the giants were so big and the walls were so big and they in their own eyes they saw themselves as grasshoppers. Whenever And if Satan can cause you to think that you are insignificant, unimportant, or that you that you don't have anything to offer God Then he has won a tremendous battle. He's sifted you and caused you to fail. And God, Jesus said it, He says, I don't want you to have doubt. He said, I have prayed for you that your faith fail not. That's a comfort. But going through the sifting may not be as comfortable. The fear of our heart should be that we are not causing Satan any anxiety. That ought to be our heart's desire is to cause him as much trouble as we possibly can. Every time we give out a track, it causes him almost a heart attack. Because he's afraid he's gonna lose another one. Every time that you you serve God, every time you witness, every time that that you get involved in a in the process of seeing people saved, it gives him a I mean I I can see him getting all red faced. Maybe he's already got well I guess that's just the way they show him But the point I'm saying is that it it every time that that the saint of God takes a stand for God, it it gets Satan uh in a tizzy. And that and we should be praying that that's what we do. Keep our lives such that it uh it keeps him upset all the time What havoc, what havoc uh Satan desires to cause on the Christians? He'd like to destroy every evangelist, every pastor, every preacher, every missionary that goes out. He'd like to just totally destroy him. And he's powerful enough to do it except for one thing. And that is that God has him on a list. He's just like a big dog, and he has him on a list and allows him to go out so far, and that's as far as he can go. When God says to, or when Jesus says to uh uh Peter, why, Satan desires to sift you, but I've prayed for you. That tells me that there's a limitation to what God allows in our lives. It only lasts as long as God wills. It's only as severe as God allows And it will not suffer, he will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able to resist, but will the temptation make a way to escape that you might be able to bear it. Satan's sifting serves God's purpose, isn't that something? If he allows the sifting to take place in your life and and you feel the pressures. Then understand that God has placed that in your life in order to strengthen you. What did he tell Peter? He said, when thou art converted, strengthen, strengthen your brother. What Satan would like to sift out of the thing, very things that God wants to build in our life Over in 2 Peter, we learn in in the first chapter there some things that we need to add to our faith, you know, virtue, knowledge, temperance, uh patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity. Those are things that God wants, and those are the very things that He wants to filter out of our life. If He possibly can do it, that's what He would do. He wants to sift out our morality, our integrity, our character. He wants to sift out of our life the fear of God. And you know, I'm seeing this. I'm seeing this not in just our national life, but I'm seeing it in the in churches' lives. We're telling a little fib doesn't hurt anything. Morality. This is a sifting process that seems to be going through that that our churches and individuals within our churches are suffering. Our patience, our kindness, our charity, our faithfulness, those are all things that are on attack, that are being sifted by Satan. If he can if he can do that, oh how how happy you'd be But not only do I see Christ's admonishment to the saints, but I see Christ's assurance to the saints. Because in verse 32, he says, But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. What a blessing, what a blessed assurance that Peter should have experienced when he realized that even listen, even though Satan desires to sift you, uh His promises that he's prayed for you and that he's going to be there to go with you through the process. I can't help but think of Daniel there in the lion's den. I think that was a sifting process that he went through. They found an area that they thought they could they could cause him to fail and to fall, but But uh he trusted God, went into the lions den, God shut the mouths of the lions, and he came out perfectly all right. I see Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo and they and they're already told you're heading for the Fiery furnace, and when they opened the doors and they walked in, they found another one there waiting for him. It was the Lord He's promised to never leave you nor forsake you Christ's uh assurance to his saints is it that he he'll pray for you. As you go through the sifting process, he is going to be there to go through the process with you. Christ has an interest in our struggles. He's not just an empty bystander, but he has an interest in it. He knows my heartaches, he knows the problems that I'm facing. And he's uh knows every circumstance that's going to be in my in my life. And he is one who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He's not uh not a by just a bystander. It's uh it's with that confidence we can face whatever sifting that God allows. There was a young there was a guy standing by a well. Looking down in the well, the young boy comes up to him and he says, What are you looking at? And the old guy looks down and he says, Well I said I dropped my glasses down there. Maybe that's where mine are. I don't know. He dropped his glasses down there. And the guy looked at the boy and he looked down at the he said, hey, I'll tell you what. He says, how about here's a bucket of rope that goes down to the well. How about you getting in the bucket I'll, you know, I'll let you down real slow. You get my glasses and I'll pull you back up. That sounds easy enough. But the kid looks at the at the well and he looked at the bucket and he looked at the guy and he said, No, I don't think so. Well It wasn't very long here his dad came along and his dad uh he said what's going on? And the old guy said, Well, I dropped my glasses down in the well. And ask your boy if he'd get in the bucket and let me lower him down into the well, get my glasses, and bring them back to me. But he didn't want to do it. So the father said, I'll tell you what, son, get in the bucket, and I'll let you down the well. Later on his friends asked him, he said, weren't you afraid? Weren't you afraid of getting going down in the well like that in that bucket? And he said, Nope, because my daddy had a hold of the rope. And that's the thing we need to to realize is when when we get in the bucket, that dad has a hold of the rope. And uh he's not going to let go for anything. He cares about us. If we want God to bless and use us We cannot ask that we be spared the sifting part of this whole scenario. Because it's the sifting part that brings about the results that he wants in our life. The final thing here is Christ's assignment to the saints. And when thou art converted, verse 32 in the last part says, when thou art converted, strengthen thy brother. First comes the assurance of his presence, but then the assignment. With great blessings comes great obligations. So Jesus now is showing you how he can use this blessing, and that is to strengthen the brother. First, we need to be converted. And he's not talking about salvation here. Conversion is a change of mind that leads to an action. And so and Peter needed a change of mind. You see, up to this point, everything's been about Peter Peter's the one that said, oh Lord, you can trust me. Well, I'll even go to prison or I'll even die for you. And that's when Jesus told Peter, he said Peter, I hate to tell you this, but before the sun goes down, you're going to deny me three different times. Sifting. Sifting. Peter failed at that. I'm sure that those as soon as as soon as the crock crew I'm sure that it it must have uh uh must have stung him pretty bad. I see him, you know, he's he's failed, failed, failed. It looks like the Lord has, you know, has forsaken him But then then I see him later on. After he's failed the the test of the of uh cursing the Lord and that whole thing and And finally he's so discouraged with himself he says, I'm getting out of here. I'm going fishing. I'm going back to what I used to do. I know I can do that. He goes back. Then we see them fishing in a fishing boat. And here's the Lord. Uh started a little fire off on the on the bank there and uh he's got the fire going and and all at once uh They realize who it is. Peter jumps into water and goes and do you remember what the final sifting was? The final sifting was when when the Lord asked this question. Peter, lovest thou me. You see, that's the bottom line, the whole thing, isn't it? Our service for God and what we do for God comes down to that one question. Peter, do you love me? Do you love me? Don, do you do you do you I mean do you do you really love me? You haven't acted like it. You've you failed some tests over here, but now this is the bottom line. Lovest thou me? Well yes, Lord, you know I love you. I'm not going to get into the the you know the different meanings of the of the word love because uh we've all heard that. But it comes down to this, that what Jesus wanted was that sacrificial love. You see, the bottom line is not, it's not, see, it was all about Peter Up to this point. Lord, I'm not going to fail you. I'll go to prison for you or I'll die for you. It was all about Peter. You know what the big problem with Christian Christians today and in a lot of churches, the problem with the that uh that uh uh the problems in the churches is a result of The reason for it is because the people think it's about them and not about the Lord. If we could ever just get our eyes off of ourselves and and realize that uh The little things that Satan would like to bring up to cause us problems usually boils down to whether it's about us or about the Lord. Just recently we was in a church that uh where there was uh uh so it was some little thing that didn't amount to anything, and I I won't get into that, but It it's usually things like the the color of the of the carpet or the the benches or something like that and well I think it ought to be blue. Well I think it ought to be red So if it's red, why this blue gets mad, and if it's blue, red gets mad. And it's not about them at all. It's about the Lord. It's focusing on what God wants and not about what we want. If we could ever get over that, we could do a great work for the Lord. When it comes down to to giving out tracts, it it has to do not with us, it has to do with the Lord. You say, well you we got to give them out, I know, but you have to make the decision that uh it's not uh it's not important. Whether we get tired or not. The important thing is to get the word out. We can make all kinds of excuses for not doing what God wants. It's not about us, it's about Him. And that's the one thing that Peter had to learn. It's not about you, Peter. It's about me. Do you love me? Then feed my sheep. Feed my lambs, feed my sheep. Every experience in life has two values in it. One of them is to strengthen the one that goes through the process. To strengthen you. The other is to encourage or strengthen the brethren. And that was what Jesus told Peter here. When thou art converted, strengthen your brethren. And by what he did. I see a different Peter altogether as he stood there at Pentecost and preached the gospel The power of God was on him, and thousands were saved as a result. The mighty ministry of Peter throughout the book of Acts tells me that there was a change of attitude. There was a conversion that had taken place in his life there on the banks of that river as Jesus fixed those those fish for him and asked him those pointed questions. Lovest thou me? And that's a question we have to ask ourselves. Do we really love the Lord, or is it still about me? Is it still about me? Perhaps you've been feeling the pressure of the sifting process that God is being allowed in your in your life. Don't give in. Understand, Jesus has prayed for you, and he's going to go through the whole process with you. And with him, all things are possible. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray now as we uh uh as we let this message sink in, Lord, I pray that you'd help us. So often we we take things so personal when we ought to just let it roll off our back like water off a duck's back. And I pray, Lord, as uh as we perhaps in the future sometime, that uh we feel the pressure