Ed Wilt went to be with the Lord ten o'clock Tuesday evening and um the funeral, really a memorial service they had for him was yesterday at two o'clock in Whitmore Lake, Michigan, just west of Detroit. And uh I had determined back we had missed when Isabel passed away as wife, and we didn't get word till it was a week or two after the funeral. And I told the family Linda please keep us in the informed that uh whenever Brother Wilt went to be with the Lord that if I couldn't make it myself, if there's no way I could, we would send someone, we want a representation So as it worked out, I was able to go and kind of a last minute we pulled out Friday forenoon and uh Brother Mike Stubler and Tom Sharon rode along and that was very interesting. It was like The three stooges on a road trip is pretty much what that was like. And uh but we got there and had just a wonderful service. Got to meet his family, the kids, uh of course they're grown when they There were children here and now they're have grandchildren and just a wonderful time. Got back after midnight last night and so uh just So appreciate your prayers for us. Today is Bible printing Sunday. And uh Brother Dan Hummel was to be with us today. And Friday got a call. Here he had developed a kidney stone. Uh and he was suffering with that he has a doctor's appointment down in South Carolina tomorrow morning. He was hoping and I was praying that he would pass the stone Friday night or Saturday morning sometime and get that thing over with and so he could get up here to be with us But that didn't happen, so Brother Hummel's not able to be with us. We're still hoping he can get in before uh we're done with our Bible printing min ministry here, the fingerprints ministry So you keep Brother Dan in prayer. As I told the Sunday school class, he is still having labor pains with that thing. And so you'd be much in prayer. For Brother Will. Hebrews chapter twelve. You know, w blonds and West Virginia folk take a beating around here, and it's all in Christian love. All the insults and jokes is all in Christian love. But um Uh I did hear about a blonde a young lady, she was blonde, and she determined she was gonna, you know, just come through on this and she decided decided to be a handy woman. She was gonna fix up things, she's pretty She goes, Oh yeah, I'm a good painter. I can really paint. He says, okay. He says, here's my address. And he says, um, uh I I want you to paint my porch. And uh she says, okay. She says it's a He says, It's in the front. Go there and get the paint. I want it this collar and uh take care of it. So that day he was there and she showed Dorsi says, I'm here to paint the porch and she said he says, Okay. She went out Man, twenty minutes later she comes in and she's she says, I'm done. He says, You're done. And he says she says, Yeah, it was great. It didn't take as much paint. In fact it was only half the amount of paint I thought it would need, so I painted two coats on it And he says, wow, he says, I'm impressed. He says, that's that's very good. I appreciate it. She goes, oh, by the way, it's not a porch, it's a Lexus. And uh she went out the door and Let's pray. Let's uh Hebrews chapter four and verse twelve. Let's read this verse together. Would you read it with me? For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit And of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. I want to speak this morning on the subject sight without vision Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. I ask, Lord, that you would use this message to challenge us. I pray that our faith in you would be stronger, our commitment to the cause of Christ would be greater. Lord, no doubt I'm talking to some folks who have been discouraged It's been circumstances or events, decisions made that have been difficult, have brought unwanted results. So I pray that you would use your word Your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives, and that discouraged hearts would be encouraged, that um direction would be given for some people and decisions that need to be made. I pray, Lord, that as I said a moment, that our f commitment to your cause would be greater. Victory would be one in lives. Now God, I can't do that of myself. I don't have whatever it takes to accomplish this unit. You have to do that, Lord. And you use your word. So I yield myself to you now. My will, I yield to your will. I present my body anew to you this hour, and I ask, God, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you would speak through me. Have your way, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many people here recognize the name Helen Keller? Somebody recognize the name Helen Keller. Just about everybody knows the name Helen Keller. Helen Keller, as you know, uh was uh was blind. Was dumb in the sense she could not speak and was deaf. How does a blind deaf Dumb person communicate. How do you function? How do you develop? She was born on the 27th of June in 1880. She died June 1, 1968. She actually, just a few facts about her, she was born in Alabama. She was born to Captain Arthur Keller, who was an officer in the Confederate Army, and her mother, Katie was actually a cousin of Robert E. Lee. Fairly wealthy, influential home. Truth of the matter is, she was not born blind or deaf or dumb. She was born perfectly healthy. When she was 19 months old, she contracted an illness that the doctors then diagnosed as an acute congestion of the stomach and the brain. Now we really don't know what they meant by that. The best assumptions are, we figure out, is she probably had either scarlet fever or meningitis The sickness itself did not b last very long. In fact, when she got over it at 18 months old, her mother believed and her family believed that she was completely over it and that she was well. But they began to notice something about Helen. Is that when people would talk to her, she would not respond. Nineteen months old. When things would go by, she wouldn't look at it, she wouldn't reach for it. And they came to realize that this illness had left her blind, deaf, and dumb. Amazing thing about Helen Keller is she ended up being a tremendous author. She became a political activist and a lecturer. She traveled the world. One report I read of her said that she was particularly loved in Japan. And she would lecture there. Of course, most of us are familiar with Helen Keller by the film The Miracle Worker. You ever saw that? I know as a child we'd watch that with Ann Annie Sullivan, the teacher. Somebody approached Helen Keller years later in her life, after she'd accomplished all of this, and miraculous miraculously. And they asked her a question that seems, in my mind, kind of dumb or out of place. Somebody approached Helen Keller and they asked her, they said, what could possibly be worse than being born blind? And Helen Keller answered without hesitation through the interpreter and however she communicated. She said To the question, what could be worse than being born blind? She answered, having sight without having vision. What did she mean by that? I believe what Helen Keller was saying was this something worse than being blind Is having the ability to see, the ability to take in information, but not realizing the significance of the information that's being received. Having the ability to know the truth, but not understanding how that truth applies to life. Seeing But not having any vision. Having information available, but not seeing what you can do with that information or the possibilities. That are available before you. Sight without vision. I hate to say this and I. Want to be careful, I don't come overly negative on a lot of times, but the truth of the matter is, I believe in our country and no doubt around the world, we have many churches that have sight, but they have no vision. And by that I mean they have the truth of God's word. Their doctrine may be sound. They have a good fundamental position. They've got the old book. And boy, they have sight, they see the truth, they have the information of as God has given to us, but they have no vision. They don't see what that information can accomplish. They don't see the significance of the truth they have. We are a fundamental independent Baptist church. And by that term fundamental, we simply mean we hold to the basic truths of the Bible. We believe there are certain truths given, certain doctrines given in the Bible that must be in place. If we're going to be genuine Christians. Now I've often said fundamentalism Being a fundamentalist is more than simply having the right doctrines on a piece of paper in your church doctrinal statement. Having the right doctrine is sight. But there's more to it than just having the right doctrine. There must be vision. In other words, that those truths must affect how I live. Fundamentalist is more than someone that believes simply believes as a doctrine the second Visible the second coming of Jesus Christ, the visible, literal return of Jesus Christ. It's not just something we have as a doctrine, but it's something that affects how we live our lives. We get up each day with the truth gripping our heart. Jesus may come back today. Fundamentalism, having sight Is having the doctrine of heaven and hell. A very real place called heaven, a very real place called hell. That's having sight, having the doctrine right. But vision is taking that truth, that doctrine, and applying it to my life and saying, hey, if there is a heaven and there is a hell, then it's very important That I get my salvation settled, and that I do all I can to help others get their salvation settled. Do you follow what I'm saying? Sight having doctrine Without vision, no application. I hate to say it, I've been in churches For they had sight. Boy, their doctrinal statement there. They had the book, they had the old King James Bible, and uh they had this and they had that, they had sight, but brother, there was no vision there. I'm grateful for our church. And we need to guard against being fundamental in doctrine only. And not applying it to our lives and seeing the significance of what we say we believe, seeing the significance of that, and how that should be influencing us, and us influencing our world. I appreciate the singing this morning. Was it just me? It seemed like folks are singing this morning. You know what? There's a j God puts a joy in your heart. And I'll be honest with you, I hope it's more than just warm weather and sunshine causes us to sing I believe it's the presence of the Lord. So I've been in churches. They had sight but no vision. And they would sing, and all they would be doing is just singing a song. Oh yeah, the good old hymns and just sing it. That's having sight. Having vision is, man, this is true. I've experienced this song in my life. I know what this means. And singing it out to the glory of God. Follow what I'm saying? So there's churches who have sight without vision. And that's sad. I believe there's individuals. Who have sight without vision. Now, I'm a human being just like everyone else. I believe it's very likely I'm speaking to some folks right now That has sight, but don't have vision. Oh, if you ask, you believe that? Oh yeah, I believe this. Yep, I believe that. Yep, I believe that. I believe this, I believe that, but That doesn't affect your life No, I believe in heaven. Yeah, I believe there's a hell. Yeah, no doubt. Jesus is the only way to heaven. Is it true that there's a heaven? Is it true there's a real place called hell? Is it true Gene's the only way to escape hell and go to heaven? That's sight. I'm talking to folks have sight. They don't have any vision You're not applying that to your life. You don't see how those truths affect the people you work with in your everyday life and you go about. You don't see how that affects somebody How I handle my money, I don't see, I I I see, I have sight, but I don't have any vision. How does that affect my life? What in the world does that have to do with me? Now we don't say those words, but we live that way We go through and just apply so many things. Helen Keller said One thing worse than being blind is being able to see, but not understanding or appreciating the significance of what you The potential. One thing worse, perhaps, than being a liberal church. It's being a fundamental church and not seeing the significance of the fundamentals that we say we owe to. As a Christian. Oh, yes, I believe all this, but it doesn't affect my attitude towards others. It doesn't affect how I schedule my life. My time doesn't affect how I invest my life in anything. Sight, but no vision. Told the Sunday school class, and I've been trying to bring this out recently. I was born on May 6, 1960. And um the world I was born into The world I was born into, by the way, that makes me 49, so don't worry about figuring it out. The world I was born into, I had no influence. I had no say into the type of world I was born into. Do you agree with that? The same for you. We come into this world, there's nothing we can do about the condition of the world when we come into it. But I am saying if we have sight with vision, the world we leave, we can have an influence on it. We can lead the world differently in a different condition than what it was when we came in. Our world, I'm talking about. We can have an influence. I'm saying And the Bible teaches that we can have a tremendous influence in the world we live. In the community community that we live. And I'm suggesting to you that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can have a great, great influence Not just in Oakland, Garrett County, surrounding areas, but I'm telling you, on the entire world, we can have an influence if we have a vision. If we can see the truth and then get a vision of what that means and the significance of it and what ought to be done with it Now here's the problem. We gripe about society, right or wrong. Anybody here ever gripe about These days it's gonna three people raise your hand. Man, I'm preaching a bunch of liars. I need a new message. Do we or do we not? And we criticize the government and we criticize this and boy the world today and people today and society today. And listen, I'm guilty along right along with you. But here's the thing: we gripe and criticize society, we gripe and criticize other people, but we do little or nothing. To influence in any significant way our society or others for the Lord If we would get as strong of a vision for helping others live for God and know Christ and influencing them for the things of God, if we would have as strong a vision for that as we do of emotional responses against what people do wrong, we might leave this place a better place than what we showed up in. Sight, but having a vision of what the uh question: Is society a mess? Yes or no? Yes, that's sight. We all see it But let's get a vision of what we can do about it. Huh? Do we live in a world full of people dying on their way to hell? That sight, we see it, we know it's true. But let's get a vision about what we can do. You say, oh, uh a guy was walking along the beach and there was just gazillions of of starfish washed up and they're all dying. The guy walks over and says, all these starfish are dying. So he picked one up and slung it in. Walked a little bit, picked another one, slung it back in the ocean. Finally a guy came up and said, there's no way you're gonna throw all these starfish back in the ocean. No, but I can throw some back in. There's no way you're going to get everybody saved. No, we can get some saved. Huh? Vision. We must have sight. We need to be able to understand. We must understand reality as God has revealed it to us. We need to have a right understanding. We need to be able to see man correctly. What does God say about man? What's the primary thing the Bible says about man? What? He's a sinner. He's a sinner. We're creating the image of God, but one thing, you don't get far in the Bible, you pick up and realize man is a sinner. Do you agree with me on that? For all have sinned and come sure of the glory of God. There is none righteous, no not one. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? And you go through the Bible, man is a sinner, man is a sinner, man is a sinner, man is a sinner. And we need to see that. We have to have that sight. Because if we do not understand that man is a sinner, then our solution to the problems of man are going to be askew. Right? That's where humanism falls short. That's where man's psychology falls short. He sees man as basically good, morally neutral And so tries to approach it from that. And that never works because they don't have sight. They don't have a clear understanding of the reality of man. We are sinners to the core. There is nothing good about us. Nothing. So we need to have that sight. We need to have sight concerning salvation. It's a lot of religion in the world. Did you notice that? We went up to uh uh Michigan that Friday and um These guys hijacked me, kidnapped me, and made me go over by Cabela's on the way up in Wheeling. And uh I fought it the whole way, but they overpowered me and we had to go there And then we ended up taking the little GPS thing in the car, and that had us go up through some winding road up through Ohio. I had no idea where we were. We went through scores of little towns, little towns, little towns. You know one thing I noticed in every one of those little towns, they were filled with churches. We drive through that road, whatever it was, man, there'd be church here. And we were looking trying to figure out what the churches were and looking for independent and just every town was filled with churches. We live in a world that is very religious. But we need to have a clear sight of what the Bible says about what salvation really is. The Bible says that salvation is in Christ and Christ alone In trusting Jesus Christ, He paid it all, He did it all, all I simply do is receive what Jesus Christ has done for me by faith. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. We need to have that sight. If you have a religion that does not see clearly salvation is by grace through faith. And they are trying to work their own salvation. They are trying to uh establish their own righteousness. What's going to happen? Huh? They're gonna die and go to hell. They're gonna trust in their own righteousness. They're gonna look to their own works and they'll say, Lord, Lord, we've done many things in your name. The Lord will say, Depart from me, I never knew. So we have to have correct sight. We need to see salvation correctly. Eternity, heaven and hell. We talked about that. We've got to see that If a man be has the wrong basis, doesn't see clearly that there is life, existence after death, that it it's either heaven or hell for all eternity after a person's life, if a person doesn't see that clearly, then their whole life's going to be messed up And so there must be sight, but having just sight isn't enough. We must have vision. We must take that truth of man's condition, salvation, eternity, and all the other things God has revealed to us in His Word. We need to take that truth, that sight, And then we have to incorporate in our lives. We need to get a burden about that to make a difference in this world. If We see clearly, man's a sinner. Without Christ, he dies and goes to hell. I get a vision of what that means. I get a vision of my uh what I should be doing about that, and I get about it. We need sight and a vision, a determination to make a difference. Now, here's my message. And I'm just sharing some things from mine. I just found out yesterday that I'm preaching this morning. So I sat down, uh, Mike and Tom, they sleep in till noon every day. So I was up and I was doing work waiting for them to get up. And I sat down in the little eating area there. I got a napkin, and I just thought, what is it? And I jotted down some things, and then these introductory thoughts fit in. I just jotted some things, my thinking, as far as our church in this matter of having a vision. Number one, I wrote this down. God has given to every one of us as believers an ability or a gift to be used For the Lord. I want to say that again. God has given to every one of us as believers. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. God has given to every one of us that know the Lord a gift or an ability or a talent, whatever you want to call it. He's given to every one of us one to for us to use For the Lord. Now keep your place here in Hebrews. We're going to end at Hebrews chapter 4, but I want you to come with me to Matthew chapter 25. Now if you're taking notes, let me give you a couple other verses we're not going to take time to go to While you're turning to Matthew 25, here's a couple other passages that I'm not going to take time. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4 through 11 teach this. Romans chapter 12, verse 3 through 8 teaches that every believer has been given at least one gift, one ability. To be used for the Lord. Look at Matthew 25. I'm going to begin reading in verse 14. Ready? For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. And unto one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one. So all of them, you agree with me, all of them had at least one talent. Now the word talent here is a figure is a measurement of money. I understand that, a currency. But we're talking about gifts. And we determine from the Bible that God has given to each of us, each of us, at least one gift, one ability. Now some of y'all have more than us others. Some of us only have one. Others you have multiple. But we all have at least one Every man according to his several to every man, look in the middle of verse 15, to every man according to his several ability. And straightway took his journey. Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same and made another five talents. And likewise he that had received two, he also gained another other two. But he that received one went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money. And after a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckon with them, reckoneth with them. And so he that received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. His Lord said of them, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. He that also had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliverest to me two talents. Behold, I have gained two other talents beside that. Has the Lord said, Well done, thou good and good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Now watch this. Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew that thou art a hard man reaping where thou hast not sown. and gathering where thou hast not strolled. Do you notice he's being critical of the one who gave him this talent I was afraid. In other words, he's saying, hey, you're so mean and hateful, I was scared to do anything for you. I was afraid and went and hid thy talent here. And lo, there thou hast his thine The Lord answered and said, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sow not, and gather where I'm not straw. Thou oughtest, therefore, to have put my money to the exchangers. And then in my coming I should have received mine own usury. Take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him, which had ten talents For and to everyone that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance, but to him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. Now, what's the story here? The Lord said this servant, this Lord, Jesus said this Lord gave to his servants various amounts of money according to each one's ability. To each one's gift that he was given. And they were to take that abilities that they had and use that for the advancement of the Lord's kingdom. And you have the different responses here. 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12 tell us that God has given to each of us various abilities. There's not one person I'm talking to that does not have an ability that God has given to you. You have at least one. Most of y'all have probably multiple abilities. He lists some of them in the passages I gave. God gives us these abilities, and they are to be used to advance his kingdom. Now, we all have these abilities. You can deny it all you want. You say, oh there's uh what could I do? Um I don't know, but God says there's something you can do. Not me saying it, God saying it. I'll be honest with some people, I think, well, the Lord messed that one. But um He did They all have it. Now we can do various things with these abilities that God has given us. And by the way, well, we can do various things with these abilities God has given us. One, we can use them for the purposes they were given to us. To advance the kingdom of God. What is advancing the kingdom of God? Getting the gospel out to people who need it, getting people saved. getting them into the family of God, getting churches established and uh uh Christians trained and built up and go out and then they do the same thing. advancing his kingdom. That's the purpose. Whatever gift you have, whatever gift I have, that is the purpose for that gift. So we can use it for the purpose that was given to us. Or we do have a free will. I can take that gift and I can use it selfishly. And I can use it to advance my agenda. There are people that I believe have been given tremendous gifts of speaking. The ability to speak, and we would call it the gift of preaching. But they're not using it to advance the kingdom of God. They're out there on circuits speaking. and advancing their own agenda and building their big name and uh they boy they can study and they can put things together and thoughts and ideas together and boy they can present 'em in powerful ways and they're becoming millionaires, becoming famous politicians because they have ability to speak and they're using that gift to advance their own agenda Singers, musicians are out there. You know, some of these people in the world, the music that they sing, we don't approve of. It's worldly, it's fleshly. But I'm telling you, the ability of the people singing it is tremendous. These people are gifted. But rather than using that gift to advance the kingdom of God, to bring glory to the Lord Jesus Christ, they're using it to become millionaires. To live to live uh um hedonistic lifestyles to to indulge in their own pleasures. They're using that as a means for their own gratification rather than the purpose that was given to them for the glory of God. Are you with me? Everybody with me? Okay So we can use it for the purpose God gave it to us. We can use it for our own purposes, but here's the sad thing. I'm afraid in a lot of churches, ours is not excluded. It's simply neglected. It's buried in the ground like that third guy. Well I was just afraid. Well, you know, people wouldn't appreciate it. I've heard it all Well, we have people leave the church because I didn't thank them enough for things. I tried to thank them for stuff. Well People don't just say, ah, I try to do this, nobody. I'll just dig a hole and boy. Do you notice the Lord's response when he comes back to that type of thinking? Let me ask you a question. This is on my mind. Are you using the abilities God gave you for the purpose God gave them to you? Have you even given any thought as to what you were able to do to advance the kingdom of God? Have you even thought about it? Are you just living your world, doing your thing, not even giving thought? What can I be doing for God? Where do I fit into this thing? What is my part in the body of Christ? Sometimes our bodies they get old, sometimes they always get old. But as they get old, sometimes certain parts of our bodies cease to function. And there's people in our church, uh I remember Brad Renard, remember he had his one finger just at the same position all the time, didn't function. That finger had gifts, that finger at one time had abilities But something happened. Now it doesn't function. And you know what I found? That limited Brad's ability to be able to do all he could possibly have done And limited its potential. You follow what I'm trying to say. And when you have members of the body of Christ, and God has given them specific abilities, maybe finger abilities, maybe ear abilities, maybe foot abilities. Maybe hand ability, smelling ability, whatever it is, that ability is fit in the family of God. But because we don't even think about it, and we don't use that ability to advance the kingdom, the body's hindered. And we can't have that influence in the world that we could have had. Our potential to influence our world is limited. Because individuals will not use the abilities God given them for the advancement of God, for the cause of Christ. Now, the Holy Spirit gives us all these different abilities. Let me throw this out quickly Our abilities, these gifts, complement one another. They do not conflict with the other gifts God has given other people. Whatever gift God has given me, it does not conflict with the gift God may have given Billy or Brother Jerry or Sarah or whoever. Our gifts do not conflict one with another. They complement each other. They sit together. They work together. So if there is conflict, Within members of the body of Christ, it is not the Holy Spirit who is causing that conflict Because the Holy Spirit gives that He gives us the abilities, the functions we have, they don't conflict with one another, they complement each other. So when there is conflict, that tells me somebody's operating outside of the influence of the Holy Spirit. The flesh somehow is taken over because the gifts of the Spirit of God complement each other. Paul talked about it in Philippians chapter 4. He told the two ladies they need to be of the same mind. Now those two ladies had two differing abilities. But they were conflicting with one another. Why? Because they were not operating under the head of that body, the mind of who? Christ. And they established their own mind. And so the fingers out there in conf the this finger is in conflict with the thumb, and they're thumb wrestling. And I'm trying to do something here and these two fingers are over there fighting and I gotta write this sermon and knock it off and they're fighting with each other. You know what they need to do? They need to be of the same mind. Come on, get under the mind here. I know it's small, but get under it. Follow what I'm saying? So God has given to every believer an ability or a gift to be used for the advancement of his kingdom, and those gifts don't conflict. And then along those same lines, God has given to each church specific responsibilities. You go to Revelation chapter 2 and 3, you have seven churches listed there. You read through there, each church had its own kind of unique area of influence. And the Lord went through this church, you're strong here, you're weak there, I need you to do this. This church You're weak there, you're strong here, you do this. This church, you're not strong anywhere, you're nothing but weak. You need to get that uh over here? Hey, you're doing good, this and he went through and each church as an individual church was evaluated and he says you have these weaknesses, you have these strengths, this is what you need to do. And God has given the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I believe, some very specific responsibilities. Now, all churches have three general responsibilities. Number one, everything we do is to be done to the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's number one. That's rules it all. Whatsoever, whether we eat or drink, whatever we do, four-wheeling in Burgu, West Virginia, we're doing it all for the glory of God Right? Bring glory to God. We do it properly, we do it right attitude. Whatever it is, soul winning everything. Choir. Number two, our second responsibility, secondary, and it is governed by that first responsibility is that we are to reach every lost person in this world with the gospel. And somehow, some way, we're going to every creature, preach the gospel to every creature. That's number two. Our third responsibility, given in Matthew 28, and all churches have this, is those who believe the gospel when we give to them. Our responsibility is train them up to live for God and be good strong Christians or faith in God. Alright, you follow? So God's given our church. All of us have individual gifts. God has given our church some very specific responsibilities. We have these general ones, but there's some areas God leads us. For instance, Kazakhstan The Lord's directing our church to have a part in reaching that country. And of course here locally in the the tract uh field trips we've been taking going around giving out tracts, believe God has given us that responsibility. The amount of influence each church has varies. But the effort put into that influence should be the same in every church. Brother Greg Baker's coming for a missions conference. He has a large church of all places, Toronto, Canada. It's a large church. They've got a school. They have a tremendous influence. They have an influence we'll probably only ever dream about. Listen, we can't match that church's influence. And by the way, we're not going to give an account to God. To have the same influence they had. But I tell you what we can match. We can match their effort. We can work as hard at having the influence we can have as they were at having the influence they can have. So it's not equal influence, it's equal effort. Everybody doing taking the gift that God has given to us Finding out the responsibility that that church that I'm a part of has, and then get working at that as hard as I can, so that we can have an influence. And do those things God has asked us to do. And I end with this, and we end up back in Hebrews chapter 4. Everything God does, he begins with his word. Everything God does, it begins with His Word. That's a whole series of messages in itself. Creation And God said, Let there be light. Um, the establishment of the nation of Israel God said to Abraham, get thee out of Cuddis to the place I shall tell thee of. The establishment of the church. The Lord sent his word and became flesh and dwelt among us, the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation! Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, the Word of God, and thou shalt be saved. Everything God does begins with His Word. By the way, if you don't have Bible salvation, you don't have salvation. You can justify it, you can explain it, you can rationalize whatever it is you have, but if it ain't Bible, it ain't salvation. So everything God does begins with the word. And Hebrews chapter 4 says, the word of God is quick. That means the gift that God has given to me has something to do with the Word of God. I hope you're picking up where I'm going with this. Whatever the gift is that God has given you, whatever the gift may be that God has given me, whatever gifts God may have given you, I know this. They have something associated with the Word of God. Because everything God does begins with His Word. Now, this verse here tells us that the Bible is a living book. Quick. It means to live, breathe, to be fresh, strong, and alive. It's a powerful book. Word of God is quick and powerful. It means effectual. It means the Bible has an influence. If we're going to influence our world, then it's going to be with the Bible. The Word of God. The Bible is a penetrating book. It is piercing even to the dividing asunder. It reached to the inmost recesses of our heart. You can read a newspaper and you'll get information. I like what Mark Twain said. He said if you don't read the newspaper you're uninformed. If you do read the newspaper, you're misinformed. Oh that was good. You can read the newspaper and get information. You can read a novel, Louis Lemore, whatever novels out there. You read a novel and you'll get entertainment. But you read the Bible and you get transformation. Changes your life. Reaches down into our innermost recesses of our heart and soul and has an effect. It's penetrating. And the Bible is a discerning book. It's a discerning of the thoughts and intents of the heart. It's a judge. Helen Keller was asked. What's worse than being blind? And this woman who could not see, could not hear, could not speak? If I remember correctly, they communicated with her by touching her arm. Certain ways. That's how they communicated. Couldn't see, couldn't hear. And her response back was to be able to see, but not have a vision. I'm talking to people perhaps this morning, God's given you a gift. But you don't have any vision as to how that can be used for the glory of God. Just like that one servant hit it in the ground. He never saw the possibility. Of what was given to him, what he could have done, the influence he could have had. He just withdrew Just neglected it. I'm just taking care of me. I'm just making sure I'm okay. You're mean. I don't want. I'm just taking care of me. Nobody treats me right. I'm just gonna hold on to this. You may see it, but you don't have a vision. Amen? God's giving our church a job this week. God's given our church a job of assembling 15,000 pieces of the Word of God. To get out the countries, not necessarily Kazakhstan, but countries like that. Where people right now, as I'm talking to you, are lost, that within the next twelve months they'll get that piece of Literature, scripture that we'll put together, they'll get it, and they're gonna be given sight. Now whether they realize the significance of what that passage What that piece of portion of scripture says or not, that's their responsibility. But God's given us a job to get it to them. Let me ask you a question. Are you going to use the abilities God has given to you? to help our church do the job God has given us to do. Follow what I'm saying? Are you involved? What are you doing for God? What are you doing for God? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to be about the Lord's business. Tracks, scripture assembly, missions, faith promise, all these things you've given us as a church a responsibility, and you've given us as individuals abilities to fulfill them. Please bless us and help us. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, the Spirit of God has dealt with my heart? I don't know that I'm something special, but I believe God could do something with me. If I just step out and get involved and and uh use what I have, use the hands I have, use the feet I have. I just want God to use me. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me.