And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethavan on the east side of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country, and the men went up and viewed Ai They returned to Joshua and said to him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai. And make not all the people to labor thither, for they are but few. So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men, and they fled before the men of Ai. The men of Ai smote of them about thirty and six men, for they chased them before the gate even unto Shaberum and smote them in in the going down, wherefore the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Joshua rent his clothes and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until the eventide He and the elders of Israel and put dust upon their heads, and Joshua said, Alas, O Lord, God, wherefore hast thou it all brought the pe this people over Jordan to deliver us unto the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us. Would to God we had been content And dwelled on the other side of Jordan. Or Lord, what shall I say when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it. And shall environ us round, and cut off our name from the earth. And what wilt thou do unto thy great name? And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up, wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Israel hath sinned. And they have also transgressed my covenant, which I commanded them, for they have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen, and dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff. Therefore, the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their backs before their enemies because they were accursed. Neither will I be with you any more. Except you destroy the accursed thing from among you, up sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves to Against tomorrow, for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, there is an accursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel. Thou canst not stand before thy enemies until ye take away the accursed thing from you I'm going to speak on this subject, preach on this subject tonight, sin in the camp. And if you look at the seriousness in verses 12 and 13, you can see that this is indeed a serious thing. The end of verse twelve, neither will I be with you any more, except ye destroy the accursed thing from you, from among you At the end of verse 13, that thou canst not stand before thine enemies until ye take away the accursed thing from among you. Let's pray and then uh and then the the message tonight. Lord again we thank you for all you've done for us. We thank you for the good service uh today. Lord, um we pray now that you would uh Bless this service here tonight. I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit, Lord, as I try to present your word. And I ask that you would use your word tonight. Again, Lord, to show us what it is we need to change, to bring conviction to our hearts, Lord, and to our lives. And Lord, again, we pray as always that you would get all of the honor and glory for it. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen So here's what's going on as far as the timeline is concerned, and I understand this is a somewhat uh familiar story, but just so everyone is up to speed. We know that the children of Israel were in bondage and slavery in Egypt for over 400 years. And after that long, long time in slavery God uh sent Moses. And it was a miraculous story there how God um had Moses spared. Um and then then came back uh to e to uh Egypt um and led the people out of Egypt and all that all all that took place there, the the the plagues of Egypt I always kind of wondered too what would be going through your mind if you were one of the Egyptians and you just saw plague after plague after plague I'd be wanting an election to vote Pharaoh out. That's what I would have been thinking. And if you look at um some of the things the Egyptians even said, like, you know, we can't match we can't we can't fight against his God and And you could tell that uh the Egyptians themselves were wanting to let Israel go, had gotten to that point, but of course Pharaoh kept hardening his heart. And um And all those plagues there. And then finally, after the last plague, They left. Uh Pharaoh said, fine, go. And then, of course, changed his mind again and chased him down, uh, caught up with them there at the Red Sea, and then they crossed the Red Sea on dry ground. Again, if I was an Egyptian there seeing that I would probably be turning my chariot around. But they uh pursued in after them and God destroyed uh the Egyptians there. And then after that they uh they received the commandments at Mount Sinai. Um and then just to make a long story short, there, because of all the uh rebellion there when um as far as um They went to Canaan and they and they saw the giants and uh the people s said, you know, that they can't take it. Let's go back to Egypt and all that. I'm paraphrasing, I know. But because of the rebellion there, uh they wandered in the wilderness for forty years, and everyone that was twenty and up um died in the wilderness. Except for uh Caleb and and uh Joshua and anyway, so then j um after that Joshua takes command. Moses goes off the scene. goes up into the mountain. Joshua takes command. And I I I this is just me. I'm a little bit of a history nerd. And um I I I like st I like studying like Civil War history and and like the Revolutionary War history and things like that. I'm a little bit of a nerd in that regard, but that's okay. Um I like I like that kind of stuff. One thing that is really interesting I like about the book of Joshua is um at at at um uh VMI, Virginia Military Institute, um uh during the Civil War and right before uh they required their officers to study Joshua um and his battle tactics and stuff like that. If you read the book of Joshua, it's pretty cool. I like it. I like that. Um and um the the the strategy and the the the genius uh that Joshua had, of course, uh the Lord was with him. I like the book of Joshua, I like this study, it it's uh it's a fun book um for me to study and and I encourage you to do the same as well. But anyway, Joshua takes command and they start the conquest of Canaan. And um that you again if you study it, there was really three campaigns that Joshua uh undertook. Started out with taking the cities in the middle, which was Jericho and AI and um and then they had a northern campaign and a southern campaign and they got uh most of Canaan conquered there is pretty cool to study that. But anyway, they start out with the conquest of Canaan by going to Jericho. And again, that's a classic story. And by the way, it's not just a story, that's real, that really happened. One of the things that is pretty cool if you've ever been to the Creation Museum is they've uh dug up some s um stuff around Jericho and seen where the uh the walls had fallen in and they think what you know that they found them and they think they found uh where uh Rahab might have lived But anyway, that's just kind of fascinating stuff there. But um so Jericho obviously was a success. They marched around seven days. Seven times on the seventh day, um and then all but uh Rahab's house uh were killed. Pretty cool story there. And then by the way If I was like I said, if I was the Egyptians and I saw what God did, I'd be thinking about having an election. If I was the the Canaanites and I saw that, I'd be a little bit nervous. But anyway Now God gave strict instructions to the people in chapter 6. Go to chapter 6 of Joshua, and let's look at verses 18 and 19. Verse 18 And ye and any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing. So see, when they when they when they took Jericho, they were given some very specific instructions here. Look again, verse eighteen. Uh in any wise keep yourself from the accursed thing lest ye make yourselves accursed when you take of the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel a curse and trouble it. But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated in the Lord, they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. And then verse 20, so the people shouted with uh with the priests, blew the trumpets We know that story there, and then they they they conquer the the city. So they were giving some strict instructions not to take the accursed thing. Pretty c pretty clear. Pretty clear instructions. But then here we get here in chapter seven and verse one. But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing. And then it mentions Achan. This guy, Achan, took of the accursed thing. I find this very interesting. Verse 1, about halfway through it. It says, took of the accursed thing, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. I underlined that in my Bible and wrote a note next to it, and this isn't necessarily the whole message tonight. But I wrote next to that. All suffer from sin, from one person's sin. Many people suffer from that. And so anyway, that's a good example of that here. So um He hides it. It's not known to the rest of the camp. He hides the accursed thing. He hides um his sin that he had committed there. And right after this great victory, if we go uh forward a few verses, uh verse two, Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai. He's sending some people out to go check out the next uh battle. And verse three, they returned to Joshua and said, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up, because Ai wasn't that great of a city. Um they went and surveyed it, they went and scouted it out and like, why make everyone tired? Just send two or three thousand and then there'll be no problem. Now one thing again we need to keep in mind, it's we we get we get this concept that if we're stronger, we don't need the Lord. We we do. It wasn't and and it wasn't two or three thousand men that conquered Jericho, it was God that conquered Jericho And if it would have only been two or three thousand, or if it had been two or three million, it was God that did it. Anyway, but they came off of this great victory of Jericho and they're thinking, well, two or three thousand, that should be enough. And then verse 4, so there went up thither of the people about 3,000 men, and they fled before the men of Ai. They retreated. They ran away. This was a loss. This was a loss. They had just come off of a great victory conquering Jericho. And next to Jericho, Ai wasn't much of anything. But the difference was God was with them when they conquered Jericho, but he wasn't with them when they went against Ai. And so Ai defeats Israel, killing 36 men. And Israel retreats. Now, verse 6 through 9, Joshua seeks the Lord as to why this happened. You can see he he he he uh uh rents his clothes, he fell onto the earth uh before the ark of the Lord, and the elders also did with him. And um he's wanting to know what happened. I'd I'd be wanting to know what happened, too. If I was in Joshua's shoes, I'd be wondering, here, God was with us with Jericho, and it was completely all of God that did it. And um now all of a sudden he we we lost against what should have been an easy victory, but it was a defeat. So what's going on? And I like um Verse 10, I like the way the Lord says this. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up, wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Like it's almost like, What are you doing? Get up. Get up. I'll tell you what the problem is. Verse 11. Israel have sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant. God tells the problem. There's sin in the camp. Now I think this is interesting. The problem was not the defeat. At AI. Do you catch that? The problem wasn't the defeat of AI. What did they think the problem was the defeated AI? It's like the the the here Jericho is a great success. They go to AI, 36 men die, they fled. This is a big problem. We're supposed to beat them. We lost. What's going on? That's not the problem. God says what the problem is. The problem is there's sin in the camp. The defeat at AI was a symptom of the problem. Now here's what we do often. I think we often do this. We will look at the symptom as if it is the problem. We'll look at the symptom and say that's got to be the problem. That's not the problem. That's a byproduct of the problem. And I think one reason is because we don't want to admit that the problem is the problem. And you can take that and um apply that how you will. But um So here's what happened. I'm gonna I'm gonna break this down. This is what I'm gonna do tonight. I'm gonna break down What Aiken did, the process by it, the consequences, and then the solution to it. So here's what Aiken did. First off, he looked And it and if you read his um answer in verse twenty And Achan answered Joshua and said, I I indeed I have sinned against the Lord of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. When I saw among the spoils A goodly Babylonianish garment. See, it started with him looking. If he never would have looked on the Babylonian-ish garment, and that's a tongue twister, Babylonian-ish. That almost sounds like something you put between um tomato and mayonnaise. Never mind. But when he he looked on it and he saw it And now let me let me let me let me just ask you, was there probably a lot of people of Israel that saw a lot of stuff? Sure. It wasn't just that he glanced and happened to see it, he was looking on it. You know what I'm talking about. He was looking on it. And it said look at look at the verse twenty one. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonian garment. And 200 shekels of silver, a wedge of gold of 50 shekels weight. How did he know how much it weighed? How did he know the value? It wasn't just a glance. He was studying on it. You you see that, right? Uh again, verse twenty one. When I saw that spoils a goodly Babylonianish garment, how do you know how good it was? Two hundred shekels of silver. Did he count it? A wedge of gold, fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them. You know, if if you s if if if I had two hundred Whatever. $200 bills up here. And I just started c counting one, two. By the time I get to two hundred, I'm gonna be real tempted just to keep that. You know what I'm saying? And so it wasn't a lot of people went in and saw things, but they knew there were strict instructions. Uh-uh. That's off the menu. That's not on the list. And um a as never mind. I was gonna quote a Disney movie from 2000, but I don't never mind. Anyone ever watched The Emperor's New Groove? You know what I'm talking about? He says no touchy. Anyway, never mind. That's what God said. No touchy. Anyway, so he looked at this long and hard. It wasn't just a glance. And once you look at something long and hard enough, you are going to probably start to covet it I mean that's it's just what's gonna happen. It's the normal progression. Again, if I had a stack of hundred dollar bills by the time I got to the couple hundred It's going to be real hard not to take that. I'm probably gonna and I'm I'm gonna be coveting it at least by that point Can I just say just what just don't look. Just don't look. And if something happens to come up and you happen to glance Don't look again. The longer you study something, the longer you look on something, the more you're going to be tempted to covet it. That's just what's going to happen. And then if you're coveting something and you're looking that long, you're probably going to take it. You're probably going to commit it, whatever the it might be. Look at verse 21. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonianish garment, And two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold, of fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them and took them. Well yeah, that's the progression. Now here's uh this is just this is just me thinking. And I struggle with that, so hang on, okay But I wonder if when he first went into Jericho and first saw the gold and the garment, before he knew the value, before When he verse just saw it, do you think that he realized what was going to happen? I'm thinking probably not. Because once he once he handled it, once he weighed it, once he figured it out, then he started coveting it, then he took it, and then the other cons consequences came. I doubt when he first saw that Babylonianish garment, and he first saw the gold and everything else, I doubt he was thinking about thirty six men dying. You you follow me? That that's not what was on his mind. He we're gonna lose the ne God said not to do it. Man, God's blessing is going to be removed, so we'll probably not win the next battle. That's not what was going on in his mind. It was, ooh, that's interesting. Oh, that looks good. That looks valuable. And we better be very, very careful. And then we live in a world where there's a lot of evil to look at. Very, very quickly. And especially with cell phones right now, it's like within three seconds you can look at whatever you want. You can you you can get to anything. It's very, very easy to look. And You can see things without wanting to. Just like when these men went into Jericho, I'm sure that they saw things that they weren't supposed to take. But they didn't stop to study on it. They didn't stop to think on it. They didn't stop to weigh it out And when we see something that's tempting, and we start, if we take the time to start weighing out if it's worth it, you're thinking about it too long. You're thinking about it way too long. And if you think about it that long, you will covet it. And it will be on your mind. So he took it. And then, look at verse 21. I took them and behold they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent and the silver under it The thing that he took, it started out with looking at it, but not just looking, studying on it, weighing it out, counting it out, getting the value. By then it was game over. Then the covetousness set in, and he took it, and then it was a part of his life. It was mixed in his tent. He brought it into his home I don't think he was thinking about it bringing it into his home when he first when the when the walls of Jericho fell in and they went in, I don't think he was thinking, this is gonna affect my wife. I don't think he was thinking this is going to affect my family. But when you give in to the covetousness, when you look a little too long and hard at something, And you start to weigh it out and count it out. And then you decide, you know what, I can hide this. It will be in your home. And it will hurt your family. You know, it will have consequences. He put it in with his own stuff. Verse eleven says Israel hath sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them, for they have taken the accursed thing, and have stolen and dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff. There is a problem when Christians take stuff from Jericho and put it among their own stuff. You follow me? And I'm trying real hard not to mention a specific sin because I don't know which way the Holy Spirit's going to bring conviction tonight, and I don't want to mess with that. You could apply this so many different ways. What is it that you're taking and bringing into your own home? It it and again it could be a number of things. It could be a a bitter spirit that you're not supposed to have. That's pretty clear. It could be a bad attitude. It could be something else. It could be deceit. It could be lying. It could be I don't know. Whatever. Whatever the Lord's dealing with Si'u about right now. Did you ever think that it would go this far When you first looked? Did you ever think it would end up in court when you first looked? Did you ever think it would uh end up with losing one of your your kids? Did you ever think I mean you could go anywhere with this? It starts with looking a little too long and a little too hard Which by the way, if something comes up, look away immediately, because any amount of time is too long. So that's what happened. He mingled it with his own stuff, his own family, into his living room, into his TV. So that's what happened. That was the problem. The problem was not the defeat at AI. That was a symptom of the problem. The problem was he took of the accursed thing. And it started with looking a little too long and a little too hard. And counting it out. And I always and uh to me it's almost kind of comical. Um he's standing there before Joshua and he says, Yeah, so I got two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold fifty shekels weight I wonder what Joshua uh if Joshua was thinking that. He probably was. Really? You waited. It's hid in the middle of your tent But you know what it weighed, you took the time to weigh anyway. Anyway. So here's the consequences. Here's some of the symptoms. Again, the symptom isn't the problem. The problem was he took of the accursed thing and that started with the look. But the here's the here's some of the symptoms, the consequences. Understand one man's sin affected the whole camp There's a lot of people in Israel. Every single one was affected because one man took of the accursed thing. One man's sin affected the entire nation of Israel in a few ways. One, there was a defeat now Their reputation is affected now. God's reputation was affected. And Joshua mentions some of that when he's praying to the Lord. One man's sin can remove God's blessings from many. One man's sin can remove God's power from many. Verse 13, Upsanctify the people and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, there is an accursed thing in the midst of thee. Thou canst not stand before thine enemies. Until you take away the accursed thing from among you. Because of Achan, they were not able to stand before their enemies. One man's sin can remove God's power, God's protection, God's favor. There's a lot of consequences. And we can go on. We can go into the death of his family. We could go in uh all kinds of nothing good is going to come out of of taking of the accursed thing. Taking something that you're not supposed to have. Taking something that God says is not yours. Period. That's not for you. That's not yours. Don't take it. And when there's nothing good that's going to happen when you take it. There's nothing good. Only bad is going to happen when we take the accursed thing. Only bad. So what's the solution? Now, as I'm speaking to you right now, hopefully the Holy Spirit is speaking to you as well. Is there something? Maybe there's not, but is there something In your tent, in your home, that's not supposed to be there? Is there something in your house, in your home, that is not supposed to be there? God said no But you took it anyway, and it's there. When we take of the accursed thing and bring that into our home, and bring that into our tent, our home's affected, but the entire camp's affected as well. We can't sin in a box. Not only does my sin affect my family, it affects my church family. Don't think for a minute that that thing that you're hiding in your tent. Don't think just because no one else knows about it, first off, God knows about it. Second of all, even if no one ever does find out about it. It's still affecting them. It's still affecting them. And it's still affecting your home. So here's the solutions. Here's the solution. Verse 13. Upsanctify yourself. Verse 13. Sanctify the people. And say, sanctify yourselves against tomorrow. It means to set apart, to clean up Are there some things in our homes we need to clean up? Are there some things we brought in we need to sweep out? Is there an accursed thing that right now you're being tempted with and you're thinking about it? And you're weighing it out and counting it out and seeing if it's a good idea or if it's not. You've gone that far. Stop now. It's not worth it. Quit trying to figure out how you can still do it and get away with it. Quit trying to figure out how you can spiritualize it and make it right. You can't. It's the accursed thing. Get rid of it. Sanctifiers. Take it away. Verse 13 again. Take it away. Sanctify the people. Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, for thus saith the Lord of Israel And if he says at the end of the verse, until you take away the accursed thing from among you There's if there is something in there that's not supposed to be there, we need to take it out immediately. Verse 12 says, neither will I be with you anymore at the end of the verse, except ye destroy the accursed thing from among you. If there is something that you're struggling with, You're better off to just destroy it. There's nothing wrong with taking a hammer to some DVDs. It's a good healthy thing to do. It's fun too. It's Yeah. It's it's cool. Make make it make a celebration out of it. Yeah. There's I mean you know, but if there's something in there That you keep finding yourself going back to. There is nothing wrong with taking a hammer to your computer, but it's so much money. It doesn't matter. It's the accursed thing. You're weighing it out again. You're trying to justify the weight of the gold again. There's so I mean i if if you find yourself um going places that you shouldn't be going. Give someone your keys. It's okay. Destroy it. Get rid of it. It's not worth it. You a and again, I don't know what specific thing the Holy Spirit is pointing to right now But whatever it is, you're better off to just eliminate it. Not just for your sake. But for your family. And not just for your family. But for the whole camp. Sanctify yourselves, take it away, destroy it if necessary. I think to to I'm going to kind of start to wind things down here, but I think this. All of all of the problems with the whole camp, all the problems that Achan had and his family and them being stoned and all of that and The 36 other men dying that had nothing to even do with it, uh the defeat, all of that started with looking at something. All of that started with looking at something. If there's if there's nothing else you get out of the entire uh the service tonight, just don't look. Don't look. If you struggle with gambling, don't even look at the lottery tickets. If you struggle um with filth online, just don't even look at a screen. If you struggle with Uh w whatever. If you struggle with watching m movies or something that you shouldn't just don't watch any movie. You know, just don't look Don't look. Just remove the possibility. Make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Starve it out, kill it, destroy it. That's what uh he said there in verse 12, destroy it from among you. We don't sin in a box. There might be pleasure, but is it worth the consequences, not just to you, but to your family, to the whole camp? Many others are affected. I wonder what Achan was thinking after the 36 men died, but before he had his meeting with Joshua. You know what I'm talking about? After the battle was lost, he knew. Thirty-six men died. He probably knew. I kind of have a feeling What was going through his head for that little bit of time? What do you think? Man, I'd have been sweating. I'd have been sweating. And then he he he gets uh confronted there and he admits to what he did. Which leads me to another point. We just need to confess. We need to fess up. Before the camp can go forward, we need to mess up. Don't mess up. We need to fess up. We need to confess. Before the camp can move forward, before the conquest can go on, before we can get to AI, we have got to confess it and get on. Move on. Can confession hurt? Yeah Can it be painful? Yeah, but is it worth it once it's done? Oh yeah. Absolutely. What sins are you hiding? What accursed thing is in your home? Maybe your spouse doesn't even know about it. Maybe your kids don't even know about it. Maybe they do, and you're all hiding it together. I don't know. We need to confess it. We need to confess it. So to wrap things up, again you can close your Bibles. I'm pretty much done here. We'll look at prayer requests in just a second, but Let me just ask you uh pretty plainly, do you want God's blessing on your camp? When there's sin in the camp, God removed his blessings. God removed his protection. God removed his power. Do you want a powerless camp? Do you want a powerless marriage? Do you want God's hand removed from your relationship with your children? Do you want God's hand removed from your home, from your camp? I'm not trying to sound redundant. I'm trying to emphasize the point. As long as there is something in there that does not belong, the conquest will be slowed down. The progress will be slowed down. I don't know about you. This is just me. But I've noticed the times in my life where I'm not leading people to the Lord. Are the times when I got something going on that I shouldn't? You follow me? When I'm angry about something When I have a bad spirit about something, whatever. When I've got an accursed thing in my heart, that's when the progress is halted. Why is it that you haven't seen any progress in your marriage? Why is it you haven't seen any progress in your home? Why haven't you been able to Lead anyone to the Lord. Why haven't you been able to make any headway with those coworkers? Maybe it's because there's something in the camp that doesn't belong there. We need to look internally before we look externally. Again, we need to not just focus on the symptoms. We need to figure out what the problem is. And you figure out what the problem is. Do you want God's blessings on your family, on your church, on your nation? You fill in the blank. Heads bowed, eyes closed. For just a moment here. How many of you by by way of raising your hand would say, you know what, uh, Pastor Matt? Um God's dealings with something specific right now. Um there's something in my life That I need to destroy. Would you raise your hand? There's something in my life I need to clean up so that I can move forward. There's something uh good. I see your hands. Thank you. Let me put them down. I would hate to be the one responsible for 36 people's deaths, as well as my families. But I would also hate to be the one responsible. For slowing down the conquest of my family here, or my church family here. Whatever's in our life that should not be there. Let's get rid of it now. Maybe there is nothing there. But there's something you're thinking about. You're weighing it out. Stop it. As we stand to our feet, um when she starts playing, the the invitation's open. However God's dealt with you tonight, you you do business with God