I enjoy our ladies' trio. They're always a blessing. Always have a good song. Appreciate that. First John chapter 1 Anybody know what that that uh paint shop downtown across from the uh Webco bank there up from Denny's? Anybody know the paint shop there? Anybody know him nobody knows where that paint shop is Yeah, yeah, down there. I was in there, um, I was wanting to get a little thinner and it didn't work. But um First John Chapter 1, verse number 9. I'd like for us to read this together in unison. Let me ask this question real quick. Let me take a little poll. How many folks are familiar with 1 John 1 9? People say, I'm familiar with that verse. That's good. I think every Christian ought to be very familiar with 1 John 1 and verse number 9. Let's read that together in unison, if you would. Ready? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I put in the margin of my Bible at some point in my devotions over the years, I don't know when or where, but uh I got in the margin of my Bible beside verse nine, I put this down, God's reset button God's reset button. Anybody here have a microwave or something? It'll quit working in the back. There's usually a little red button. You mash that button, boom, the thing kicks back up again. Anybody know what I'm talking about? 1 John 1. 9 is God's reset button. And I've entitled the message this morning, Sins Cleansing. Sins Cleansing. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts now. Father, we bow before you. With very, very grateful hearts. Lord, I've been blessed by the music this morning. It has helped me. And there's no doubt, Lord, the songs of the choir congregation, these ladies has helped prepare my heart for the preaching of your word. And I pray that would be true across the auditorium here. Lord, I bow as the preacher this morning and I ask with all my heart that you fill me With your Holy Spirit, I yield my will to you. I present my body as an instrument in your hands, and that you would just help us in this matter of sin in the life of a Christian and being cleansed And so, Holy Spirit, be the preacher. Have your way, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. How many people recognize the name Romulus? Anybody recognize that name? Romulus was a legendary figure. And the story goes that he was born of a princess over in what we know now to be Italy. And he was born of this princess, I believe he had a brother. And uh They uh for whatever reason the king disapproved of Romulus' birth and he banned him at uh to be thrown in a river and to be killed, thrown in the river there and drown and die. He's thrown in the river, he's put in a little basket, he's put in a river And according to legend, lo and behold, as he went downstream, he washed up on shore in that basket, and a she-wolf Found Romulus and his brother, and took them in and nursed them as little infants, nursed them and raised them as her own pups. Legend goes on that as he grew, being raised by this she-wolf, eventually some shepherds in the area had heard word about this These boys being raised by wolves, and uh they came across them and they rescued him from the wolf and brought him in and they raised them up as their own, and they became shepherds As they grew and got older, the story goes, finally word came to them as to who they really were. And that Romulus was actually the son of a princess. He had royalty in his blood. And as he learned of this situation he's in, what his true identity was, he made a decision. He made a decision that he was not going to live as a wild poor shepherd out in the mountains. But he was going to live according to his identity as a prince, the son of a princess. And he did. The story goes on that he eventually rose to fame, became a great man, and founded the city of what? Rome. The founder of Rome. Now, obviously that's much of that is legendary. How much is true or not, we don't know. But there's a there's a truth there He could have remained out in that wild wilderness living hand to mouth, wild Wolf-raised boy, poor shepherd, or he could live as a king He could live as royalty. And he made a decision, I'm not going to live that way, I'm going to live this way. Now, what was true in that legendary story of Romulus is to some extent, I believe, true for Christians. You and I are raised in a very sinful world. The Bible says that this world, apart from Christ, is without God and without hope. The Bible says that we live in a fallen world, fallen mankind. How many folks have recognized that this whole world is a pretty sinful world? You can't go a day without seeing the effects of sin and the saturation of sin and on our society and not just our society, it's worldwide. And as a believer who's someone who's trusted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior And we've had our sins, the judgment of our sins, removed because Jesus Christ was judged for us in our place as our substitute. And now, as a believer in Jesus Christ, someone who's put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I am accepted by God, though still a stredder as in my uh with old nature, but before God Because of what Jesus Christ has done, I stand as a saint. God refers to me. Second Corinthians five 21 says that that our uh he had laid God had laid on him Jesus he had laid on him the iniquity of us all and uh uh and that uh his righteousness is imputed to our account For he was, um, help me for 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for um uh for his righteous for uh who knew no sin. Uh let's just look it up, all right I know that verse. Come over there. 2 Corinthians. This is a great verse. Chapter 5, verse 21. For he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us, who knew no sin, Jesus knew no sin, that we might be made the what? Righteousness of God in him. So when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God forgives my sin, all my sin account, all the judgment for my sin. It's placed on Jesus Christ. He paid that judgment in full. He paid that debt in full on the cross. He cried out, It is finished. He's buried. Rose again. He ascended. He's the right hand of God. And Jesus' righteousness Is put to my account. When God opens the books of heaven and he looks down, he finds Dennis Lederman beside it, says holy, pure, righteous, good, sinless. Jesus' righteousness, his merits of righteousness are put on my account, and that's my standing before God. And by the way, every person that trusts Christ, that's our standing before God. Now, unfortunately, our living here on earth, practically, or as we live our lives out We don't live up to that position that we hold before God. Is everybody with me here? A little theological this morning. But we don't live out our lives According to, we don't live it out to the standard that we hold as standing before God. We don't live up to that righteousness, practically speaking. And so we make a decision. This is what I'm trying to get at. We make a decision. I can say, Lino, God has forgiven me. He saved me from sin in hell He saved me from judgment. He's given me the righteousness of Christ. I'm fully accepted by God as far as my standing before him is. I don't want to live that old way anymore. I don't want to be that wild, wolf-raised shepherd boy out in the wilderness. I want to live like the child of a king. I want to live as the child of God. And you and I have a decision on a daily basis. How are we going to live my life as a Christian God calls us to live according to our position as a child of God. God calls us to live that way. We still live in a fallen world, but God has given us provisions that we don't have to live The way this world lives. As a child of God, I don't have to live as an unsaved. I don't have to live that way. He's given us provisions. If you would, look in chapter one of 1 John. And look with me if you would at verse number 7. Pastor Matt read this here a few moments ago. 1 John 1, look at verse 7. I'm sorry, verse 4. 1 John 1, verse 4. And these things write we unto you. Alright, here's why John is writing this under the inspiration of God. These things write we unto you that you're what? Joy may be full, that your joy may be full. God wants his people to have genuine, real joy in our lives. That is something that this old world is lacking You know, there's a lot of laughter out in the world, but there's not much joy. There's a lot of hooping and hollering and carrying on hee-hauling a lot out in the world. But you find not much joy. But God says that you and I, as a child of God, He gave us the Bible. One of the reasons He gave us the Bible is so that we can have genuine joy regardless of circumstances. I can have joy. We have some folks in our church that are going through it. I mean physical trials and and other situations. And my prayer for several in particular, the last several weeks has been this. My prayer has been, God, please give them The joy of the Lord, even in the midst of this trial. Even in the midst of this trial, the joy of the Lord. That's what the Lord wants us. He always wants his children to live like the world, angry, mad, miserable, putting on a facade of happiness and laughter, but no real joy. He says, no, I want you to have joy as a child of God. I want you to have joy. It's one reason and gave us a Bible. If you would, come over and look with me at Chapter two and verse number one He says, My little children, these things write I unto you. Here's that same statement again. This is one of the reasons I'm giving you the Word of God. This is one of the reasons I'm writing this under the inspiration of God. These things write I unto you. Why? That ye what? Sin not. Sin not. Oh, we live in an old sinful world. Old sinful world. You can't hardly turn that television on without getting bombarded with sinfulness. You can't hardly turn uh your average world's radio station and sinful ungodliness everywhere you go. Uh just uh um I don't know. Uh uh maybe I'm just getting old, but it just seems like nobody can talk without having filthy language anymore. Is it just me or what? I mean, you can't hardly go anywhere without hearing the most vile, filthy stuff And uh and God's name blasphemed and um and dishonesty lying and lying. Yeah, those politicians are liars. You know what? This whole society is saturated with dishonesty Just lying at the drop of a hat. And God says, listen, you're a child of God. You're not some wild Sh uh, wolf raised, shepherd, uh pour out in the mountains. You're a child of the king. As a believer, I'm a child of God. And I rate these things to you that you sin now. You don't act that way. You don't live that way. God calls us to live as children of God. If you would, look with me at another verse. Come back to chapter 5 of 1 John. And look with me at verse 13. Now I believe chapter 5, verse 11, 12, and 13. You ought to underscore these in your Bible. These are very, very significant verses. Of course, all the Word of God is significant, but these The subject they address is very very very important. Look at uh we'll just look at verse 13. Here it is. These things have I written unto you. Alright. Here's why he, under the inspiration of God, directed by God, recorded this. These things wr have I written unto you, that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may what Know that ye have eternal life. He goes, listen, I want you to have assurance. I want you to have confidence. I want you to know that you've accepted by God. You're my child. You're accepted of the Lord. And your standing before God is that of having eternal life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. You know what this whole world does? It hopes. So it thinks so. Oh maybe. I tell you, when I get out knocking on doors and talk to people, the number one answer I get, without exception, the number one answer I get When I ask this question, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? The number one answer I get is, you want to guess? I hope so. I hope so. I think so. Boy, I hope so. I tell you what, God doesn't want us to live a hope-so Christianity. God doesn't give us a hope-so, think-so-maybe might type of salvation. God gives us a no-so salvation. I know that I have eternal life. I know whom I am believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. So we can know God says, I don't want you to live out there, doubts and worrying and wonder and hope so, think so, lay your head down at night. Oh boy, I hope something happens. I hope I go. No, no, no. He says, I've written these things unto you. You're my child. You believed on the name of the Son of God. You have Jesus Christ your Savior, that ye may know that you have eternal life. And so God, what I'm trying to say is this, God doesn't call us to live like the world as believers. He's calling us out of the world and the anger and emptiness and hatred and sin and wickedness and the lack of assurance and uncertainty of the world. He goes, no, no, no. I want you to live like a child of God. I want you to live according to your heritage as a believer in Jesus Christ. Now that's what 1 John is about. First anybody anybody want to guess who the human penman was of 1 John? Man, you guys are on the ball doesn't work, I'll tell you. It's John, the Apostle John, obviously. You say that was a dumb question. I know, but I'm pretty good at asking those kind of questions John, the penman of the book of 1 John, is the same penman as the Gospel of John. I don't know if you knew that. The Gospel of John, 1 John, 2 John, 3rd John, all same person God used to record that. God used him to record another book of the Bible. Somebody tell me Revelation. Revelation. So we've got five books of the New Testament. God used this fellow by the name of John. to record for you and I and for all eternity uh five books of the New Testament. So he's uh he's an amazing man. He's an amazing man. Um uh the book of 1 John was originally intended to be a circular letter. Now by that we mean this. It was to be, it wasn't written particularly to one particular church It was written to churches to pass around. Some have suggested it was intended to go to churches that John had pastored. uh throughout his life. And he would write this letter to him and you read it. And but what most likely happened, probably what happened is Here's a little church over in Ephesus or wherever, and John wrote this letter and he sends it to church at Ephesus, and the pastor and deacon, they get it, they read it to the church, and they say, tell you what, we're supposed to pass this on. Before we do, we're going to copy this down. We're going to write it down. And that way we have a copy of it. Then we'll send that letter over to this church. It's all women. And um Uh they get it and uh they they read it, read it to the church, they copy it down and pass it on, pass it on, pass it on. So eventually uh all the books of the Bible came together in a canon. But that was the original intent of first John to be passed around to various different churches and to address these things for them. What was the purpose of First John? Well we kind of touched on it here a moment ago. John is actually confronting some threats to these early churches. And again, we don't have time to look at all of this. Chapter 4, verse 1, he addresses this matter of false doctrines. He says, try the spirits. You try and don't you just swallow everything that comes along. How many people are aware of the fact not everything that calls itself Christian is actually Christian? Yeah. Not everything that comes along says you ought to be very, very careful. Let me say this: you ought to be very, very careful on the websites you go to to get Christian teaching. Telling you he can be very, very deceptful, very, very subtle in teaching wrong and false doctrine. He says, try them, test them, prove them, make sure they're what Make sure they're scriptural. Make sure they're scriptural. If any teaching, let me just say this, if any teaching contradicts that old book, it is not of God. It's not going to help you, it's not going to help me. So he wrote these to these churches to help them watch out for false doctrine. And then he addresses, and we noticed in verse 2, this matter of sin. Look again at chapter two, I'm sorry, and verse one. He says, My little children, these things write we unto write I unto you, that ye sin not. Let me make a few statements, and I'll give you three points, and I think they'll be helpful. Number one, here's the first statement leading up to it. Number one, Christians can sin Christians can sin. Now some people get an idea, oh, once you're saved, if you're saved, you can't sin anymore. That is not scriptural Christians can sin. And number two, here's my second statement. How many folks have you been saved any length of time? You say, Preacher, I found from experience that Christians can sin. Yeah, some of y'all sin right now, not raising your hand. Christians can sin. Here's my second statement. Christians do sin Christians do sin. You say, no way, if a person's a Christian, they don't sin. A Christian can't sin, doesn't sin. That's not the Bible. Look with me, if you would, at uh verse number eight in chapter one. If we that's John, he's addressing the church. We know John was saved, no doubt it. He's addressing these folks. He's already talked about their salvation. He says, if we say that we have no sins, what do we do? We deceive ourselves. We're full in ourselves. I say this often. Every now and then though somebody come around and say, I've reached the point of sinless perfection. I no longer sin. I tell you, somebody says that. That impresses me. Wow. What I suggest, if you come across someone that says that, go ask their wife if they agree with that statement That they've reached sinless perfection. No, Christians can sin, and Christians do sin. Paul said, Paul, the Apostle Paul, in Romans chapter 7, he says, that which I would not, I do And that which I would, that which I want to do, I know is right, I end up not doing it, and that which I know is wrong, I know it's not wrong, I end up doing it. Oh, wretched man that I am. You know what? Paul struggled. Christians can sin, and Christians do sin. I heard a preacher say, oh, look at verse 10 real quick, if you would. If we say that we have not sinned We make him a liar. God, his word is not in us. Don't say you haven't sinned. Don't say you can't sin, you never sinned. Uh, you're making God a liar if you say that. I heard a preacher say one time he was flying from Texas somewhere, and there's a guy next to him, and um got talking and said, Where are you? He says, I'm a Baptist preacher. He says, um The other guy was something charismatic or something. He said he goes, the Baptist, oh, you guys believe in backsliding. He says, not only do we believe in backsliding, we practice it. Sure, Christians can sin. And we do sin. When a Christian sins, they do not lose their relationship with God. What I mean by that is if a Christian does sin, they don't lose their salvation. We lose our fellowship with God, and if you study 1 John very carefully, he brings up that matter of fellowship over and over and over. And there's a world of difference between having a relationship with God and being in fellowship with God. Follow what I'm saying When a Christian sins, I say something I shouldn't say, I do something I ought not to have done, it's sin. And I don't lose my salvation by standing before God. I'm still a child of God. And, you know, eternal security is a whole nother message we'll have to preach sometime. I don't lose my relationship with God, but I do lose my fellowship with God How many parents do we have here? Any parents? Yeah, we got a bunch around. I wonder any here, any parents, your kids ever did something wrong? Any parents. Now I was a preacher, so our kids never did anything wrong, preacher's kids. Uh when they did some and you hear your kid just flat out Flat out disobeyed you. Any here? Come on now. Your kids aren't here. You can be honest. It has flat out disobeyed you. Um let me ask you a question. Did they remain your child? Yeah, there's still your child. That relationship is unchanged. But would you agree with me? You find out they disobeyed you. They did something wrong. They did something you told them very clearly not to do. How many found out that that fellowship kind of broke down at least for a while? You know what I'm talking about? Uh the boys are grown now, they're away. But uh I could A lot of time, not always, but a lot of times, I can walk in and down and I knew right away they did something wrong. Huh? You knew right away that fellowship was broken. They're kind of avoiding you. How was your day? Good No I'm talking about uh we got a dog at home. I walk in, I know immediately if that dog was naughty. He sucked in there, you know. Fellowship is broken, which it's pretty much all the time. He's like that. But um that fellowship is broken, but not the relationship. There's still my child. And they did something, some, you know, man just flat out what are you thinking? What are you doing? That that relationship is still there. They're still my child. I'm still God's child if I even as a Christian I sin. I'm still his child. God doesn't send his children to hell, but the fellowship is broken by that sin. And so I need that fellowship restored, the blessing of the Lord and the joy of the Lord. And the things that God wants to do for me, provide for me and direct me and protect me and all that, that fellowship is broken And so that sin must be addressed. As a Christian, I have to address that disobedience, that sin I committed to restore that fellowship. Everybody follow what I'm saying? The moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God gives me a new holy nature that wants to do right, and God begins changing my life. But the fact of the matter is I still live in this body of flesh. This body has not gotten saved yet. My soul was saved. My standing before God is that of the righteousness of Christ But I still live in a fallen body. Oh, someday the rapture will take place. Oh, we'll get those new glorified sinless bodies. What a day that will be when Jesus I shall see, and no more sinful nature But until that point, you and I as Christians have a sinful nature. I wasn't saved very long, and I realized there's still that old Dennis who's still in there pulling this way. Now God made me a new creature. I've got the Holy Spirit, and He's pulling me this way. And so it is possible for Christians to sin. Christians do sin. We don't lose our relationship with God. We don't lose our salvation. But we lose our fellowship with God. Here's my uh next thought. God has made provisions for Christian sin to be cleansed. That sin that's broken my fellowship with God I can have that cleansed. I can have that removed. Look at 1 John and verse number chapter 1 and verse number 7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. That's here. That's between Christians. Look at this. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, does what? Cleanses us from all sin. Come down to verse 9. We read it a minute ago, a few minutes ago. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to what? Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What does he mean by cleanse? The word cleanse means to remove a stain It means to purify it means to remove any impurities. It has the idea of pronouncing clean in the Old Testament. If someone had leprosy and they were cleansed, they were cleansed of that leprosy, they would go. If they were healed of that leprosy, they would go to the priest. And he would pronounce them clean, ceremonially clean. And so it has the idea of removing the stain, removing that impurity, that uncleanness. Here in this context, it means to remove the sin that is hindering my fellowship with God. I hope you're hanging in with me because I'm going somewhere with this. Number one, let me give you my, let me get into my outline here. Number one, what's the condition for this cleansing? I may be talking to somebody this morning. You're saved. You've trusted Christ. That's a settled deal. You know about it. But boy, you don't have the joy of the Lord. And uh man there's sin in life. You're struggling with that. You say, preacher, how do I get that straightened up? I'm not, God's not answering my prayers like he did. I know my fellowship. There was a time When I came to church and boy the singing, there was such a joy and blessing. And it just seems like that's gone. There's just sin has gotten in my life. How do I get that cleansed? How do I get that back? David prayed this way in Psalm 51, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He had sinned and lost all that joy, lost all that blessing. How do I get that cleansed? How do I get that broken fellowship removed So I'm back in tune with God. I'm back in God's will and having his blessings, his joy, his power, his presence in my life again as a believer. How do I do that? There's a condition There's a condition. Look with me again at verse 9. If we confess our sins, if we confess our sins. There's five ifs here. Verse 6 through 10. If, if, if. It's a conditional word. If we confess our sins, he, God, is faithful and just and forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, to restore that fellowship again But it's an if there, a big if, if we confess our sins. Now the question is, what does it mean to confess my sin? Well, the word confess means this, and this is important to get this: to agree with God about my sin. It means to have the same attitude about my sin that God does. It means this: to view my sin the same way God views my sin. Let me ask you a question. How does God view sin? He views it as what? He views sin as very bad. Sin is something very wicked. Sin is something that uh is harmful, or the wages of it is death. God views sin as something very destructive, very harmful for us. Something that is contrary to his very nature And when I confess my sin, I'm agreeing with God's assessment of this sin. Let's try and illustrate. Let's say you have a Christian, and that Christian lies. I mean they just kind of flat out lie. For whatever reason, they lied. Um and right away. Uh There's there's conviction right away. Something's not right. I lied. I know I shouldn't have. And um uh that there and I need to get this right. And I come to God And I need to confess this sin. What I do is I agree with God's assessment of that lie. I take God's view of it And a lie is something very uh uh has no place in the like God is holy, God is true, it's condemned. And I condemn that sin Confessing sin is not informing God about my sin. God, I sinned. It's not like this. Oh, God, I sinned. And God goes, What? You did what? Listen, confessing sin to God is not giving God information that I sin. I got news for you. God already knew it God already knew all about it. God knows all I don't have to come and say, uh God, oh God, you won't believe this. Oh, I sinned. God says, huh? You did what? No, it doesn't happen that way. God says I already knew about that. What confession is, is coming and saying, God, this is wrong. In your eyes, it was wrong, and in my eyes, and God, I'm going to treat and I'm going to view this sin the exact same way you do. To confess my sin is to agree with God about my sin. By the way, confessing my sin is more than simply acknowledging its presence. God, I admit I'm a sinner. Um I thought of this years ago when I was young, uh about 16 or so, I got my first car. And I'd saved up money and uh been working different jobs. And when I turned 15, about 15 and a half, I had enough money, I went out and bought a car. I mustang, 1969 Mustang Mach 1. Yeah, yeah. And paid cash for that thing. And uh it was set in our driveway there and I'd practice driving until I got my license and um Uh one day, uh I don't remember how it came out, it's the middle of the night or whatever, we happen to look out, and the hood of the car was up. And we went out and looked and my battery was gone. Someone had stolen my battery, so we called the police and they came out and um they had a dog And the dog sniffed around the battery and they could track that guy that stole my battery across the road over into the woods and they were all that dog's gone And we're going, we're all excited, and these policemen are there. And they go, and lo and behold, they come out of the woods with the guy with my battery. They got him. Now, he could confess that, but confessing it, now this didn't play out this way, but trying to illustrate, he could walk up and say, I didn't take that battery. Did you ever watch the show Cops on TV? I don't know how that drug's got in my pocket. The wind blew it there. That's not confessing. I don't know. I don't know. Hey, we laugh at that, but that's what Christians do all the time. We sin, uh uh no, uh-uh, uh-uh. Listen, God knows I tell you, one of the stupidest things in the world, one of the stupidest things in the world for a person to do is try and lie to God. Don't be dumb. God knows. And so confession, don't deny it. Don't deny our sin. God knows. Now, he could have walked up and say, uh, he could have said this, uh, I got news for you, Mr. Leatherman, I stole your battery. Oh, I know that. We see that. That's not biblical confession just telling me he stole the battery. He could have said this. Yeah, I stole your battery. He's acknowledging it, but would that be confession? No. You know what tragic thing? Sometimes Christians are that way. Lord, yeah, I sinned. It's like what are you going to do about it? That is not biblical confession. Biblical confession is saying, God, and I'm using this illustration, lying for whatever reason, God I lied. God, that is wrong. It violates your nature. It's a breaking one of your very laws that accept standard. God, it is wicked. What I did was wrong. What I did was wicked. What I did was unacceptable. That is biblical confession. I tell you, it gets so flippant. We have such a flippant Christianity. And we can sin against our Savior and a holy God. And one, just to get, sometimes just to get Christians to acknowledge it. It's like pulling teeth. And then to have God's attitude about it and to agree with God about it. Listen, saying this, yeah, I did wrong, but it wasn't that bad, that's not confession. That doesn't bring cleansing. That doesn't restore my fellowship with God. Confession says, God, you're right. This is wrong. This is wicked, and this is unacceptable. I'm a child of God. This is not the way a child of God lives. This is not the way a child of God behaves. That's confession. That's confession. I got studying confession in the Bible and um looking how it's addressed. Oh, by the way, let me back up here. Confession is maybe emotional, but it's not just emotion. Let me try and illustrate. Tom, uh, one of our deacons works down at the uh works down at the jail. He works at the jail, he's not in jail. He works at the jail. And he'll tell you, we've we've seen it. Somebody does something, they get arrested, they bring them in Oh, crying, oh, they're crying all emotional. Oh, this is terrible. I'm so sorry. Oh, blah, blah, blah. And after a little bit you find out they're not really sorry or sad about the fact that they did wrong. But the emotion and weeping and wailing carrying on is because they got what? Caught. And if they wouldn't have got caught, their attitude towards it would have never changed. By the way, as a Christian, my my confession, my agreeing with God about my sin ought to be the same, whether it's private and personal and never know ever nobody knows about it, or whether everybody in the world knows about it Here's what happens. Somebody does Christian does wrong. Becomes public. Oh, I'm so sorry, this is wrong. But until it becomes public There's no confession. There's no remorse. Anybody know what I'm saying? I'm not saying you have to make everything public, but I'm saying my attitude, my response to my sin ought to be the same, whether it's publicly known or It's just a personal private thing. Emotion isn't necessarily confession. Now, sometimes confessing is very emotional. I agree with God and I see the sinfulness of my sin. Bree with God and it can be very emotional. I've been there. And as I studied this matter of confession in the Bible, I found they're not exactly the same, but they are very, very closely related. And that is this, that of repentance. Confession and repentance are very, very closely related. My confession is what I did was wrong. This is sinful in the eyes of God. This is wicked. This is a terrible testimony. This costs Jesus terribly. This is wrong. This is sinful. I agree with God. And that produces in the heart of a child of God, say, I can't, I don't want to do this anymore. I don't want to live this way anymore. Would you turn your Bibles real quickly, real quickly if you would, to Proverbs chapter 28? I want to show you a verse. Proverbs chapter 28, when you get there, go to verse number 13. I tell you, this verse has stood out in my Christian life many, many times over the years. First, uh Proverbs chapter 28, way back the Old Testament, right after Psalms. Proverbs 28. And look with me at verse number 13. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper. He's not going to have the blessings of God. He's not going to have the joy of the Lord. He's not going to have the peace of heart and mind. He's not going to prosper spiritually. He's not going to prosper if he covers it. He doesn't acknowledge it. But look what it says. But whoso confesseth and what forsaketh them sins shall have mercy. You see the close connection between confessing something and forsaking it, repenting from it? I put in the margin of my Bible there are two things to do with sin: confess it and forsake it. Agree with God about it. This is wrong. This is not right. This is wicked. I'm putting it out of my life. That word forsake comes from the same word that we would get our word divorce. Walk away from it. Abandon it. Leave it. It's a sin. It's wrong. It's wicked. God, I agree with you. Now put it from me. Put it from me. Confession and repentance are very, very close. Listen, as a Christian, if I want God's blessings and I want God's peace in my heart, and I want God uh presence and power in my life and ministry. I must, the condition is to confess that sin, agree with God about it, put it out of my life, turn from it I believe sometimes our confession of our sin should be as visible as it is verbal. This is what I mean by that. Sometimes we say, oh yeah, oh that's wrong. I did wrong. Oh it was wicked, it was wicked. But our life doesn't indicate that that's really what we believe. Well we think you follow what I'm saying? I was reading a fellow, a preacher was giving illustration. He said he was preaching at a Christian school and kids had a had a revival week and the end of the week they were giving testimonies, kids started confessing sins. And some of them he said was very good. And um, you know, that I stole this, it was wrong, make it right. I was I was mean to this person, I was bullying that person, or whatever, I was wrong, I'm gonna make it right. And the kids were making things right and confessing to it. And he said, one girl got up, teenage girl, and she says, I've been hateful and unkind to people, and that was wrong, and uh I confessed that is sin. I've been hateful and mean. After the chapel service they went to lunch and they got in lunch and uh the girl was there, he said he was watching, the girl was there and she butt in front of somebody and pushed somebody aside, went right back to the way, the very thing she confessed. She went back and did it. And a boy beside the preacher said this. He says, I think she needs to live her confession as much as she's talking it. Follow what I'm saying? God, this is wrong, this is wicked. I put this away from my life. A key indicator, I hope you're bearing with me this morning A key indicator in a Christian's maturity, spiritual maturity, a Christian's spiritual growth, a key indicator is my sensitivity to sin. You get a Christian, hard heart, they're not very sensitive to sin. That's not a mature Christian. That's a spiritual babe. A growing Christian, a mature Christian, is very sensitive. I do something wrong. Oh, that's wrong. God, this displeases the Lord wants it out of my life A key indicator, a key indicator in revival, whether revival's taking place, is our sensitivity to sin. I wrote a little email recently, and I believe this is true, and I stated in that email that I believe last summer and last fall we had a bit of a revival. in our church here. We had a number of professions of faith, baptisms, attendance was good, great spirit. But I tell you, a key indicator on whether revival's taking place or not is when God's people become very sensitive to the sin that's in their life and they confess it and address it and deal with it and get it out. Boy, you read about these old-time revivals back with uh Charles Finney and uh Jonathan Edwards and the revivals that hit our country back in the 1700s and the conviction of sin and the grief and the concern about some disobedience in my life and grieving my Heavenly Father and grieving my Savior and how the people were so broken and so thoroughly confessed it and forsook it. God sent great revival. Great revival. I don't know about you. We need revival. We need revival in our churches, our homes, our nation. But it begins, begins when God's people become sensitive and serious about dealing with the sin that's in the heart, our hearts and lives as believers. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. What's Chronicle, 2 Chronicles 7, 14? If my people Which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then I hear from heaven will forgive their sin, cleanse their land The condition to this cleansing is the confession of our sins. When Christians are excusing their sins and ignoring their sins and unconcerned about their sins. There's immature spirituality at best, out of fellowship, in need of revival. According to Hebrews chapter twelve But Christians living in sin, and there's no chastisement, and God's not dealing with it, we need to stop and examine whether we're even saved. The Bible says, in Hebrews, he says that every son of God experiences chastisement, experiences discipline for sin. And if there be no chastisement, he uses a we talked about this in the Institute this past week. If there be no chastisement, if God's not correcting and dealing, convicting about it, he goes then, he used a very strong word, then are ye bastards And not sons. He uses that word deliberately. It means your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. He's not saying, listen, if you sin, you're not a child of God. No, no, no. He says if you can sin and God doesn't deal with it, there's no conviction, there's no chastisement, God's not intervening, then you need to stop and examine, have I truly been born again? I truly been saved. So sensitivity to sin, a confession of sin, is a prerequisite For cleansing and the blessings and restoration of God. And so one, we have the condition, and I'll and I'll end with this. Number two, the comprehensiveness of this cleansing. He says we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness Each and every sin, without exception, there is no sin that God will not forgive. There is no sin that God will not cleanse from my life if I genuinely confess it. God, this is wrong. God, I've sinned. This has no place in my life. You're right. This is not a way a Christian, a child of God behaves. And there's not a sin in the world that God won't forgive. You say, preacher, I'm saved. God saved me years ago. But I've sinned so bad. There's no way I can ever be restored to the Lord. There's no way I can ever have God's blessing. There's no way I can ever have God's joy again. I've sinned too badly. That is not scriptural. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all. That word all means without exception. All comprehensive Listen, you're saved. Sin against God, it doesn't matter what it is. If you'll confess it biblically, confess it, deal with it, come to God, God will forgive. God will cleanse it. Restore that fellowship again. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing. And then last of all, the certainty of cleansing. He is faithful and just. Faithful and just. If I genuinely confess my sins And God does not forgive me, and God's not faithful. And God's not just. But he is faithful, and he is just, and he does cleanse us from sin. I'm going to try and end with an illustration. Alright, girls, I'm picking on you girls. You two are dressed alike. Come on up here. That's it. Yes, it's true. Come up here. Look at that. Identical twins. Alright, Miss Courtney, you stand there. I Marissa, you go over there. Alright, one of these is going to be a good, victorious, happy, spirit-filled Christian, and one is going to be a carnal, worldly, defeated Christian. Which one should be which? How many people want Miss Courtney to be the worldly carnal defeated Christian? Ron does. Alright, that's you. Alright, so here we have Miss Courtney. She's her she's saved. She got saved. How old were you when she got saved? About 10 years old, she had trusted Jesus Christ. She's saved. God wrote her name in the land's book of life. She's born again. She's a child of God. That's settled fact. But she's allowed sin in her life. I don't know what she's been doing. I'll just, she's been lying and stealing. Uh, she's been getting in Pastor Matt's wallet at night when he's sleeping pulling money out. She's been sinning. Over here is Rissa. She's a victorious, happy, uh uh growing Christian, God's blessing on her life. Look at her smiling and so happy. And uh God's using her and people are getting saved, and she's such a tremendous testimony. Now here's my question. I What's the difference between a defeated a carnal Christian and a victorious, happy, spirit-filled Christian. What's the difference? Is it that one sin one has sin and the other doesn't sin? No, because the Bible says if we say we have not sinned, we deceive ourselves. The truth isn't in us. No, they both have a sinful nature. Sin is a factor in both of their lives. The difference is whether they deal with it or not. Here's Arissa. She's I maybe I'm getting a little nosy here. But uh uh Dad's out um taking he's out putting corn up for the deers and she's home and there's his wallet. Boy the thought goes through her mind. I can't could get some money out of daddy's wallet. Now don't you ever do that. And boy, the temptation is there. But as soon as that as soon as she starts acting like she goes, no, this is sin. This is wrong. I'm not going to do this. God, that was wrong for me to even think that. The thought of foolishness is sin. And she confesses it for sake, I'm not going to do that. Here's the defeated Christian in the same setting. They don't confess it, they don't do it. They go ahead and take it, they deny it, they cover it up, they hide it, and what happens if I don't deal with one sin? What happens? gets bigger and more and more and more. Until I'm so defeated. The difference go ahead, you girls can sit down What I'm trying to say is this the difference between a church, a a Christian or a home or a church that has revival, and one doesn't, it's not that one doesn't deal with sin and the other does. No, no, no, we all deal with sin, but one deals it scripturally Confess and forsake gets it out right away. Gets it out right away. The other covers it up, denies it, ignores it, tries to justify it. We lose God's blessing, lose God's presence. Individual. I can sin comes up. Paul struggled with sin. Paul. But he dealt with it. We confess. That's it. Let's pray. Father, I pray this help this morning. Lord, maybe there's some here. There's no doubt. We all deal with it. We all struggle with it. But maybe there's some this morning need to come clean about our sin as a Christian. Need to acknowledge it, confess it. Agree with you about it, Lord. Turn from it. Get it straightened out. So we can have your blessings. We can have revival. We can have your presence again. Joy in the Lord back in our life. Be used of you again. Lord, some maybe are in victory and are going, go, Lord, I pray you'd help to maintain that and keep that close walk and deal with those sins as quickly as they come up. Help us, Lord. Lord, just help us to do it the Bible way. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder if some say this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. Now listen, this is between you and the Lord But you say, preacher, there's some areas, some issues that need to be addressed. Can't ignore it. Can't try and justify excuse it. I've got to deal with it. I need God's blessing I need revival. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I want it to be right. I want my heart, my walk to be right. God's blessing. God bless you. Hands all around We'll never see revival. We'll never grow. We'll never have God's presence and power like he wants until we address this matter of sin and be sensitive about it. it. There's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know, I'm saved. Talked about hope so think so. That's where I'm at. I hope I'm saved. I think God wants you to know and we can show you from the Bible Is there any say, preacher, pray for me? I need to get this settled. I don't want to doubt or question anymore. I need this settled. Any at all by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I need to get my salvation settled. I need to know that God has saved me and forgiven me. Any at all? Now, Father, please bless our invitation. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation in.