Having to after the service go to the hospital and all that sort of thing. But I was able to preach that night. But I got to church a few minutes after seven. I got there, and the man we went to try to win to the Lord was sitting there. Amen And uh the next day um uh he came back and his wife got saved and his daughter got saved. But I was in a car wreck. Well, then two days later I broke a tooth I lost my tooth, man. I lost three pounds that week. It hurt so bad. I told somebody if I lost all my teeth I could lose a hundred pounds. But I'm feeling better. I got them three pounds back. So I had the car wreck, broke a tooth, and then my watch broke I mean that is the perfect ingredients for a country music song. You know what I'm saying? So I use this thing here to help me keep up what time it is, you know. But I did turn my ringer off a while ago. Praise the Lord Don't let your ringer go off during the service if you can keep from that. Mark fourteen will be there just a moment. All you preachers, Brother Freddie, that stack of um uh uh envelopes. All the preachers in this room, all that raised uh that stood up a moment ago, Brother Freddie, fast as you can. You can almost run in the church if you would. Raise your hands back up. The pastors and the missionaries want to give you a little packet of information from Bible Truth Music. He'll He'll get that to you. And uh I don't think there's an offering in there, but y'all can look in there and find out. There could be um an offering to you. Don't count on it. Anyway, um I hope all of you will look at that. I do believe that Christian homes ought to have Christian music in them. And I believe we ought to keep the right kind of music in our church When we come to church, I still think we ought to have church music. And it should not be a mystery who we're singing about. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want Bible doctrine in every song that we sing. Amen. Brother Leatherman, thank you for having this conference. It's a great meeting, and I praise God for it. And I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I love this church. And many blessings of this meeting One of the blessings is all the good fellowship. Uh I I got to have two preachers stay uh with me last night. Uh my good friend Pastor Kelly Snyder is here, and we had a good time until about 1 a. m. this morning And uh the fellowship, and then Brother Freddie, uh Daniel here going to Mexico. He's in his third week as a full-time missionary Amen. Isn't that sound good? Doesn't that sound good? Isn't that sound good? My grammar's terrible. Doesn't that sound good? It is. And I'm with Brother Hummel, if you're a pastor, try to get some of these missionaries And let's get them on. And I praise God for good missionaries. I praise God for good pastors, pastors who stand on that front line and preachers who will preach. Brother Hummel, I I tell you, I like that this morning I love Brother Hummel's spirit, don't you? And his earnestness. I love it. And a great message this morning And then the messages last night, Dr. Smith, about just getting in that yoke. I like it. Uh in the yoke with the Lord Jesus. I'm glad of that And then Brother Green last night, that was just outstanding. I admire his work there in Ohio and I praise God for him. And uh I love the sword. I've been reading the sword of the Lord since I was fourteen years old And it's uh been a great help to me. Sometimes I as a boy, uh I heard you preacher boys introduce yourself. I like that. Preacher boy out of Marinatha Baptist Church. All churches ought to try to have some preacher boys And uh we got him at my church and I like it. I like preacher boys. One of one of the preacher boys one time while he was preaching he jumped the organ Someone said, Brother Fox, what do you think about that? I said, I don't think I can jump it I didn't want to criticize a boy. He had a lot of energy about him, but he was on fire for God, you know. And I like it. And I appreciate these preacher boys. Praise God for that and all the pastors. I appreciate all that you do and uh praise the Lord for you. Now we got a 515 music seminar in this room We'll talk to you some today at 515 about uh not just about what kind of music you ought to have. I believe a lot of us are in agreement about that, but just how to implement Our music program. I don't think we need to change the content of our music, but sometimes the quality of our music presentations could be improved And so I want you to come. I think we can help you a little bit with that, some things that we've learned from others that uh that could be a help. Well let's get into the Bible. Oh, I do want to mention right back there is our our CD table. We do have a few hymnals. We've got these Bible songs for kids. We've got four volumes of these now. That's 100 scripture passages put to music. The prayer of example from our Lord Jesus set to music, the sometimes called the Lord's Prayer. Psalm twenty-three put to music, the Romans' road put to music. Uh the Ten Commandments put to music and just on and on the passages from the Bible. I'm trying to get this into every home in America. I believe there's a famine in our country. A famine of the Word of God. And we're getting listen, music's a powerful teaching tool. And uh kids, I'm telling you, they just soak things up, do they not? I mean I can't remember what I had for lunch yesterday, but the I mean, you know what I'm saying, my memory's gone. But things that I learned when I was six and seven, eight years old I still remember. And uh some of that set to music that I can still remember. And so we're trying to get this into every home We've had about 25,000 homes affected by these CDs, but there's many more. There's 54 million school-aged children in America. 54 million. And sometimes it's just who reaches them first. I'm on their trail. I got saved when I was eight years old. I was unchurched. And they came and found me. And they gave me the gospel. And I got saved the second time I heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh I praise God for it. Let's stay, let's keep them buses rolling, let's keep going door to door, let's uh every way we can prospect, suspect, any way we can get souls. Amen Let's stay on the trail. Let's get Christian music in our homes. We do have a brand new Christmas musical entitled Come as a Child. And um we've had uh I don't know somewhere between seven hundred and a thousand churches get this for their church this year. And we wrote it in such a way that the entire Sunday school department, all the children can present it. All the bus kids, uh uh the whole Christian school can do it. It's uh it's wonderful. Come as a child. You know Jesus Christ left heaven and came as a child And uh when you get saved, you become a child of God. And um and then even in prayer we come before the Lord as a child. And so I hope you'll consider getting that. And if we do have a few of these hymnals back there at the table, if you want to get some of those Bible truth hymns, we'd be glad to help you. Let's get in the Bible. Mark chapter 14 and verse 26. When I was seventeen years old I noticed this verse 29 years ago, I'm 46. Don't do the math. This verse got a hold of me And I hope you'll mark it in your Bible today. Let's pray. Lord, I have enjoyed all of this meeting And I do thank you for the sword of the Lord. It's helped me since I was a boy. You've used it. And Lord, I do thank you for this church and every good church represented here today. I love how you started these churches. How these churches help us every single time. When we come the right way to church, you help us. You've helped us already this morning. And Lord, I thank you for all these beautiful missionaries that you're allowing to serve you in these different capacities. And I pray all of them would always keep their eyes fixed on you. And would be greatly used of you. And Lord, I do pray for revival. I pray that every one of us in this room would draw close with you right now. And I pray all of us would be earnest. And I do want your good son, Jesus Christ. To be preeminent in all things that we do. And I pray we would die to self. And I pray we'd learn from your Bible right now Thank you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to preach a message this morning. I've titled it Our Singing Savior. Our Singing Savior. Mark chapter 14, verse 26. And when they had sung an hymn, They went out into the Mount of Olives. Here's our Savior, Jesus Christ. Singing with his disciples. It's amazing. It's the only time in the Bible that we find recorded for us Jesus Christ singing. Now it's found in the parallel passages in the Bible. It's found in Matthew and so forth. But it's the one time, the one event, the one episode Where Christ sang that's recorded for us. How about that? Jesus Christ singing. You know, you wonder what kind of voice did Jesus have? Was he a tenor? Was he a baritone? Was he a bass? I do not know the timbre. The pitch, you know, the tessatura of his voice, I don't know. But I do know some things. I know that Jesus Christ is perfect Amen. And that includes his singing's perfect. I've uh I've sung a lot of times. I've been caught on spontaneously. a few times. Brother Snyder, one time at your church years ago, your pastor called on me spontaneously to sing. He said, Sing that song, The Miracle I've Seen. I mean I wrote the song. I was co-writer on the song. It's spontaneous. I'm not good at spontaneous. I need like three days notice, you know So I got up there without music and I started singing. I didn't see Christ feed ten thousand. I was and about right there I thought, what did I just sing? I'm feeding about I'm singing about the feeding of the 10,000. Now I haven't read that in the Bible. I read about the 5,000 and the 4,000 But that day I sang about the ten thousand. Oh, my singing's not perfect. Even songs I've written I can't get the words right. I was sitting watching TV one time with a preacher and a a church, a local independent Baptist church, came on, they had their program on, I was listening to their choir sing I was sitting there enjoying that song and I thought, man, that's about the way I'd have written that song. About a full minute later, I realized I had written that song It been twenty years since I wrote it and I forgot about that song. I make all kind of mistakes. I come in early, I in late Sing the wrong words, singing the cracks in between the notes, all those kind of things. I make a lot of mistakes. Now I believe that we all ought to do our best in preparing, and I don't think we ought to make a lot of mistakes Uh because we we're ill prepared. But we all make some mistakes in our singing, don't we? But not Jesus. There's no human error with Jesus. See, I've got a lot of human error. But there's no failure, there's no blemish at all with Jesus. And his singing is perfect. But now think something else about his singing, about it being perfect. We like to sing at this church. You've got a great burden for good music at church, and you see the value of good music at church, Pastor. And I think all good pastors ought to see the value of music. And uh, you know, at our church we like to sing these songs. We at invitations sometimes we sing, I surrender all. I surrender all. Now let me ask you a question. Do we want to mean that song? Amen. I mean, if if we're really right with God, we want to mean that song. But now wait a minute. Every one of us has failed in doing that. Every one of us. But you see, Jesus Christ could come here today and sing that song perfectly. See, no hypocrisy at all when Jesus sings. No failure whatsoever when Jesus sings. He could sing I surrender all and be completely perfect in it. He said in John 4 34, he said, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me. You see, he surrendered all. How about that song Trust and Obey, for there's no other way. Oh, Jesus can sing that one perfectly too We ought to trust, amen, and we ought to obey, amen. But we failed in it, but not Jesus. How about that song? I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by Oh, we want to mean that one too. That's a song of commitment. And we want to be committed to the work of the Lord. Amen. But we fail sometimes. But never with Jesus. Luke 9:22, he said, the Son of Man must suffer many things And be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and tribes and be slain. And be raised the third day You see, he was committed. That song, Take my life and let it be. Concentrated, Lord, to thee. We want to mean that one too. But it's Jesus alone who can sing all those songs perfectly. It says here in verse 26, and when they had sung an hymn They went out into the Mount of Olives. What what hymn was Jesus singing? I cannot dogmatically tell you, but this was around the Passover meal here that we're reading about. And traditionally, the Jewish folks sing what's called the Halil when they have the Passover. Before the meal, they sing Psalm 113 and Psalm 114. After the meal, they sing Psalm 115 through Psalm 118. And I think it's very likely that that's what Christ was singing. And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. If you're taking notes today, number one, write this down. Our Savior sang with his disciples. Our Savior sang with his disciples. It says, and when they, they, Christ and His disciples sang together. You know, in the Bible there's over 700 references to music, and the emphasis in all those passages is on group singing More often than not, the scripture, when you're looking at all these references in the Bible about music, more often than not, it's a whole group singing. Do you know that the impact of music is most keenly felt when it's everybody singing? Do you notice last night when I got up here to lead singing, I said, now everybody get a songbook. Why? Because I want everybody to sing. I believe the Lord does too. I believe all of us ought to have a song in our heart. Once you get saved, you've got a song in your heart. Psalm 40 verse 3, he had put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord Amen. They ought to be more singing, not less singing at our church. I'm talking about vibrant singing. All people ought to get saved, and all people ought to sing Psalm 66, verse 4, all the earth shall worship thee and shall sing unto thee. Psalm thirty verse four Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his Psalm 96 verse 1, oh sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Psalm 98 verse 4 Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all the earth, make a loud noise and rejoice and sing praise. Amen. Do not let the devil rob you of the joy of singing with your congregation. Amen. And just go ahead and sing out loud. I had one man come to me and said, Brother Fox, you're not going to like this. But you're preaching too loud and you're singing too loud. I thought a lot of things when he said that I thought, number one, you might be just sitting too close. I thought, you know, over there in the cemetery it's pretty quiet. But I don't want a dead service around me. I thought about this. She said that I said I thought what if what if Paul Revere went through Boston and said the British are coming No one would have woke up that night. And sometimes preachers just trying to keep you awake, man. I got Bible for singing out loud. Psalm 98, verse 4, listen to it again. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All the earth make a loud noise and rejoice and sing praise. I think every daddy ought to participate in the congregational singing. His family ought to see him sing out loud to God. Amen. We saw this man get right with God there at our place there at Bethel Baptist in Hampton. Man, he had been from a bad family. I mean he had been from a rough family. His name's Jerry. And uh uh get those guys named Jerry, you know, they're pretty rough people. You know, I've got one sitting here And uh Brother Jerry at our place, man, he he's from a rough family. He got right with the Lord. I remember the first time I'm trying to lead singing With Jerry sitting on the second row here. He's got a suit on now, man. He's come to church. And I'm telling you, he's sitting there on go. I mean, this man is ready. He's saved. He's excited about it. He's got a visitor beside him. And I'm going to lead singing for the first time with Jerry sitting right here. Got a choir behind me, got a piano, got an organ, got an orchestra over here. Got all this stuff ready, man. And I get up to announce the very first song, Man Jerry there. I mean he's beaming. He's so glad he's saved. Amen. I said, everybody get a song book number fifteen Brethren, we have met to worship and adore the Lord our God. I said, now everybody get a songbook. We're all going to sing. Now Jerry grabbed a hymn book, man. He's ready. And he's got that hymn book, he's ready to sing. Now does he know the song, not at all? He's never heard it before in his life So I'm up there to l and I know that song, brethren. We have met to worship and adore the Lord our God. Y'all know that song I like that song. I'm up here to lead that song. I said, number fifteen, we're gonna all sing, brethren, we have met to worship. And we got up here and and Jerry grabbed that book and man he's ready to go. And uh man, I brought the downbeat down and started to sing, and so did Jerry. Jerry started singing at the top of his lungs. He had one note It was a bad note. He had no idea how that song went. And I mean at the top of his lungs, he started singing, he said, I mean, it startled me And it was so bad that I'm up here trying to leave the singing. I can't find the tune myself. I'm like, how does this song go? I mean he threw hundreds of people off that day. What happened? The man had got saved And now instead of wanting to sing some old rock and roll tune, he wanted to sing praise to God. Yes. Group singing. And sing right out loud. Sing out loud when you're on the job. Sometime back, a preacher friend of mine, Pastor Kevin Bartlett, down there in Marinatha Baptist in Charleston, West Virginia. It was a Monday and Pastor Bartlett was buying groceries. He is running through the store throwing things in. He went over there by the dairy section. And the dairy man was sitting, was down there on one knee. The dairyman was putting milk in the dairy section. And as the dairy man was putting milk in, he was singing, praise God from whom all blessings flow, he's singing while he's working. Man a Baptist preacher walking by him, buying groceries, hearing that man sing the old doxology. Independent Baptist preacher from Kevin Burley, he stopped, man. He listened to that man sing. When he got to the end, he said, Pastor Burley said, woo, amen. Darryman kind of embarrassed. Patrick first said, man, just keep singing. Amen. There needs to be more singing out there, not less. When you buy and you gas, go ahead and sing to God. Amen. When you go to the post office, when you go to the market, when you go to the barbershop, just keep your song. Jesus Christ, our beautiful and perfect Savior. He sang with his disciples. The Bible says, Psalm 149 verse 1, praise ye the Lord. Sing unto the Lord a new song and his praise in the congregation of saints. Hebrews 2. 12. I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing Praise unto thee. Number one, Christ sang with his disciples. Number two, think about this. It says in verse 26: and when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. Number two, think about this: Christ sang. Our Savior sang with sorrow approaching. Now think, it's just hours away From the absolute most, from the absolute most agonizing, the most intense, the most torturous The most stressful, the most dreaded, the most arduous experience ever experienced on this earth. He's about to go to the cross. Now listen, the most extreme punishment allowed by Roman law was death by crucifixion. But it's a lot more than that. The horror of the physical torment is awful, but it's more He who knew no sin became sin for us. Every bit of my wickedness. My loving Savior took it. You think you're not loved today, you are loved. Jesus Christ not only willingly went to the cross, he did it with so much joy, he sang before he went. Now wait a minute. The world says, well, now that's a strange circumstance in which to sing. So your Savior, Brother Fox, is going to the cross and he's singing before he goes, that's a strange circumstance. You see, to the world they don't understand. Because to the world, their happy songs are only based on their circumstances. When their circumstances are bad, their songs are bad. That's why so much of the world's music is so bad. No joy in it, man. But you see, a Christian song is not based upon our circumstance. Amen. Our song is based upon faith in God. Amen. Did Jesus know all the scriptures? Well, of course he did. Did he know Isaiah 49, 13, where it says, Sing, O heavens, and be joyful, O earth, and break forth into singing, O mountains For the Lord hath comforted his people and will have mercy upon his afflicted. Psalm 59, 17, Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing, for God is my defense, and the God of my mercy. Amen. Years later, there's going to be some missionaries, some evangelists sent out. Paul and Silas. Man, they're out and they're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amen. That's the central theme of the whole Bible. Amen. And so all preachers ought to be gospel preachers. Amen. And so, man, these evangelists they're out there, these missionaries, they're out there, they're they're preaching the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. And they're telling everybody that everybody is a sinner and everybody ought to get saved. Repent and believe Man, Paul and Silas, they're out there preaching, and some people are getting saved, and some people are getting angry. And so in Acts 16, what happens? They're beaten. Can you imagine that? Beaten. And they're put down in prison. And man, at midnight, what do you hear them do with? They're having a prayer meeting and they're singing. You cannot defeat a singing Christian. Amen. And where'd they learn that from? The Lord Jesus. You see, our song is not based on our circumstances. Our song is based on faith in God. Number one Our Savior sang with his disciples. Number two, our Savior sang with sorrow approaching. Number three, our Savior sang godly music. It was godly music. Mark 14, 26. And when they had sung an hymn They went out into the Mount of Olives. Christ did not sing a Romantic ballad. He didn't sing a Greek chant. It wasn't a Roman march that he sang. What did he say? He sang music that is associated with God and associated with God's people. That's what he's saying. They sang a hymn. Now, since the earliest historical records I believe the earth 6,000 years old, thereabouts, maybe 7,000 years old, probably more like 7,000. If you think the earth is 10,000 years old, I don't have a problem with that You think the earth seven billion years old? You're just wrong. Well, since the earliest historical records, there's always been two kinds of music. There's always been the world and the devil's music, and there's always been the Lord's music. There's always been those two kinds I mean, think back in the Bible, book of Exodus, when Moses and Joshua, Moses went up to meet with the Lord, and uh spent time with the Lord And uh while they're up there on top of the mountain at the bottom of the mountain, Aaron and all the Israelites at the bottom of the mountain, and uh some bad things took place at the bottom of the mountain, didn't they? Moses is coming down the mountain with Joshua. Joshua, the young man of God. The young man of God said, Moses, it sounds like we're at war. He's a warrior. And all that loud noise he heard, he thought that they were under attack. But the old man of God knew better The old man of God didn't just know the Lord, he knew him well. The old man of God said, the people have corrupted themselves. What was all that loud noise? It was the immoral music. The worldly music. I believe in my country today the most dominant stronghold on America is worldly music. Now that's what I believe. I know it's in the top three or four, no doubt. I'm against worldly music. I don't need to be more worldly. I need to live more righteously. Aren't we all hungering and thirsting after righteousness this morning? Well man Moses and Joshua comes down and it's all that worldly music and there's all that nakedness. You know, modesty is still right. And all this idol worship and uh Moses he's upset. And he goes and confronts his brother Aaron. What have you done? And all this worldly music, and finally Moses that day calls out, who's on the Lord's side? Praise God, there's a family who hadn't backslid on God. The Levite family said, We're on the Lord's side. A bunch of the Israelites died that day. But it's all that worldly music. Worldly music. I've been a full-time preacher since age 19. In 27 years as a preacher, there's not been one time that I've counseled a family that was having problems. There's not been one time in 27 years of full-time ministry. There's not been once when I dealt with the family having problems that worldly music wasn't involved. Most of the time worldly music was not the problem, but worldly music was making the problem a lot worse problem Our Savior wasn't singing worldly music. And by the way, in our churches today, some churches are trying to blend those two kinds of music together Worldly music and the Lord's music. I'm not for that. Put me down, I'm not for that. When we come to church, I still w I when I bring visitors to church, I don't want them to say, What kind of music y'all have around here I want them to know right away it's church music. And listen, church music got a definite sound to it and got definite uh content to it. Ephesians 5. 19, speaking to yourselves how? In Psalms And hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Colossians 3. 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Amen. When your heart is full of Jesus Christ, you're going to want to sing to Him. And you're going to want to have kind of music. Christ was singing the right kind of music. He was singing godly music. So number one, he's singing with his disciples. Number two, our Savior, who's a perfect example in all ways He's singing with his disciples. He's singing with sorrow approaching. He's singing the right kind of music. And there's one more thing I want to mention. I've been thinking on this verse now for 29 years. Been meditating on it. It's great to meditate on the Word of God, is it not? It'll change your life. Not thinking on it one day Now, when I read the verse and I pause, I want you to fill in the next word. Look at your Bible. Verse 26. And when they had sung and hymned, they They what? They went. I was thinking one day on this verse, meditating in. And when they'd sung a hymn, they went. They went out into the Mount of Olives. They went. Lord showed me something there. In preparation to go, they sang. Getting ready to go, they sang. In preparation to go, they sang. Before they went, they sang. Mmm. I was thinking on that. I thought back when I was dwelling on that. I thought back in the last 16 years as a full-time evangelist I've had over 8,000 services. And you know, every Sunday and every Wednesday I'm going someplace every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday about the whole week. I love what God's called me to do. And one Wednesday night I didn't have a service. I got to be at my own church. I'm a member of Calvary Baptist Church, Smithfield, Virginia. Everybody ought to have a home church Everybody ought to have a pastor. And uh he's my spiritual leader, Pastor Dan Gray. I call him every week. I mail him a tithe in. Amen. Well this one Wednesday night I got to be at my own church. I'd worked at Bible truth music all day long. I'd worked on uh in the warehouse dragging music around and so forth. We got 300,000 pieces of music in the warehouse right now. Please get some of that music back. Okay? I don't need to take that stuff back. I'd worked in that warehouse all day. I'd worked on computers that day. Computers are wonderful When they're working. Otherwise, they can be a mess. I had been the IT kind of guy that day. That's bad. So I work on them computers, hadn't got them fixed. They're still in a mess. And man, I don't, oh it's just a mess. So I was tired physically, mentally, I was exhausted, emotionally. I'd had some emotions that day. I crawled in the church Wednesday night You ever done that? I crawled in. I got there and our song leader, Brother Greg, got up and said, All right, everybody, get your song book number 198, Power in the Blood. And I was about this tall. And I got the book out and I began to sing a little bit. We finished that song off. He said, All right, turn over to number 206. Wonderful grace of Jesus. Well, I stood a little taller on that one, and I sang out a little more on that one. He said, all right, now turn to number 270, the haven of rest. I started singing with the congregation. My soul in said exile was out on life's sea, so burdened with sin and distress. Till I heard a sweet voice saying, Make me your choice. And I entered the haven of rest. Man, about there I stood up And I started singing out. We sang song four, five, six, seven, and eight. We sang eight songs that night. We don't have real short services at night. my place. We sang eight songs. Preacher got up and preached, man. That that singing had prepared my heart. Had some good preaching. Preaching at church is paramount. Amen. The centerpiece of our services is the preaching Amen. But man, that good singing had got me ready for some preaching. And then before we left that night, Greg said Let's sing number 332 before we go. My Jesus, I love thee. I know thou art mine. And before we went We say. You see, we come in here to church and man we have some preaching. Amen. And we pray together. Amen. And we give together. uh uh general funds and and missions and building funds and we give and we love giving God loving the church we we come preaching and and praying and giving and and singing we sing before we go See, we're going to go in a little while. Some of us going to go back to our places where you serve at your church. We're going to go. And we're going to go out there and we're going to fight the good fight. Amen. And we're going to go out there in the world and try to live clean for the Lord. Amen. And we're going to go out there and try to tell some folks about the Lord. And we're going to go out there and try to have a testimony for God. But before we go, we're gonna sing some. You know, if you'll keep your song, you might keep going. You quit singing, you might quit going too. Do we want to keep going for the Lord? Amen. Before they went, they sang. Would you stand with me, heads bowed, and eyes closed You know, right this moment, there might be some folks who want to come to this altar for some reason or another We're just going to take a moment or two for that. You know something? Once you get saved, you cannot lose your salvation. Amen. But you know a Christian can lose his song. You can get away from the Lord. Get your eyes off the Lord. You can lose your song. If you want to get to this order, would you not come right now? Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. You want to come and talk to the Lord about anything right now. Would you not come? We're not in that big a hurry that right this moment we couldn't make some commitments to the Lord or ask God for some forgiveness or draw a little closer to Him or whatever God would be speaking to your heart about Why don't we all make some commitments today about our music? That we're going to have the right kind of music. We're going to sing right out loud That in our homes we're going to sing to the Lord, my mom. My mom works at Bible Truth Music. She stops everything she's doing five times a day to have her prayer time. And my mom, with that tiny little voice of hers, goes around singing. Her favorite song to sing is, My faith has found a resting peace. My dad's got a low, deep, gravelly voice. He works at Bible Truth Music too. What a blessing. My dad's favorite song, a lesson: Did my savior bleed? And did my sovereign die? My wife mostly has to stay at home these days, not able to go out. Her favorite song in this world Great is thy faithfulness. Mm. God is faithful