Uh this really applies to my heart. Been in bus ministry over twenty years, um two times a bus director, and uh For 14 years teaching children at 11 o'clock hours, loved that. And involved in Iwanas and involved UC two or three different ministries. Just to let you know, we just loved it. My best friends come from ministering. My greatest memories don't come from work and I've enjoyed my work. I did uh as I said pest control, killing bugs and saying things and got awards And sales plaques, but my greatest memories come from serving the Lord. But many times we can get so involved with neglects our time with the Lord. And uh uh but you know our country needs the Lord too, doesn't it? And uh if the country if our country goes, then there goes the missionaries too. And we're all involved in missions, aren't we? Uh whether you're given emissions, we all should be given emissions. We started giving emissions when we were 30 in our 30s. Never heard of faith promise missions, so I came down south and uh and got had a good job and and working and involved the church and Dr. Danny Whetstone, I'm not sure if he Dr. When Stone, he challenged our church at Zebulun uh Heritage Baptist Church about doing faith promise. And we were always faithful in our tithe, didn't want to miss that. So we started off with $25. And uh faithfully giving 25. That's a big step for us, uh little kids. And just saw the Lord bless that year in my pest control job. and getting sales and getting promoted and different accounts worked on commission. And then the next year we we jumped it up, uh doubled that to 50 and we just kept getting involved in missions, putting our our hard work uh from our job, our our blood, sweat, and tears, and putting in the Goth will play into the play offering and then sending missionaries And then at age forty I went on age forty two went on a missions trip to the Philippines and the rest is history. And uh but always uh for two years from forty to forty-two my I was just wrestling with the Lord. It was like I turned forty and all of a sudden the Lord just grabbed my shoulders. and uh about full-time ministry. And I wrestled and wrestled and uh going into full-time ministry it's a full surrender. You just leave it just like being in the army. These these soldiers, they just surrender to be a a soldier. You've many of you have been there. You got to put everything aside and do what the Lord wants. And that was a big step for me until I I surrendered and then the peace came back. You know. And uh if God might be tugging on your heart for full-time ministry. It doesn't matter what age. As we said, there's a shortage of pastors in America, a shortage of missionaries, and if God's called you to go, you should go. Just surrender and do it. You might want to get a one-year college degree. You might want to uh work on it through the internet. Uh it's always good to get Bible training and whatever you are. It took us uh six years, got our master's ambassador But our country needs the Lord, and so we need to be involved in missions by giving and by working through your local church to reach your city for Christ. And revival starts within your own heart And then it starts within the church, doesn't it? Y'all can have a revival right here. You don't have to wait for the other churches to get revived. And uh I know just riding bus minutes, just on the bus uh bus route you can get revival right there, can't you? See kids get saved. And we need to pray for our country. I'll just give one quote because I do love history. And uh John Winthrop, our first one of the first governors of the pilgrims. He said, For we must consider that we shall be as a city upon a hill. As he came to Plymouth, Massachusetts, the eyes of all the people are upon us. So that we shall, so if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken and so cause him to withdraw his present help from us. We shall be made a story and a byword throughout the world. And we don't want that in the United States, do we? We've had a great history. of uh being the policeman of the world, really. Sending out the gospel. But we don't want to be made a byword, do we? But if we don't let our light shine, we will become a byword. And that's just not the missionaries that are the souls that are in the seats. And I want to encourage you to continue this, to be faithful where you're at. Be faithful in your local church. Be faithful out in the community and getting God's word out and inviting people to church and those that and getting involved in soul winning, all the different ministries you can be involved here Let's let our light shine, don't we? We need to pray for our country. We're coming up on elections. And we need to look at 2 Chronicles. Let's look at 2 Chronicles 7. 14. I just believe we need this. We need to be thinking not only of missions, foreign missions, but local missions, our country. And we can be praying. We should be praying all the time. We know this verse But let's get our eyeballs on it. And let's say this together. Let's say this together. Let's say this. 2 Chronicles 7. 14. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their lands. And we need to humble ourselves, don't we? We can't worry about what the other church is doing, the other state, the other city. It starts right here in our hearts, my heart. And I need to humble myself and pray for my country, turn for my wicked ways, to ask the Lord to hear us In the Philippines and the United States, and the Lord will forgive. There's still time left in America, isn't there? We need to pray for revival, don't we? Uh but as we do all those things, we're talking about serving the Lord. And us independent Baptists get really involved in serving the Lord, don't we? We get involved in bus ministry, we get involved in Wednesday nights church, and you know what, you all got great great ministries here. You got a you got a radio station right over here, putting together John and Romans over here. It seems to be a fine-tuned uh serving machine. And one thing I've had to learn is I can get so involved in serving the Lord that my relationship with the Lord gets weakened. I'm serving the Lord on empty fumes and fumes. And tonight's message is called Sitting at the Feet of the Savior. Luke 10, let's get turned back to Luke 10, 38. And then I'm going to say a word of prayer for the Lord's help. As you're there, Luke 1038. Luke 10, 38. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Pastor Leatherman, Lord, he's been here faithfully. guiding and building and having a vision here in Oakland and throughout the world and sending missionaries all over the world. Thank you for the blessed saints here. Encourage them, Lord. And as we look into your word tonight, Lord, Phil be with your Spirit that we can see from your word what you'd want us to do and live our lives as we serve you and get to know you better, Lord, and spend time with you. Pray this in Jesus' name. And the title of the message is called Sitting at the Feet of the Savior. My proposition is Let us examine the godly inner beauty of Mary of Bethany. We will see her beautiful devotion, her wrought work, and enduring memorial. And who has been Mary of Bethany? Pastor was telling me he's been doing character studies. We need to study the characters of the Bible, don't we? We need to make sure the Bible is our our book, our main book we're reading every day. And of course I like biographies, I mean like missionary biology, World War II bargays, sometimes sports biographies, but listen, God's Word Is what we need to be studying. We need to know the little intricacies of the Bible, don't we? You know, there's six different Marys. And uh there's Mary and Mother of Jesus, Mary Magdalene, Mary of Bethany. Mary of James and uh John. So there's all sorts of Marys. I won't go through them all. But she is one of six Marys. This Mary of Bethany. She's the sister of Martha and brother of Lazarus, to kind of position where this Who she is, they lived in Bethany. And we need to study about the cities too, don't we? Get on your map and find out where all these different cities and what God were saying and where they're positioned Uh because w we need to be Bible students, don't we? We need to be Bible students of the Bible of the Word. Bethany is 1. 7 miles southeast of Jerusalem. You've been to uh uh Israel pastor? Okay. I need to send you a pastor to Israel. We'll go with you. Alright, I haven't been there either. But uh I want to go there someday. Uh but uh this is 1. 7 miles going down. I guess there's a back road that goes down to Jericho. And uh that's where Jesus, that's where this family lived. And this family opened their home to Jesus during the festival feast in Jerusalem. And uh Jesus would go, he would minister all throughout Judea, uh, Galilee, Israel, but he would come up during the festival feast because it was required. That the males three times a year would have to come up. Three times they were required. Exodus 23, 17. Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the Lord. Exodus 23, 14, three times shalt thou keep a feast unto me in the year. So there was three feasts, it was called the Great Feast, the Passover. The Feast of Weeks, which was uh 49 days after the Passover, and then you have uh Pentecost, the 50th day, which is in the Greek. And they celebrate the giving of the law on Mount Sinai, and they were required to celebrate that. And then there was the Feast of Tabernacles. uh later in the fall. And G and the Lord required all the males to go up and Jesus would go up. He had to have a place to stay, didn't he? Uh there wasn't a hotel with I guess there was little inns. Uh we th we remember Jesus, uh Joseph and Mary. There was no room in the ends, but most of the people stayed at homes back then. And uh people opened their homes out to visitors and travelers. And uh this family, Martha, Mary, and Lazarus opened their house to Jesus. And Jesus had a great love for this family, we know. And wouldn't it be nice to open your house to the Lord Jesus? Have your house. I'm sure we'd be doing some scrubbing and uh getting rid of stuff and uh having a great feast, having a great time. Uh but let's remember that Jesus Christ, the Son of God Had no home. He came to the earth not to set up a physical kingdom. He came to set up a spiritual kingdom, which we're a part of today. Luke 9. 58. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes. Birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere, not where to lay his head. And Jesus came and he didn't uh he didn't have a house and he didn't have a place. And people opened their places for him. And Jesus loved this family of Lazarus, Martha, and Mary. In another account in John 11, 1 through 5, we're Jesus is called to uh come to minister to Lazarus and he tarries back a few days and then he goes and Lazarus has died and uh we know the story Lazarus uh is raised in that portion Of scripture it says that Jesus loved Martha and Lazarus and his sister and Lazarus. Paraphrase. But he had a great point I'm trying to make is he didn't hate he didn't have any favorites within this family, because we're going to see in this story uh that he has to um uh tell one person uh not a rebuke, a gentle rebuke. So as we look into the story, first of all we see Mary's Beautiful devotion to our Savior Jesus Christ. Let's look in our scripture. We're going to observe this beautiful portrait. Picture of Jesus, Martha, and Mary in their home in Bethany. It was probably a festival feast. Let's look at verse 38. And it came to pass as they went That he entered into a certain village. Now they would go up. As they were going up to the festival feast, they would sing the psalms. We talked about the Psalms, the Psalms of Ascension. Uh the Psalms of Ascension was Psalms 120 to 134. And as they would go together in groups, family groups, region groups. As they would start to ascend up to Jerusalem, which is about 1800 feet, they would start to chant and sing lots of music and singing Uh the Psalms, Psalms 120, then they would go up higher. 121, 122. They're called the Psalms of Ascension. And as you can imagine, that these during these great festivals, these are There was lots of people. Josephus would write that there was over 2,700,000 people in Jerusalem. He's a first-century historian. So if you can picture this little house in Bethany and people going by, singing of the Psalms of Ascension, people buying and selling. It was a very joyful time. And Jesus comes into this house And we see that Martha is there, verse 39, and she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet. And heard his word. And what a beautiful picture. You might have seen somebody try to do a painting of this. You see Jesus inside of this house Uh and he's sitting down and there's this young damsel, this this lady, uh probably with long hair, just sitting and looking up at Jesus, listening to Jesus. Isn't that a beautiful picture right there? And then there's Martha, she loves the Lord too, doesn't she? And she's serving the Lord by making this great feast. And, you know, we have great feasts as we celebrate our holidays, don't we? uh Christmas and Thanksgiving and uh the men get to do the fourth of July with the grill, right? And uh, you know, we see this that in this verse 39 Mary sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Mary was spiritually attracted to the Savior, just as many people were. As Jesus started his ministry, he would go into a town and he was just thronged by people. He would heal people. People that were demon-possessed would come up to him. People that needed healing would come to Jesus They just came to Jesus. And here's Mary. She's sitting at Jesus' feet. In the ancient times, there was a master-disciple relationship. The master would sit in a chair. The disciple would sit under the master, attentive, humble, alert, ready to learn, grow, and obey. And what a peaceful and beautiful picture, portrait of Jesus and Mary. And Mary showed her love to Jesus, the Son of Man, the Son of God, by listening. And we see in verse 39, and heard his word. Wouldn't you like to be there sitting also with Mary? Just imagining what was Jesus saying? And uh I believe we can find out there's going to be another uh a story we're going to go to as we can close here in a few minutes. But let's look at Luke 22, 9, 9, 22. You go back at chapter And you wonder what was Jesus saying to Mary? And I believe this tells what he was saying because of what she's going to respond. Jesus foretells his death and resurrection, dying twenty two, saying the Son of Man That is the Messiah must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and the scribes and be slain and be raised the third day. He was saying this to Peter in verse 20 We see that in verse 20 said unto them, Whom say ye that I am Peter, answering said the Christ, the Son of God And he straightly charged them, and she commanded them to tell no man that thing. So he's talking to his disciples that he, the Son of Man, the Messiah is going to be crucified, is going to be rejected, and he will be risen the third day. Now the disciples, do they want to hear that? They didn't want to hear that, did they? They wanted the Messiah to be a conquering leader, to be a conquering Messiah. Uh the reason being is they were invaded by Rome. If you can imagine uh living here in the United States and our enemy came in, it came into Maryland, came into Oakland, and they told you what you had to do. We wouldn't like that very much, would we? Uh you can pick the enemy. I won't even mention them. We don't want nobody telling us what to do in our own land. And that would skew our thoughts of what needs to happen. And their thoughts is we need to get the Romans out of here. And they were looking for a a Messiah, the Son of Man, to be like a David, a conquering hero, a conquering uh uh king to uh qu uh to defeat and throw off the shackles of Rome. And every time that Jesus would mention that he was going he's coming to die, they they couldn't they couldn't grasp it. And we're going to see that this is what I believe that Jesus was saying to Mary, because she's going to react in a certain way. What a beautiful picture. Now we see Martha. Let's turn back to Luke 10. But Martha was cumbered, verse 40, 10, 40, but Martha was cumbered about much serving and came to him and said, Lord. Dost thou not care that my sister have left me alone to serve alone? Bid her, therefore, that she helped me And that's a very uh uh she probably forgot that she was talking to the son of son of God. Uh uh she didn't put it all together that she's talking to the creator of the universe And she gives a a directive, right? Bid her to come help me. She's trying to serve the Lord, trying to do a good thing, trying to put a big feast on. It's one of the feasts Uh uh perhaps it was one of the feasts we can uh infer that it was. And she needs help. And uh you know ladies need help in the kitchen, don't you? Uh even with all the modern conveniences of today. Well they didn't have that. They had to cut up the vegetables, cut up the fruit, get the coals started. And once you get on a mission field, you see people actually cook with coals. And she needed a lot of help So she's giving a directive to the Lord. Now the Lord's got to make a choice, doesn't he? Is he going to say, Mary, go help your sister? Or the best thing is to sit here. Verse 41, Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things. And what he's saying is, yes, now Jesus in the first, it never said, don't do this, what you're doing. Martha's showing her love by serving. And Jesus doesn't stop her from serving Jesus doesn't tell her to come sit with me. He just lets her serve. And she was perhaps preparing an elaborate meal But uh when Martha steps into the picture and wants help from uh Mary, Jesus has to make a decision. He's a gentleman too. I don't think he raised his voice to Martha uh uh he's the ultimate uh the greatest of course gentleman of the universe and he uses this word this Greek word careful And that word is Maranaho, and that means you're divided and distracted in your mind. And as we serve the Lord, Uh whether in the bus routes or whatever you're doing to serve the Lord, can you get distracted in your mind? We don't need to come so down on Martha too much, can we? Because we can be in that position too, can't we, being a pastor being a youth pastor, uh uh serving in the church as a secretary or or whatever you're doing. And uh on Wednesday nights And you can get distracted in your mind. I know this is, as I say, a testimony message from me, getting being so busy on not being prepared for a meeting or being for a message to some bus kids And then he says, you're careful and troubled. That word is through a Maho. And that is you're tumulted. You have great disturbance in your body. Uh your your your soul is disturbed. It's a picture of of white water rapids. I know you're close to probably a lot of white water rapids here and by West Virginia. But her she's divided in her mind and her soul is troubled. She has much great tumult in her and she's greatly disturbed. And uh we need to Make sure that when we're serving the Lord that we are at peace. How do we have peace? Uh you know, I think of my my grandmother. She was I was telling Pastor we're Mike even though we're from Michigan, our kid is from K Kentucky. There's a place called Salyersville, and that's where all the Salyers, I guess, uh congregated. And uh my grandmother uh she worked in a uh she was uh lived there during the Great Depression and they would come up to Michigan. A lot of the people from Kentucky went up Highway 23 to get jobs. And my grandfather worked at Ford Motor Company And um so uh as we would go visit my grandmother, we lived in Bay City, Michigan, but we would visit her in Upsilana on Ann Arbor area on Sundays, and she would have a great feast. I mean she Something about people from Kentucky, they know how to cook fried chicken. I guess there's no beef or anything around there. There's chickens all over. She lived uh in a holler. That tells you that she was not very uh her family was not very wealthy And um but she knew how to do fried chicken with the old cast iron uh skillets. You something I see people shaking their heads and with Crisco oil and the whole works and and uh uh breaded and she had frozen she never used uh vegetables out of a can, nothing against that, but she had f fresh frozen vegetables, gravy, the whole works. And that's the way she showed uh Her love to the family. We called her Ma Moo. And grandparents have funny names, don't they? My name is Papa, that's not uh Papa, and uh my wife's uh grandmother name is Gigi And you probably have some funny names too. But she wanted to be called Mammu and we called my and I didn't know, I was six years old. Okay, we'll call her Mammu, you know. And uh we called my uh grandfather Papu. Uh so that was that's what I grew up with. But she showed her love. She would never sit down and eat with with all the men and and the wives. She would just be standing there serving. I think about Martha with her. You know, she just loved to serve. And Martha just loved to serve. But Martha pushes the issue and said, um, what are you gonna do, Lord? And I need her help. And what the Lord wants us to do is he wants us to sit with him and spend time with him, doesn't he? Let's turn to I'm looking for my verse and I'm missing my verse, but it's I'm sorry. Uh you know, behold, here it is. I'm sorry, it was sticking together. What is the spiritual application, the interpretation? The most important thing that I get out of this, we have service, we have somebody serving the Lord. She served the Son of God, the Son of Man. And what is more important? Sitting at the feet of Jesus or serving? They're both important, aren't they? It's very important to get those bus kids, isn't it? It's very important to give your tithe. That's part of worship. But the Lord we see is showing that sitting at the feet is the first thing we need to be doing. Before we serve our Savior, this is something I had to learn, we must sup with our Savior. Revelation 3. 20. John writes, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him, and I will sup with him, and he with me. As Pastor was saying, he looks forward to his time with the Lord. And I know my wife does. She has a certain place she goes to. And when I'm at home, I like to go outdoors and I like to have my coffee and and uh I collect a bunch of old wood. I like to start a fire And just sit out there with the Lord out in the open, fresh air, and say, Lord, what would you have me to do today? What would you have me to do this next two weeks? And get into God's word and ask the Lord, you know, uh as we s as I said this morning, pray Psalms 119-18 Open now my eyes that I may behold wondrous things from thy law. Teach me something new today, Lord. Please teach me something new. It might be something new about a little nuance. Or just many different things that you can learn from God's Word. Have a desire and thirst to get into God's Word. Psalms 42, 1. As the heart panteth after the water brooks So penneth my soul after thee, O God. Do you have a thirst for God's word? We need to have a thirst, don't we? What happens is here even in America and the world is our thirst gets distracted by the cell phone. by the TV, by the music of the world, the movies of the world, the things of the world, the comforts of the world And we lose that thirst for the Lord. And we've been so blessed that God tells us what He wants how He wants us to live, doesn't He? He gives us God's word. And the Lord just showed me that, you know, I just have a desire and I know you do too, is getting God's word out. You're doing that over here with the fingerprints. And I'm preaching to the choir, but we need to get God's word James 4. 8, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. You know, we need to take that first step, don't we? I I even in my forties, uh, you know, thinking I'm gonna go to Bible school and I'm gonna learn everything I need to learn. Well I was starting to take a few steps and you know what you find out how much you don't know about God's Word, but you do get to to get some tools. But God wants to spend time with you. Draw nigh to him. He'll draw nigh into you. He'll tell you what he wants you to do through your local church in your life. And uh lastly here, her wrought work. Let's turn to Mark 14, 1 through 9. So Mary fears the Lord. This is early on in the Lord's ministry. And now we're going to go to right before. And I didn't even turn this thing on. Sorry. All right, Mark 14, 1 through 9. We're going to look at the first section and we're going to be done here. I won't hold you too late. Now this is right before the week of the Passover, the feast. Jesus is back up in Jerusalem, and there's a plot to kill Jesus after two days was the feast of Passover. and of unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes saw it, this is Mark 14, verse 1, how they might take him by craft and put him to death. And they but they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, so there's Simon We see was healed by Jesus as he sat at meat. There came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of spike nerd, very precious. She break the box and poured it on his head And there were some that had indignation with themselves and said, why was this waste of ointment made? Now to get a better picture of what's going on here, we need to turn to John 12. This is another witness of what's going on here, and it brings greater light to the story. John twelve, verse one, Mary anoints Jesus. Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany. Where Lazarus was, which he had been dead. So we know there's Simon the leper. Now there's Lazarus, who was made alive, a testimony of Jesus' power, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper. Martha served. Martha's serving. I'm sure she's not mentioning anything about getting help. But Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. So a better clearer picture, Jesus sitting at the table with Lazarus, Simon Leopard's there, Martha's there Verse 3, then the person, this is the person's mention, then took Mary upon an ointment of Spiken, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of ointment. Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief And had the bag and bear that was put therein. So Judas sees this money. We see that it's Judas. In verse 5 it says, um Beck in the other section, you don't have to turn to the Arabic. It says they murmured against her. So Judah starts it off. Here's Mary. She comes in and uh quietly comes in, brings in this gift for Jesus. Spike nerd, what is that? That was considered uh like a liquid gold. It was you had to go to the Himalayas, you had to go to India to get it. And they would They would go up uh to the Himalayas and they would have to go to 10,000 to 14,000 feet to harvest these little flowers, and they would crush them back in the day of the first century uh very labor intensive but it gave off a beautiful smell. The Romans loved it. They would use it during their feast times, during their suppers. They would give a little little a drop to each person It gave up a beautiful smell. And she has three hundred pence worth. That's a whole year's salary, if you can imagine United States The average salary might be $50,000. And she gave a gift that was worth a year's salary. To us, it'd be like $50,000. And I assume that this gift was her uh that she was saving for her family. And she wanted to bring something to her family, to her husband, and she made this great sacrifice And she knows that Jesus, she heard what Jesus said about him to be killed and to be slain by the Jews. So Judas sees this and we can know what's going on in Judas' mind, right? He's thinking, hey, I've got, you know, the we know that he would have the purse. We know that he was taking money out to use on his own pleasure, and the Bible says that he was a thief, had the bag and bear that was put in. And he didn't care for the poor. He wanted the money. Verse 7 says, and the house was filled with this odor. So Mary does this beautiful thing. She does another beautiful thing. She sits at Jesus' feet listening. She gets scorned. She comes in and gives this great sacrifice. Her life savings, a young lady wanted to start a family. She wanted to bring this in, her life savings. She pours it upon Jesus. And the whole room gets filled with this ointment. This liquid gold, this uh spike nerd. And what does Jesus say? Of course he's the gentleman I don't think he yells at the group. Judas starts off and the rest of the disciples jump in. Yeah, why are you doing this, Mary? Then verse 7, then said Jesus, let her alone. He defends Mary. Uh against the day of my bearing she hath kept this. For the poor always ye have with you, but me ye have not. I'm going to turn back to the other page because it brings this uh a little more into view, which would be Mark chapter 14. You can turn there too if you'd like. I see Mark Jesus is going to explain it in this witness. Verse 6 again, Jesus said, Let her alone, why trouble ye her? She wrought a good work on me. So just very quickly as we close, rot means to work. The Greek word means to work. So she has worked, you know, as you think of wrought iron. That's a word that we use, isn't it? Wrought. Wrought iron. And you work iron, you twist it, and you turn it, make it beautiful. And Jesus says, she hath wrought A good work on me. And that good work, uh, that Greek word means beautiful. And there's three different Greek words that you could use for good And that is the highest word that Jesus used, Kalos. She has worked a beautiful work on me. Verse 7, for ye have the poor with you always. Whatsoever ye will you will ye will, ye may do them good. That is a different Greek word, you, like eulogy. When you give a eulogy, pastor gives a eulogy, he says something good about this person that has passed away. So he's saying, she has done a beautiful work, and you can do a good work too. But me ye have not always. She hath done what she could. She has come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying bury burying. And the key point I want to make there is that she have done what she could. Now you might not be able to be a missionary for whatever reason. You might not be able to be a pastor or a youth pastor. But there's something we can all do, isn't there? And she did what she can do. She gave up her life savings to honor the Lord Jesus. What can we do? What can you do? It might just be faithful to pray for the missionaries, being faithful in your tithes, being faithful in your faith promise, being faithful in church. Pastor's looking and saying, okay, this person's here. He wants to know if you're in your place Be faithful in your place. Do what you can do. And she came to anoint. She listened to Jesus. And my point was she first heard Jesus. Jesus says, I'm going to die. And we see that this is probably what Jesus was talking about with her quietly. And she has come beforehand to anoint my body to the bearing. She is probably one of the only people out of all this group that really listened to Jesus and said, you know what? I need to do something for my Lord. He's going to die. The disciples were looking for the conquering Messiah And we see her memorial that we're even talking about, verse 9. Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world. This also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her. Why is it a memorial? Because she listened to the Lord, she did what she can do, and she did a great sacrifice, didn't she? How's your life? How's your life? Am I doing what I can do to become a better Christian? Am I doing in closing, and this is our closing time, am I doing what I can do to be a better fisherman? Am I getting out God's word? You're not going to catch any fish unless we use God's word, isn't it? Am I living, am I giving all that I can be to be a surrendered, clean vessel? You know, we need to be a clean vessel every day, don't we? As Jesus was washing the feet of his disciples, and Peter says, no, don't wash my feet. You know, you shouldn't be doing this, Lord. And the Lord said, if you don't let me wash your feet, I cannot be a part of you. I'm all paraphrasing. Peter says, Well, wash my whole body. And Jesus says, you're already washed. And what I believe the interpretation is that you're already saved, Peter. Your body is washed, but you as you go through your daily life, our feet get dirty, don't they? Every day. Our feet get dirty. We need to get to the Lord. Lord, clean my feet. Been walking through this world. I want to be a clean vessel for you. And we need to do that as we read God's Word. Am I in the family of God? You might not be saved today. I've been in churches that um in bus church and junior church we had a church family That was part of the the kids wanted to join be in the bus church and they would say, Pray for my dad. And they were church members. And I said, Your your dad. Your dad's sitting in church. My dad's not saved There might be somebody here that's not saved, that needs to get saved today. There might be somebody here that needs to surrender to go to the mission field. It's a great life, serving the Lord. Will you go and tell here in Oakland or will you go to the uttermost of the world? And Pastor, I'm going to turn it closing to you.