Just uh hold your place there. I uh I'm uh I I like uh I like superheroes, always have. Um uh ninja turtles are my favorite, so as you can see by the decorations in my son's room. Which is uh wall to wall turtles. Anyways, uh but I I like Ninja Turtles but y and I like um I like I like superheroes in general. I like uh I like spy movies. I generally like um movies about uh people saving the world. I think that's kinda cool I mean I saved the world, I think. Um I like it when uh I I think it'd be neat to save a life. I've never had the opportunity to save a life and well, that I know of and Oops, if I you know missed it. But uh I don't I don't know. I've never had the opportunity to save a life, so I don't know. Um what it feels like, but the opportunity to save the entire world or let's just say millions of people, or large percentage of the population, that would be kind of cool. Um Not a lot of people in history have had this uh opportunity. Um usually when you watch it in movies, it's a guy and there's like a nuclear bomb or Some kind of like button for like a hundred nuclear bombs and like he's like and it's like slow motion and then you know one second left and they tap the button. Personally, if you're gonna blow something up and it's nuclear bomb and like you know it's gonna take a while you know, I wouldn't even set a timer 'cause they always get to it every time. Um I'm just telling you I you know, it's on just do it on remote and uh don't brag about it, just do it. I mean, you know, I mean damn if you're gonna be a bad guy. I have a lot of tips for bad guys in uh movies. But uh we don't go into that tonight. That's not what the sermon's about. It's about saving lives and saving in particularly in particular the world. Like I said, very few people can actually say they've saved the world. Um but if you guys don't know, there's quite a few that can. Um one I will I and I'm gonna give him the preeminence is uh Jesus Christ. Now, listen, did he save the lives of everyone in the world? Well he kind of created us, so technically, yes. But no, but he saved the souls, which is a little more important. Alright? And Jesus Christ saved our souls and he saved the entire world in his sacrifice. And that deserves all glory and honor and praise, but that's not what the sermon's about. And I wanted to give in the pre-eminent to mention that Christ is the first savior of all. But there are other other people who've saved the world. Let me uh go with Maurice Hillman. You guys know who Maurice Hillman is? See, I didn't either until I googled five people who actually saved the world. And uh you guys can find this uh just so I'm not plagiarizing. This is on the richest dot com And uh an article called The Five People Who Literally Saved the World. Maurice Hillman, there's a 99% chance you've never heard of Maurice Hillman But if you live in the developed world, there's a 99. 9% chance you've been directly and powerfully affected by his life's work. Hillman was born in 1919 in the American state of Montana to a poor farming family. After nearly missing out on college for financial reasons, before his eldest brother jumped in to help, he began studying microbiology and received his PhD in 1941. Early in his career, he identified a new strain of flu that had the potential to kill millions of people, and quickly, over nine days, developed a vaccine for it, saving countless lives. In 1957, he joined the pharmaceutical giant American Company, where he uh achie would achieve the majority of his breakthroughs. Over the course of his career, Hillman created vaccines for measles, mumps, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, chickenpox, meningitis, pneumonia, and various influenza strains. There are 14 vaccines given Uh in a stand in a child standard vaccination schedule. Filamin is responsible for eight of them. Maybe he didn't save everyone on earth. I suppose that's fair enough to say that. This guy saved. But I can I can I feel this man saved the world. Very impressive. I don't know what that's like. But I will say this Jesus Christ is not the only person in our Bible. Who is known to have saved the world? I told you to go to Genesis 37, and I'm going to keep you there, but I'm going to read from Genesis 50 and verse 20. Genesis 50 and verse 20. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass As it is this day, to save much people alive. Let's talk about Joseph. Let's talk about a man who had big dreams. And then kinda got a cruddy life. He got kinda like just it some bad cards. That's what it looks like. It's like, ah, that's that's garbage, that's garbage, that's garbage. And then somehow, instantly, he ends up being able to interpret a dream. Through whatever he he he be he was able to interpret a dream sent by God so it so Egypt would reserve food. And save it for a famine, which not only saved Egypt from starvation, but saved all the surrounding uh surrounding areas. He saved countless people from uh starvation. And in that time the known world from starvation. That's pretty impressive. But how did he do it? Every story in the Bible, every verse of the Bible, every chapter in the Bible gives us something that we can either emulate or that we can learn from. Whether it's just basic knowledge of who begat who and that's how old the earth is, fine. Or whether it's knowledge of how to live our lives. But I want to emulate something, and if I want to save the world, if you want to save the world, then I have to ask you. Well why don't we look at Joseph who actually did it and see what he did? He didn't do it on his own. You know, God was involved through the whole thing. But if we're gonna emulate if we're gonna copy someone's life Let's look at Joseph. He affected more people than you and I will ever affect. How did he go? From you know, uh from helping out his dad to the second most powerful man in Egypt and save a bunch of people's lives. I mean that's the dream, isn't it? I mean to save a bunch of people like to be a superhero and be rich, Batman is the dream Because you don't know. Because you're a superhero and wait and you're saving all these people's lives and wait, you're you're rich and powerful. And that and Joseph was Batman. Joseph was able to do that. But how? So this sermon is called Five Steps to Saving the World. There are actually six steps. I added a step because no one would give any testimonies, so I'm just going to prolong the sermon. But uh let's just start let's start with the beginning of Joseph. First step, step number one, believe in the dreams that God gives you. Let me let me say again, believe in the dreams that God gives you. Let's now let's go to uh chapter 37, like I was saying And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed. For behold, we are binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheath. Arose, and also stood upright. And his brethren said unto them, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more yet the more for his dreams and for his words. And he dreamed another dream. And told that to his brethren, saying, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more, and behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made odd things to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow ourselves to the to the earth, and his brethren envied him, but his father observed the saying. A lot of people have a problem with Joseph in the fact they attribute to the fat they attribute the uh The fact that they think he is prideful right here. Whether or not you believe that or not, I I personally the Bible doesn't outright say it, so I'm just not gonna comment on it. You know, he might have been really excited. I mean, if I get a dream from God, I mean a dream from God. By the way, they're different than regular dreams. I I really believe that. They feel different. Because if I just have like a dre I mean listen, I've had zombie dreams. And and like I don't I I tell people about 'em but not because I'm like, hey look, this is gonna come true. It's usually just because, whoa dude, you have no idea. You bit me. Why would you do that? That's what that's what it's usually about. Um or because they're really funny. I like funny dreams as well. Um But I don't think they're from God. So I'm I'm expecting this dream. This was like like he remembered every detail of it. He could feel it, he could taste the air. He could smell and and he sees all this happening And you have a dream like that, whether or not it was out of pride or not, you're going to tell people. Or at least I hope you do. I mean, you know, when God gives you a dream, you have to believe in them. Now Listen, I don't think I'm it maybe you know listen if you get a dream from God, great. Most of us aren't going to get that kind of dream from God that tells the future. I think there's a pretty good chance you and I are not going to get that dream But what about this dream? How can you tell if your dream is from God? Because the first step, Joseph's first step was believing in the dream. Do you believe the dream that God's given you? And how can you tell if it's that dream? By the motives and actions in the dream. By the motives and actions in the dream. Now I'm not talking about sleeping dreams right now. I'm talking about Goals, plans for the future, that kind of dream. You can tell if it's from God by your motives and by the uh and by the actions and by the or the subject matter of the dream. For instance. If you believe that you have a dream from God and you're searching your heart and you're like, you know what, I think I know what my dream is. My dream is to open up a bar. I can tell you that one's probably not from God. Because the motive and actions are wrong. But if you have something that's eaten at your heart, it's always eating at you. If you're like, you know, I should uh I should do this. And it actually lines up with God's will And there's nothing wrong with it. And it eats at you, it eats at you. You need to pray about that because there's a chance that might be from God. If your dreams are for your own honor and your own glory, that's not from God. Now here's the thing. Jake uh Joseph's dreams, it did give him honor. That's true. But if that's the purpose of your dream if you know what I I just want to be I I I want I want this. And uh and you know what I I I want I want to be well respected. I heard the other day I was uh listening to the radio and someone said and they were they were talking about a uh a politician, I'm not gonna name him, but they were saying that um and uh the guy's a former the the politician's a former pastor and they said Well, he's uh well he's a politician and he's uh pastor, which are both jobs which um I'm sorry, I wrote it down as I thought it was quite funny. Um oh yes, those are pride swelling jobs, and only people who are very prideful go after those jobs. Okay, whether that's that's true or not, I think politicians that's definitely But I but uh whether that's and listen, I'm not gonna fight with him. Um I d I know a lot of pastors that are full of pride. In fact I'm full of way too much pride personally. And we all are, but I d whether that not that's true, that's not what your pastor up here does it for Now again if your dream is to become a pastor, awesome. If you think you're supposed to go into the ministry as an adult, as a teenager, awesome. If you're going into the ministry so people look up at you and call you pastor, don't And so people respect you? Don't, because that's not the reason God gave you the dream. But if you're going to serve God, or if your dream is something else, um and God just God's just given you this idea, this thought, and you know you're supposed to jump on it, and you know, and and it Maybe that's it, but if you're going after pride, honor, and if you're seeking sinful things, that's not from God. But say it's not. See, here's the other problem we have. The other problem is that we confuse God's will with life being stupid. Like you know what I'm saying? We confuse being in the will of God with our life not being awesome. And some be a lot of people do that. A lot of people are like, well I don't think it's God's will, because God would never want me to be happy. You know, you hear people talk like that. Well I I don't I don't think that's God's plan for me because because it's what I want to do. You know what? You know this cool verse I found in this cool book. It's called the Bible. It's a cool book. Proverbs 16:3 says, Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. Then we go to Psalms 37:4. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. Your dream might be exactly what you want. Pray about it. Seek God about it. But don't forget about it. Listen, if you can't make your dream happen right this moment, that's fine. But don't forget about the dreams that God has given you. Don't forget about the um the messages God sent for you. Your future plans, your future goals. Don't forget about that because God, if God gave it to you, it could be big. It could be save the world, big. First step to saving the world is don't forget the dreams that God's given you. So, next to the story of Joseph. So he has this cool dream, and his brothers hate him. So, uh I'm not gonna read the whole story of Joseph, that'd take a little while. So here's how it works. His brothers are sitting alone and they're like, you know what we should do? We should kill Joseph. And everybody's like, Yeah, that's a good idea, which is by the way, I was never raised with brothers, but brothers apparently kill people. I mean probably why I'm still alive. Um sisters are mean though, man. The only reason I'm alive is because I got taller than my sister. And um and that's that's a fact. Um But the fact but the truth is, so these guys are like, all right, well we're gonna kill Joseph. Woo-hoo! And Reuben is like, all right, let's not kill Joseph. Let's just throw him in a hole. And they're like, Yeah, it's home and hole. Woo yeah. And then and then they see some and then so, you know, Joseph comes up, he's on his father's will, he's doing what he's supposed to. I could add another step here about to uh but I'm not going to And he's on his way, he's gonna do what his father says. He gets there, they're like, ha, we're throwing you in the wool. They take his coat. And then, lo and behold Merchants are passing by. And they're like, well we could either keep our brother in the hole or we can make some money. So they sell him. That is a bad day. And then he gets sold into slavery. He works for a guy named Potiphar. Now here's the thing. What did I say the first step was? First step is, and I'm going to read it verbatim. Believe in the dreams that God's given you. It's hard to believe that you're going to be over your brothers when you're just sold into slavery. When you were sold to Potiphar, an Egyptian, it's it's hard to see you know when you don't have your own freedom, it's hard to believe in your dreams. And some of you might feel like you don't have freedom. Listen, it's easy to feel constrained by bills. It's easy to feel constrained by pressures of people around you. That's easy to feel that. And you feel like you're not really free. You know, if God did give you a dream, if God did tell you he wanted you to do specifically something, you say, well, I'm too wrapped up, I can't do anything about it. But don't forget about the dreams. And the second step is take the place God has given you and make it the best it can be. You know, Joseph was such a good slave. Joseph was such a good slave, Potiphar put him in charge of his entire house. Potiphar didn't even know what he owned. He would go by the street. He would he'd be he would be in his uh be on his on a horse or donkey or something. Uh no Or a scooter. You just drive on a smoke ed. And uh and Potterborough would look and they'd be like, That's a nice that's a nice donut shop. That's real nice. Don't you think Joseph? Joseph would be like, Yeah, I kinda bought y you bought that. last week. It doesn't he didn't even know what he owned. Joseph just knew what ju Joseph set everything up for him. Joseph was a brilliant man. This is why I'm not really sure that Joseph was a super prideful guy, because prideful people don't react like this in situations like this. They just don't usually if you're full of pride and someone knocks you down, you know, a hundred steps to being a slave, you're real rebellious. But Joseph was like, No, I'm gonna work hard for this guy. So take the place God has given you and make it the best you can be. I have said, you have said, probably everybody in here has said at one point in time, I wish I was rich so I could, and you actually put a good thing at the end. But so I could buy the church a new such and such. So I could do this. So I could do that. And those are great thoughts. I say that all the time. You know, I'd I you know we just got a new van, it's wonderful. You know, I wanted to put some rims on it. If I was rich, you know, it'd be like this like Bill lifted van, it'd be kind of cool. Um but uh that's not true. That's that's a waste of money, but it would be a fun waste of money. But um but you know we say if I was rich I would do that. And you know the thing is none of us are ever rich enough. And then you talk to rich people, and you say, and and they don't feel rich enough. You take the place that God's given you. You know, you don't say, I'm going to start tithing when I make more money. That's a bad idea. Because you probably won't. Because you know, I mean this is me, and maybe none of you are like this, and that's fine, and I and I hum and I am humble before you. I might be the only person in your life, but usually when I start making more money, I start spending more money. It's ridiculous. When when I start making more money, I'll give emissions. Listen, how about you take where you are and make it the best you can be? I I I'm that's the best thing. Just take what you have, your life, and make it the best. Listen, you're like, man, I got no time right now. Fine, I understand having no time. I also understand always thinking for my entire life I have no time to do anything. And then when I actually get to points where I have no time, it's like wow, I just have so much time. But take us and say, listen, I can't go out soul winning. Um go out to Thursday night soul winning. That's fine. And we don't have it on Thursday nights right now anyways. That's fine. You can find a way to witness to someone though. You can find a way to preach the gospel to someone. Take what you have and make it great. Third step, and um third step to saving the world. So Joseph. Joseph is in Potter's house. He's actually a pretty well off slave. I mean I don't know how that works. You know I've never been a slave in Egypt. But he's a pretty well-off slave. Um he's working, he's very high up, he he has a lot of power. Um no freedom, but a lot of power And then in comes Potiphar's wife, who makes an advancement on our young Joseph. Now she's probably a very beautiful woman, because uh rich guys like Potiphar probably don't choose ugly women, because That's just true. She's probably pretty. And Joseph is a young guy, and she tries to make an advance on him. He says no. She tries to make another advance on him, and he says no. Finally, she corners him, takes him by the coat, and he runs out. Alright? Then he comes back, the wife has told Potiphar, and I know you guys know this, but but allow me, the wife has told Potiphar, he tried to rape me. So, what does Potiphar do? Potiphar gets mad, throws him in prison. So, then we bring to step number three: Do the right thing, even when it costs you. First step, believe in the dreams that God's given you. Second step, take the place God has given you and make it the best it can be. Third step, and by the way, these aren't just these are not these are not steps for you to live a better life, alright? These are not steps for you to be a mediocre Christian. These are the steps you have to take in order to save the world. This is what got him there, and I believe if we take these steps just like Joseph did, who the Bible really says nothing wrong about, if we take these kind of steps We can make a great impact in this world as well. But the third step is do the right thing even when it costs you Alexei and then Neko, don't know this one. Valeri Bezpilov and Boris Baranov. Anyone know who these people are? I don't I didn't know either. Bet you I can tell you where they're from. Um You're probably familiar with the nineteen eighty six Chernobyl da disaster. And if not, then you should familiar s then you should familiarize then you should familiarize familiarize? Familiarized. Yeah yeah Then you should learn how to speak English. Alright, that's what it says. It is important, it is important. Ski sit blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Alright. A power surge in the nuclear power plant set off an explosion in one of the reactors that began a meltdown that ejected radioactive waste into the Ukrainian countryside. A portion of the reactor had superheated to twelve hundred degrees Celsius, that's really hot, and threatened to melt through the bottom of the s uh chamber into the pool of water. Which would have set off a steam explosion ejecting significantly more radio radioactive waste into the sky These three men, Anenko, Bezilov, and Baranov, volunteered, knowing full well it was a suicide mission. They donned swimsuits and swam into the pool to manually drain it. By physically opening the valve, well uh it's believed the the radiation had changed the chemical composition of the liquid they were swimming through from H2O to H2O2. Hydrogen peroxide, they're swimming through it Not only did they swim through the hydrogen peroxide to empty the pool, but they exposed themselves to doses of radiation thousands of times in excess what the body the human body can tolerate. Through their actions, the Chernobyl das the Chernobyl disaster was confined to Ukraine and surrounding areas instead of a radiation cloud sweeping over large parts of Europe. All three men died soon after from radiation sickness. That's a good that's a great story. I and here's the thing, I don't think maybe I'm wrong. We have might have some like real like science like history buffs in here. I didn't know their names. And these guys probably didn't save my life because it would have been over most of Europe, but they changed the world. I can tell you that They saved all these people, all these Europeans, from a radiation cloud. And let me explain that. Sorry, I probably read that a little fast. Basically the nuclear uh Waste is gonna mix with the water and it was gonna superheat and turn into steam and then that steam would create a radiation cloud, I'm assuming that's what it's talking about, a radiation cloud, and that would spread all over Europe. And these men Died trying to empty the pool. Now, do the right thing even when it costs you You know, my favorite person to make examples about in the Bible is Jesus. And this is one of my favorites because Yeah, you can just attribute everything to him. He did the right thing, and it cost him his life. And it cost him his uh for thirty-three years it cost him his position in heaven. But the right thing, but the sacrificial, the good thing was to come sacrifice himself for us. So he did it Do the right thing even when it costs you. I know, trust me, I know that there are easier ways than the right thing sometimes. In fact the wrong way, honestly, usually seemed a lot easier. But Joseph had he decided listen, he went through the first step and he believed in God's. He believed the dreams that God had given him. And he accepted where he was and he made it the best he could be. He did both steps. But when he got to this point, it's like dude, I I I helped my dad, and I was gonna go check on my brothers, and then they threw me in a pit and then sold me in slavery. And then I worked my way up there and I was the best slave I could be, even though that's not where I should have been at all. And then And they got thrown into prison for not committing rape, but for refusing to take another man's wife He's done everything right, and it's cost him a ton. This is the point where most people give up. Actually, two points ago is where most people give up. But not Joseph. In fact, Joseph went straight back to, by the way, all these steps, they're not steps that you take in order. They're steps that you take all at once all the time. So, so you see, Joseph actually went back to step number two and he took where he was in the prison and made it the best place he could. In fact, he was such a good prisoner, they put him in charge of the prison. How cool is that? Now it's really not that cool to Joseph, because Joseph is, obviously, still a prisoner and a slave, even if he got out of prison. But that brings us to step number four. Help the undeserving. No man or task is beneath you. Let me tell you what happened next in our story. There is a he becomes he becomes the keeper of the prison. The keeper of the prison. Alright, which is weird. He's second in command in the prison as a prisoner. As doesn't have his freedom again. And he's still slaves, but you know, you know, that's good. Two guys come home, a butler and a baker. And they had these crazy dreams And Joseph's like, dude, I can I'll help interpret your dreams and they tell him and they again I'm gonna try to be quick. The butler's was a good dream, it mean meant he would be reinstated and Pharaoh the Pharaoh's by the way, a personal butler He'd be reinstated in Pharaoh's house. The baker did not have such a good dream. It meant he would be dead. Alright, so that's the two dreams. And Joseph interprets them. By the way, he had no reason to have to interpret these guys. First of all, he was above them in the prison system. He was also just, you know, he never did anything wrong. These guys obviously did something wrong because they were in prison. He had no reason to help them. Listen, he could have just said no based on the fact that his life stunk. Amen, when you're angry and you're bitter and your life is like going awful, helping people is not on your highest priority list. Like no. I'm not acting no, I'm not I know. My life instincts. You know what your life instinct I'm helping you. Helping people, being good is what I got what got me into this position. He could have taken that attitude, but instead he helped these two guys out. The baker he didn't so much help out. But the other guy, but the butler, he totally helped out. And he said, listen, in three days when you're restored to your position as the Pharaoh's butler You know, mention me, tell 'em my story, this is what happened to me. And the butler's like, Yeah, dude, totally. Got it. I'll write it down. And he like folk fake wrote it down. Then he forgot about it for two years Help even the undeserving. No manner task is beneath you. If you go to Matthew twenty-five for me, turn to Matthew twenty-five. I want to show you something. Because I think, listen, I think our church is very good about this. I think the people in our church are very good about this. But Everyone needs some reminding on what God expects from us sometimes. Five steps to saving the world, six if you count the last one, which you should because it's the last one. Um Help the undeserv even the undeserving. When the Son of Man and we're going to start Matthew twenty-five And verse 31. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats And he shall set set the uh sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed fat blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you. From the foundation of the world. Now why does he say this? These verses are also used as uh, you know, you're going you know, you're gonna go to hell if you don't well uh and you know But but let me let me t tell you why he separates these two people, all right? People groups. Pay very close attention For I was in hungered and he gave me meat. I was thirsty and he gave me drink. I was a stranger and he took me in naked and he clothed me. I was sick and he visited me. I was in prison and he came unto me Then the righteous shall answer him, saying, Lord, when we saw when saw we uh thee uh hungered or and fed thee, or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in, or naked and clothed thee? Or when Saw we thee sick or in prison, and came unto thee? And the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye do have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me. That's convicting. Because he doesn't say do it to the people that deserve it. Be good to people that deserve it. But not only that, be good to people who don't stink and deserve it at all. Be good to the people who who, you know, they're the least of us. They're the worst of us. You're good to those people, then you'll be accounted among God's righteous. Now here's the thing. before I go anywhere else. Salvation is what gets you in heaven, nothing else. But looking at this separation, isn't that interesting about just how how important, how how important helping the undeserving is to God. Never have a I don't have to, so why should I additude? James 127 says, Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and keep himself unspotted from the world. By the way, next in our story, Pharaoh had this great dream. This dream Which we come to find out later means that there are it's it's amazing dreams. He's just like dumbfounded. And he calls everyone, he's like, Hey someone needs to interpret my dream. No one understands it, no one gets it. The butler remembers. The butler didn't. The butler remembers. You know that guy Joseph interpreted my dream and he was totally right. Right? Ah, I totally was like supposed to get him out. I wrote it no, I didn't write it down. Ah. So Butler goes and gets Joseph. Brings them before Pharaoh. Joseph, by the way, did not have to interpret Pharaoh's dream. He could have been so jaded right now and so bitter right now that he just lost touch with God. By the way, your spiritual walk, you might not know this, but your spiritual walk with God Is important to other people too. When someone needs someone spiritual, when someone needs a connection to God and they don't have one, they often turn to someone who does. And if you're you gave up on God That person may never find him. But you know what? Joseph didn't get bitter. Joseph didn't get angry. In fact, he was able to interpret the dream right away And as I said earlier, the uh the dream meant there would be seven years of plenty. And seven years of famine following that. And they were to save up the plenty, and then they would have food for the famine. And they did. Wonderful. Right? I mean that's great, right? So so they and they ended up surviving the famine. Um and that's great. And Joseph saved a bunch of people. And that's really that okay, so I said there are six steps. There are four steps to saving the world. The last two are after you saved the world. But in all reality, help those that are beneath you. Help those that don't deserve it. Pharaoh never did anything for Joseph. In fact, Joseph has been trapped in his land as a slave. From no will of his own or no fault of his own. Help those who are beneath you. Now here's I wanna I want to give you the fifth step. Be full of mercy, even to those who have done you wrong. James 2. 13 says, For he shall have judgment without mercy. That has shown no mercy. And mercy rejoiceth against judgment. Luke 6, 36 and 37 say, Be ye therefore merciful, as your father is also merciful. Judge not, and ye shall not be judged. Condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you shall be forgiven. Have mercy to those who have done you wrong. Be merciful. Genesis fifty, uh verse it's just a few pages over here still there. Genesis fifty verse fifteen And when Joseph's brethren saw their father was dead. And again, I I guess let me let me fast forward through the story. So Joseph Joseph provides food for all of Egypt and all the surrounding com countries during this great famine. And you know who else he provides it to? His brothers who come down to Egypt to get it from him. You guys probably know the story. So his brothers come down to Egypt not knowing that Joseph is there, not knowing even who Joseph is. He tricks them, he plays games with them, they don't know who he is, he freaks them out. It's actually pretty fun. Um it's a great story. If you guys don't if you guys want a fun, you know, like Thirteen chapters, fourteen chapters to read. Story of Joseph is great. But then their father dies and they think That the only reason they're still alive, and that Joseph hasn't killed all of them for selling him into slaves so many years ago, is because His father their father was alive. Uh Jacob was still alive. And so Jacob dies. And what happens? He kills them all. No, that's not what happens. Um And when Joseph's brethren saw their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peraventure hate us, and will certainly requite us unto all the evil which we did unto him. And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, So shall ye say unto Joseph, forgive, I pray thee now the trespass of thy brethren. And their sin, for they did unto thee evil. And now we pray thee, forgive the trespass of thy servants of God, of the father, God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him And his brethren brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it for unto but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. This story is not about Joseph. Joseph recognized that the fact that he was thrown into prison, or the fact that he was sold into slavery, then thrown into prison. Was not about him. It was about saving people's lives. Your life, there's a good chance that your life is not about you. In fact, it's a very good chance, like a like a hundred percent chance that your life is not actually about you. It's about other people You're supposed to save lives, and maybe not physically, but you're definitely supposed to save souls. The Great Commission tells us that. We we are here for a reason. We are here not to just be our own person, but to go and help people. And that's what Joseph understood. In fact, he understood so well that that was God's plan. And so why should I be mad? Be merciful to those, by the way. Be merciful to those who've wronged you. I will tell you one other reason you should be merciful unto them. Because there's a chance you're going to accidentally wrong someone or purposefully wrong someone someday. And man when they have mercy, there's that that that is one of the greatest feelings in the world. Step six learn to be patient, but expect great things at any time. Like I said earlier, you might be in that that was my sixth step, but you might be in a place where you don't see yourself saving millions of souls or millions of lives or making that much of a difference. And I understand that. I understand being in a place where you're like, well, you know, my life really doesn't matter as much as so and so's life. Well it really matters so as much as so and so's life. But you guys gotta remember Joseph was in print prison one minute and he was, you know, second in command in Egypt the next. One minute he was literally a slave and in prison. Two types of freedom taken from him. And the next minute, or the next day, he was ruler over Egypt. He was like a father under Pharaoh You don't know when your time will come. You don't know when when the most important part of your life is about to happen. When you're supposed to be what God needs you to be, you're supposed to be as faithful as you ever were, you're supposed to be as studied up in God's scriptures as you ever were, you're supposed to be as close to God as you ever were. You don't know when that time is coming, not for yourself, but to save other people. So be patient for it, but also be ready. Don't lose faith. I'm going to end with an illustration. Actually, I'm going to go through the six steps, and then I'm going to end with an illustration. Step one: believe in the dreams that God gives you. I lost my steps two, sheet. Give me a second. Step two, take place, take the place that God has given you and make it the best it can be. Step three, sorry, this is a lot of stuff. You should have been scared. This is like an eight-page sermon. Step three, do the right thing even when it costs you. Step four. Help the undeserving. No man or task is beneath you. Step five, be full of mercy even to those who have done you wrong. In step six, Learn to be patient, but expect great things at any time. You don't know when your time will come, but you better be better be ready for it. Do you guys ever heard of Norman Borlog? Yeah, that one I think I've heard the name of, but maybe I haven't. The amount of people who can accurately claim to be saved, or sorry, the amount of people who can accurately claim to have been saved, over a billion people, is significantly smaller than even that. I don't know what that means. Norman Borlaug was born in Cresco, Cresco, Iowa in 1914 to a working class family. After growing up on the family farm, he was encouraged by his grandfather to pursue education. He concluded his studies in 1942 with a PhD in plant pathology and genetics and began a career in agricultural research. So the guy was, you know, he was a plant scientist. Cool job, right? Uh maybe not. But you know, whatever. I I don't I don't think I'd like it. You know, plants make me sneeze and stuff. So I'm not really a huge plant guy, but I will say this I and I uh you know, I respect him for going, I don't PhD, that's impressive, but here's the problem is no one really expects to save a billion people's lives with, you know, a plant degree. But let's keep going. Throughout the course of his career, Borlog focused his interest on making wheat crops more durable and bountiful. He developed several high-yield disease-resistant strains of wheat that are now commonly grown throughout the world His wheat made Mexico a net exporter of wheat in a few scant years and save India and Pakistan from descending into famine during the late sixties Borlog's lives saved counter only goes up year after year as the people he saved from starvation had now have children of their own. It is estimated that over a billion people and rising are alive today thanks to the agricultural practices developed by Burlog and taught to farmers all over the world. He received the Nobel Peace Prize and honors from governments of the USA, India and others. He died in 2009 at the age of ninety-five. Like I said, I'm I'm not I I'm not a plant scientist. But I but if I was I wouldn't expect to save that many people's lives. This guy saved a billion people's lives. Because what he was doing at the time he was doing it, I don't know where you're going to be when God decides that's your moment. I don't know if you just have one moment. Well, you better be ready for it. Joseph was. And that's how he saved the world. Um as the pianist comes, everyone can stand up and uh bow your head and close your eyes.