I think the schools blew it today, didn't they? Wow. First Thessalonians chapter four. We're getting to the meat of this book. We got a lot of verses to look up again tonight. I'm really having fun with 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse number 13. We started this last week. We looked at the first word in this one verse that is really setting up the subject, I believe, that was the whole intention of this book being written initially. And there's three words here that we're breaking down. We looked last week at the word ignorance. Notice verse 13 of 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. There's the second word, uh subject that he's introducing here, uh concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. And then the third one, Lord will next week we're going to look at Is this matter of sorrowing and how it's presented in the Bible, especially at the death of a loved one? How we deal with it, what its role is, different things like that. We looked last week at Uh ignorance, as we said, um how many people here ever did something you thought it was the best thing to do? Uh later on you found out it wasn't. You got more information than you had before, and uh you wished you had that information before you did it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You buy a car or something like that Well you didn't know beforehand that it had been through a flood down in Louisiana or something, you know, and then afterward you find out. That was the idea behind ignorance. Not knowing something can be hurtful Now we look at this next word. I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. Then this particular thing he doesn't want them to be ignorant about. He wants them to have the information uh that is necessary for them to be able to deal with it and that is those who are asleep. Um uh That's what we're going to look at tonight. I didn't pray yet, did I? Let's pray. And uh we'll look at this. Father, bless now our study in your word. Fill me with your spirit, I pray God And uh Lord, not a lot of preaching tonight, kind of a teaching thing. So help us get this information. We don't want to be ignorant about this. And uh I pray that um we would be on solid ground in our thinking And as we deal with death and all that, we would uh be able to deal with it correctly. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I actually want to take the opportunity this evening To deal with a false teaching that this verse touches on, in a sense Notice, let's look at verse 13 again. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. Now we understand what the Bible is talking about here when it references those who are asleep. What is he talking about? People who are dead. Now there is a false teaching found around the world, and I'm going to show you in a few minutes found in our community. And that false teaching is this. It's called soul sleep. Soul sleep. And this is one of the verses that is used to teach this false teaching. Now, what is soul sleep? The teaching of soul sleep is basically this. It is the teaching that when a person, when a believer dies, when a person dies, believer or unbeliever, when they die, their soul Sleeps in the body until the resurrection, and then the body is resurrected, the soul is awakened, and they face judgment These are some definitions I found in studying for this. It is the soul sleeps unconsciously in the dead body. From the time of physical death until the resurrection. The soul is silent, it is inactive, and it is unconscious. Most people that believe this Teach that the individual does not experience heaven or hell until their body is resurrected and they face the judgment. The soul sleep. Now the question is, who teaches this? Mormons. The Mormons uh may teach a version of it. I would I don't know that. That's why they say That you can be baptized for your dead. Okay, that makes sense. There's a there's two other groups in our community that teach this. Jehovah's Witness teach soul sleep, and there's one other one. Very a little closer to the Baptist than what you Seventh day Adventist. Teach that in Soul Sleep. In fact, they're probably the most vocal about it of the three. So this teaching goes on in our community. I'm just curious. This is just total curiosity on my part Is there anybody here that you know someone personally? Maybe this discussion came up, maybe you've been uh confronted with this, you know someone that believes and teaches this, that holds this. I'm just curious, anybody at all Alright, down here, back there, uh a couple around. And so particularly as you get out and talk to people and confront people with the gospel, you'll run into this more and more. And so Soul Sleep, the most prominent Group that teaches this is uh the Jehovah's Witnesses. They have a book that uh it's entitled Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life. It's printed by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society on page 82 of this book entitled Knowledge That Leads to Uh Everlasting Life. This is what they say. Listen to what they say When somebody dies, the spirit or their life force ceases to animate the body cells, in other words, ceases to give life to the body cells Much as light goes out when the electricity is turned off, when the life force stops sustaining the human being, the man's soul dies. Age 83, the next phase they say this. Therefore, God's word refers to the dead as being asleep For example, upon learning that his friend Lazarus had died, Jesus told his disciples, now they're quoting from their New World Translation. Jesus told his disciples, Lazarus, our friend, has gone to rest. I am journeying there to awake him from sleep. Now, the Bible does, Jesus does say, in your King James Bible, Jesus does say Lazarus is asleep. What did the disciples respond? He said, Lord, it's good he's sleeping. If he doesn't feel good, it's good for him to be asleep. Then the Lord said plainly, he's dead Another group, Seventh Day is Venice, as we said, in their official doctrinal statement. And the interesting thing is this is published in Hakerstown, Maryland. Did you ever go by 70 there on the other side of Hagerstown, the big Seventh day Adventist publishing thing? They're the ones that are public printing this and publishing it, propagating it They say this, page 335 of their book, Biblical Exposition of 27 Fundamental Doctrines. The grave is not a place of consciousness. Since death is asleep, the dead remain in a state of unconsciousness in the grave Until the resurrection, when the grave gives up its dead. Now, here's what we find, and this touches on what we were teaching last week. These people, I think many of them are very sincere. Listen, sincerity is not enough. You can be sincerely wrong, and I think many of these folks are. What the problem is they take A word that is used in the Bible that's referring to the dead as being asleep, and they do three things. One, they take it in its literal definition without looking at the context. Remember we talked about that last week? You get the definition of the word, and then you look at the context in the passage where it's being used, but there's a third thing you do we mentioned last week. Does anybody remember? You look at cross-references, how that truth is presented or how that word is used in other places in the Bible And then you come to a conclusion. And so, how do these people come to these unscriptural, these false doctrines? How do they come to this? Well, sometimes they're biased. They come to a conclusion and then they go to the scriptures to support their conclusion. That's backwards. If we ever, at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, if we ever discover that one of our doctrinal positions is contrary to scripture, we don't change scripture to fit our doctrinal position, we change our doctrinal position to fit scripture. I don't think we're wrong on any of them. We studied this thing out for hundreds of years, and uh not me personally, but um uh we studied this out, we're convinced we're on solid ground. But sometimes it's that. Sometimes it's a leader of a group will look at a word and he'll try and be unique and give a unique meaning to it. And he'll come up with a false doctrine and neglect these three important things, the word, definition, the context, and cross-reference. And he'll come up with this. Watch out for preachers who say stuff like this. I've got something you've never heard before. Brother, you better watch out. Well, here's something that's new. Nobody in the Christian history of the Christian church has ever seen this in the Bible before. Brother, I hear that. Red flags go up all over the place. And so here's my question, and this is the brief study we have tonight. Would you be able to You got to work tomorrow. Somebody sat down and say, I'll put myself in your shoes. They say, Brother Lethman, I understand you're a Christian And uh you've been asking people if you died right now, do you know for sure you go to heaven? And they would say this, you know you're wrong. Person when they die, they don't go to heaven or hell, they sleep. But their their soul sleeps in the body. Would you be able to correct that? Would you be able to take your Bible, open it up and say, well, you know, uh that sounds uh maybe the way some words are used there, but let's look at what the Bible really teaches. Let's compare scripture with scripture. Would you be able to do that? If you cannot now In about 15 minutes, you will be able to do that. Isn't that wonderful? How many folks are glad you came to church tonight? Praise the Lord. This is exciting Alright, I encourage you to jot these down somewhere. They may come in handy. You may go the rest of your life, never run into this. You may run into it tomorrow. And so the Bible says we are to study to show ourselves what? A fruit. It says we are to be ready to give every man a what? An answer. And so that's what this is all about. Here's our first Refutation of this teaching that the soul sleeps in the body. Number one, in the Bible, the body, the soul, and the spirit. Are separate, I'm gonna use this word, I don't know if it's really the one I want, are separate entities. In other words, my body is not my soul. Follow what I'm saying? And my soul is not my spirit. We are, here's a here's a bit, I use these words every now and then just to impress you with my great level of education. Every now and then. So get ready to be impressed. Ready? Are you are you how you yeah, get practice up. We are a tripartite being. Wow. Cool. I've practiced that word all day. What that means is that mankind is made up of body, soul, and spirit 1 Thessalonians, you're right here. Come over to chapter 5. This is one of the clearest verses teaching that there is in the Bible. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 23. Just a page over there. And the very God of peace, sanctify you wholly. Now, his prayer is that God will just completely set you apart to Christ. You'll be completely dedicated to Christ. Sanctify you holy, and I pray, God, your whole look at this spirit and soul and body. To be preserved blameless unto the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. My body and my soul and my spirit. are three different aspects of doing what I am. Hebrews chapter 4 verse 12. Some of you know have that verse memorized. The word of God is quick. And powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing of what? Soul and spirit. So the Bible teaches that we are made up of our body. Inhabiting this body is my spirit. Now, question. We're getting a little Bible Instituteish here tonight. Um is that a word? Institutish? That's a cool word. I like that. But write that down, Kathy. Um, I want to put together a Leatherman dictionary. Uh what was I talking about? No, before that. Uh uh Oh, um I don't remember. So anyway, we are body, soul, and spirit. Turn with me, if you would, to James chapter 2. I think when I have lessons that I really like, then I get giddy. And I get off subject. Uh James chapter two and verse twenty-six. Notice this. For as the body without the spirit is what? Yeah. You know what death is? Death is the separation of the body and the spirit. If the body, if the spirit, according to this verse. We're just going to take this at face value. If the spirit is still in the body, what do we know about the body? It's still alive. If the spirit's in the body, it's still alive. Death takes place. When my spirit leaves my body. Now I remember what I was going to say that's Bible instituted. Say it with me. The body, soul, and spirit. Here's the interesting thing, and this we gotta be careful because it's easy to go on rabbit trails here. But until I'm born again, my spirit is dead. Follow what I'm saying? Jesus said, ye must be born again. We are to be born spiritually. Remember, Nicodemus says, Must be born again? What are you talking about? I've got to go back in my mother's womb and be born again. He goes, No, that which is flesh is flesh. And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Ephesians chapter 2 says, you have he quickened. Who were dead in your trespasses and sin. We're made spiritually alive. So before I'm saved, I have a body, I have a soul, I have a spirit, but my spirit is not alive. The moment I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born spiritually. Now that spirit of me has a relationship with the Lord. And that's how I contact with God. having contact with God. So anyway, uh that's off subject. Here's a fascinating thing. If you want to sit down with somebody and they want to say that the body The soul sleeps in the body, they're inseparable, and uh until the resurrection, go with me if you would to Genesis chapter 35 Back in the New Testament. And I want you to see this. I don't want to just read this. Genesis 35. This is about when Rachel was dying. And it's worded a very interesting way, and really in such a way that, in my mind anyway, it clarifies this question. Genesis 35. And let's see, verse 16. Genesis 35, verse 16. Notice what the Bible says. And they journeyed from Bethel, and there was but a little way to come to Ephraim. And Rachel travailed and she had hard labor. So Rachel's expecting, she's giving birth, is what's happening. And it came to pass when she was in hard labor. That the midwife said unto her, I mean, she's really having a difficult time giving birth. She's in hard labor. The midwife said unto her, Fear not, thou shalt have this son also. Look at verse 18. And it came to pass as her soul was in what? Where's her soul leaving? Body. Look at the next phrase. For she died. That she called his name Bennoi, uh Noah, but his father called him Benjamin. And Rachel died. Was buried by the way to Ephraithus, which is in Bethlehem. To me, that is the clearest uh example. Her body, her spirit didn't stay in her body. Her body was departing. Her body was leaving. And the next statement tells us what that meant. She died. And so here you have a perfect uh picture, example, of uh not a soul sleeping, but a soul being separated from the body, as James pointed out. So how are we going to refute this? The body, soul, and spirit are separate entities. And death is the separation of the two, not the one of them going to sleep. Second, here's our second answer to our Jehovah's Witness neighbors and Seventh-day Adventists and Mormons and others. Number two. Jesus spoke repeatedly to and about Old Testament saints still being alive. In Matthew 17, Jesus went up on a Mount of Transfiguration. Who'd he take with him? Peter, James, and John. They got up there and Pete and Jesus was transfigured. Uh he his his he glowed. Uh glowed? Blue. Glued. And um he was glowing. And uh the disciples there, and uh who appeared unto him? Moses and Elijah. And they spoke to him. The Bible says they ministered unto him. Question. At that time in history, were Moses and Elijah's bodies dead or alive? They've been dead for a couple thousand years, fifteen hundred years, well a thousand years probably. Their bodies have been dead. But nevertheless, they're appearing to the Lord Jesus Christ and they're ministering to him Now I guess you could say God woke him up for a little while and then put him back to sleep. But that's stretching it Uh they obviously were alive. In Matthew chapter 22, uh Jesus says um uh he says, before Abraham was I am. And he says, he is not the God, I I don't know if I have these ver I'm not quoting these verses exactly directly, but I'm trying to save a little time. He says, uh God is not the God of the dead, he's the God of Abraham and of And of Isaac and of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And the idea there is, is these guys aren't still sleeping in their bodies there, but they're alive. active. And so Jesus spoke repeatedly to uh Old Testament saints and spoke about them. Number three, here's the third r uh answer. Those who die are said to be either in heaven or in hell. We know the story of Luke 16, the rich man, Lazarus. And uh Lazarus died, and he was taken to where? Abraham's bosom. And uh uh there's he's obviously not in his body. And the rich man died also, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. And then you go down there, and there's a conversation between this rich man and hell. And Abraham. Now the Jehovah's Witness answer to that is what? Oh, it's just a parable. That's not an actual story, it's just a parable. Let me ask you this question. If a Jehovah's Witness says that to you, how do you respond to that? This is what I like to respond. This is the best thing I can think of. Just ask them, what's that parable teaching? If it's just a parable, what's it teaching? It's teaching that people who die without Christ go to hell. It doesn't support their even if it is a parable, and it's not, but even if it was, it doesn't support their position And uh so uh so you have the rich man dies, and in hell he lifts up his eyes. Now, what they're gonna say to you is this: well, the word hell there simply means the grave. It's just the grave. And so then the obvious question to follow that, well if the rich man died and in the grave he'd lift up his eyes? Being in torments? He's just in a casket in the grave? That doesn't make sense. And so just ask a few questions. Challenge a little bit. Look at the context. And I'll answer that. In Luke chapter 23 and verse 43. You have Jesus on the cross, you have two thieves. They both mocked him for a while. Another the one on his right-hand side gets under conviction. And he says, um, what's he say? Uh This is the just man, right? And uh he said, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said, whenever you wake up out of your soul sleep, then you're going to enter paradise, right? No, what's he say? Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Um what did they do with with his body when it was dead? Threw it in the ground somewhere, put it in the grave. I don't know what they did with the maybe they fed it to the lions. I don't know. But the body didn't go to paradise. And so there is a powerful verse. They say, well, you know, he sleep today. He was in Paradise. Here's a great verse. I love this one. We were just in Genesis. Go to Revelation. In chapter 6 is a scene from heaven. This is after the rapture of the church. And you're aware of the fact, I trust, that during the tribulation period, there will be many, many people who trust Christ as Savior, who never had opportunity before They'll hear the gospel, they'll trust Christ as Savior, they'll be saved. What's going to happen to folks during the tribulation period that trust Christ as Savior? They're going to be martyred almost immediately. I mean they're going to pay the ultimate price for trusting Christ. Look in chapter six and look at verse number nine with me It says, and when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? These are folks that during the tribulation period they were martyred for their faith. And here it is, before the resurrection of these dead. Before the second advent of Christ, we find them in heaven, before the throne of God, pleading for vengeance on those that took their lives. They don't see if you agree with me, they don't look very asleep there. You talk about walking in your sleep. Wow. These guys went to heaven or the altar pleading with God in their sleep, if it's true. So here you have the souls of folks who have been killed, their bodies are dead, but nevertheless they're in the presence of God. Let me give you one more, the fourth one. Paul clearly believed and taught that at death the believer is with Christ. In fact, he was very personal about it. Go to Philippians, if you would, with me. We're going to look at two more verses. Philippians chapter 1. Aren't you glad to go to church where you use your Bible? Amen. Philippians chapter 1, verse 21. This is familiar. A lot of us familiar. Maybe you need to think of it in this context though. Philippians chapter 1 and verse 21. For me to live is Christ and to die is rest. It doesn't say that. If soul sleep was true, he would have said for me to die is what? Snooze. He says, for me to die is gain. But he doesn't stop there. Read on. For but if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. In other words, working with you and discipling you and winning souls, I've got a job to do. The fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I would not. What's he say? He said, I don't know what to choose. If I live, I live for Christ and I work for the Lord and and uh influence others, win others, and disciple them. You know, that's a great thing, but to die is gain. Oh, I can't decide which I want. And look read on. For I am in a strait betwixt two. Having a desire to depart and sleep. That's not what it says. Having a desire, obviously the depart there is referring back to verse 21 to die. Having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Paul did not expect upon his physical death to sleep for a couple thousand years. He fully anticipated being immediately with Christ. Now if that doesn't convince you, go to our last verse for the night, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians 5. And one of my favorite passages to preach at a Christian's funeral. Uh we're gonna begin in verse one. Now this is a little the wording here is a little obscure. You have to really pay attention, but Once you see it, it's very clear. Look at verse 1, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved. He's using very poetic language here. What is he saying? For if we know what? Our body dies. Right? Physical death. If this earthly house of this tabernacle The sphere. We're dissolved. Dies and rotten. We have a building of God, a house Not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. What house is he talking about? I'll tell you this, he's not talking about our mansions He's talking about a body God has prepared for our souls in heaven. That's the house in the first part of the verse is our physical body here. There's no reason to give it a different definition So he's saying, uh how many folks here ever wondered, boy, when a Christian dies, their body's here, their soul goes to heaven, what's it like without a body in heaven? You know, just little boat souls floating around. How many folks here ever saw a soul? Never saw a soul. Did you see a soul? I saw a seashell down by the seashore, but I never saw a soul. Um but uh so the what the Bible's telling us here, when we die, our bodies are grave But we don't just float around soul naked souls. God has a body prepared for us, a temporal type of thing for us in heaven. Mike Stubler has a body in heaven. His body's buried. . Where did we bury him? Oh, it was cremated. His body's ashes uh somewhere. That's not Mike, that's his body. He's in heaven with the Lord. But when the rapture takes place, that temporal body that's talked about here will be laid aside. He'll be reunited with his Earthly body will be glorified. Look at verse 2. For in this we groan earnestly, designed to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. If so that being clothed we shall not be found naked. That's the naked that would be a good sermon title, Naked Souls For this, for we that are in this tabernacle do groan, be emburdened, not for that which would we be unclothed, but clothed upon That mortality might be swallowed up of life. Now he that hath wrought us for the self-same thing as God, who also hath given to us the earnestness of the Spirit. Look at this. Therefore we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, We are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. Look, here's what we're getting to. For we are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body. James chapter 2, death. To be absent from the body and to be what? Present with the Lord. You can't get it any clearer. Death The spirit, soul leaves the body, for the believer goes immediately to be with the Lord. Luke 16, other passages tell us for the unsaved Soul leaves the body, goes immediately into hell, ultimately ends up in the lake of fire. So Paul clearly believed that at death he would go to be with Christ. So what was the first word in 1 Thessalonians 5. 13 that we touched on last week? Ignorance. Ignorance. The church at Corinth, at Thessalonica, was ignorant. They didn't have the information. They weren't stupid. They just didn't have the information about what happened. to a believer when they bury their body, particularly in relation to the second coming of Christ. That's what he's going to deal with. Now we have in this day and age, we have groups of people who have taken that word sleep and have twisted it around and given it meanings that are foreign to Scripture. So what I'm trying to say is this. You see how being ignorant of what the Bible teaches can be disastrous? Can lead off into false doctrines. And I tell you, you introduce one false doctrine and you open up the door for more and more and more and more and more. And so it's very, very important. Ignorant of the word's definition, ignorant of the context, and ignorant of cross-references can be disastrous. Does anybody here? I imagine there are Anybody here that knows what phlebotomy is? I thought Helen would. Yeah, or it's called the old term for it was bloodletting. Anybody ever hear of that? They had the idea that if you were sick, there's something bad in your body. Well that was correct. They notice that there's a lot of blood flowing around, so if you get that blood out of there, that's what's causing the whole problem. I'm simplifying it here. But uh, you know, you get that blood out of there um then the body would be better. What was in reality happening? They were basically killing them because they were depleting the body of the blood that produces that takes the oxygen throughout and actually strengthens the body. They were weakening the body, making it more vulnerable to uh the infection or whatever it was that was causing the problem. George Washington. In 1799, he was out exposed outside and he developed a throat infection. Listen to this. This is what the history books tell us. They let They bled four pounds of blood out of him. Yeah. I don't know how many quarts that would be, but four pounds, they would weigh it by the pound for some reason. Four pounds of blood. They bled out of him. And you know what happened? It weakened his body to the degree that that throat infection just spread through his body, killed him. You know what that was? It was ignorance. They were sincere. They really thought they were doing right, but they didn't have the information. And they came to the wrong conclusions. That this soul sleep-that's what happens when we don't study the scriptures, we don't take the time and effort to put it in and come to the biblical conclusions And we leave ourselves open. So like if they're Yes, yeah. But uh here's the thing, a lot of we were saying about good people in the church, here's the danger. Is people sit there and you know I'm in a position uh uh that puts me on the the the hot seat, but the people sit there and they don't they just swallow what the preacher says and don't make sure it's backed up by scripture Follow what I'm saying? And so that's why it is cult. Yeah. Well their their answer for that, the one that they've given me over the years and uh that I'm aware of, is that they say that's just a parable It's not literally graves, it's just telling, you know, that it's awful to die in that condition. And uh that to me that's ridiculous. Number one, there's no hint that that's a parable. Number two, if it is a parable, as they say That it's teaching something. And it's teaching that they don't believe they hell anything. No, they don't believe in hell at all. Zero, zilks. Nothing. Yeah, so there's names being used. So um the danger of ignorance. And Paul says to the church of Thessalonica, I would not that you be ignorant Gotta know this information or you're gonna be messed up. Alright? I don't know how to give an invitation. Nobody I was watching for people sleeping. I thought I'd give an invitation on that. So you're all alive. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. And um Word I don't know how to give an invitation on this. Other than committing ourselves, Lord, to uh be students of your word and and making sure that what we believe has scriptural foundation and not misinterpreting things. I pray you'd help me as pastor, Lord, to be faithful to the Word of God. God, uh, help us as a church to be strong students of the Word. We do pray for our neighbors and friends that often get caught up in this. Help us to lovingly and and uh spiritually be able to share with them the truth and try and help them in this manner. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, uh how many tonight would say, Preacher, I need to be a better student of the Word of God. I really do. I need to study this stuff out, not just this, but I w I need to be a better student. How many would say that God bless you. All of us need this. And so now, Father, you know our hearts and you know our schedules, how busy it is, but help us make this a priority, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.