Not a lot of people here heard I was preaching, including my wife, which uh was uh heartening. Well she's uh she's out of town right now, but um Anyways, uh turn your Bibles to uh let's go to 1 Samuel uh 1611. 1 Samuel 1611 You know what? We're gonna Start there and read down through verse uh thirteen. All right. And with all a good withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly the look, there remaineth yet the youngest, behold, and he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him, for we for we will not sit down till he cometh come hither. And he sent and brought him, now he was ruddy, and with all a good with all of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look up look to. And the Lord said, Arise and anoint him, for Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of the brethren, and the spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Rama. All right, and then if you could turn also to uh 2 Samuel 4-5. 2 Samuel 4-5, just a few pages over. Oh quite a few pages over. I'm sorry, that's five four. So that should be uh within the same page range right there. But all right, I'll just read it for you. David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years. Alright, so uh in the bulden said that uh today's sermon tonight's sermon was going to be I want to be that man, but uh let me use this just because I'm a little more comfortable walking around and talking. Alright. Whoa. Wow. Now you have to listen to me. Alright um Uh it was gonna be I want to be that man, but the more I studied it, um the less that the more that title fell out of uh fell out of what I w wanted it to be. And it was going to be more uh Slow and Steady Wins the Race, um, which uh if anyone knows, that's a that comes from an Aesop fable, the rabbit or sorry, the turtle tortoise and the hare. A turtle in a hair, 'cause that'd be ridiculous because turtles live in water. And they wouldn't even be friends. Much less rivals. But um anyways. So I uh I'm gonna do something I've never done before. I'm going to actually read the fable. It's not really that long. Um and this is the most original version I could find. Um it doesn't quite say as much as I wanted it to, but it is the most original, so I thought I'd use it Once upon a time there was a hare, and that's a rabbit. In case, you know, it's not just like a hare, it's like H A R E. But there was a hare who, boasting how he could run faster than anyone else, was forever teasing the tortoise for his for its slowness. And one day, the irate tortoise answered back, Who do you think you are? There's no denying you're swift, but even you can be beaten. Actually I think I'm a little strong on the mic right now. Um but even you can be beaten. The hare squealed with laughter. Beaten in a race? By whom? Not you, surely. I bet there's nobody in the world that can win against me. I'm so speedy. Now, why don't you try? Annoyed by such bragging, the tortoise accepted the challenge. A course was planned, and the next day at dawn they took they stood at the starting line. The hare yawned sleepily as the meat tortoise trudged off slowly When the hare saw how painfully slow his arrival was, he decided to have a sleep on his feet, to have a quick nap. Take your time, he said, off 40 winks and catch you up, catch up to you in a minute. The hare woke with a start from a fitful sleep and gazed around, looking for the tortoise, where the creature was only a short distance away, having barely covered a third of the course. Breathing with a sigh of relief, the hare decided he might not he might as well have breakfast too. So he went off to munch on some cabbages he noticed in a nearby field. But the heavy meal in the hot sun made his eyelids droopy. With a careless glance at the tourists, now halfway along course he decided to have another snooze before flashing past the winning po winning post. The smile and smiling at the thought of the look of the torch's face, when he saw the hair speed by, he fell asleep and was soon snoring happily. The uh sorry the sun started to stink started started to sink below the horizon, and the tortoise, who had been flooding towards the mooning post every m uh post since morning, was scarcely a yard from finish. At that very point, the hare woke up with a jolt. He could see the torus a speck in the distance as he as away he dashed. He left and bounded at a great rate, but a tongue lolling And gasping for a breath. Just a little more, and he'd be first to the finish. But the hare's last leap was just too late for the Taurus had beaten him to the winning post. Poor hare, tired in disgrace, he slumped down beside the tourists who is smiling at him who was silently smiling at him. Uh slowly does it every time, or as we n as many people know it, slow and steady wins the race Something like that. Or slow and steady pace wins the race if you're like to run. There's many different ways to tell it. So I told you that and you're like, alright, we have fairy t fairy tale time is out of the way. Alright, we're good to go. Time to get to the sermon. Well, it's a it's you know it's a story I'm sure all of you, or at least most of you have heard, if not watch the Bugs Bunny version. Which is actually backwards, but it's it's a great version to watch because like the you know, Bugs Mine dresses up like a turtle and tortoise, sorry, tortoise dresses up like a rabbit and uh He was gonna purposely lose, but the all the tortoises like want to cheat and they make the bugs bunny anyway. It's it's completely beside the point. It's it's kind of ridiculous, uh for us. But uh I told that story To uh to really get to the point of the matter, which is slow and steady runs the race. You see the tortoise, obviously, and this is what you're supposed to get to it as a child. You're supposed to get from the story the fact that if you're lazy, you can't just always play catch up. And if you work hard at a steady pace, you'll get to where you're going and you'll win. Right? And that's and that's that's the point of the story, and I like that point. That's a good point. Let's look at David. David was uh count, seventeen, uh when he was uh I believe seventeen when he was anointed with oil. And then and then he was 30 when he became king. That's not too bad. Sarah was Ninety years old or sorry, eighty-nine years old I believe when she was told she was gonna have a baby. And she was ninety when she actually did have a child. Um mind you these are after the promises of God. And then Joseph Um give me a second. Joseph, it took about twenty years from the time, if you remember correctly, Joseph had the dream of his brothers bow d bowing down to him. It took about twenty years for that actually to happen. Okay? The point is things take time. So here's my question, or here's what I want to talk to you. What is a destiny? Because destiny is really what I want to talk about. The other one has destiny, and it's kind of a big word, kinda thrown around a lot. It's especially thrown around with uh uh with, you know, uh stories, adventure stories, uh fairy tales. A destiny is something that you have to accomplish or you're meant to accomplish in life. And while that's great, destiny really comes from the same thought as destination. It's a place. It's honestly your end goal. And we all have goals. Everybody does. Small goals are big goals, but let's think big, because I'm a I like to dream. I'm a dreamer. I like to I like to think big. And that's not always a good thing, but I don't think you can build something great without first dreaming it. And so what you are now, and then what you want to become. Later in life, specifically toward uh for God is your destiny. It's your destination, it's what you're it's what you're lingering after and it's what you're searching for. And sometimes In fact, I might I might even say most times that the destiny that you're seeking, the one you see for yourself, even if you think it's unattainable. The destiny you see for yourself is many times given by God. Now mind you, you might have uh some of your destinations might be uh prideful destination or a humanistic destination or I want to make a lot of money. Right? Maybe that's not God's destiny for you, but if you can find God's destiny, I'm going to teach you how to get there. So uh first I uh the first step, and all and every time you get given a destiny by God, the first step is always this: realizing that the destiny, if given by God, It's possible. You see, because if you don't believe it's possible, then nothing else can fall into place. If you don't think it's going to work, then you're not going to work for it. Okay? Let's uh I I mentioned three people. I mentioned Sarah first. Well I actually mentioned David first. Let's start with Sarah because she's first in the Bible. God said, Abraham, you're going to be a great nation. Where is that great nation going to come from? Your wife. Sarah, therefore you're involved. But but she's eighty-nine years old. And she doesn't have any kids. You see, I I can imagine her hearing this. In fact, the Bible actually talks about it a little bit. But uh Let's go there, shall we? Uh Genesis eighteen, eleven. I'll let you get there. Um But I mean they're old. And I know I mean I'm not I'm not a biologist by any means, but people who are eighty nine years old probably shouldn't have kids. I mean they're not just I I don't see many of them just having kids. Now it's like 89 years old. By that time we should probably have kids. I just don't see that happening. And and and then so and since I don't see them deciding to have kids that age, I I don't I don't expect that if I was that age I would also like be like Someone would be like, by the way, you're gonna have a kid and I'd be like, It's a good idea. I didn't think about that before. I can't have kids. No, that's not how this works. You're eighty-nine years old, you're kinda out of the race a little bit. But uh Genesis 1811, now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore, Sarah laugh and this is what after they're just told that they're going to have kids, sorry. Therefore, Sarah laughs within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I be shall I be sorry, shall I of assurity bear a child, which I am which am old? So, okay, so you ever like are reading the Bible and you notice a characteristic characteristic about a great Bible character that you see within yourself. And then you realize it's a bad characteristic. It's like uh it's like when you talk too much and then you read Peter and or you read about Peter and you're like, oh he talked too much. You're like, yes, I'm just like a great Bible character because I have flaws. Well this was Sarah's flaw. Sarah didn't have faith. Now here's the reason. Now Our God is great, and our and nothing is impossible with our God, right? I believe that. But just because I know God can turn the sky, I don't know. Let's pick a cool color. Green. Just because I know God can turn the sky green, doesn't mean that I'm just gonna believe it when someone tells me he does. Right? I mean no one's like that. It's like, oh yeah, by the way God told me that I'm gonna that he's gonna turn the sky green. You'd be like, yeah right. Well this is kinda how Sarah feels, because someone stops by, three men stop by and they say listen you're gonna you're gonna have a child And she's like, and then and then God's all like, Hey Abraham, tell your wife not to laugh. It's a little weird. So but if you think it's impossible, then it is impossible. That's a famous saying. If you think you can't win, then you can't. So her destiny, given by God, was to have was to have a great nation come from her. I know we say it's from Abraham, but it was also from her. That was supposed to be the great nation. Okay, now that we got it out of the way. Now that we find out, you know, it's you know, this is four thousand years later. We know it wasn't impossible because she ended up do having a kid. But you know what else tell tells me? You're never too old to have another destiny. First of all, no destiny is impossible. But honestly, you're never too old to have a destiny What you are now is, and I apologize if you think you are, but is not the greatest Christian you can become. Because the greatest Christian you can become is perfection. And unless you would like to correct me, and I I will be rebuked, but no one's perfect. Now we can keep on getting better and better and better and better, just like those graphs you know you saw in school, where they're like getting closer and closer and closer and closer to that line, and they never touch. But you know what? They always get closer and closer and closer to that line. Here's the thing. I don't know what your destination is. It could be huge. God could actually want you to change the world. And I can talk to teens right now, but I can talk to anybody because There are people you guys do realize the people on our national stage right now, yes, a lot of them went uh Harvard and Yale and all that jazz. But some of them Just were regular people, and they got in a weird situation, then they got famous, and then they started talking, and then people started listening to them. I don't know if that's your goal, and I don't know if God just is has a destiny for you to be a great soul winner. But here's what I know: whatever God's destiny is for you. First off, it's possible. Because if it's given by God, it's possible. Second of all, your age doesn't matter. You can always press forward towards the mark. Now uh maybe but here's another here's another block that we're like, all right, this is impossible. Maybe you're maybe there's like a big old stumbling block in the way of your uh Of your destiny. Something you just can't get around. Something that just stands in your way and you're like, huh. Well I'm supposed to be over there, but I'm right here. Could be your current uh financial situation. You know, Pastor and knows that listen if you if you get called to be a missionary later in life, it's a lot harder than being called to be a missionary earlier in life. Because you have more stuff And more and more roots. And so you say, listen, God, I get that my destiny I I get my destiny is to go to the mission field and that and I'm I'm forty years old. I get that guy. But but I have this thing, you know, I mean it's called a mortgage, all right? Or or I have kids. Or I have a job. Or I have this or I have that. And you say, there's something big in my way. Let's use this table because it's something big in my way. And you want to get over here because that's where you want to get. Because that's God's destiny. And you know you'll be happy there. You do. If you're any student of the Bible, you know that once you get to where God wants you to be, you'll be happy. Look at the Beatitudes. We are studying this in uh teens today. The Beatitudes are not really good things. Like blessed are those that are meek. Well it's not necessarily fun to be meek. And then it's blessed are those that are merciful. Well, sometimes you like revenge. Or blessed are those that suffer for Christ's name. You know, it's it's those things. It's like, and blessed meaning happy. It's not necessarily the Getting into it that makes you happy, but it's the afterwards. Once you know where you are, then you're happy. So if you know the Bible, you know that your destiny will make you happy, but man, there's something in your way. And I have to ask you Is what is in your way bigger than what was in Joseph's way? Joseph was given a dream By God it ts at least 17 years old. Seventeen's a good number for God But Gerson was given a dream. He was supposed to his brothers and his mother and father were supposed to bat down to him one day. But you look at him ten years later, when he got thrown into prison, and it might be actually eleven years later, when he gets thrown into prison, Not only is he a slave in another country, but he's now an imprisoned slave in another country. That's two chains. Alright, because even he gets out, I mean he's still a servant to someone. And then if he gets out of that, then he's just a free man, and he is hundreds and hundreds of miles from his family. And how is this all supposed to work out? But we know, you know, you read a little you read a few chapters more. I mean this by the way, the you know, the story of Joseph is What, ten chapter no, sorry, nine, uh eight chapters? So Joseph is about eight chapters. But that was his entire life, people. So we read it and we're like, just like the rabbit and the hare, or rabbit and the hare, the tortoise and the hare, you know that story only takes like minute and half to read, but theoretically it was all day. This is, you know, a few pages to us, so we know the ending right away. But you think Joseph knew the ending? Joseph was a great man, not a flaw written about him in the Bible, but Honestly, when you're in prison, how do you think you're still gonna be you're still gonna be able to accomplish that dream for God? How do you think you're still going to be a great man when you're a slave and in prison? And yet he does. And his brothers actually bow down to him. Huh. Okay. So my question is, is there something that big in your way? And if so, I guarantee you have more control over it to get over that hump. And I'm not saying it's going to be easy. I'm not saying I want to be in anyone's position because I don't know what your position is. But if it's possible and God gives you destiny, then it is possible. Didn't say it'd be easy. We also uh something uh Here's something else about your destiny. Being your destiny can only have like, you know, it's not only possible, and it's not only doesn't matter your age, and it also doesn't matter what's in your way, but it can be terrifying on its own. You know that? It can just be kind of scary. You say, why? Why can't it be scary? Well, let's look at David. I talked about him being anointed as king. And if he knew what that meant, which I assume he did Know what it meant to be anointed as king. That means that someone he admired, King Saul, Would have to die. Oh, and later on, when David becomes Jonathan's best friend, that either means that Jonathan would have to give up the crown. Which I don't see anyone really giving up the crown when it is their rightful crown in their eyes. Or his best friend would have to die. And that would mean that you would have to fight someone, because he's not even in the lineage of the king Something big has to happen, and he knows that something bad has to happen for him to reach this destiny. Your destiny might be to be a more humble person, to be a more broken person. To be a more meek person. That might be your destiny. And you might know that's what God needs you to do But if that's what God needs you to do, and you've tried and you've tried, that's kind of scary. Because yes, we should all be more meek, but but to be that person, that sufferer for Christ, that martyr for Christ, that's terrifying. Because you're gonna have to suffer and get martyred if you want to be a martyr for Christ. Will you be happy? Yes, because you're God's destiny. Like the road there is gonna be hard and David's road, he knew his best friend was gonna have to die. He knew in certain the person he looked up to. was gonna have to die, and he knew that he would suffer persecution from a lot of people who really didn't want him to get God's destiny for him. But just because the road is hard Doesn't mean your destination changes. So the first step in all this Is that you have to believe that your destination is possible. Because without that, you're not going to take the real first step And by that in an actual step. So because the first step is believing, the second step is an actual step. See here's the thing. Um the cool thing about people like Sarah, like Joseph, like David, is before they uh Before they even got to their destination, you do realize they were faithful in the little things. You see, even though Joseph, and I like Joseph, Joseph was one of the coolest Bible characters ever. And he has a real you know, you read your Bible, you're realize like, dude, I'm not you. And that that's just true. I'm I'm not Joseph. I'm I don't know if I ever could be. But here's the thing. Even when he was in the muck and everything looked impossible, you know what he was still doing? Still taking baby steps towards that destination. He was still just walking. And you're like, what kind of baby steps? Having faith in God. Not just having faith like I have faith because I believe in God. Having purposeful faith. And it's something I don't hear preached about a lot, and I'm not not saying against you, Pastor. But uh but I'm not sure if I've really heard that much, but purpose faith. You see, because in the you you can believe in God and have faith, and that's great. And you can believe that He saves your soul, and that's great. But here's the thing: faith is personal or is purposeful Is God going to get you through this trial? Well, I guess I believe it. No. Absolutely. Even if you you know the term fake it till you make it? Even if you don't believe it, saying you will over and over and forcing yourself in that mindset, God is going to get me through this, God is going to get me there, God knows what's best for me. Saying that and believing it and making yourself believe something. That's purposeful faith. You know what Joseph had? Purposeful faith. You know what he had? He had a good moral standing Again, purposeful. Like listen, they're they're baby steps. It's just and you can't you can't run on something like this. Alright? If you run, you'll fall off and die. If there were spikes, you'd totally fall off and die. There have to be big spikes, and perhaps someone fat would have to come and jump on you to force you down spikes. But you would die. But here's the thing. It's all about baby steps. Purposeful face. Maybe good moral character. Listen, Joseph, um Joseph could have done whatever he wanted with Potiphar's wife, and she wasn't going to say anything. But he didn't. And it looked like it pushed him backwards. But he was still stepping forwards. Look at David. David, again, David is one of my heroes. He actually has some moral flaws in him that you know like I said you can like look at and be like I'm so spiritual look at all my moral flaws I have with all these other spiritual people But um but David when he was being chased by Saul He was still like totally respectful towards Saul. Like stupid Saul, and he's like, hey, it's King Saul. And he's very intelligent. He's just slightly angry at me for no reason. She was very respectful. Sarah Sarah's a little different because Sarah didn't have much time between uh But you know what she she kept faithful. She messed up once, you know, a long time ago. Uh she brought it, you know, she got a handmaid. That was a mistake, but let's be honest. You gotta keep faithful if you want your destiny. But um it's all about I mean it's all about little steps. And here's the thing. These little steps that you don't want okay, you guys want to know a secret? Problem with little steps. The real problem with little steps And actually I'm going to show you the difference between big steps and little steps, just so you guys get this, alright? I hope you can see this. If you can't, you can probably see me, which is just as important. This is the difference between baby steps. And a real step. Oh. Now which one got me farther? The real step, the big step, the giant leap, the running. The skipping I've seen people run and like have you ever seen people run and they're like, like that's how they run, their knees are like up here. It's ridiculous. But that's how people step, you know? Like that's what you want to do. You want to cover as much distance as possible. But sometimes you're you're on that Now we'll talk me and you're like, I can only take these baby steps right now. But here's the thing, they did. Baby steps take longer to get you places, but you're still moving forward. It's better than being up here and backing off the balcony. It's being better being up here and standing still. Just because you're on that ledge, just because you can't go fast, doesn't mean you can't go forward. Listen, I people get called to preach and get called to be missionaries and get called to be other things. I'm I'm gonna use Um, I don't know, you you see a kid who's twelve and he gets called to preach and you're like, Amen, that's great He probably can't pastor a church at twelve. I mean Spurgeon kind of did at like 15, 16, 17, something like that. Spurgeon did a good job, but he is 12 years old. And so he can't run very fast, he can't speed up time. But you know what he can do? Oh look at he he can study the Bible Oh, he can know what he needs to do. He can know the Bible before he gets to Bible college. Before he being becomes in the youth group. Oh god, he can pray. He can develop a good relationship with God before he goes before he even needs to. Meet The path will widen so you'll be able to run. I believe that firmly. So you can reach your destiny. But let's be honest Until it does, walk slowly, walk steadily, but most importantly, keep walking. And also I'll come to a head in a second. Um Here's the thing. I'm I'm gonna skip a few steps or a few places. You shouldn't skip steps, you should always take your steps, but Say you get there. Say say you took the small steps. And you know you took the big steps when you were supposed to, right? Good job. And you reach your destiny. Pastor, I think, reached his destiny. Awesome. Right? I mean he wouldn't be here if he hadn't. If he'd just like if he'd gone to uh in Indianapolis before. If he'd gone to Indianapolis He looked around and he was like this whole youth pastor thing stinks. And he's like, I'm going home. But but but but he was am I allowed to walk in this or will I get in trouble? Okay. Because I I got off it 'cause I wasn't sure. Right, so so see that little pedestal right there as his destination. He could have been like are Minneapolis and be like Yeah, no, I'm good. And just I'll stop. I'm walking on that thing. You know another problem with reaching your destination? Is at any point You can walk back. You can mess up your destination anytime you want while you're there. You know the third step, I think, in reaching your destination as a Christian, your destiny as a Christian, is when you're there. Stay there. Until God gives you another destination. It might be like Pac-Man. You know how you guys ever played Pac-Man? And like you beat a level and you're like, dude, I got all 250 DOS, I'm awesome. It's like another level and you're like, what are you kidding me? Well you know what? You play the next level. You play until you're done, until God takes you out of this life. You can always go farther, but you know what you can't do? You're not allowed to turn back. Because here's the thing: if your destiny is here, I'm going to do a little visual Visual lesson, alright? Your destiny's over here. And you're right here. And this entire time you've been following your destination. Right? But it's been moving ahead of you because obviously it's a destination. You're not gonna when you reach it it'll just it'll become a new destination, right? You guys can get what I'm saying? So if you're going this way, then you decide to turn back, look at that. Your destination doesn't stop because you decide to turn back. God settled plans for you in that moment. So now you have to play catch up. Listen, like I said, I love David. David's so cool. Like top three Bible characters that I want to meet when I get to heaven. But um man, David messed up big. Murder and adultery in like a 48-hour period, it's pretty bad. Man, they didn't knock him back far. Fortunately, there's no real easy fix. If you're climbing up a mountain and you fall off and you uh somehow you're like able to get up and you're still dumb enough to be like, Yeah, I'm climbing back up the mountain. Just because you can fall down real quickly doesn't mean Just because the difference between this and real life is if I fall down I often, often, and maybe it it's different for you, and I pray to God it is, often you can't just step right back up. Because sometimes those falls are a lot deeper than you think. Sometimes you man, sometimes you ought to go back almost to the beginning. You don't turn back. You don't fall. That's the two big things about being at your destiny. Now I'm gonna get a little bit more practical with you. Some of you, and I believe this Because I believe we all have greatness inside of us. And by the way, greatness doesn't mean you s stand up in front of a large person and uh speak. That actually is probably more prideful than anything. Unless God tells you to come pastor. Oh, so I'm not me. Sorry. But but think I mean th this isn't greatness, just standing up and speaking. Greatness is living what God wants you to do, right? I can we agree with that. If you're not called to preach, then if you're a preacher You're kind of blaspheming God a little bit. And you're you're messing up, right? Like, because if you're not called to preach, I'm saying pastor, not just preach, because we're all called to preach in some aspect, but If you're not called the pastor and you're trying to pass hurt, you're gonna hurt the word of God. You know? That's an arm trying to be a foot. Let me tell you something, arm uh hands are a lot smaller than feet, so like you look weird when you're walking around. But um some of you are actually destined to be just great leaders of people. You're destined to have like this following of people. You're destined to have all these people surround you and say We're following that guy because that guy knows what he's doing. And that is great. That is awesome. And I respect you because that's going to be really cool when you get there. Because I'll be like, I knew that dude or that woman. Alright? And I'll totally use that. But here's the thing. Maybe you're destined to get there. But my question is, are you taking the small steps right now towards it? I mean, are you studying your Bible so when you get that group of people, you'll actually know how to lead them? Are you praying with God so you can get a little bit of wisdom under your belt? You know, let's get real specific. Are you reading Proverbs specifically? Because if you if you're s if you think you're supposed to be a great person, someone's supposed to lead people, someone who actually will mean something like really like impact this world. If you think you're gonna be that person, it's a heavy burden. And you shouldn't just be that a good solid church member. You should be one of those people if you believe that's what you are. That's in here day in, day out, learning how to lead people. You know what? Maybe taking up the small things, maybe taking up Sunday school classes that need them. And I'm gonna say this If you think you're supposed to be that great Christian and you're supposed to take a and so so you think alright then I should read my Bible, then yes I should probably learn to peop uh learn to teach people, learn to have patience, no better way to have patience than uh I don't know, teaching a Sunday school class, because we can, by the way, always use more Sunday school class teachers. You do realize that if you're supposed to make all these little steps happen, then you're supposed to be a Sunday school teacher in your big steps There's a gap. From here, let's say there's an actual gap. They actually have to be a member a member of the church. And now now you I know you're like I won't be tied down. Many of your members, but you're I don't want to be tied down to a church or have a membership and that's fine. But here's the thing, if God's if you're saying That you're meant to be this great leader and therefore along that way is to teach Sunday school class, and then you won't join the church because of a prideful reason, then you're letting pride be your own stumbling block Or something weird, like I don't even understand it. Be a stumbling blocks being a great leader. And you're putting rocks in your ways, you know what, maybe God will allow you to step right over that. That's great. But you could just move it out of the way, right? And I and I understand those um but here's the thing, maybe you feel like you're supposed to do something great permissions. You want to be a missionary. You wanna and and you know, I've heard of people retiring and using all their retirement to go to a mission field and work in missions, and that's one of the coolest things ever. And maybe you're supposed to do that, but are you winning people here? Because it doesn't get any easier to win a stranger to Christ usually, especially in another language that you really don't know. Right? Maybe you're supposed to sing missions, but are you warning people here are you are you getting the missions? Um I'm not gonna say karma itself is in the Bible because karma is you know a Japanese word and The Jews weren't Japanese. But the the principle that good comes to those that do good and bad comes to those that do bad, I think it's pretty much in the Bible. I mean sometimes, you know, bad things happen to good people and good things happen to bad people, but I think if you do good things, you know, pretty much good things will happen to you. So here's my question, if you're not giving the missions, who do you think is gonna give to you? If your destiny is some at one point to go through the mud and need people to help you out, then man, shouldn't we be helping people out? Especially getting the gospel out? I mean sometimes I wonder if someone else had that attitude of, yeah, missions in that important. And God and I know God foreknows things, but And God foresaw that. I don't know why he saved us in the first place. If we don't care about others I I and that's why he's so loving because if I was gonna be like, well you're not gonna care about anyone anyway, so p you know maybe uh You know, okay, here's a fun one. Maybe you feel led to make a lot of money and just give it all to the church. That would be cool. I'm up for that. I'm up for all y'all making a lot of money and giving it all to the church. Why? Because I work for the church. But seriously, like if if that's what you're called to do, I and listen, there are people out there who whose goal in life, I think their destiny is actually to make a lot of money and just give it back to God. And that is way cool But here's my question, if that's if that's your goal, you think God's gonna trust you that you're not taking a small step of tithing? Let's be honest, that's a real small set. That's like ten percent. That's not like hey, you should give like all your money. No that's not saying that. I'm just saying If if you're not willing to take that small step towards tithing, then God's like, well, I don't know if I can get to your destination. If you're not even like every if ever every week or every two weeks you're not you're not just like you know consistently doing this If every week you're not consistently walking, then why would God just pick you up and throw you over there How are you gonna get there? I mean I think God wants you to get there on your own a little bit. And and I don't want to bring this up because because I preach it myself some and that I don't like preaching myself. Pastor it hurts. Hey here's the thing. Why would God give you a lot of money if you're not wise with your finances now? Like I hate I hate to say that. That hurts, man. It hurts right here. I like being unwise with my finances. Unwise lot is fun. But but be honest, if you're unwise with ten dollars and seven of it is spent frivolously, then if someone gives you $100, how much is probably going to be spent frivolously? $70. If someone gives you $1,000, $700. If someone gives you $10,000, $7,000 If someone gives you one million dollars, seven hundred thousand went to frivolousness You want to be that rich person? Go for it. Like I said, all you should. Be awesome. Make sure you're taking the baby steps to get there. Because if you're not I don't I don't know. Maybe you're just that hare. Maybe you're just that rabbit. It was like, you know what? I'll get there. I'm just gonna play catch up there. I'm gonna I'm gonna stop, I'm gonna rest, then we'll play catch up. I'm I'm not gonna read my Bible today. Or tomorrow and then you know, because it comes today again, or today, or today, or today, or today, or today. But I'll do it I'll do it tomorrow. I'll in fact I'll have a whole week of fasting to make up for it. Or today, or today, today, and then later you're like, well actually I'll just do one day of fasting. And then you're like, actually I'll skip a meal and then you're like, actually I'll add a meal. But that's not how it works. Or or maybe you're like, you know I need to give admissions, I ain't got no money. Right? And I listen, huh, wish you I I get that. Right? You're like I need to, but I can't. So you just say that and you're like, you know what, when I make a lot of money, then then I'll give the missions. Then then I'll buy them a van because I'll be a millionaire. You're wanting to run instead of take baby steps. But I'm telling you, slow and steady, wins the race. Take the small steps. Take the big steps when God allows you. Run when there's an open road. But when it's when it comes to a small road, don't just stop. Take the small steps. Because that's how you get to your destination. I think a lot of times we as Christians think that God's blessings and God's will is just something gonna magically be accomplished in our lives. And that's not the way it is, as he pointed out. We've got to take the steps, we've got to do the things and for the long haul. And just wait on God, trust him, obey him week after week, and month after month, year after year. I wonder how many would say, Pacher, God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart tonight. God did to mine. And God spoke to my heart in a very specific way. And there's some steps I need to take. There's some adjustment. That need to be made, some decisions in my faith that need to be made tonight. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God use this message tonight. Help me. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Hands all around Now one of those steps, I believe, is humbling ourselves before the Lord and saying, Lord, yes, here's what you dealt with my heart about. This is the action that needs to be taken. So let's ask the Lord to help us in that year 2014 would be a year of growth, of going forward, maybe not racing forward, but progressing week after week, week after week. Week after week. Father, bless now our invitation. Thank you for this message. And help us, Lord, to uh to uh be steadfast in forward progress. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.