Chapter thirteen, if you would, Zechariah chapter thirteen. We're winding down our study in the book of Zechariah. We've been in about uh I think we're going on a year year and a half now, something like that. I know we were all a lot younger when we started. But uh we're coming to the end of the book And uh it's very getting very, very interesting here. Something's pretty strong up here, Dan, some monitors or something. But I'm going to begin reading in verse number 7, Zechariah 13, verse number 7, the second last book of the Old Testament The Bible says, Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts, smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered, and I will turn mine hand upon the little ones. And it shall come to pass that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts thereof shall be cut off and die, but the third shall be left therein. And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, and I will hear them. I will say it is my people, and they shall say, The Lord is my God. I've entitled the message just from that one phrase, Smite the Shepherd. Let's pray Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for our study in Zechariah and Lord, the um uh prophecies that we've been exposed to, the future events that have been revealed. We ask that all of this would motivate us to live for you, that you would use your word in these truths to purge our heart of sin and self and that we could be committed to the Lord Jesus Christ I yield myself to you now, Lord. Again this evening, I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me, and help us to grow, dear Lord, in our faith and our and our witness. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, we're coming to the final section of the second section of Zechariah Chapters 1 through 11 dealt primarily, of course, Zechariah being the young prophet, and we talked all about who and what he is and where, Dorna. return from Babylon and return from captivity, the re-establishing Jerusalem, the temple, the wall, all of that. Well they've been there a good period of time Zechariah's prophecies for the first eleven chapters deal primarily with the Jews, I should say Zechariah's messages deal primarily with the Jews at that current time. Their issues and getting right and putting their priorities back, getting the house of God built and not worrying about their houses so much. Him and Hagi dealt with that. Now, from chapter 12 through 14 Zechariah, the things are picking up in Jerusalem and God changes his message and begins to give Zechariah messages of future events and we're talking about way down the line future as far as Zechariah's day and time was concerned. We're talking about when the Lord comes back Chapters 12 through chapter 13, verse 6, was talking about that future event. Remember, we dealt with the Antichrist. We dealt with the Battle of Armageddon, Christ comes back. And if you're going to summarize that portion, it is God's protection of Israel during those final days. Uh remember the scenario? All the armies of the world are surrounding Israel. It looks like it's over. It looks like they're done. They're kaput. Israel is finished. The armies of the world under Antichrist are going to wipe them out. Then sky splits open. Christ comes back and he rescues Israel. And he protects them from their enemies. And we dealt with that. Now we get to chapter 13, verse 7, and there's a real transition. Now it is dealing not so much with God's protection of Israel from external enemies as it is God beginning to purge Israel From their internal failures, their internal sins, their internal problems. And that's a good picture of what salvation is, I think. First thing God does is saves us from judgment in hell. Amen? And then begins a process where God begins changing our life. God begins purging, so to speak, that old nature, that old man, those old habits that we learned in this world, the old desires. Our Christian life is a lifelong process of God just purging those purging things. What's 2 Corinthians 5. 17 say? Tell me, tell me. If any man be in Christ, he is what? A new creature, old things are passed away. And the idea is passing away. Or enter life. Hey, nobody here has arrived yet. Amen? How many folks still have some purging needs to be done in your Christian life? Raise your hand. Now if you didn't raise your hand, that's proof you need purging. Uh in the life, I'm kidding. But uh that's what's taking place with Israel. God protected them from the enemies, from annihilation. Now, going into the millennial, he begins purging. Now I do want to stop and look at verse number six Because I think now somebody could take this a different way, and you know, that's a free country, people can be wrong if they want. But Let me touch on verse 6 just briefly and tell you how I see this verse. And one shall say, now these next two words are very important, unto him. What are these wounds in thy hands? Then he shall answer, those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. Now, a first reading, and of all we're reading, is that verse right there, the assumption would be this is making reference to who? To the Lord Jesus Christ. But as I study this, I don't believe this is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Not directly. Now it may foreshadow events that took place Christ, but the reason I say that is because of those two words. And one shall say unto him, how do we figure out who the hymn is that this is being said to? Well, we go back to the previous verses And shall we go back to verse number four? It shall come to pass in that day, the day the Lord comes back, makes things right, that the prophets, these false prophets, we know that from the context of previous verses shall be ashamed every one of his vision when he hath prophesied, neither shall they wear a rough garment to deceive, but he shall say, I am no prophet, I am a husbandman, for man taught me to keep cattle from my youth Now remember from our message last week, these prophets here were false prophets. And they were involved in idolatry. And when the Lord came back The peer pressure in Israel in that day, after Armageddon, as the millennial was being set up, the peer pressure was to do right. To prophesy the truth. Those were the ones in the majority. And these false prophets who were preaching wrong doctrine became ashamed. And uh they said, and they they wanted to, they uh were ashamed of their prophecy, and they're saying, Oh, I'm not really a prophet. And that is the context when you come to verse 6, and one shall say unto him, This false prophet What are these wounds in thy hands? And he shall answer, these with which those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I think this is what it's saying. I think these false prophets, in the context here, are saying they're putting up an excuse. These false prophets involved in idolatry Had a tendency as a part of their worship of the false gods was to inflict themselves bodily harm. Now, we have a classic illustration of that earlier in the Old Testament. Do you remember any false prophets that would have wounded themselves in the in the ceremonies of worshiping their false god. Who was it? The worship of, come on, you know. Remember? And he said, Well build the thing, the God that answers by fire, and they start crying, Oh Baal, O Baal, and he started Teasing on him, Elijah Elijah did, and he says, uh, maybe he's out hunting, maybe he's sleeping, he's on vacation or something. He's down in Baltimore on vacation and um uh or out camping. And uh and they began to what cut themselves. I think this is a reference to these false prophets. Somebody says, hey, where did you get all those wounds all over? And they're ashamed of their of their idol worship and their false event because Christ came back and the nation's getting saved. But they're trying to deflect the blame and they're saying, uh, uh my friends did that to me So anyway, for whatever it's worth, that is what I understand that passage. Now it does foreshadow Christ and and uh you know his sufferings, but I think the context there are these false prophets because it says unto them. Now, let's get in the message. Number one, I want us to notice in verse 7 we have a personification. I've got three 50 cent words tonight in the outline. Personification. And like Brother Hamlin said, I just want you to know I went to Bible college. That's why I put these words in there. But a personification, what do we mean about a personification? What is that talking about? You say, preacher, it's church. We're not supposed to think. Alright, giving human qualities to an inanimate object. Alright, so look what happens here. He says, awake, O sword. Question, do swords really sleep? No, obviously not. So they're giving a personification to the sword. They're treating it as if it's a person. Awake, O sword! Against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts, smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. The sword here is being addressed as if it was a person Now, what is is this a literal sword? No, I don't think so. The sword in the Bible, when used symbolically Usually refers to an instrument of divine judgment. The Bible talks about God bringing the sword on a nation. And so generally we understand here that when God says, Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and smite the shepherd. We take this to understand that God is dealing with his judgment on the shepherd, but he personifies the sword. He treats it as if it's a human being. Now notice who this sword is to be used against. Look at verse 7. Awake O sword against whose shepherd? My shepherd. Who's saying my there? Who's the one owning the shepherd? It's the Lord. This is the Lord speaking through a wake of sword against my shepherd, against the man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts. So God saying, I want divine judgment, he's commanding divine judgment to come upon his own shepherd. Now here's the next question. Who is the Lord's Shepherd? Who would the Lord refer to as my shepherd? It's not his. The Lord Jesus. Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. So this verse is prophesying. of God calling his judgment down on his shepherd, on his son. The interesting thing is God's not calling his judgment the sword upon the wicked, disobedient, ungodly people. He's not calling for judgment on blasphemers or murderers or adulterers or drunkards He's calling for his judgment on his own shepherd. Now, throughout history, would you agree with me? Throughout history, a lot of despicable acts have been done in the name of religion. Do you agree with me or not? I've been reading some articles lately. Of course, we have the ninth anniversary of September 11th come up. I've been reading some articles, some liberals. are trying to say that the bomb the planes in New York and Pentagon and all that, that that was not religious. It was a political statement. That was murder in the name of religion Don't ever get on the other idea. There are a lot of despicable things being done in the name of religion. Millions and millions of people have been hurt in the name of religion, in the name of God. Folks have said and done things that have hurt people very deeply. In fact, you study history carefully, you'll find that more people have been killed in the name of religion, more wars fought in the name of religion than any other cause in all of history. So there's a lot of despicable things, a lot of wicked, ungodly things have been done in the name of religion. But never has there been an act so horrific as when religious zealots Killed the Lord's Shepherd, Jesus Christ. The most horrific deed ever done in the name of Christianity, in the name of religion, I should say. Was when Jesus Christ, God's own son, was killed by God's people. Listen, when our zeal for the Lord turns to anger and begins to injure other people, that zeal becomes ungodly zeal. Do you agree with me? When uh with the the Pharisees and all of them, they were killing Jesus Christ, and they thought that they were doing God a service In the name of God, his blood be upon our hands. In the name of Jehovah, we are killing this man. When we get so zealous for the Lord that we hurt other people, that zeal becomes ungodly. That zeal becomes unscriptural and does harm. Nowhere in the scripture are God's people, nowhere in the scripture is the church, let me put it that way, nowhere in the scripture is the church called to physically harm people. Am I right or wrong? Come on. Amen. Like Brother Jimmy Rose says, amen or not. We're not called the harm people. And yet here you have the Jews, in the name of religion, crucifying the Son of God. Now I wasn't going to say anything about this, but Chester got me going while we're shaking hands. And uh there's a guy in the news, and this is just my opinion, so you can take it or leave it This doesn't come out of my salary, so I'm just giving this to you. There's a guy in the news down in Florida that's going to burn Korans next week. Anybody heard of that guy? Can I tell you my opinion? He's a crackpot. I think he's nuts. I think he's doing it for his own thing. Listen, we're not going to convert anybody to Jesus Christ by insulting and offending them. You know what would be better, sir? Is get out and preach the gospel that day Make an effort to get the gospel to people. And so, anyway, it's worth that's my opinion. Um so here you have these people are all zealous, fired up for religion, and they kill Jesus. But this is what I'm trying to get at. At the time of Christ's crucifixion, Israel had so completely and alienated themselves from God. Yet at the same time, they had convinced themselves that they were right with God. They were no more right with God than the barbarian Greeks were. They were not right with God, but in their mind, they had convinced themselves that we are God's people, we are God's warriors. And they ended up killing God's son. And that's how mankind, we have a dangerous tendency to think that we are better than what we really are. We have a very dangerous tendency to think that we are stronger Christians than what we really are. To think that we are somehow we are It's more spiritual. We are greater insight than what we really do. I tell you what we need. We need to keep our nose in the mirror of God's word. To keep our feet on the ground and have a view, an accurate view of where we're at spiritually. Israel was so far from God, yet they thought they were so right with God and so proud of how spiritual they were. They ended up killing God's own son. Listen, we must not allow pride to creep into our spirituality. When we start getting proud of how spiritual we are, we start getting proud of how much I'm doing for God. We start getting proud of how much I've accomplished for the Lord. Brother, we're about to hurt someone Amen. So you have Israel so alienated from God, yet convinced they were right with God. Religious pride is one of the most blinding and destructive forces on earth. Question, did now you're going to get technical here only, so this is just a general the answer. I'll tell you what the answer is ahead of time. The answer is yes. Question. Did the Jews kill God's son Jesus? Yes. Now you can say, oh, it was the Romans. Oh, it was all mankind. I know that, but The Jews were the ones who rejected them, right? They came into his own, Omer seemed to not. They had free will. They could have said, no, we're not going to kill this man for his fun. He's the son of God. They had free will, right? We're not Calvinists, amen. They had free will. They, of their own volition, of their own free will, they rejected Jesus Christ and they killed the Holy One of God. Question, was God's sovereignty overruled by their free will? No, what do we mean by God's sovereignty? God's in control. God had prophesied before the foundation of the world. God had determined that Jesus Christ would die for man's sins. So God's sovereignty was not compromised by Israel's free will. And God's and Israel, well, they were not just mind-numb, pre-programmed robots With no choice in the matter. No. They chose of their own free will to reject Christ. Here's what I'm trying to say God's sovereignty is not threatened by our free will. In fact, I think the sovereignty of God is exalted to even higher degrees By mankind having a free will. We can make our own free will decisions, yet God is able to accomplish his own will even with us having a free will. That is a glorious God. I submit to you that the Calvinist restricts the sovereignty of God, minimizes the sovereignty of God by saying that God cannot be sovereign if man has a free will. I'm going to submit to you, God is so sovereign that man can have a free will. We can make our own free will decisions. We are responsible for our own decisions. Yet nevertheless God will accomplish what his will is. Are you with me on that? And so, Israel had a free will. Yet here we're told in verse 7, I said all that to say this, that it is God. Calling for divine judgment on his shepherd. Israel killed them. Israel was so blinded by their own spiritual pride and they're so righteousness and they were convinced that they were really something when there were really nothing, and they ended up killing God's son, nevertheless God had prophesied, God had all planned that his judgment would fall on his son. What a glorious God we have. I like Isaiah 53, verse 10. I just read it in my devotions earlier this week. God says it pleased him, the Lord, to bruise Jesus Christ. Now I'm putting my own words. It pleased God to bring his judgment on Jesus Christ. You say, what in the world kind of God is this? that is pleased with the violent murder of his own son. That leads us to point number two First of all, was the personification of this sword, which represented God's divine judgment that was that was smote the Lord's Shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. Israel had a free will, they were so proud and wicked, they crucified him, but nevertheless God's sovereignty, it was God pouring out divine judgment. Why would he do that? Number two, we have not only a personification, we have a propitiation. Now that's more like a $1. 50 word. Propitiation. Why would God call for divine judgment to fall on his own shepherd? Well, we know from Scripture that God is holy. Can I get an amen there? God is holy. By the way, that is a very rare statement in churches in America today. Am I right, Brother Koblenz? You don't hear much preaching on the holiness of God. Nevertheless, God is holy. And because God is holy, his holiness demands judgment upon sin. Sin cannot be. By the way, somebody says, Brother Leatherman, what's the unpardonable sin? There is no such thing as an unpardonable sin. God does not pardon sin. God pardons sinners. Sin must be punished. God's holiness demands that. So it either has to be the the judgment of sin is death. That either the person that committed the sin has to pay that price or somebody who can be is qualified to be a substitute can pay that price. But all sin is punished. All sin has divine judgment. So God's holiness demands that all sin be judged. But God is not just holy, aren't you glad? I'm glad God, how many people are glad God's holy? Raise your hand. Alright, how many people are glad God is not just holy? If God was just holy, we'd all be in hell right now. So God is holy. And his holiness requires judgment on sin. But God is also love. Thank God for that. And God's love desires mercy. God's holiness demands judgment. God's love desires mercy. So in God's shepherd, Jesus Christ, God's holiness And God's love is satisfied. God's holiness pours out his wrath and judgment on mankind's sin, but he pours it out on Jesus Christ. God's love rejoices now that man does not have to be punished for his sin. Man can now find mercy. And God's love and God's holiness and God's love are both satisfied in the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, what about this big word propitiation? Take your Bibles with me if you would. Keep your place here, and we're moving right along, so don't get worried. Turn with me to 1 John 2. Way back at the end of the New Testament. First John chapter two and verse one. We're talking about the Lord smiting the shepherd, his shepherd. My little children, verse 1, 1 John chapter 2, my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. God does not want us to sin. Amen? God doesn't want us to sin. But, oh, but he sin not. And if any man sin We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And right there's where I say, Amen. Praise the Lord for that. But look what it says. And he, Jesus Christ the righteous, our advocate, is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. I wrote in the margin of my Bible there, I circled the phrase whole world, I wrote in the margin of my Bible, unlimited atonement Jesus Christ died for the whole world, not just the elect. Amen. But look at this word propitiation. What in the world does that mean? The word propitiation means this. To satisfy the anger of another. To one definition I came across was this: to dissolve or appease the anger of God. Question, does our God have anger? Yes. You read throughout the Bible. The anger of God, the anger of God. God is holy, God is pure, God is just, He is good, His anger is pure, it's undefiled by selfishness And so God's holiness produces a holy, justifiable anger on sin. But this verse here says that Jesus Christ the righteous is the propitiation. For our sins. Not for ours only, but for the whole world. In other words, Jesus Christ appeased Or dissolved, or what was the other word I used, satisfied the holy anger of God when he took that judgment on himself And God's anger for your sin and for my sin was poured out on Jesus Christ, and it's completely satisfied. Isn't that good? Tell you what, that'll make a I said Presbyterian last time. Uh that'll make a Methodist shout. No offense there, Grandma. But um uh that's good stuff! So, God, and so come back here to Zechariah. He says, Away go sword against my shepherd, the Lord's shepherd. Against the man that is my fellow, that is my fellow. And that word fellow is an interesting word. We use it kind of um Funny nowadays. But uh the word here is it was understood in this time, it was somebody very dear to me. I'm getting a little ahead of myself on that, but uh interesting word there But the shepherd, the sword, smites the shepherd. He is our propitiation. God's wrath and anger for our sin, for Israel's sin, is poured out on Jesus Christ, and it's completely satisfied. And God's holiness, God's holy anger at sin is appeased, is dissolved because Jesus Christ was our propitiation. By the way, that is not to suggest that there's any animosity of God toward Jesus Christ. You say, man, God must hate his son to do that to his son. No, that's where that word fellow comes in. The word fellow means this: one nearest and dearest to me God is referring to Jesus Christ here as one who is nearest and nearer and dearer to him than anyone else in existence. Listen, don't think that God doesn't love Jesus. Say, why would he kill his own son and spare us? Oh, God, uh God's love for man is surpassed only by God's love for Jesus Christ. He is the nearest and dearest to God, the Son of God. So we have personification, the sword, God's judgment. We have uh propitiation, that judgment is poured out on Jesus Christ, appeases God's anger for Israel and the rest of the world, and last of all, quickly we have a purification. Look at verse seven Zechariah chapter 13. Saith the Lord, Smite the shepherd, the sheep will be scattered. He's talking about Israel, and I will turn my hand upon the little ones The scattered sheep, we made reference to this several times in Zechariah, I believe is referring to AB 70 after Christ ascended, the churches uh uh established and all that, and Rome comes in, invades Jerusalem, slaughters the population, ungodly violence, uh bloody brutality, and Israel is scattered, and for nearly 2,000 years, Israel is scattered around the world. Till nineteen forty-eight. In nineteen forty-eight they came back together as a nation. Since nineteen forty eight Jews from around the world of all tribes have been pouring into Israel. Don't tell me we don't live in the last days. And so the shepherd was smitten, and the sheep were scattered, the Israelites were scattered. Now notice what he says: I will turn my hand upon the little ones. Now I first read that and got studied and I thought, well, that sounds like he's smacking them upside the head. I'm going to turn my hand back side of my hand. And that's not what it's talking about. A couple of commentators suggested that this is a form of retribution. But I don't believe that at all, because all of God's retribution has already been satisfied The shepherd was smitten. That word turn the hand also has the idea, and it's used throughout scripture on a few occasions this way, to um to restore something. It's kind of like this idea. I'm taking something and I'm bringing it back to where it belongs. Turning the hand. Now, who is he turning the hand? Who is restoring? I will turn my hand upon the little ones. Now the first thought would be what? Children. You think of children. But again, the idea here, I think, is folks who are little in their own sight. Folks who humble themselves. When a person realizes that God has taken responsibility, that Jesus Christ has taken responsibility for their sins, the sins that my hands have committed, the words that my mouth has said, the thoughts that my brain has had That are a violation of the holiness of God. Jesus took responsibility for that. He took God's judgment that I deserve on himself And when I realize that, I become a little one. I see how ungodly I am. I see how little I am compared to God. And I humble myself before God. And God says those who are little ones in their own sight, he will restore them. He will put them where God originally intended for them to be in that condition. So it's a restoration. Of the Jews, that was referred to earlier in the chapter. They looked on the one whom they pierced and they turned to Christ. They looked on him. They looked to him for salvation. Now, you get to verse 8. And it shall come to pass that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts thereof shall be cut off and die. I want to suggest to you that's making reference to the tribulation period. The vast majority of Jews in the world were killed. But the third part shall be left therein. No matter how severe God's judgment is, there will always be a remnant. Doesn't matter. Listen, you say, oh, I'm worried about the churches. All the churches are going liberal. All the churches are denying the Bible. All the churches are using other versions. Hey, wait a minute. God will always have a remnant that holds to the truth. Amen? And so the tribulation period, this place is devastated, but there's a handful of folks, one-third, who humble themselves before God. They understand who Christ is. No other well let's read down here. I will bring the third part through the fire and refine them as silver is refined. I will try them as gold is tried and They shall call on my name and I will hear them. I will say, it is my people. And they shall say, the Lord is my God. Thus begins the millennial reign. Israel said, Jesus is our God, and the Lord says, Israel are my people. And the relationship is established. No other nation in history has suffered as Israel has suffered. And yet they endure. And they go through the tribulation period, which is so far beyond our ability to comprehend how horrific that is. And yet Israel endures. God's hand is upon that little nation of Israel. God's preservation is upon that nation And here we find in verse 9 that all of God's chastening judgment on Israel, even the tribulation period, is never intended for their destruction But it's only for their purification. It's only for their maturity. He says, when this is all said and done, they come into the Middle Earth period, he says, hey I wasn't trying to destroy you. I wasn't going to destroy you. You went through these trials, you went through these unbelievable difficulties, these heartaches, these physical pain, all of that. was a purging. I was trying to get you to the point where you trust me and me completely. One thing I I like to, I enjoy it, but I also feel obligated when church members go in and have surgery or in the hospital or whatever, I always want to try and get there, if at all possible, before they have the surgery and pray with them And one of the things I always pray, I pray this for myself and for anyone when I'm doing it, one of the things I always pray is this: Lord, through this pain and through this surgery, make our faith to grow Help us to be stronger in our faith in you, because that is why God allows us To go through difficulties, to go through heartaches. I wanted to turn there. We don't want time. Hebrews chapter 12. No chastening for the moment seems joyous. But afterward, and again I'm not quoting correctly, produces the peaceable fruit of holiness. 2 Peter 1 Peter 4, verse 12 and 13. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial that comes upon you God says all these difficulties, all these heartaches, all these trials are purging. He said, Brother Lemon, I'm going through a tough time now. I like what the one preacher said. Be nice to everybody, for everybody's going through a hard time. You know why we're going through a hard time? Because God's trying to purge us. Trying to mold us, trying to make us. How many folks will give me a witness on this? I found that when I grow in my faith, my devotions are sweeter And I grow in my faith more when I'm going through a tough time than when everything's going great. Anybody? You know, everything's going great. The bills are paid. I'm healthier than I've ever been. I've had more money ever had. Everybody likes me. Nobody hates me. I don't even want to eat worms. Everything's going great. I read my Bible. Yeah, it's good. Praise the Lord. Amen. But brother, when things are coming down, and I'm sick and everybody's mad at me, I own bills, but I have bills and own money and this, that, and everything, oh, and I'm reading my Bible and it's like, God, I need you. And that's when our faith grows. That's where I threw it. Somebody had visited a silversmith. And they were watching the silversmith and boy he had that glowing fire under the pot of silver and it was kind of bubbling away there and he's scamming stuff off the top the d the um uh dross off the top He's skimming that off the top, skimming off the top. And he's boiling, boiling, boiling, boiling, boiling. Then all of a sudden, psh he stops, takes it off the fire, and pours it out in the thing. And they were watching and they said I didn't notice anything. How did you know when to stop applying the heat to the to the silver? He goes, oh, it's very simple He said, when I can look down in the silver and I can see my reflection in the silver, then I know that it's ready. The dross is all gone. I've burned off the valueless, harmful stuff. I've got all that off. And when I can see myself, then I know it's ready. And isn't that just like our Lord? He sends the fires of trials and difficulty and hard, just like he did on Israel. He's not trying to destroy us. You say everything in my life has gone wrong. Hey, God's not trying to destroy you. He's trying to mold us, develop us, purify us. And when he sees Christ in us, then he knows, all right, it's time. It's time. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, please help us to have faith in you. Help us to understand and see your hand in our lives and the events that take place, the good and bad, the difficulties, to see that you're working in us. God help us to have be strong in the Lord. Help us to keep our eye on the eastern sky, waiting for you, trusting you'll come soon. Bless those in our church that have trials right now. No doubt all of us to one degree or another. Help us to have faith in you. Help us to look to you and allow your will to be done. See your hand in this. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, you know there's some things in my life I don't understand. I don't see how good can come out of this. So I say, preacher, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to keep my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm just going to trust Him that through this I can come out the other side. Job said, I shall come forth as gold when he's tried me. When you say, Preacher, I just want to trust the Lord. And I trust that He's working something out. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand?