Revelation chapter two. The first uh few chapters of Revelation, um, as many of you are well aware and well familiar with, um Jesus is addressing seven different churches that are in Asia Minor. Nowadays that's Turkey. And he's using the Apostle John to pen these things down. Well he was um in exile on the island of Patmus, and uh he addresses seven different churches about I think we finished the study up. On Wednesday nights we've been going through the seven churches, looking at each individual church there. And um each one is so unique. And there's no no church that's going to be like another one. You know, every ever it's just you know like people, everybody's different churches, everyone's different. And as we go through chapters two and three, he addresses seven different churches. And he addresses their strengths, their weaknesses, things they're strong in, areas they're weak in. and things like that. And um it's uh they're they're in here for an example for us. Um it's kind of like I use this illustration um a few uh weeks ago on Wednesday night, but it's kind of like when you have siblings. You have older siblings, you learn from their strengths and their weaknesses. You learn, ah, they got in trouble for doing that, so I better not you better not do that. So we can uh kind of look at uh these churches that way. Um you know, that it's written for our learning. Anyway, tonight we're going to look at the church of Smyrna. And that's in chapter 2, verses 8 through 11, is when he's addressing the church at Smyrna. So let's go ahead and jump right into it. Verse 8. And unto the angel of the of the church in Smyrna, write, These things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. I know thy works in tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich. And I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days But be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death So let's pray and then uh the message tonight I've just entitled it Smyrna the Faithful Church. Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us just a a good day to be in your house this morning. I ask now that you would just bless uh this service, Lord. I ask that you would just completely take over, Lord. that you'd fill me with your spirit and just hide me behind yourself. And Lord, if there's anything in my notes here that goes contrary to your word, Lord, I ask that you would keep Me from saying that. And Lord, we're above all, we're asking that you would be glorified tonight. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So just a few interesting uh things. About this uh the this church at Smyrna. First off, I want to just uh share some interesting things about the city. Of course, it's um It's in Asia Minor. It's uh modern day Turkey. It's about 35 miles um from Ephesus. Um again that was the the first church that was written to there was the church at Ephesus, so about thirty-five miles away For us that's not that far, but for for them that that those days is a little bit of a hike there. Um one of the things that really put uh the city Smyrna on the map was um their shipping industry. They had a very large uh harbor uh and ships from all over the world would come and buy and sell and it was a big economic hub there And uh one of the things they were most famous for producing was myrrh. Myrrh. And um I was doing some studying on it, and this is just interesting stuff, I think. Um they kind of had a monopoly on myrrh. And what that was, of course, was a spice. And the Egyptians bought a lot from them. And they would use it for embalm embalming and things like that. But also myrrh was a fragrant fragrance. Remember, myrrh was one of the gifts that the wise men uh brought. Um so we see that uh several times throughout the Bible. Interesting there. Uh myrrh was kind of what put them on the map there in their shipping industry. It was considered one of the most beautiful cities of its day, very populous city too. It was about a hundred thousand there in population. It had many, many pagan temples, of course, very polytheistic, worshiped many gods. And in order to uh buy or sell, you had to be in one of the trade guilds And there were several different trade guilds and each had its own God and you had to worship that God to be a part of the trade guild. So if you were a Christian, your uh buying and selling was very limited We'll see here in a minute where they are actually very, very poor, the Christians there. Many, many, many pagan temples, a lot of idolatry. had a very large uh stadium that was used uh to host Olympic Games. Um and that was done so in the name of uh the god Zeus Uh very, very uh filthy city, wicked city. Um a lot of uh drunkenness there and things like that was kind of well known for that. Now this is an interesting fact I was telling Pastor about this the other day. Homer, the author of the Iliad and the Odyssey, he was born about 850 B. C. That's where he was born in the city here. So, and actually when this was uh uh penned and the church was there, uh there was a uh a statue that was there in honor of Homer. So anyway, a big city, a lot of commerce there. You had to be involved in um One of the trade guilds, a lot of idolatry. Um it was it had a there's a very large uh theater there as well that sat 20,000 anyway, just a big city, a lot of commerce A lot going on there. But if you were not going to worship one of those gods, then you couldn't be involved in one of the trade guilds. So that's kind of the city there and what um the city was like, what it would have been like to live there. Now the church, um That I can find, and if I'm wrong on this, someone let me know, but this is the only place where we see this church mentioned in the Bible Again, just doing some studying on it. Some people are saying it was founded during Paul's third missionary journey. And this is where one of the great Christians, Polycarp, was from. And he was a martyr here at Smyrna. So we look here in the church, and he addresses a few different things about the church. First off, this church was facing some very intense persecution, as was common, sadly so, was common during that time. Very, very intense persecution and tribulation. Verse 9 says, I know thy works and thy tribulation. They were facing some serious persecution. This one Polycarp that I mentioned, he was a martyr there. Um they weren't just I mean part of the persecution was not being able to be involved in the commerce and things like that, not being able to uh buy or sell in certain things like that, but they were also being killed Yeah, it was just brutal. It was just brutal. Sure, there was slander. Sure, it was hard to make a living, but it was much more than that. The Romans would punish them very heavily because of their faith, and not just not just this, but they were getting um uh pressure from uh the synagogue of Satan is what it says in verse nine. People that were claiming to be Jews and were not. I was doing some some research on this and Rome recognized uh the Judaism, the Jews as as as a it was a state-approved or a government-approved religion. And so what the synagogues we were doing was taking the names off the the church role, basically. You know, we have a church roll, they would take the names off. And so if they came by Roman officials came by and saw your name taken off, uh that you you you'd be you'd be put to death. So rough place to be. Rough place to to to be. The city itself was booming, but the church Man, they were facing some some hard problems as far as persecution, as far as finances. Um it was just a rough place uh to be a to to be And uh and then we see their poverty. He says here, I I know their works, thy tribulation, and poverty. Um If you're not allowed to buy or sell, there's not much you can do. I mean, you're not going to be making much money if you can't sell. And they weren't. They weren't. They were very, very poor monetarily. Now I do like this statement right after here, and I'll make more comments on this here in a little while. He says, But thou art rich. And poverty, but thou art rich. Jesus knew their poverty, but if you have Jesus, you're rich. You're rich. They didn't have everything they they needed. They didn't have everything everyone else had, but they were just faithful to serve. Interesting thing about this church. mentioned here in in these in these couple chapters. Like in the church at Ephesus, he says, I know your works, you're doing all these great things, but verse 4, nevertheless I have somewhat against thee. And this is a pattern we would see when these churches are addressed. You're doing this good, but you're doing this wrong. We don't see that here in Smyrna. We don't see any rebuke of any kind. So there was intense persecution. There was extreme poverty, not for the city necessarily, but for the Christians there. And then there was pressure. Um pressure from the state, sure, pressure to to to just fit in so they could be involved with uh the economy, but also pressure from those that said they were Jews in verse 9, but were not, but were of the synagogue of Satan. There were some false religions there. There were some false uh false churches there. Ones that claimed to be Jews, ones that claimed to uh worship other false gods. They were just they were in a dark city. They were in a dark city spiritually. And there was pressure. There was persecution, poverty, and pressure. And then there was prison. Verse 10. He says, Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison. So these there's a a lot if you're a Christian living in Smyrna in the first century, you got a target on you. You're poor, you're in poverty, you're under persecution, intense pressure, you're probably going to end up in prison, and you might even die The rest of verse 10 for it says, uh the devil shall cast some of you into prison that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death. Yes, some of them uh died. And and the one I mentioned, poly polycarp, was from there. So we see the city that they're in and we see the the man the the the problems they're facing, persecution, poverty, pressure. and even prison. But uh we see this com uh commendation, this uh compliment, I guess you could say, from Christ He says, I know thy works. You know what that means? That means they were working. And I'm thinking about what Pastor preached this morning. I can picture them putting their shoulder down and just saying, you know what? If we die, we die. And um that's kind of the attitude they had. They were surrounded by people that were lost and they were working. They were working and they were staying faithful. It's almost like he's saying, It's just around the corner. In just a few days, just ten days, you're gonna have more troubles It's coming. And they were working. So even in the midst of all this that was going on, they continued to serve the Lord. So we see their works. Um we see their worth. He says, but thou art rich. Though the church did not have the nicest facilities, the fanciest things. They were rich. They were rich. I was listening to a preacher online the other day. And uh he was saying, he made this comment. Uh he told the story, rather. He was talking about uh visiting a missionary to Russia. And while he was there in Russia Um the pastor there, the missionary there in Russia said he would that let's go visit my mother. So they went to go visit his mother And it w he said that you they got off the main road, got way out in the middle of nowhere, nothing was around, and they get to this little community, there wasn't much there, no electricity, nothing like that, they were just poor. And being a Christian there at that time, you were just gonna be poor If you were a practicing Christian, kind of like what Smyrna was going through there. And it was just a little one-room house, not much there, and she was just the happiest person in the world. Because she was rich. Well, yeah, rich in Christ. Rich in Christ. This morning I was I was looking at this verse, go to Proverbs. And Sunday school we've been going through Proverbs, and this kind of stuck out to me this morning. Ver uh chapter thirteen and verse seven Proverbs 13, verse 7 says, There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing. There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches. These believers here in Smyrna made themselves poor because of their stance in Christ, but they had great riches. They had great riches. I was thinking about the psalm. I'd rather have Jesus than anything. And that was the attitude that these Christians here at Smyrna lived out So anyway, great compliments here from Christ. Then we get some commands here from Christ that he gives them. He says he says um be filled. He's uh look at it, he says, the things these things saith the first and the last that is dead and is alive. Jesus tells them to trust in his power, I believe, here. Understand if someone dies and brings themselves back to life, they have power. And he is telling them to trust in his power. Um he he has been what they were going through. And he was telling them to trust in him. He says, and he and then he says not to fear. Well, the commandment here from Christ, not to fear. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer, he says. They didn't fear what man shall do unto them. That was again that was their attitude. And I I'm I I want to I want to be like that, to be honest with you. I want this attitude. Hey, I'm arrested, I'm arrested. Go to jail, go to jail If I get beheaded because I'm a Christian, then I get beheaded. They had a greater fear in God, and that's what I want. That's what I want So he said, be fearless. And he said, Be thou faithful unto death. And they did that. If you could put a label on this church, I believe it would be the faithful church. The church of Ephesus And verse 4 he says, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou left thy first love. We go to later on in chapter 3, the church at Laodicea, he says, Thou art lukewarm. So we we we look at these churches and we say this one you know they left their first love, this one's lukewarm, this one's uh uh they think they're alive, but they're dead. If we were to put a label on the church at Smyrna, I believe it would be the faithful church And my desire is that if someone were to look at me as a Christian, they would say, you know what? He was faithful. And that's what I want to be. I want to be that faithful Christian. I want to be the one that says, you know what? What happens, happens. I'm just going to be faithful. So let me give you just a few applications here real quick. Looking at the city they were in, looking at the church themselves, the compliments from Christ, the commands of Christ. I want to make this first observation. Nowhere in Smyrna do you see themselves comparing themselves to another church. Now, what are we doing here? We're learning from the from these churches, yes. But look look at this. In um verse 2, he's talking to the church in Ephesus. He says, I know thy works. In a church in Smyrna, he says, I know thy works. And he says that again when he addresses the other churches. I know thy works. He addresses Ephesus different than he addresses Smyrna. He addresses Smyrna different than he does Laodicea, right? And he addresses Mountain Lake different than he does Fill in the blank. Well I'm saying is this we don't see anyone in Smyrna saying, I wish I had the the what Ephesus had. I wish I had the buses that Laodicea had. I wish I had the building that Ephesus. You get what I'm saying? They were faithful with what they had and they weren't saying, I wish I had that. If I had the buses that that church had, if I had uh the the the building, if I had this the the soul winning program, if I had the you fill in the blanks. If I had what that church had, then I could do something. They were already doing something with what they had. So sometimes we try to make an excuse. Well, I don't have that, so therefore I can't. You understand what I'm trying to say? If I knew the Bible as well as, then I feel like I'd be a better soul winner. Well why don't you first try soul winning? Yeah, you should read your Bible, but if you wait until you have you you understand what I'm saying? Don't don't don't say, well, if I had their Then I would do it. I hope I'm making sense here. But Smyrna didn't have that attitude. They just worked with what they had. And that's what we should do as individuals as well. Just work with what you have. And and uh just stay faithful. Just stay faithful with what you've been given. So another application here, and I think this is just to me this is encouraging. Good people go through problems. Uh bad things happen to good people. This is this Bad things happened. The church at Smyrna, they were good people. They were working hard under intense persecution. They loved the Lord, were serving him, had a reputation even in the community there And they were being persecuted. They were poor. Bad things happened to good people But but when that happens, just remember that you still have the Lord. See, they were poor, but they were rich. Right? They were poor, but they had Christ. And this is some bad things happen to everybody. Bad things happen to everybody, whether they're saved or not. There were other people in Smyrna at that time that were not Christians that had some problems. Right? There are people today that aren't Christians that have problems. The difference is, is when somebody that is saved has its problems, they have Christ through the problems. And this is what Smyrna had. Yes, intense persecution. Yes, prison, yes, poverty. But Christ through it I'm reminded of the verse. I don't remember the reference offhand. It says, Yet all that live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution, right? It just goes with the territory. But count it joy when you fall into diverse temptations. So hard times will come. Persecution will come. He says here in ten days. It's not very far away. And I don't mean to sound all gloomy and stuff. In fact, I think this is encouraging, but it's very possible that very soon we could be facing some persecution. Very possible. But you know what? We still have the Lord. We still have Christ. Let's just put our shoulder down and go up the gut. I like that. So that's the attitude they had here. Just and then it that brings me to my my last point here is if there's something we can learn Is we can just we can just stay faithful. We can just stay faithful. Be thou faithful unto death through persecution, through poverty, through pressure, through prison. Just stay faithful. There's a lot of people that'll get saved, and I'm glad they do. They trust Christ as their Savior, they're saved. And they're on fire, they're serving the Lord, they get involved, and then three or four years into it, they're gone. Oh, they're still saved. They trusted Christ as their Savior, they're still saved. But they didn't keep going. That's not what Smyrna was doing. They kept going. They stay faithful. There's a lesson we can learn is that we could we can stay faithful. So I told Pastor I didn't have a whole lot to say tonight, but uh this is what I kinda wanted to focus on, is this church here at Smyrna under intense persecution, an ungodly wicked city that was prosperous, but But it wasn't prosperous towards Christians necessarily. But if if they can stay faithful through what they were going through, we can stay faithful through what we're going through. Now, I don't know what everyone's going through. Are you facing poverty? They could stay faithful through it. So can you. Are you facing pressure from family, from friends, from co-workers, from a boss? They stayed faithful, we can do it too. Their people were people They serve the same God that we're serving. We can stay faithful through the pressure. If they can do it, we can do it. So just stay faithful and be like Smirna and just and just just keep on going. Just keep on going. Problems come. But Christ is with you through the problems. Lord, again, we just love you. Lord, we thank you for everything you've done to us. Lord, this was encouraging to me just to be reminded of the story. This account uh of Smyrna. And um Lord, just just some folks that loved you and were faithful to you, and despite the problems they were going through. Lord, we have problems. But I dare say, probably not to the extent that what they had. Probably not even close, really, but Lord help us just to remember these brothers and sisters that have gone before us and Look to their faithfulness as an example for us, Lord, and it's in Jesus' name, Amen.