Psalm nineteen. I will uh the Lord's help read the entire chapter. And then we will look at it together for just a few minutes tonight. Psalm nineteen The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun. which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it And there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord, I'm sorry, let me get it right. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. Moreover, to be desired are they than gold. Yea, that much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth And the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. If you travel with me to the to the Rockies or to the Swiss Alps Or even if you were were with me today as I came up from Northern Virginia the back way, you'd see mountains and lots of them. And just every once in a while there's one that uh juts above the others. You know, some of you I know have seen Mount McKinley or uh Mount Rainier, Mount Mount Pilatus, Mount Everest, maybe. And all of them are beautiful and breathtaking. And so it is in the scripture, I think, that we have a mountain range of 1,189 majestic mountains, 1,189 chapters in the Bible. And every once in a while one of them peaks up like a Mount Pilatus. And I think Psalm 19 is one of those super colossal peaks. It's like a great giant redwood in a forest of already statuesque trees. And what we have here, we have in the chapter. We have three distinct paragraphs and a one-verse benediction. And in these three paragraphs and the one-verse benediction, there are four specific revelations that God gives to us. These revelations come to us because all of us have a deficiency of knowledge. All of us are born needing to know everything. And there are things that we often ask ourselves and we ponder and we do not have the ability to figure them out, and unless God tells us some things, we will always be deficient in that subject. And so in the Bible, God seeks to fill the void of our knowledge and the deficiency that our intelligence has. And in this chapter, we have these four revelations. Now, I've entitled this message tonight, So Now You Know. So, now you know, the first one of these revelations in the early part of the chapter, I'm going to call it the revelation of the solar system. You might uh entitle it a little different to that, The Revelation of the Universe. However, but uh in our in our solar system, we have the sun. And the moon, and our planets, and a lot of stars. Now, interestingly enough, if you get a telescope, even with the naked eye, some of this is is available. But uh the moon and the stars and the planets, etc. , they track they track perfectly They they are not meandering around through the universe. They have a specific uh orbit, a specific flight pattern They are set in motion and uh you can announce the ETA of any one of them with a greater specificity than any airline in the country Uh recently we uh we had the eclipse And where we live in Middle Tennessee, we were in that uh that cone of totality. So at 1. 25 in the afternoon in our city. And let me back up to say that I felt impressed to take a long lunch hour. And I went to the house and we invited uh uh three of our practically grown grandchildren. My daughter and son-in-law came and uh Betty and I Betty cooked sorry to say Betty and I I don't have anything to do with cooking. I only show up when it's done. But uh But uh Betts uh bets uh did hot dogs and hamburgers outside and we were out there with cameras and all the all the works and the special glasses And about 15 or 20 minutes prior to the totality of darkness, everything began to fade into darkness in the middle of the day Now, there was five minutes of totality and then the fading began back toward light and about 20 minutes later we were back to perfect sunshine. Now the interesting thing about all of that is it is totally predictable to the minute. Not only to the minute, but to the exact orbit where it will be. And not only that particular eclipse, but the next one that comes, even if it's a hundred years away, it can be predicted now And the reason that it can be predicted now is because the universe, our solar system, it is not a victim of circumstance. It is not something that just developed by happenstance. It is a product of special creation and everything has been set in motion and it functions like a well-oiled machine. Now you can consider a lot of things in our world. This uh this verse says The heavens tell us about God. They declare his glory. The firmament shows his handiwork. That is the craftsmanship of God. Uh it says day after day. Their speech tells the story night after night. You want to know how this came to be? You want to know how that knowledge have knowledge about that, they will tell you some things if you listen. And it says, there is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Anybody just listening and looking can learn things about origins, learn things about creation, learn things about how we all got here. All of that is set in place in God's divine timetable. Now, you and I consider the various the various ecosystems, not just the planetary and the stellar thing, not not just the stars and moon and planets, etc. , but consider all of the things that are around us every day, on the earth as well as in the water Uh the water, the air, the sunlight, the soil, the plants, the microorganisms, I mean insects and animals of all sizes and shapes Some of these ecosystems as large as an ocean or as small as a cow's stomach or smaller. Just consider, if you will, what all of those have to say about a perfectly ordered universe. For example, at our house, Betty and I have about a half an acre on which our house sits. At our house, we have a lot of ants No uncles, just ants. Lots of ants. They they dig their little hills all over the place Now, if you do as has been done and study their lifestyle and study their ecosystem, study their environment, they have their own well-organized society They they I mean they they work in tandem together. I mean they they get everything ready for the coming winter, they provide for themselves, and it is like a well-governed colony. Just study the ants. The Bible says, consider the ants. And well we do to consider them. In our yard, because several of our neighbors have dogs, we get to have the squirrels, the rabbits, and the birds. The fact that I feed them may also help. But I do. Betty and I have a place we go almost every day for lunch. We get a sandwich, and she and I both do not eat the bread, but we wrap it in a paper towel and take it home. I know you're not supposed to feed it to the squirrels, but they like it, and so I take it to them anyway But I also buy seeds and other things that they like and keep a big barrel of it in the garage and I put some out each day for them. And I put it out right near the little patio through which we have a glass door where we can observe. And I have thousands of pictures of squirrels. And rabbits. What do you plan to do with those? I don't have any plans for them, but I still take the pictures. Because I am fascinated, I am fascinated with them Now, the squirrels store away things for the winter. Right now we have a pretty good crop of young squirrels And they are busily engaged. Now, I'm asking myself, where I mean they've only been born a matter of months, where I I guess they went to squirrel kindergarten. That's the only thing I can figure out Already they are a part of the ecosystem of the squirrel world. That's not DC now, squirrel world. Everything well ordered The rabbits have their own world. I mean, they're there sometimes, a rabbit here and a squirrel here, four feet away. But the rabbits are living in a totally different with a totally different mindset and a totally different environment than what the squirrels are. When I was about, I'm going to say maybe eleven years of age, something like that, might have been earlier Then I went rabbit hunting. I had a 410, uh 22 over and under, and uh we had a couple of beagle dogs. Sure enough, we got out there and they jumped a rabbit and the rabbit took off and the dogs took after him and then I took off after the dogs just to hear my dad say, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, wait a minute. Don't don't go anywhere I was just a boy, I didn't know. But I turned and looked at Dad and I said, They're going out of way. Dad said, hang on, they'll be back. See, Dad already knew the rabbits always run in a circle. You send the dogs after them, they'll ch they'll they'll send them around to you every time. Five, six minutes later, here they came. Bang, bang, we got the rabbit. Now, they've got the squirrels don't do that. I'm guessing the rabbits went to uh Hare University. Must have, but they all do it. We we also have birds in our yard. And just a few weeks ago, Betty Betty stirred me, awakened me from my easy chair, and announced that our evening meal was ready And I got up and headed toward the kitchen, but I passed that glass door, and out there in that little bit of seeds that I'd put on the concrete was a beautiful red cardinal, a male cardinal. I stopped to watch him for just a minute. He gobbled up a couple of seeds. And about that time I noticed the female. On a big rock we have sitting there on the edge just beyond the concrete. She was maybe four or five feet away. She was sitting there waiting very patiently. Just a little bit, he picked up a seed or two. He bounced about twice up onto the rock, and he went up to her, and just like he was puckering up to kiss her. He dropped the seed in her beak. I all I mean I grew up in the country. I had never seen that. I almost, if I had a wig, I'd have flipped it. And I know some of you think I need one, but anyway. I began I said, Dad, fence, fence! I I said, You gotta come see this We stood there for a couple of minutes and watched, and he did it a second time. Now, I was absolutely I mean I I'm still I mean I I'm visualizing it in my mind right now and I am still we went to the net to check and sure enough it's what they do, it's what they do They do it. It's a part of their lifestyle. It's a part of their ecosystem. The rabbits don't do that. The squirrels don't do that. What those birds do. Why do birds have well, you're way ahead of me. The deal here is whether we're talking about sparrows or crows or robins or cardinals or rabbits or squirrels or ants or moons or planets or suns, they testify the creation. It's not an evolutionary happenstance. It is stamped with the creation of God. You've wondered with a thousand notes of inquisitive ponderance. You've wondered Well now you know God did it. And he reveals that here. And these Johnny Cum Lately PhDs in the universities that are brainwashing our people, they need to have their scrawny little brains examined. Or foolishness. Now we know. Now the second thing here, the second revelation, is found in chapter verses seven and following. And this is the revelation of the scriptures. When he talks about the law of the Lord, The testimony of the Lord, the statutes of the Lord, the commandment of the Lord, the fear of the Lord, the judgments of the Lord. And he says, more to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter, much sweeter are they than honey and the honeycomb. He is telling us in this, revealing to us that he who created all of this has also spoken to us to give us needed information, to give us a manual for conducting life, for doing business, for having school, for having church for having family, he has given us a manual of his own special word that will enable us to function inside the environment where he's placed us. And when I opened the Bible and read it to you a little bit ago, I opened a book that is wonderful. Poetry and prose and history and science and math and all of that. It is a miracle book in so many ways. It is a unique book More unusual than anything you have ever read, nothing like it, nothing to be compared with it, and it is a compelling book because we read things, we find things that we need, and it affects us. Some people hate it, others learn to love it. But it is a very, very special document given to us by God's inspiration Dr. R. G. Lee, who's in heaven now, coined the phrase divine in authorship and human in penmanship. He chose human penmen to write and give us his words. And what we have here, dear friends, is not the word of Moses and it's not the word of Paul. But these, in fact, are God's inspired words, and they are given to us in errant, that is, without error. Historically without error, scientifically without error, geographically without error, I mean uh in every way, mathematically without error, topographically without error, all of these things it is inerrant It is not only inspired and inerrant, but it is infallible. By that, it is totally reliable, totally trustworthy. In 1871 The Catholic Church declared their Pope to be infallible. Now, I think they know that he's not. Unless they're how on something they know he's not. But they declared, 1871, they declared that he could speak ex cathedra he could they could he could speak and what he said was to be deemed infallible. Now he's not and I'm not and you're not but God is. And so what he tells us we can count on. His word is inspired, it is errant, it is infallible, it is immutable. Meaning by that it's not subject to change You say, well, but people are changing it, yes, but it doesn't change it. Uh men can monkey with it and they can put out uh editions of it that changes this and changes that, but what God said is still the same. And whenever you get a Bible, quote unquote, that has been tinkered with, you don't really have a Bible. You've just got something that's been botched up. But the Bible, the Word of God, is still available. My predecessor, Dr. Curtis Hudson, made famous the statement: if it's different, it's not the same. And if it's not the same, it's not the word. And the Lord promised in Psalm 12 that he would preserve his word. And preservation means it it ain't going away. Preservation means it'll it'll stay put And on and on, I mean you can you can say so much about it. It is illuminating, it's immortal. All of the things that can be said, this book is God's book. Well, now you know what's God done? He created the world. How did we get here? God created us. Oh, now we know. And not only that, but he gave us this book And this book is his word. And if we want to know how to do things like things ought to be done, well, we've got a manual for that. So now you know. And you get down to verses 12 and 13, and the third of these revelations is the revelation of our sin. Yes, our sin. God creates the world, He gives us His perfect word, He creates human beings, and by the way, when He created us, He made us male and female. And by the way, that's the way everybody's still being born. We can create all these fake news things like Transgender and stuff like that that we want to, but it's it's it's tomfoolery. It's it's fake news. Now, God created us, put us into this world And uh Adam and Eve messed up. And their children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren have been messing up ever since. We're all born with a sin nature. Your children are sinners before they ever sin. The reason they sin is because they're sinners. They're not they're not sinners just because they sin, but they have a nature to sin. They're they're born that way. You're you're peach trees out here. Why don't they eventually have peaches on them? Because from the time they're little saplings like that, they're a peach tree. And your children are sinners from the get-go. We look at them in the nursery and we coo on them and we hold them in our arms and we make on over them like they're the greatest things on the planet, and they are pretty special. But they're sinners. That's the reason that they they get into the cookie jar, leave crumbs all over the kitchen, and lie to you and tell you that they didn't get in the cookie jar You say, why do they like because they're kin to you? See. Now Here we are though. I mean we we we joke around a little bit about the fact, but hey, we're sinners, and sinners puts us into trouble The fact that we're sinners, I mean ultimately, ultimately, hell is in the offering. There's heaven, but nobody no sinners going to heaven, no, no, not getting in So we're in a fix. We're in a dilemma. Here we are living in God's creation. Here we are. We have this book that tells us how to do things. And now God says, yes, but you're a sinner. And if we have any understanding of that at all, it ought to shake us just a little bit. Jolt us and jar us. Because no amount of money. Can bail you out. No amount of uh who I know can get it done. And you can join every church between here and there and back, and it's not going to help. So we say, what are we going to do? Well, there's one more piece here. That last benediction has the revelation of the Savior. In which he says, let the words of my mouth, this is the sinner's mouth, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Down deep inside, I am meditating on this, and I'm saying, oh Lord, let it be acceptable in thy sight. Not just in my sight, but in thy sight. Nobody can get that right with God on his own terms. No, in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. So, what does this tell us? We have we have a Savior. A Savior who can who can reach us And redeem us and regenerate us, a Savior, who can pick us up out of the muck and the mire and get us ready for heaven and slam and lock the door to hell. Only a Savior can do that. Now, we have here in this chapter these four revelations. The revelation of the creation, the revelation of the solar system, and what it tells us. The voice of everything in it, the little ants, the squirrels, the birds Their voice talks to us. Their voice tells us. I mean, everything they are, everything we see in them. It ought to tell us something. What's it telling us? It's telling us there's a God. There's a God. There's a God. Don't forget it. There is a God. Yes. And then we find out that the God who is really God has spoken And he picked out some men to use in secretarial fashion and to write down his precious word so you and I could look at it and read it and figure out how to do things like it ought to be done And whenever we discover in Revelation number three that we're sinners, hopeless, and without an ability to help ourselves, oh, he says, but I've made arrangements. There is a Savior. And if you'll come to him, after all, he died on the cross and arose from the grave to make it possible for sinners to get in, to gain heaven and miss hell. When I look at this passage at every juncture, revelation of the solar system, I look at it and down deep inside, I said, Well, buddy, now you know I look at the revelation of the scriptures. And I say, hey son, now you know. I look at the revelation of the sin uh of sin and being a sinner. And I look at it and I say, oh my, but now I know, now I see, I've got it figured out, I understand the problem. And then in that last verse, the revelation of the Savior. They live the valley, bright in the morning star, fairest of ten thousand. He who is dead and is alive, was alive and is dead and is alive forevermore. I see all of that in him. And I say, oh, now I know, now I know. There is a Savior. There is a way. And there is a way for every single one of us. Not just the rich and the privileged But all of us, all of us, are privileged to have access to him. Four special revelations. Well, now you know. Father, thank you for the privilege we have to be your sons and daughters. And for the privilege to look through this great chapter for a few minutes and realize you've laid out some very special things that ought to help us along the way. Thank you for it. In Jesus' name I pray. Bless my brethren as they come for the rest of the service. And may the sweet Spirit of God work in our midst. In Jesus' mighty name. Amen. Amen.