First Kings chapter one. Alright, we got all that taken care of. I want to begin reading in Verse number thirty two. First Kings chapter one verse thirty two The Bible says, and King David said, Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and they came before the king. And the king said unto them, Take with you the servants of your Lord, and cause Solomon, my son, to ride upon my own mule. And bring him down to Gihon, and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel. And blow ye with the trumpet and say, God save King Solomon. Then ye shall come up after him that he may come and sit upon my throne, for he shall be king in my stead, and I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah And Benea, the son of Jehoiada, answered the king and said, Amen. The Lord God of my Lord, the king, say so too. And the Lord hath been, as the Lord hath been with the Lord my King, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my Lord King David. So Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and the Cherithites and the Palatites went down and caused Solomon to ride upon King David's mule And brought him to Gihon. And Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon And they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, God save King Solomon. And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes and rejoiced. with great joy. Now listen to this, so that the earth rent with the sound of them. I mean it shook the earth They were so excited about this. So we're going to look here tonight at Solomon anointed king. Solomon be an anointed king. Let's pray. And uh we'll pick up where we left off. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God and what a what a uh a life that King David experienced and how you blessed him and challenged him and corrected him I pray we can learn something from every part of David's life that's recorded in the Word of God. As we look here at this transition period from David's rule to Solomon's, I ask that you would teach us Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that your whole your Holy Spirit would be the The speaker tonight, speak through me as author of Scripture, and help us to be receptive, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen We're coming down, winding down to the end of David's life, as I mentioned. He's only going to live a short time after these events we're looking at here in 1 Kings. 1 Kings chapter 1. If you remember in verse number 1, we pointed out, let's just go back briefly. Notice verse number 1, it says, Now King David was old and stricken in years. Like I said, he doesn't have a long time to go. He's in the final days of his life. And I just want to pause again. We've already touched on this previously, but The fact that David is old and he's stricken in years. He's about 70 years old. Some say 69, some say 72. He's in that range there, probably around 70 years old. Now some folks say 70 years old is not that old. Or if you're older than 70 years old, then you look back and say that's not too bad. But at this point in life, whether this is old or not, remember Moses was 80 years old when he just started his ministry. Whether or not, but David is war, his body is worn out. Life has taken its toll on David physically. Now his mind is clear. We're going to see that. Spiritually, he's probably as healthy as he's been. He writes a tremendous psalm. His prayer dedication for Solomon, we're going to look at here before too long, is phenomenal in its spiritual depth. And uh it's typical of David, but um physically uh life has taken its toll. And I thought, what what was it about David's life that affected him so physically that he would be stricken in years and so limited physically what he's able to do at this point. Well I think one thing was his soldiering Would you agree with me? Doing battles with Philistines nonstop could take a toll on you physically. I mean that he's not sitting in a he's not sitting in a in a air-conditioned jet, you know, I don't know if they're air-conditioned or not, but he's not sitting in in uh some tank. He's out there slinging a sword around Carrying a spear, getting beat physically active in a battle, and you can't imagine the adrenaline Running and the toll that would take on his body. David was a seasoned soldier, and it took its toll on his body. But I think there's something else that took its toll on David's body I think the sins he got involved in affected him physically. Sin took its toll. If you would, keep your place here. I just want to take a little rabbit trail. If you would, come back to Galatians the New Testament book of Galatians, and find chapter number six. Galatians chapter number six. Uh David's fighting battles out on the battlefield. Um who knows what all he i it it uh You know, how near death experiences had on the battlefield. We know whatever he did, he did with all his heart and mind and might. That took its toll, but his sin took its toll. Galatians, are you there in Galatians? If you're there, say amen. That's about everybody. If you're not there yet, just look intelligently at your Bible as if you actually are there, and nobody will know. Look at verse 7. Familiar passage. Be not deceived. God is not mocked For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Read. Did David sow some bad seeds? Yeah, more than one occasion. What's your man showeth, that shall he also reap. That is an unchanging law of God. That's a fact, that's a spiritual reality. What we sell, we're going to read. It's true in the physical world, it's true in the spiritual world. But look at the next verse For he that soweth to his flesh, question, did David sow to his flesh? Yeah. Fed the lusts of his flesh, he fed the pride of life. Yeah. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap what? corruption. It's going to take its toll. It's going to take its toll. I've known folks, and I'm thinking of a couple in particular over the years and my throughout my life. Thinking of a couple particular If you looked at them, you'd think they were twenty years older than what they really were. Hard drinker, fighter Cain smoker, mean, cuss. I mean for years, most of his life. When you looked at him when I met him, I thought, I thought he was at least twenty years older than what he really was. He told me his age. I was surprised. Now, I sin has a way of taking its toll. Sin affects us. Now not everybody the same, and it's not a hard and fast role for everybody. Yeah, if you sin, you're going to look like you're 20 years older. Uh I've seen folks live in sin look young. But I'm saying is sin affects us physically. And I'm wondering, with David at seventy years old, maybe it was just the natural course of life, maybe it was just his genetic makeup. That, you know, at this point in his life, this is where he is. I can't help but think his involvement in fighting the wars of the Lord uh cost him, uh affected him physically. By the way, sometimes serving God has an effect on us physically. We give ourselves. Who was it in uh in uh is it Colossians where Paul references uh Epaphoras Wilbur, do you remember? And he says, for the cause of, and I'm not quoting directly, but he said, for the cause of the ministry, he was nigh unto death. He served the Lord so diligently, so effectively, it affected him physically. And so, whatever the case is, David is old and well-stricken in years. I put this down, even a man after God's own heart is going to feel the effects of sin. And so I'm just wondering, that's some speculation there. I'll give you that. But I'm just wondering if that may not be a factor. So David is feet dealing with uh he's dealing with his failing health. Verses 1 through 4. We looked at that Then he's dealing with a foolish son, his fourth oldest son. Amnon's dead. Um uh the other son uh uh Absalom is dead, and then Chile uh uh Chile Abe It's not mentioned. We're assuming he's dead. He's off the scene. He's not part of the picture at all. And then Adonija's number four. And he brings rebellion. Look at verse 5. I'm just trying to review here a little bit. It says, Then Adonijah, the son of Haget, David's wife, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. I put down his foolish son. He's foolish because whenever we exalt ourselves, Jesus said, He that exalteth himself is going to be what? Abase. He's going to be put down. He's going to be humiliated. That's exactly what happens to Adonijah here. So David has to deal with his failing health. He's got this foolish son, but then also on his shoulders is the future of Israel. He's about to make a decision in the last days of his life that is going to directly affect the future of the people of God, the future of the nation of Israel. What he does, in the verses we're going to look at, uh are pivotal pivotal the future of Israel. Uh anointing Solomon his son in the place of Adonijah. So let's look at this. Let's start in verse number um uh actually I want to back up to verse 28. The first my first point is tonight. As I notice that David accepted responsibility for the situation. He accepted responsibility Or the situation he finds himself in. Look at verse 2. Now what happened here was Adonijah sets him up as king. Nathan and Bathsheba and these other folks, they say, whoa, wait a minute. You're not the king So they come into David. How many people remember this? They come into David. They have this scheme they come up with to introduce David, what's going on. And David responds, verse 28. Then King David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. She came into the king's presence and stood before the king. And the king swear and say, As the Lord liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distress, Now listen what he says here. Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son shall reign after me And he shall sit upon my throne in my stead, even so will I certainly do this day. So David takes responsibility here. Absolutely Adonijah exalts himself, says, I'm going to be king. He waits until David's weak and elderly and stricken in years. He can't do much physically. So he takes advantage of that, exalts himself, David finds out, he goes, Oh no, no, no. I'm responsible. I'm the one responsible for who sits on that throne. after I'm gone. Accepting responsibility. Um I think I got looking at this and thinking about this, I think it's tragic That there's not a smooth transition for David from one king to Solomon. It's a tragedy for a man like David to have to deal with drama and squabbles and fussing At this point in his life, in this condition, that it can't just it can't just be a smooth transition over. I'm telling you, times of transition are times of danger. In the nation of Israel. Do you notice? If you read through the history of Israel, 1 2 Kings, you notice how many times the direction of Israel changed on a transition from one king to another. This king did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, and he restored the worship, and he cleans cleanses the temple. Then another king comes on the scene and he did that which was Evil. And then the nation goes another direction. I'm telling you, times of transition is dangerous in nations. And let me say this: times of transition is dangerous in churches. I tell you, it's a shame that the people of God can't make one transition from uh maybe one pastor to another. It's a shame it can't happen smoothly. And just go right over. And just go from one pastor to the next. Now, I'm not suggesting anything. I ain't planning on going nowhere, all right. You guys run me off. But what I am saying is inevitably a church is going to have to transition from one pastor to another And I think to some extent the leadership leading into that transition is in many ways responsible for how that transition goes. How they leave, how they depart, and all that. And that's what David is doing. David is accepting responsibility for the transition from his administration to that of Solomon. There's a little hiccup in here, and he David speaks up. Now he can't physically intervene. He's not physically capable, but he speaks up And he takes personal responsibility here. One thing David displayed throughout his life, and that is this: a willingness to accept personal responsibility for his words and his actions. Throughout his life. You know, when he messed up, you know, he messed up. But when it when it came time, when he was confronted about it, David would take responsibility for it. Remember Bathsheba? And he tried covering that thing up and he tried he put on the put on the show for two years, hypocrisy from the from the throne of Israel. And finally, Nathan comes up, and what was Nathan's word to him? Thou art the man, you're the one that sinned, you're the one. And what did David say? What were the first words out of his mouth? I have sinned. And he immediately took responsibility for his actions. All through his life we see that. When he numbered the people here just a little bit ago, we looked at that, and he's confronted again. David said, I've done wickedly. I've sinned and done wickedly. I don't find anywhere where David is blaming other people for his actions. I don't find anywhere where David is excusing or justifying his own personal sin. He owns it. He says, yes, I'm the one. I did this action. And I tell you, That is something we take away from David that my I have tremendous respect for David. He wasn't a perfect man It was a man after God's own heart. God tells us that. But when he messed up, he owned it. I tell you, it'd be good for you and I to quit the blame game. And quit trying to justify our own disobedience to God and quit trying to excuse our own carnality. And if we're wrong, we're wrong and own it. Right? And my hat's off to David here. He says, listen, I said Solomon's going to be king. I'm going to hold to my word. Would you look there at verse 30? This really struck me Look at the first statement in verse 30. Even, this is David speaking to Bathsheba, even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel. In other words, I gave you my word He's speaking to Bathsheba. I gave you my word, your son Solomon would be king. Look at the last phrase of verse 30. Even so will I certainly do this day. I said it, I own it, I'm not backing up, I'm not excusing, I'm not giving in. I'm responsible for this. I tell you, my hat's off to David. Takes responsibility for his own words, his own actions. Now, I got thinking about that. Personal responsibility. Would you agree with me? We could use some personal responsibility in America. In our society, in our leadership in our country. I mean, Washington is just the blame gate. They say, oh, it's not my fault. When's the last time you heard a politician get up and say, hey, I messed up bad, it's my fault You don't hear that very often. And we need it in our churches. We need it in our homes. Hey, I'm responsible for I own I own my own actions. I accept responsibility for my own behavior It's not my parents' fault, it's not my spouse's fault, it's not my children's fault. I'm responsible for my actions. And the words that come out of my mouth, I'm responsible for them. Amen or not? I tell you, David, I gotta hand it to him here. I told you Solomon, your son, would be king. He's gonna be king. He owns it. What does personal responsibility require? You say, well, what does that require? I think if I'm going to be personal responsible I think personal responsibility requires, number one, humility. I have sinned, David said. That's humility. Pride says, oh, it's not my fault. Pride says, oh, I know I said that, but listen, this is a different circumstance. You know, this is a whole different situation. When I said that, things have changed. No, he says, uh would you take your Bibles quickly? I just thought of this. Go to Psalms chapter 15, just real quick. This is why I never get through my sermons. Psalm 15. I talked to the, we had a deacon trustee meeting Monday night, and I talked to them about this passage here. And I think it applies in this situation. Psalm 15, it says, verse number one, Psalm 15, if you're there, say Amen. Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? Abiding in dwelling means you're there a long time. That's where you stay at, consistent. And he gives these lists of things. He talks about different things. But come down, if you would, to notice verse number the end of verse 4. He sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. He sweareth to his own hurt. What in the world does that mean? By the way, that's David writing this. What does it mean to swear to your own hurt? Now the word swear there isn't profanity. It's not cussing. It means making a vow. It means making a promise. It's like at the courthouse. Do you swear to tell the truth? Do you promise? Do you vow? So he says, the man that stays close to the Lord, the man that abides in the tabernacle of the Lord, he swears, he vows, he promises, he covenants. With his mouth to his own hurt. Anybody want to take a shot? What's he talking about? Great Here's what he's saying. He's saying, if I say uh this man uh he says he says something, he promises something Even if he finds out later it's going to cost him dearly to do what he said he would do, he still does what he said he would do. Follow what I'm saying? You say, oh, wait a minute, I didn't know it would be this if I do that. No, no, no. This guy says, listen, I know it's going to cost, but I promised I would do this, I'm doing it. That's taking personal responsibility. That's saying I said it, I'm going to stick to it. And that takes humility. Say, all right, I'll take the cost. I'll bear the cost. Pride blames others. Pride excuses and justifies its actions and tries to weasel out. A person that takes personal responsibility humbles themselves and takes responsibility for their actions and for their words. Humility is a key factor in the successful Christian life. In fact, I want to suggest to you, if we don't get a hold of humility, we will never be successful in our Christian life. If we don't get a hold of humility, we will never see revival in our own heart, in our own home, in our church, or in our community. Begins with humility. Everything in the Christian life begins with humility before God. And to take personal responsibility, I've got to humble myself and say, yes, I'll own this. Pride says, oh no, no, somebody else fault. I'm not at fault. I'm good. I'm clean. So number one, I put down humility as necessary and personal responsibility. I put down number two, integrity. Integrity is necessary for personal responsibility. Listen to Psalms 26. Let me read to you verse number 11. And I believe this is David writing here again. It is, under the inspiration of God. He says, But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity. Redeem me and and uh be merciful unto me. David's David had made a decision at some point in his life that he was going to walk in integrity. Here's a question What is integrity? We don't hear this in the media very much at all. You're not going to hear this in a lot of pulpits. What is integrity? Somebody talk to me. This is group involvement night. All right, being honest, that would be part of integrity. Doing right whether anybody's watching or not. What else? That covers it pretty good. Doing right, or my integrity is revealed what I do if I am convinced I'll never have to deal with the consequences of it. Right? Just doing right, regardless of what the consequence is. Integrity is simply this. It means morally complete. It means I've got several definitions here. It means morally sound. It means to be completely genuine, and I like this definition of integrity, to be flawlessly reliable. A person of integrity, you can trust them. They are going to be reliable. They're going to stand true flawlessly. We use this illustration sometimes. The State Roads Department sometimes after there's an earthquake some places, different pla parts of the world They will come in, let's get this, and they'll check the integrity of the roads and the bridges. They want to make sure the integrity of that bridge has not been compromised. What do they mean? You can trust it. There's no flaws, there's no cracks there, it's sound, it's secure, it's reliable. You can run an 18-wheeler across that bridge, you don't have to worry about whether it's going to collapse. It has integrity And if I'm going to accept personal responsibility for my situations and my actions and my words, I've got to be a man or a woman of integrity. Bathsheba could trust David to keep his word concerning Solomon. Right? Integrity. Integrity. Proverbs 11. 3, and we don't have time. I wanted to go to these. Proverbs 19:1, Proverbs 20, verse 7 talks about the man walking in his integrity and his integrity directing him. He says in verse 30, he says, Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, even so will I certainly do this day. And then I put this down. Personal responsibility requires courage. How many people found out in life doing right isn't always easy? A lot of times it's a whole lot easier just do wrong, go along, go with the crowd, right? Go with the flow. Doing right isn't always easy. Accepting responsibility isn't always easy. And so it requires courage. It requires courage. You know what? This could very well be. Come back here. Are you back in Kings? Look there at chapter 1, and let's go back to verse 6. We looked at this verse before. I want to visit it again. Chapter 1 Kings, verse 6. Speaking of Adonijah, the fellow, the young man son that exalted himself, look at verse 6. And his father had not displeased him At any time, in saying, why hast thou done so? I'm wondering if this isn't the first time in his life that David said no to Adonijah. You know, you have a you uh if you have a kid, you have a child that's gotten its way its whole life. And then somebody stands up and says, no, what do they generally do? They have row of fit. We see it at Walmart all the time. No, no. And they throw a fit. Adonijah is a grown man. He's got a following here somewhat, not huge, but he's got some significant people. He's got Joab and others Have rallied around behind him? I'm thinking it took a little bit of courage on David's part to you tell that boy no. Solomon's king, not you. So personal responsibility requires humility. I believe it requires integrity, and I believe it requires some courage. To own my actions and say, nope, I said that, I'm doing it. It would have been a whole lot easier maybe for David in the short run to say, oh, just let him go. It's all right. I know what I said. But I don't want to fuss. This could have turned into a war. No, no, no, no. Just let it ride. He could have said that. That would have been the coward's way out. Amen? But he said, no, no. I'm gonna I I said this and I'm gonna stand by it. I take responsibility for it. Spiritual maturity is not sinlessness But spiritual maturity does require personal responsibility. Spiritually mature person is not a sinless person. You understand that, right? But if someone is spiritually mature, if and when they do mess up, they own it immediately. Say, hey, I messed up, I own that. I'll admit it. I confess it. I own it. So first thing I notice here in David in this transition, David takes personal responsibility for his actions here, for his words. And then number two, I notice in verse 32 to 35, David made arrangements for the transition. Look at verse 32. And they and King David said, Call me Zadak the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benai the son of Jehoiada, and they came before the king. Why is David calling these people in? Then you go in the next verse and he gives them instructions. Why is David calling them in, telling them what to do? Because he physically can't do it himself. I think ideally it would have been best for David to come out before the people, before all the nation, and say, listen. It's been determined long time ago that not Adonijah, but Solomon will fill my seat. Would you agree with me? That would have probably been the ideal way to deal with this. And everybody heard it from David's lips. But David physically cannot do this. He's incapable. So he delegates this to these men that uh that he trusts. He could not perform these duties, so he delegates these actions. I notice two things here real quick. In verse 33, they make a public presentation. Look at verse 33. The king also said unto them, Take with you the servants of your Lord and cause Solomon, my son, to ride upon my own mule. Would you agree with me? It'd have been ideal if King David would have been riding there with him. That would have been best, but he can't. So he says, all right, I want you to go out publicly. Get Solomon and put him on my own mule. Now you say, all right, big deal That phrase put them on when David told them to put them on his mule, that's actually very significant Mules in this time frame in biblical history, mules were the uh were uh royal transportation. They rode on mules Now, today we joke about mules and donkeys, but back then that was royal transportation. If somebody sat on the king's mule, off with their heads, it was death sentence. Now, horses, now in our culture, in our day, a horse generally is considered a little more dignified than a mule, right? You know in in this time a horse was an animal of warfare Animal of warfare. The horse is prepared for the day of battle, Psalm says. But safety is of the Lord. Horses were a bit were a were a warfare animal and mules were a royalty animal. Nobody rode the king's mule without the king's permission, without some tremendous significance. It's being taken place. The horse was an animal of war. In Revelation, Jesus Christ returns to the uh at the end of the tribulation, riding upon a what A white horse. He's coming for war, the battle of the Armageddon. When Jesus entered Jerusalem on uh the week before he was crucified, he enters Jerusalem, what's he riding? A donkey, a mule. A donkey. He's coming to make peace. He's coming to pay the price. He's the king offered to Israel, and they're rejecting him. They're going to crucify him When he comes back the second time, he's coming for warfare. Listen, the first time Jesus came, he was come as the King of kings to make peace between man and God. He comes back the second time. It's to make war on the enemies of God. So this mule, riding this mule, is significant. And if you go back and look earlier in chapter one very carefully Adonijah did not ride a mule. When they put on that display and he sacrificed all those things and had all this to do in this big hoopla, he wasn't on any mule. And and and uh David says, you get Solomon, you put him on my mule. And when they saw Solomon coming out of there on the king's mule, that sent a powerful message to everybody. This is the next king. And so they made this public presentation on the mule. And then, second of all, David gave his personal confirmation. Notice verse 35. Then shall he's telling these guys what to do. Then ye shall come up after him, that he may come and sit upon my throne. For he shall be king in my stead, and I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah. David's, David, the mule Riding David's mule proclaimed to everybody this is the next king. David's, the king's word saying he will be the next king, it's official. No more discussion, no debate. Solomon is king, not Adonijah. And then last of all, real quickly, I want us to look at the last couple verses here. And when Solomon is anointed. So David accepts personal responsibility. He makes arrangements for Solomon to be king, and now Solomon is anointed. Look at verse 36. And Beniah, the son of Jehoiada, answered the king and said, Amen. The Lord God of my Lord, the King, say so too. In other words, David, you said it, and God said it also. You've got God's word on this. And uh verse 37, as the Lord hath been with my Lord the King, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my Lord King David. And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Beniah the son of Jehoiadah and the Jerithites and the Peleothites went down and caused Solomon, here it is again, ride upon King David's mule And brought him to Gihon, that's down where the tabernacle is. And Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, God save the king. I appreciate here, let me just make a few observations real quick. I appreciate here the loyalty of David's men. They went in and they did exactly what David said: loyalty, loyalty. I think we could use personal responsibility and we could use some old-fashioned loyalty. God's people to one another. What's the saying? They throw someone under the bus? You know what they're talking about? Disloyalty. I'll just let them take the blame. I'll just abandon them. I tell you that that New Testament church, they weren't perfect, but brother, they had some loyalty one for another. Remember when Peter was in prison, they were going to execute him the next morning? What was the church doing? They were praying all night. They had an all-night prayer meeting. Wonder if I was going to get my head cut off. I wonder how many of y'all would be here praying all night long. I'm sure all of y'all would be. But that New Testament church was loyal. David's men were loyal to him. What does loyalty do? And among God's people, what happens with loyalty? Well, I think loyalty sustains relationships in difficult times. By the way, we could use some loyalty in our homes. These loyalty built brothers and sisters. I tell you, um I I grew up, I was very abused as a child. I had two sisters and no brothers. It was very, very difficult. Very difficult. And I tell ya, our ancestors I hope they're not listening, but um Uh they uh we had our we had our spats. How many people, how many fellows here you had sisters? Anybody know I'm talking about how many people know what I'm talking about we had our spats? It was all their fault Amen. Personal responsibility there. But I tell you what, we would go at it like cats and dogs, but uh you let some other guy at school give that sister a fit, brother They got they got to deal with oldenny. Loyalty. Loyalty. Um these guys were loyal. I think it sustains relationships in difficult times. Listen, you can go through a rough time, but if uh but you know your wife's loyalty, you can make it through that rough time, right? Money's tight. I don't know what we're going to do. Maybe you lose the job. It's getting tough. Man, she stands beside you. I'm loyal to you. Man, that'll see that thing through. Nowadays, people abandon on the smallest little thing. And vice versa, he'll stand by me. Sustains relationships in difficult times. I think the church is fixing the face some difficult times the years ahead. Very real possibility. What are we going to do? We're going to be loyal? I think loyalty displays respect to one another. If I'm loyal to someone, that shows respect to them, loyal to them. Loyalty produces peace and stability. Jesus said, a kingdom divided against itself cannot what? Cannot stand. City divided against itself cannot stand. He gives it stability and there's peace there. It helps advance the cause of God's kingdom. These guys, they were these fellows here, they were not, they didn't have their own personal agenda. They were out for what was best for the nation of Israel. Supporting the king and his decision and God's anointing and God's choice of Solomon, supporting all that, superseded their own agendas It's not what's best for me, it's not me getting my way, it's what's best for the cause of Christ and the people of God I'm afraid we got too many preachers and pulpits with their own personal agenda, and they've abandoned loyalty to the Word of God. Penny and I were talking before. She was mentioning another preacher she knew before, and she goes, You guys preach the same message. I said, Well, we're preaching from the same Bible. It's loyalty to the Bible. And uh it advances the cause of grace. It's not my agenda or your agenda, it's loyalty to our God and to his word. So these guys were loyal. And then last of all, I notice the love of the people for Israel. Look at verse 39. Zadok the priest took the horn of the oil out of the tabernacle, anointed Solomon, and they blew the trumpet. And all the people said, God saved King Solomon. Now I like verse 40. Look at this. And all the people came up after him. They all crowded up around where Solomon's being uh anointed. I mean tens, hundreds of thousands maybe. This is a this is a nation of Israel gathered together. Came up after him and the people piped with pipes. They brought their music instruments and they're playing And rejoiced with great joy so that the earth rent with sound of them. And what does that mean? I think it means they were so excited, they were so behind us, they were so happy. That they had the king of God's choice. They're shouting, they're playing their pipes, whatever, and um they're playing us, and the ground is literally shaken while they're so happy That's an amazing thing. Several years ago, before they built the new football fields down here, it was a Saturday evening and I'm just going over my notes for Sunday and there's a football playing game playing And that music, bless Betty Gallagher, she lives right across the road from the field. That music was so loud, and I am not exaggerating, I am not, I am telling the truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. I'm telling the truth. The windows in my back office at home, they were literally the windows were rattling from the sound at the football field a half a mile away. I don't know what was happening in Betty's house I'm trying to think, why was I telling that story? The people shouted and they're rejoicing and the ground Is shaking by the response of this. Now I went back earlier in chapter one. I got looking at the people's response to Adonaija saying, I'm the king. I can't find anybody shouting. I can't find anybody praising. He made a fool of himself, is what he did. He that exalteth himself Shall be a base. That's exactly what happened to Adonai. He made an absolute fool of himself in front of the whole nation of Israel. Sucked a couple other guys in with him. David, under the inspiration of God, and already God had promised previously, Solomon's the one, they did what God said, and God blessed their decision. Solomon will replace David as king. Now David's only going to live a little while more. Makes some tremendous statements. He gives a great charge to Solomon, he passes away. So let's uh I say, all right, what do we take away from this? Number one, let's make sure we maintain personal responsibility Let's take our actions. Let's have some integrity. Let's have some humility. Let's quit blaming everybody and everything else. And take responsibility for it. You say, preacher, you don't know how I was raised. Own your own actions. And put that behind. And then let's be loyal to the Lord, to the Word of God, and to the people of God. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts and help us. We can learn from David and his men, these tremendous events here. Thank you for David, though not sinless. He certainly did have some integrity about him. He did have Humility to take personal responsibility. I pray you'd help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if, and I don't know, this is between you and God. Now I wonder if there's some say, preacher, you know, I could do better at taking responsibility for my own actions. Now we're probably all guilty of it. Adam and Eve were guilty of blaming. Maybe we need to quit that. Just say, all right, I'll own it. Maybe we need it. Maybe there's some sin committed years ago. You've justified it, you excuse it, and it's right there, and God brought it up while I'm preaching Maybe you need to kneel at an altar and come before the Lord and say, God, I own that. I take responsibility. That was my fault. I don't know. But let's just make sure we have enough integrity to own our own actions. And then let's be loyal. Let's be loyal. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.